Memoirs of the life and writings of John Pye Smith, D.D., LL.D., F.R.S.,
F.G.S., late theological tutor of the old college, Homerton. By John
Medway.

Medway, John, 1798-1882.
London, Jackson and Walford, 1853.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/yale.39002037200921

                                          Public Domain
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address.
wk
ruL.
Ihof PMUips.JLi.

                        London. Published "byJackson k Waiford .Aug? 30,1853.
                MEMOIRS

                                                       OF THE

            LIFE AND WRITINGS

JOHN PYE SMITH, D.D., ELD.

                                       F.E.S., F.G.S.

             LATE THEOLOGICAL TUTOE OF THE OLD COLLEGE, HOMEfiTON.

              JOHN MEDWAT.

                        LONDON:
          JACKSON AND WALFORD,

                               18, ST. PAUL'S CHTIKCHTAED.
                                                        1853.
                   LOUDON :
REKD AND PARDON, PHINTERS,

          PATKENOSTER SOW.
              TO THE MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY

                                                OF THE

REV. JOHN PYE SMITH, D.D., F.E.S., etc., etc. ;-

           TO THE CHRISTIAN MINISTERS,

                            TOWARDS WHOM HE SUSTAINED
                                       THE RELATION OF

                        THEOLOGICAL TUTOR; --

                              TO THE CHURCH,
               OF WHICH HE WAS THE PASTOR; --

               ABOVE ALL, AND WITH DEEP HUMILITY--

 TO THE GLORY OF THAT DIVINE SAVIOUR,

                            WHOM HE DEVOTEDLY SERVED

                BY HIS LIFE AND WRITINGS: --

                                          THIS VOLUME
                                   IS DEDICATED.
                PEEPACE.

     Upon the death of Dr. Pye Smith in the early part of 1851,
it was justly expected among his friends, and was soon made
known in the proper quarter, that an account of his Life
would be prepared for publication. --In stating briefly some
of the causes of the delay which has arisen, the Reader will
perhaps be better prepared for the narrative which is to

follow.

     Towards the middle of the year in which Dr. Smith died,

Ihis family were pleased to communicate to me their desire

that should undertake the Work which had been announced.
An answer could not, however, be given at once ; that is, not
in the affirmative :--for, besides the totally unexpected nature
of the application, and my want of experience or practice in
writing for the Press, it seemed important to ascertain by
actual inspection, the number and quality of the materials
which might be available in carrying out the design. When
this had been somewhat carefully done, the resolution was
formed to attempt the duty; --the fears that were felt being
in a measure obviated, by the great kindness which accom
panied the proposal, and by a scarcely less than filial veneration

Ifor a beloved Tutor and Friend.

    Although--as venture to hope --diligence was not want

ing, the process of arranging, collating, and using the materials
placed in my hands, has been far from rapid. To such a be
ginner as myself, the difficulty was increased, by an entire
absence of anything like a Diary or Journal for nearly the
 vi PEEFACE.

 whole of Dr. Smith's life-- by the restraint laid upon his Cor
 respondence for many years-- by the rareness of copies of any
 of the Letters which he wrote-- by a want of chronological
 order in those which he received-- in a word, by a remarkable
 deficiency everywhere visible among his Papers and Books,
serving to show that he never contemplated the preparing of
a biography of himself, and never provided means for any
one to do it on his behalf. Hence, in some parts, the com
parative thinness of the thread of the narrative ; and in others,

the aid which has been sought from his numerous contribu

tions to the literature of his country. It behoves me also

to confess that the failure of a class of documents, much and
deservedly prized in the Memoirs of eminent persons, and
which greatly facilitate an Editor's duties, offered an induce

Iment, not to say a reason--too frequently, fear, complied

with --to endeavour by remarks of my own to furnish in

formation respecting traits of character or lines of conduct,
which indeed belonged prominently to the man, but of which
scarcely any or no information could be given from his own
pen.-- And as his extraordinary silence concerning himself
could not fail to bring upon his biographer --whoever he might
be--an increased weight of responsibility, the Reader will

need no further apology for my earnest wish to avoid undue
haste in committing the following pages to the public verdict.

   I desire to offer my most sincere thanks to very many

of Dr. Smith's Correspondents and Friends, whose various
contributions have served to render the Narrative what it
is. The use which has been made of their Letters and
suggestions, will show them respectively the high value which
hag been set upon their kindness.

    To one Friend, formerly a companion at Homerton College,
and who, while the work was in progress at Ventnor, afforded
me his personal counsel and encouragement-- in conference
with whom the manuscript lost some of its defects :--to the
                      PREFACE.  Vll

Rev. William Froggatt, of Newport, in the Isle of Wight,
my warmly affectionate acknowledgments are thus publicly

recorded.

     The Family of Dr. Pye Smith have claims upon my
gratitude, which will not soon be forgotten. The confidence

Iimplied in the first application was great --for their sakes

alone, could rejoice to learn that it is not, on the whole,
considered to have been misplaced. With a frankness which
cannot perhaps be surpassed, they placed before me all
the means at their command for increasing my knowledge
of the character and life to be delineated ; and during the
comparatively slow progress of the work towards completion,

their patience and generosity of feeling have continued.

   IWith firmer health, my power of sustained application

might have been greater than have known at any period

since the labour has been in hand :--but whatever were the

difficulties which lay in my path, the occupation was its
own reward-- emphatically, ' a labour of love : ' and if it

shall prove of service in suggesting motives or methods for

the promotion of Christian piety, learning, and zeal, this

particular life will not have been written, as the real life

was most surely not lived, in vain. To GOD alone be the
praise of all the good effected by the Original while he was

with us, and of any which may arise from this attempt

to preserve an impression --fainter indeed than the long
cherished one in my own heart--of mental and moral worth

not often combined in the same degree, nor always directed

to the same high purposes.

HOMERTON,

         July, 1853.
CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

                                                                          PAGE
Ancestry and Kindred --Birth and

 .1Note Books --Apprenticeship --The
Childhood --Early                                                         Training --Early
" Great Change "
                                                                          ...

CHAPTER II.

Completes his Apprenticeship --Advantages of this--Dedication to God --                                16
   Diary--Intimacy with Medical Students--Letter of Mrs. Pye--His
   earliest known Letters -- Sabbath Evening Memorials --Becomes a
   Member of the Christian Church --Sabbath Evening Memorial on the
   day of his Union with the Church --Death of a Sister-- Sabbath Evening

   Memorials --Occasional Memorials

CHAPTER III.

Occasional Memorials -- These Memorials finally discontinued-- Collects
                                                                          to the Rev. John Fawcett --
Tfohreth"eIrBisap"tiNstewMsispsaiponera--ryEdSiotscietthye--"LIertiste"r  for Six Months --Mr. James

Montgomery's Correspondence --Mr. Montgomery's Reminiscences of

this Period --Earliest known Publications                                                              27

                                CHAPTER IV.

Views respecting the Christian Ministry-- Preliminary Difficulties --Letter

  to his Mother-- To his Father-- To the Rev. J. Brewer-- Presides occa

   sionally at Church-Meetings-- His Services in his Father's business--
   His Subjection to his Parents-- Letter to his Parents-- Parental Objec
   tions overcome-- Letter to the Rev. M. Phillips-- To the Church-- Enters
i CONTENTS.

                                                                               PAGE

Rotherham Academy-- Rotherham Academy        in    1796-- His Great  Facil
                                             the   Human Mind "      to his
ity in acquiring Knowledge -- " Lectures on
                    CLoaltleingeO--raLteiottnesr--tHo isReLva.stJ.LKaitrinkpOartaritciokn----VDisiisttrtio
...Fellow-Students--His

bution of his Timeat

Wymondley Academy-- Chester-- Letter to Dr. WUliams --Leaves

Rotherham                                                                                                   38

                      CHAPTER V.

Homerton College --Application to Dr. Williams to recommend a Tutor                                         58
  for Homerton --Letter of Dr. Williams, recommending Mr. Pye Smith
  --Homerton Committee apply to Mr. Smith --His Communication to the
   Committee --Letter to his Mother --Difficulties --Letter to Rev. Thos.

  Towle, stating Difficulties --Difficulties Removed--Letter to Mr. Towle

..........accepting Invitation to Homerton -- Enters on Resident Tutorship --

   Inaugural Services

                      CHAPTER VI.

Inaugural Address at Homerton --His wide range of Duties as a Tutor--                                       69
   His Faith and Temper as a Christian favourable to the Success of his

.........Plans --His Early Plans steadily pursued in Later Years --The Ulti

   mate Triumph of his Early Labours --Enters on his Duties --Respon
   sibilities of Domestic Management--Letter to an Uncle --To Dr.
   Williams--Letters to and from Dr. Williams-- Letter to the Students at

   Rotherham

                             CHAPTER VII.                                                                   91

Introductory --His First Marriage -- His Children

                          CHAPTER VIII.

Cof-TClolCeuhrcotuPtonsrrrcsehtSa:i--ptcTuehocStiniiemotgrhnme-eFnoosCnoromfolloefathgntMieeotinnh:CeeTrhaoPoulesfrt--crhamheCS-isCeChsrhuhimouruncorrhncchhot,ofhnieSnCrtiehnohe---vaAvedPOinrvnopaagsennpnttteahi-nrgeHigteiyssTouoftOofoCfrroadtflhiloCenirshgarPettioiasoHtsinttaaho-nlerl
   Confession of Faith

                                                                                                                                                       114

                               CHAPTER IX.

Letters to Belsham-Their Occasion and Scope-Their Style-Letter from
                              CONTENTS.                                       XI

his Aunt,  Mrs. Pye-- Origin  of  Eclectic                                                PAGE

                                            Review-- Autobiography-

Becomes Theological Tutor--Death of an Infant-- Rev. Abraham

Booth                                                                         138

           CHAPTER X.

Tract on the Lord's Supper-- Pastoral Letter-- Church Book-- Defence of

Out-of-Doors Preaching -- Eclectic Review : Dr. Priestley's Notes on

the Scriptures ; Dr. Priestley's] Memoirs --Decided Piety essential to

the Discovery of Scripture Truth--Good's Lucretius-- Homer --Death

of a Student--Brief Memoir --Piety the Great Attraction to the Tutor-

Advice to a Young Minister -- Eclectic Review : Porson : Dunbar's Edi

tion of Herodotus --Mill Hill Grammar School--Diploma from Yale

College--His Yorkshire Property                                               152

                                CHAPTER XI.

Resigns Resident Tutorship -- Self-Examination and Holy Watchfulness --
   His Tutorial Duties --Deafness --Advice to a Young Minister --Eclectic
  Review : Middleton on the Greek Article--Letter from Dr. Middleton --
   Improved Version of the New Testament --Various Readings --Illustra
   tions of the Four Gospels --Butler's Edition of Stanley's iEsehylus --
  Letter from Dr. Butler --His Numerous Engagements --Eclectic Review 172

           CHAPTER XII.

Week Evening Lectures on the Evidences of Religion-- Sermon on the

  Death of the Rev. J. Barber-- Sermon on the Apostolic Ministry-^Illness
of his Father --Letter to his Mother-- Last Letter to hiB Father --Letter

to his Widowed Mother-- Old Gravel-Pit Meeting House~^Secured for

his Congregation-- Arrangements for Public Worship-- Course of Ser
mons--Sermon on the "Adoration of Christ" ^-- Anti-Paedobaptist

Members--Eclectic Review: Hales's Analysis of Chronology-- Letter to
Rev. Wm. Walford -- On the Intermediate State -- College Difficulties --
Exculpatory Letter -- Committee of Inquiry --"Vindiciae Academicae"
--Letter of Rev. Robert Hall---Beneficial Results -- Sermon on the

............Sacrifice of Christ--Rev. Wm. Walford becomes Classical Tutor at
Homerton                                                                      188

                          CHAPTER XIII.

Discourse at Dr. H. F. Burder's Ordination -- " Regium Donum" -- Latin
   Grammar and Synoptic Tables --Sermon: "Reasons of Protestantism"
   --Eclectic Review : Parson's Adversaria -- Continental Tour--Eclectic
xii CONTENTS.

Eeview : Horsley's Psalms-- Letter to a Bereaved  Mother-- Sermon           PAGE
the Death of the Princess Charlotte                                      on

                                                                               212

                      CHAPTER XIV.

Death of his Son, Philip Henry--Letter to Mr. and Mrs. Leader ; to
                      Written Address to his Congregation ; and Passage
Mr. Walford     ;     The Scripture Testimony,' on that Event--Severity  in
the Preface to                                                           of
                   '

the Bereavement --Letters to his Children --The Father, as he appeared

to his Children-- First Volume of The Scripture Testimony to the

Messiah--His Sermon Books --Tutorial Duties -- Counsels and Cautions
to the Students --Himself an Example of his own Rules --His Manner

as a Tutor                                                                   233

                              CHAPTER XV.

' Prudence and Piety," a Sermon to Young People --Missionary Sermon
 at Surrey Chapel-- Sermon on Liturgies and Free Prayer -- Second
 Volume of Scripture Testimony --Letter on Card-Playing -- Sermon on
 the Means to Ascertain the Truth of Religious Sentiments--Letter to
  the Young Ladies of his Congregation--Letter to a Dying Student --
 To the Bereaved Parents -- Sermon on Mr. Lavington Rooker's Death . 253

                      CHAPTER XVI.

"Vindication of Christians at Geneva" --Efforts to prevent Persecution
in Switzerland --Letter to the Widow
                                      of  Dr. Ryland--To John Morley,
Esq.--To J. B. Williams, Esq.--To     a   Church on the Removal of its

"...Pastor--Eclectic Review : Rev. Andrew Fuller's Works--Letter from
Alexander Haldane, Esq.--His generous Services-- On a Christian
Pastor's holding a Professorship-- Milton's
trine --On " Pernicious Principles           Treatise on Christian   Doc

                                                                             . 267

                      CHAPTER XVII.

'LetSDoCtnacerr.rrstiophCtnetoa'usrsrCRoeonPosn'abs-tmBeinrDiptbeehnlenlHteu--atSnlodCcacaiogainneatteiitrnoy,osnvtCEeoosrDsnqfyt.rD,r.orSv.oreenmSsrpmstieihteictehsthi--n'PsPgCaaaMpsnseDoaortrgsni.veesaHosnn-afRdrftoethhmcIeneksrlSte'pshtsaierstaPentrPeieoosaffnsamRceepoo--lihfgf liDDetohnrtre-
Carson's Generalizations-Mr. Robert
circulate Dr. Carson's Writings-The   Haldane's Unavailing Efforts to
then- Success-Left Unnoticed by the   Style an Insuperable Barrier to
                                      generality of those whose Views
                          CONTENTS.                                            Xiii

he Assailed -- " Sloth,"  " Ignorance,"  " Cowardice"                                   PAGE
                                                       too hastily ascribed

to the Opponents of Messrs. Haldane's Views of Inspiration --Dr. Carson
never noticed in Dr. Smith's Publications --Dr. Smith's Apology to Mr.
Alexander Haldane --The summing up
                                                                               283

                           CHAPTER XVIII.

Letter to an ' Anxious Inquirer ' -- Second Letter --Letter of Congratulation
   -- Sermon on our Lord's Resurrection --Eclectic Review : Greek Lexi
   cons : German Neologists : Antisupernaturalists --Letter to his Mother
   --His Mother's Death -- Publications : President Edwards -- Second
   Edition of Scripture Testimony --Eclectic Review : Porson's Literary
   Character : Sheppard's Divine Origin of Christianity : Personal appear
   ance of Jesus of Nazareth --Letter to a Friend --Letter to his Daughters 312

                          CHAPTER XIX.

Death of Rev. W. Walford's Daughter --The Father's Mental Prostration
   --Dr. Smith and Mr. Walford --Answer to Taylor's ' Manifesto '--
   Sermon on the Holy Spirit --On Prophetic Interpretation --Tract on
   Church Discipline --Abstinence from Fermented Liquors -- College Diary

--His Daughter, Sarah Edwards Smith--Her Death--Advice to a Son

--Death of Mrs. Pye Smith --Letter of Dr. Smith on that Event --

Funeral Sermon for Dr. Robert Winter                                           330

                          CHAPTER XX.

Controversy with Dr. Lee--Sermon, ' Necessity of Religion to the Well-
  being of a Nation' -- Sermon, on the Temper of Christians towards each
other --First Letter to Dr. Lee-- Second Rejoinder to Dr. Lee--Letter to

Dr. Burton, Baptismal Regeneration-- Letter from the Bishop of London
--Remarks on the Controversy with Dr. Lee-- ' Hints and Queries '--

College Diary--Alarming Illness --Letter to his Children --Letter from
Rev. R. G. Milne --From Dr. Cardwell --Letter to his Deacons --To the

Students of his Class --Diploma of LL.D                                        360

                              CHAPTER XXI.

Mr. Walford's Recovery --Letter to- a Lady on the Death of her Mother --
   Letter to Rev. John Clayton, sen. --Monumental Inscription for Mrs.
   Clayton --Letters -- Contemplates Resigning the Pastoral Office --Pastoral
   Duties and Counsels --Thoughts respecting a Co-Pastor --Letter to
xiv CONTENTS.

                                                      p

Charles Lyell, Esq., F.R.S.-Love  of Accuracy-Letter  to a Student-
To his Daughter .
                                                                                      370

            CHAPTER XXII.

Ge--VH--SnciieAPsiserritnatetLaclsteoceEokynl'eeM--atdecloLtdtryeipio--wtnetneitLtt-hrhhEeeltaietanneNcdrSRteiiweolNtvotnseeupwrrtafnhcoSpearaefsolrMvtBrsleei--idsar--h--dHpolePripLesasesepetVoxtenefi--rterwNo' oSsofopfnWreoAweaficcnikthcFehnha--eoa--ilwtDiSntlLeuhcgedhettygtlieneMmuroesefsrnontmaoemtn--are'hisEdiBLslLeoeTecotSaxttkoveiocsrero--nronon-ff

Condolence                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            383

            CHAPTER XXIII.

Progress of Geology-- Motives to Study Geology-- Reluctance to engage in
   Controversy-- Renewed attention to Geology-- Lecture to Young Men on
   the Creation and Deluge-- Incipient Contributions to Geology-- Letter to
   the Rev. Ingram Cobbin-- Becomes a Fellow of the Geological Society
   --His Solicitude for the Progress of Geology-- Defence of the Science
   and its Patrons-- Progress of Inquiry-- Congregational Lecture of 1839
      · Scripture and Geology ' -- Letter to Charles Lyell, Esq. --Testimonies
   Respecting the 'Scripture and Geology'-- Permanent Value of the

Work                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  406

            CHAPTER XXIV.

Admission to the Royal Society-- Letter of Acknowledgment to Seventy
Friends -- Second Letter of Explanation and Inquiry -- Superintends
Classical Studies at the College --Letter to a Wesleyan Minister --Letter

to Dr. Olinthus Gregory -- Attends British Association at Glasgow --
Letter to his Daughter --Letter to Dr. Wardlaw--Letter to Professor

Phillips, F.R.S. -- Publications --Letter to his Son--Attends British

Association at Plymouth -- His consistent Nonconformity -- General
Election --Anti-Corn-law Conference -- His Address at the Conference --
.........Baptist Missionary Society
Petition to Parliament --His Motives in seeking the Repeal of the Corn-
laws--On the Repeal of those Laws -- On the Sabbath Question --

Eclectic Review: Dr. Lant Carpenter's Sermons --Lecture before the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      437

                             CHAPTER XXV.

Second Marriage-- College Duties --Proposes a Reduction of his Salary as
   a Tutor-- Repeats the Proposal-- Change in the Classical Tutorship--
                   CONTENTS.                                                                                            xv

Invited to become Resident Tutor--Advantages of his being the Resident
Tutor at this  LTeimttee--r tLoeSttierrJ.toBt.hWe iTllrieaamsusr--erPsa--stEonratel rsLeuttpeorntoRehsisideCnhcuercaht
the College--

--Letter to Rev. E. Bickersteth-- Rev. E. Bickersteth and Dr. Smith--
Anti-State-Church Association--' Dissenters' Chapels' Bill
ranges College Library-- Interrupted by Illness-- Discontinues   '--Re-ar
Service at his Chapel-- Close of 1844                           Afternoon

                                                                          ,459

                   CHAPTER XXVI.

Renewed Health-- Eclectic Review : Pascal's Thoughts : Dr. Henry
   Edwards, Modern Pretension-- Contributions to Biblical Cyclopaedia--

Translations of Passages from the Hebrew Scriptures -- Method of
Quoting Authors--Desire for Definite Information-- Mythic Theory-

Social and Private Intercourse with the Students --Letter to the New
York Intelligencer-- Attends British Association at Cambridge-- Letter
to Mrs. Pye Smith-- Visit to Sheffield, etc.-- Letter to his Children-

Letter to Rev. Thomas Thomas .         .                                                                                478

                   CHAPTER XXVII.

Co-Pastorate --Invitation to Rev. John Davies--Mr. Davies becomes Co-
   Pastor --Pastorate of Mr. Davies--Letter urging the Observance of the
   Lord's Supper--His Deafness --Remarks on Ordination --Excursion to

  the Channel Islands-- Letters to his Daughter --Letter to Rev. J. S.

   Wardlaw : Infant Baptism --Attends British Association at Southampton

   --Rev. Thomas Adkins --Undertakes Secretaryship of the College --His
  Motives for taking the Office --Notes of a Sermon on the Activity and
  Decline of Life--Mindful of his Advanced Age --Letter to his Son at
  Sheffield--Attends British Association at Oxford --Variety and Number
  of his College Lectures--Letter to Mr. Charles Reed : Government

Education Measure                                                          494

                   CHAPTER XXVIII.

Fourth Edition of the Scripture Testimony --His Views of the Song of

Solomon-- Controversy respecting that Book --Withdraws his Disquisi
tion upon it--His Views of Inspiration --Autobiographical Notice -- Plan

and Execution of the Scripture Testimony -- Copies of the Work given

away--Letter to B. P. Seaman, Esq., M.D. --Testimonies and Acknow

ledgments --The Four Discourses--The Relation of the Scripture Testi

mony and the Four Discourses --Usefulness of his Works in India :

Conversion of a High Caste Brahmin                                        512
                            CONTENTS.

                            CHAPTER XXIX.
                                                                                                                                  PAGE

Fourth Edition of Scripture and Geology--Letter to Mr. S. J. Farrer--
Memorial respecting his Declining Health --Attends British Association
at Swansea --Letter to his Daughter --The West Riding Election in 1848
--Attack of Paralysis --London Peace Society-- Attends Peace Congress

at Paris --Letter to his Children --To his Son--To Henry Rutt, Esq. --

To J. E. Ryland, Esq.--To Dr. Dewar-- To E. Baines, Esq.-- His Hand

writing -- Resolutions of College Committee respecting the Close of his
....--Prayers --Church Ordinances --Pastoral Visiting
Tutorship --Meeting at the Congregational Library : ' Tribute of Respect '

--Resigns his Pastorship --Letters --His Pastoral Character--Preaching

                                                                                  537

                            CHAPTER XXX.   , , ¦ ,»                  »'  i  '     i-!.
                                                                            t

Closing Ministerial Services--Address at the Founding of New College
  Final Address prepared for Mill Hill Grammar School-- Resigns his
  Tutorship at Homerton-- Farewell Address at Homerton-- His Charac
  teristics as a Tutor --His Beneficence--Supernumerary Services-- His
  Characteristics in Company and Conversation-- Occasional Impulses-
  Summary of his Character: Love of Liberty: Love of. Knowledge:
  Eminent Piety : The Three Combined-- His Public Work Completed . 566

           CHAPTER XXXI.

Mrs.  Pye  Smith's Account  of his Removal to Gun^ord1--Letters                '

                                                                     and
DlmNEadoesowttbneaiiNsalri--oltdyt: eL--TeBhLttatoeaiensWretAsd.Vt,odiAsErei.RstsqeHstv.ao--:.nHkHTeGohiymsee,oerVgrREtiegeosonqppr.Cloy--alua--nsNydRtooWetLneom--sinladlrtTookaonsn--hdiJsoaTnmFhCaeeihhlsiiinlsPdgBry'eRuenEren--npS,elmyrI-gnirEtic-ehsPrsqea--Tat.--resisHointTtiigso : i -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <¦

Paper on the Testimonial-^tapid Decay of Strength-- His Last Notes to
his Children-Mrs. Nash's Narrative of his Last Days-Concluding
Remarks
                                           . . . .608

Appendix .                                                               ! 645
List of Publications of which the late Dr. Pye Smith was the Author
           LIFE

  REV. JOHN PYE SMITH, D.D., F.E.S.

                          CHAPTEE I.

ANCESTRY AND KINDRED -- BIRTH AND CHILDHOOD -- EARLY TRAINING --
       EARLY NOTE BOOKS-- APPRENTICESHIP --THE "GREAT CHANGE."

   The maternal and paternal ancestors of the subject of this
memoir were natives of Yorkshire. To begin with the maternal
side --the name of Pye may be traced in the parish registers of
the town of Leeds, from the days of the Commonwealth down
to the commencement of the eighteenth century. Three per
sons of the christian and surname of John Pye, who are entered
as having lived in Vicar Lane, are supposed to have belonged
to successive generations of the same family. They were
probably engaged in the woollen manufacture, for which Leeds

has been long celebrated.
   When the last of the three died, in 1719, he left two children,

John and Mary. The son became a Congregational Minister,
and was from 1745 to his death in 1773, pastor bf the church
at the Nether Chapel, in the town of Sheffield. The widow of
this Eev. John Pye survived him very many years ; and not
having children of her own, she took a deep interest in the
pursuits and progress of John Pye Smith, to whom she was

great-aunt, and whose baptismal name was a pleasing memorial
of her departed husband.

   Mary Pye, sister of the pastor at Sheffield, was married to
                BIRTH AND CHILDHOOD.

Mr. Joseph Sheard, by whom she had a nurnerous<family. One

of her daughters, Martha, became the wife of Mr- John -"Smith,
and the mother of the subject of this memoir. A sister of
Mrs. Smith, Phcebe, married Mr. Matthew, tTalbot, of Leeds* --

a  ggreenattlelmeaarnninogf,"somwheicehccheentaripcpitlyie, doftohtighhe  ; character, an# of
                                                                          elucidation of -the
"

Scriptures. A daughter of Mr. Talbot became .-ithje. wife oft the

late Edward Baines, Esq., M.P. for the Borough of?Leeds

from 1834 to 1841. Thus the late Mrs. BainesaniJJ^Pye

Smith were first cousins.*                                                * ^f,.,-,,,,,

   Mr. John Smith's ancestors, for- several generations, iwere
farmers ;t but he appears to
trade,-- settling in Sheffield,  have    early  turned                    his attention to
                                  first  as a   grocer,                    and afterwards

becoming a bookseller, a business which he carried on until

his death. In a Letter of 1838, written by one who had; known

the family for forty ye ars^ this passage occurs-:-- " Dr. Smith's
father was a noted bookseller^ in Angel Street, Sheffield, and,
like other booksellers, had his partialities to works of- a certain
class, with which his shop and warehouse abounded, though
general literature was no stranger among his, stores.! Hisjwas
almost the only shop in Sheffield! worth- visiting for classical
authors, Latin or Greek divinity, and good old English writep,
especially of the age of the Puritans, and Nanconformistvpf
whom and their, works he had an extensive knowledge, ,pi
which he   was   very communicative,
This made  his  company very agreeable   easnpdecpiarollyfitatbolem." iajstegs.

J StorwT I" - ^The children of this marriage <of ; the: Sheffield bookseller

with Martha Sheard were four daughters, and a son. Of -the

                                          Sagad°^ ^g^^y'^rigWand benevolent,
:4ss*rsu;^^of mv Relatives v^~jS
                j           .    - ye bmitn s. entitled " Obituary
                     a

.cottage, Longleyf near Xffield^^^"<^t^'',re*'^^l^--at
rflce^^iii^S^^V.^ff^tw^H^''^^^^ **tag,took                                              S-^'a

many years a close and
                        LoTM'                                                    **  ,
JfidS*^S1llWnesS,-anaVhumilityw«re
                                                                                Pat"»oe, serious-
aboye fifty years; she                                                    way of righteousness
                exemplary        HnviTMi?**».*· .*,»

nJ^Z^^f^Tl ^and entered (I doubt                &°mTM>                    -toU>  »TMw,
                                                °
te^Cg^S^ ^ ^The Christian graces

^dtnlargely in the life of her ^ustrious
                                                "e*ei»PW" reappeared
                      EARLY TRAINING.

daughters, the1 latest surviving died in 1837. The son, John
Pye Smith, whose history is now to be detailed, was born

May 25, 1774, in a house which was long ago pulled down to
widen that part of the town of Sheffield.

  A single anecdote has been preserved of the period of his

mere childhood-- that at the age of five years he declared him
tsheilnfgas,m" anh,ea'npdlutnhgeerdefoarek,niinfehiisntsotylheisofd"rupmut,tinthgusawtahyrocwhiinldgishit
aside as a toy which ho longer comported with his sense of

maturity. A very early inaptitude for play, no doubt, character

ized him. Born and nurtured as he was among books, and
probably bringing with him into the world a strong predis
position for using them, his opening impulses would soon

diverge from the common pastimes of a child. It is, however,
not a little singular to observe how this remarkably premature
avowal of! his- manliness was sustained by the freedom and
vigour of his pursuits in after life.

For one whose learning was so extensive and accurate, the

degree in which he^was self-educated, even from his earliest

years, will appear surprising. From the magnitude and solidity
of the finished structure, the foundations might be supposed to

have been laid with consummate skill, under the superintend
ence of the ' best masters. There" is, however, no evidence

 whatever that this was the case ; on the contrary, all existing
. means of .forming an opinion unite in pointing to the fact, that

books, and not living teachers, were his early, as they continued

to be throughout life, 'his prime and almost his sole guides in

the acquisition of knowledge. His native town had, indeed, in

his boyhood, a grammar school, but his name has been sought

for in vain among the, list of scholars : nor is there the slightest

reason to suppose that he ever went to a distance from home,

until as a young man he entered Botherham academy ; nor is

he; known ever to have referred to, any master from whom he

received regular lessons, except one who taught him writing --

an omission not likely to have happened to so good a memory

and grateful a heart as his, if indeed, there had been anything

of the kind to recollect and acknowledge*

In his eighteenth year, a friend wrote to him from London,
                       on his notice -- "What are your  thoughts
urging this question  of the ministry ?" The answer,    of which
respecting the work

there is a rough copy in Pye Smith's handwriting, states, on

                                           b%
                         EARLY TRAINING.                                                            D786,

4

I Ittftosvaohutceverncruoyuhiutcroiirstpsenaioeseb:nc--eleu,nasl"ntiidbeadcerurit,.rthacpatiurhnvmoNeienvsohigbtcdtaaeoevnetnonechnsneteiislphadyrlaeqodbruvaaloeeritdcemissoecttonuingosswrtitnrviaie,ewtlunhnlhync.aieucnadshsdiuAfsaamfhtooiclenlnoriylgintdugyttfehhiaseeehvomtheofeAoduedttrrhteafmaeocbfierrnalmeaimvvtomeihenoureang,prntaptunbhoinnelioresrf
Iuseful learning, as perhaps very few have enjoyed, and the

greatest part of these was before had any acquaintance with
(I humbly trust) experimental
   This phraseology leads the mind                      to" incidents                       ... ,.  such

                                                                            and aids)
as could scarcely have been expected from his original position
                                                                                         sense of
in life; and thus, while agreeing                                 a

the word providential, we can easily understand hov^ his entire
silence respecting any regular cburse of classical '"instruction
under good masters, either at school or at home, ayose from

the fact, that  at that  period            the son      of a Nonconformist                book:
seller in a     country    town,'           would       be deemed qjiite                 out of

the reach of the advantages of what was called "grammar

learning.

   One "of the considerations' which he enumerates as un
           thtuoshies1xpernesteseridng:--th'¦^" 1Inm'imniystrpyr,esienntresptalytionto^
favourable                                                                               his Lohdoii
                                                                                             find thai
Ifriend; is'

Insoemceessaacryq.u1ainBtaenscideesw. ith   the languages              'almost indispensably
                                           appear to be           fixed in. this situation pT,
Ilife. am become so necessary to my father, as to have almost
the entire management of one of the most important parts of
his business ; and if1 Providence should ctisable my father from,
personal
           attendance on trade,                     he  thhauss'  other                  could carry,
it on."                                            he
           At the time when                                       wrote, -whatever his real

attainments were, or promised to be,                              there  frwomoultdhea' pinpteeraerstst,o1
have been no disposition to draw them                             away
of the business. He was
                                                                  not educated for "any. of'
the learned professions. !

   'The 'anecdotes and traditions of that early time' agree in
their testimony to; "these

l^quoted, goes on to say,-
                                           facts.  "  Thus the    JLeehtotieardoa'f           already
                                           that       the Rev.                       Brewer, then
   the. pastor at Queen-street chapel, "and Mr. Smith
   most mtimate    friends ; and as asmall compensation for having
   a regular peep  at the few periodicals of that day,
   teach h,s son,  John, the Latin language, his                                     undertook      to
                                                                                        being
A;T-                    EARLY NOTE BOOKS.                                               5

          12-]

probably .^put. t.en pr , twelve yearSipld." Mr.,Brewer con-

tinuedr for many years , to take , a deep iinterest, in everything

relating to this rpupil, and the latter returned the feeling with

an ardour of gratitude and, affection which might almost be
called intense., It. was not, however,, without difficulty that the

somewhat .desultory rpourse of classical reading was persisted
ip. The boy had (to go on errands,, and at such times he would

occasionally forget wha^t he had to do, owing to the claims of a

book or a. lesson, over .which he would be seen poring by the

road side. A conflict which he, had, with his Virgd. is also

among ,rtiier most      current of the                  anepdptes  pf that          part of his
                                                     (
life. Some word or passage resisted his utmost efforts to find

qut the meaning ;, fhe became excited, fell into a passion, threw

the well-bound vojume pn the floor, and was not satisfied until

he had kicked it almosttp pieces. But, in this instance, re
action answered |o ..action j the stroke rebounded, so as power
fully to affect himself. He grew patient and plodding, and for
the future,
temper, iq,     wbea.sarr'ucaproenful   to bring        his. judgment, and               not his
                                       difficulties;       and thenceforth              he went

on his way as one who had secured the secret of victory.

Six small note-books remain, the, dates pfr which, as given
by Pye Smith himself, sh.pw; them to ...haye^ bean written from
                                       year.pf his age; that is, during the
the rtwelithj-'tp"th,e
tinie usually sefapart for a, classical eduea,tiqm,. A-hrief account

of tne.pp^tents'.of these ;wipf not only. supply important ald£fpr.
'settling the question of his early training, hut ^b&futiire mam
will be seen in miniature ih.jthis likeness. of the boy.
                                                                                        , -u
The first+pr.t:hf series, 17136, begins with " A Chronological
List                                   LieganronrianngceoranGdendiaursk,nefrsosm."
      of Men eminent for                                                            the earliest.
Ages   to, those"pf Gptiiic                                                           The page.

is divided i^tp three columns, : (the first for tha age -when. th,e,:
authors ' flourished, ; tiie, second contains the name of,e,atcJij fmd

the work or service for which he, was celebrat-ed ; and[the -thprd, .

is allotted to the "names of the best |Jnjglish.rtransj.a|pr^'rri

Homer, in large, capitals, is                           the, head of. the. .lisj;,, and
PrpcopiuSjaVtiie end, rjeaclun^from j3.c. 907 tp, a.d^. h%%^ Tjj,ej+
whole was probably copied cfrpm ,som,e printe^ catalogue ; _,bu^D
the correctness of the spelling and the care in pnnctuation/,

could scarcely    have been greater    in his rlater               lijfe;;  npi;    is  |Jjar.p '^a
slightest j^yiee                        his own,,,                          list
                  of any pen .except                               Iliis                 followed
                                                                                    is;

                                                                                                          £
by of twenty pages( of passages frpii^ Ovid, ajjd Virgil,
6                    EARLY NOTE BOOKS.                                           [] 786-- 89.

the choice of which seems to have depended on beauty of

sentiment,  pregnancy                   oNfexetx,prferossmiont,heorarotcicclaesio"nGalrlaymomnar,s"omine
pecuUarity  of idiom.
Chambers's Dictionary, he copied the account pf ancient and

modern grammars for sixteen different languages. On a sub

sequent page he transcribed a number ofi Latin ¦-, epigrams,
" from the    blank leaves of an old book."
the earliest   specimen of his- critical- skill:  --He"reCownecemrneinegt        w$h
                                                                                  the

above epigrams, it is observable-- 1st, That those (Which-,I have

marked 1 and 2 seem to be written by the; same person,; and

that 3, 4, and 5 seem all to be written by a different person,

and No. 6 by another person; 2nd, That the last word on the
second and last lines of No. 2 are written in such a manner as
Ito be, to me, not

Ia/«c simile of them
                     legible ; accordingly, have                          made   as good
                     as was able." Three ofthe.                           prime  qualities

for all investigations, whether of words or, things, are singularly
apparent in this brief                  passage   fromithe notebook,©! a
                                        age*-r«  cartefuh dmmmination. of km     bpy
under    t;h--iratecceunrayceyarasnodf            of statement, in not calling!
terials                                 modesty                                  ma
                                                                                 the
words    which  he   could not          detocipmheer;"--illeagnidbl-ea.,
saying   "they  are  not legible                                           ,but in simpjy

                                                                          determination Jo
swamibamailtkeii-elre"t--gthopeffoatribhneefssuttarwtukhosierendrgJsieliihgnechdoetuceludodpu,doldnbf usntduoincftfhoictruemlotaievedaes,n,r-Asc'fooaanrssfihdgheeeonorthde.atdaa.isna*thehaawfnaadsc,
piotInshhrfoegieCn.tthoPGae1emumrr0er5ipinoetoognykofsgnttioihotloflhtuuhtem1htse7hte8o-rers8laua>ttLssypivtalatewethpioceaneerrnprkendsaTst;soiubssnroae"ygagfaO;ueunWsefto,,iaie"tlti;enlship-eascbo-aeomofprpodteiteekihrfdB,d,feeo.fw;frrwrepohoaynominmcetehrta.,AtacMhhgceaaeqeo-ssunuv,aAnaetrrdtnhrteyovedolea,eflvnetfroiBoatn/fwlwparglonnmeiwtedrteh,do,
tl" tT"*,'*^S**thlZnEJtLfreia^fuincssycdccverloincbp-eifrdfi.difaroBmntatnhneicHaTMP;°hr0aitlC#h2ee1'tGo?ree^ko°r,Fmfr>o1Di-=SeGttslrle«ct^e<oc4,*tuK·b*se«G*Ltmaeformdoj-miUees¦ ».Sosii,
frirrtfive paKes                                 ^rman .alphabet · four
^ZlT^;liJzTMT"**^**by nearlTwotid aV K
                                                 <* England; followed
                                                     Critica of Tou* to
Ml!. 13--15.]            EARLY NOTE BOOKS.                                                                                 7

mars, works orr'thes accents, the particles, on quantity and
pronunciation ; and although some of these may have been
mentioned as a guide to. books which: might be sought after
and purchased in the business, yet when we find the lad

writing several- pages of extracts respecting the use of the

Greek accents, -his interest 'evidently appears to,,h:aye,)been a
literary* one. --'-'r'-                         ,,,-.{ ... .
                       :
Nearly the whole of one /book' .for 1789* occupied with
                           a                                                                     is
                                           ':¦
                                                                                                           ,
Richard Bentley's emendations of Horace, placed side by side
with the-i;ext as it
                         stood                  before the critic's time. Two pages
follow containing "                             of the works offWilliamiEmerson5,the
                           list
Mathematician " and two or three more relating to the life of
Dr. John Joftin, "abridged from the Universal Magazine, for

1787."' Another-ifeook'c for the same year, and the last which
we shall notice, 'begins with an account/ of some editions of
Horace, copied from the Analytical Review,' for May,i 1789.
                                                              :
then there
                                                                          is ;

                                                                                         ;

                                                                                       a

                                                                                                               ;;
               is    passagetdescribing the way of getting admission
                  a

to the Beading Room of the British Museum several pages
follow ifrpm1 Blair's Lectures and Knox's Essays, on the cha

racteristic 'qualities of the Greek and Latin authors                                                         list of

books recommended by Dr. .Cotton Mather                                                                       transcribed
this is- followed by some curious quotations, from the Dispu-
tationes Theologica of the elder Voetius and towards the close

 there is'arfc index of seme of the Homericj verbs* copied from<
 Bowyer's P<0sthlu*nous Tracts already mentioned, jju,,-- 1-,.>n,H
wo'Thes very 'miscellaneous nature of the contents af^hese> books

--considering them, to haveibeen mada between thertwelfth and
sixteenth year of Pye Smith's age-- greatly confirms the evid

 ence elsewhere adduced, that he was not able to secure the advan

 tages of regular education in classioaLlearning. Notsuch variety
 of works would have been within his reach at ahy public ischpol
 and these had. been at hand, such use as he, made of them
''would have' been1 incdnsistent with ?hisu drilling according to
if                                                                                                                         :
       a
                                                         a

'rule: nor would a domestic tutor have been justified, on jpapre

accounts ^han- one, in thtfs allowing .a-ipupil to wander away

''eompletelyifati'^illdn so many directions..' The bookseller's

shop fwais; his high-sohool in which many works wererjbeing
               >
                                                ;
                                                                                              i
accumulated,   ofnoSth,;eifnfideelde^d*baot'f   very ready salejiat: that lear^y^ay
                                                which served to furnish -some Hew
in the town:

stimulus to the reading propensities of the boy, and in rthis
8                       EARLY NOTE BOOKS.                                                                   [1786-89.

pseuntTeshedeiwnperotehsethodufamayo-vbuaosldukveoolfuramrleemdgoofererB*opwreyeeiio''uscamtheanincdPuylde  be' com
                                                                                                             Smith's

way  just at the  time  when he' was   beginning to   open his                                              clear
and  searching          with a kind   of intelligent  surprise,                                             updh
                  eye,
the wide field of literature. In the author he found an ex
ample of great amplitude of learning, combined with great
accuracy; those two prime elements of success which 'the
young bookseller would have to keep in vieW if he meant to
                             pwrihnotmers'heandpeprhuablpissherres'g. ardeHdow^ashitghhe
tread   in the steps of one
facile  princeps of English
                         period of youthful energy1 and impulse
ambition soared at this  to say," judging merely fromwhat he
it would be impossible
was in after life. The numerous1 extracts which he was care

fully making     were, however, far too  remote from a religibufc
tendency, to    warrant the impression1  that his diligence flowed
from a proper source ; and of this none was evel* more deeply-

convinced than he was at a later period. t
   Having thus glanced at the foundations, there are several
important particulars in which the' completed superstructure
harmonized so fully with' them, that the coincidences deserve

to be briefly pointed out. The early note-books supply ample

evidence of that versatility of pursuits, which is also met* with
in his later years. Had he been tied down to the routine1 of &

school,  this    tendency might   have been iii  hsadvme eb'eMeneaismuproessrie'-'
pressed
         : ]to  have subdued it  entirely would

ble ; for it seemed to belong to the deeply-seated characteristics

of his nature. But when left, as it was to 'itself, from his- com

paratively isolated position, it grew with a rapidity and to a

strength, like' that which is seen to mark certain productions

StTTh toiTp I I °^I<* wdI'ZlUTpftvSscTb1ehrteeoe8caueei*g1hrvrpdtYy0euofaieaoH.odrSr"simelmgf.eol,doilmaentawfhdrneo"HfedisioTs-onfeat4oerilhgoendi0rwtspgeterh6hehhlpuaery1daeaiergn,vevsmlehTesaapuae,awgdRiregsmsryaoeaaetasblinbgbnSanmaceooledns°iiyrbnofnhdnflgnhooeym.aoirysuoamupastofltLld,chenoAuee^l.difoirnntdetbtrtekyshae*ecortts?liraamihAsifvinitrgitlfoaanJyftshsosulhlgooti5'tselaeig9annthu5hs0embpiieen9,seo1Krbl6aof8ooEmi-A,5tfkrbrforia1etrsoiPap-afttltnbiebshehab;,arr1lneniiyetinf¦c7trico;ua,s,g9het·rhkosn5s,id·s,oeil,ohna,¦ir--,etitncgbartes'roreh.susde"emo2epobrlynge1aemol"eeuTMdta1oiatdlk'n9Hako.nsi,oTM^grsodfnamHwftoptp?thehetofilpahnemji~ccnp·tethU·h^eeuioj'npaacnfnstturc,r.huamrliygpelusaIemoesls£fnlnshd..iae-fgeto3erCrsuapuco,8aBatahlfr1adfgpcm.urr22ooeeeyte,b7mrnn.ns"e,--  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
4£T. 12--10.]   EARLY NOTE BOOKS.                                9

pf the, vegetable, kingdom, , where the soil and circumstances

are favourable, and all intermeddling is avoided. This must

be; noticed next, that whenever he made an inroad upon, any
pew branch pf study,, the regular method of approach being
perhaps neglected in his ardour of conquest, he no sooner
found, himself , in possession-- quasi possession rather --than
he, woujd, set |tp, work, with singular zeal, and apparently without
much care as, to ,the pains it might cost, to secure everything
that, was needful, to make good and accredit his title. The
accuracy, the sort of passion {for accuracy, for which he became
r(emarkable, and which .can be traced in his manuscripts no less
than,infhis printed works--which, indeed, was seen even in his
last7lpurs,( among us -77. comes out as a, principle that was
beginning to, be ,, cultivated, in the earliest of these note

These qualities rendered., perseverance almost, inevitable .: for

how coul^. there.be great breadth pf ,reading with great exact
ness, unless great diligence had been subjoined ? Yet. in his

early years, he never had. that stimulus tp, exertion which arises

from contact -- often it becomes conflict --with, other minds, ar

dent perhaps, as, Ins own : and ther(e is no evidence that whenthe

decisive struggles were being made, ther,e .wag any fully com
petent; person at hand to; commend,, and so encourage him.
Not, a single prize is heard of;, nor a single examination for

honours. ...His, parents were not in the usual sense literary at
all... Their son, was no doubt, at times a wonder to them,- and,
at. times a joy ;, but clear, intelligent appreciation of his pursuits
ampng.bopks could not »e iiad, in that quarter. And yet as
there was no saying what he, might become by-and-by, either,

as a gppd,.bppks,e,llei?,,1:or   ,something else which the devout
                                heart" as far better, all the facilities
mother " pondered in her
they could provide were gladly put in his way : and he, having
these, went on; hot indeed as one who saw a prize before him,
but rather as one feeling , after it, determined withal npt to.

suffer it to elude his grasp for any lack; of diligent, searching
on his part A fine model so far-- and; not the less a model
because he had no thought of being one. His greatness, was
really inclosed in that germ,-- that he could work while he
scarcely knew how, and long before he or any about him could
                 'even a dim foreshadowing of "whereunto  this   would
gharovwe ."had                                                    must
                His future was hidden,, indeed, as every  one^s
10              EARLY NOTE BOOKS.      [1790.

be; yet it was sure to come, if--while he must wait-- he would

but work.  the  lasting  consequences  of his early self-training,
   Among
        mentioned the fulness and value 'of his information.
may be  from the first been accustomed to depend on his own
Having
researches, books, the most trustworthy sources of knowledge,
furnished him with materials on which he could rely -.and
when these were reproduced in any form which suited his
purpose in after life, a confidence was felt in his statements
which was rarely found to be misplaced. Had he been less
catholic, more cramped in his pursuits^ at the Outse't^uhis

capacity 4for service might hate been permanently 'lessened.
Another result was the fearlessness with which he ever5 pressed

on in search of truth. The freedom with which he read and

thought in his early days never forsook him.1 When a mere

boy, he grew familiar with varieties of opinion ; he had to, test
the strength' of conflicting arguments;* nor could- he remain
contentedly in the 'dark on any question about1 which light was

to be had. This, however, though ' so perfectly natural to one

of his temperament, and in his circumstances at the time/ had
no' small influence in strengthening that habit of independent

inquiry which in later years'Was often1 carrying him to'the very
roots of the most difficult questions, notwithstanding' '<'the

labour, nay, the opposition which he would have to submit to

in his progress. His great fairness --amounting, ds some have
thought, to a sort of chivalrous generosity-- in putting the> argu
ments of opponents in the clearest and best light, sprang, no
doubt, from the frankness of his nature,--and was !in ·time,
moreover, largely nourished by the -honourable spirit of
Christianity. But no small benefit in this respect arose un
consciously to himself from his' course of early training; He
could afford to he fair; for he had tried the strength ©f the

evidence on both sides of the greiat questions of human inquiry.
Thus the width' of the basis on which the structure Wa* raised
gave it an aspect 'of^repose' as vfell as security; nor was it-the
less enduring, merely because at the beginning he 'had been
 left to carry on the work alone.

    The facts which have been stated are stated solely aS foots,
 and are not intended to be turned into principles or prece
 dents. Great benefits sometimes accrue from a state of things
 not only difficult but hazardous to character : these, however,
-KT,1C.]                                   APPRENTICESHIP.  11

are generally, conferred upon persons who are exposed to the

danger from necessity, while if any place themselves or others

in, , contact with it from choice, they are^ far more frequently
than not, losers by their rashness. In this particular instance,

were we to say, that a Divine hand had first interposed, to set

aside largely the (action of human hands, so as to leave scope
for theiohildls mental inclinations to grow in their own way --

and then had subsequently taken the instrument, thus in a

sense self-formed, to employ it <in a manner and ' for purposes

not contemplated by man, (the , sentiment would well agree
.with Dr. Pye Smith's most deeply-cherished conviction --that
in proportion as he had, been able to serve his,, generation

according to the Divine will, the disposition, the means, and

the result must be ascribed solely to; God. --"Any use which it

has pleased the, Lord to make of -me does indeed ,awaken

isnufrinpirtiese,g, rfaocr ei.t",  is   a  most convincing instanca of the power,  of
                                           Dr. Olinthus Gregory. June 27, 1840.
                                       To

His free and generous Intercourse with his students, and

very much that was characteristic of his method of lecturing,

may; also be traced with; .considerable certainty tp the unre

strained manner, in Lwhich his own mind was formed even from
,-hJs very boyhood; -- at such; a depth the roots are to be found of
qualities which endeaEed,him,,to many to the end, of his days.

  In April, .179,0,., Pye Smith was bpundi apprentice tp his

father; the indenture, mentioning the three branches of book
seller, bookbinder, and stationer as included in the, business to

be learned. Thus another, and a somewhat decisive step was

taken; to connect him closely with trade. ' It is the more im

portant to notice this, especially in relation to his; father's pur
pose, inasmuch as in a Letter to, a friend, Mr. Smith senior
speaks with great confidence of an important change having
taken place in;his son's, conduct, the commencement of which
he assigns to a date about three months, before tiie apprentice
ship, and the continuance pfc which up to the, time when his
Letter was written, July 27, he speaks of in terms of gratitude
and hope. As Christian parents accustomed to our Noncon-
.formist. method of regarding genuine conversion as indis
pensable for; the, work of the ministry, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, had
been ; restrained from indulging any definite expectations-- to
say. nothing of plans--^with a view to their son's entering upon
12                   THE GREAT CHANGE.                                                     [nan.

that office, by a  want of satisfactory                        evidence   in his character,
and conduct of     his having yielded                          himself
                                                                         to God, At the

time when he was apprenticed he had                                      nearly twp years,
beyond the age usual for such an arrangement with lads in his
position in life ; a delay which might have originated in ,tbe
desire of his parents, or at the request of his mother, to afford
                                                                to be ' answered, and for
raenligeixotuesndetdrainoipnpgorttuonittyakeforitsprfauylel'r  effect in his conversion';

and should this be secured, they would then be                                     to released

him for the work for which in many other respects they could

not fail to perceive his qualifications. When, however, they

saw boyhood passing away without the change which they most
of all desired--when increasing years ' seemed to be adding&
increasing vigour to a style of character which as Christians
they must deplore--they then resolved to lose. 'ho niore time in
                                                                        though
arranging   for his apprenticeship'.                           And,      father's  -the",  JLetter^
expresses  clearly enough the strength                          of the                     hopes
                                                                                   best
respecting his son, yet, either because the J
                                                                         of the ereat
change came too late to' justify an alteration of their plans, pr

because the time had not sufficed to satisfy them of the

permanence of the benefit, they determined to complete, with

out more delay, the proceedings which were to bind him "to

business for five years longer.

   The account of the change referred to in the foregoing Letter

may be given in his own words.1 In a paper prepared to be

read on his admission to the church assembling at Queen-
street Chapel, Sheffield, dated November 21, 1792, this passage0
occurs : -- " Though very few possess such religious advantages
Ias have been favoured with, from the
I Ition, yet                                                             of educa

           confess (and  desire to do it with the "deepest
Icontrition
Iments.
           of soul)  tphuartsueddidafetearrlysinb,reaankdthdrroaungkhinthionsiequeitnygalgikeeJ-'.1
           greedily

water; being restrained from the most abandoned1 and openly
scandalous conduct only by the care of my parents and friends.

I ItleaSahgiustoethc.u,hegrHhwMetaosywattlhhhwceeooanymstshceaairesndranontcresesuornoodlwoffeanmrtsghytehbweleilifactefhwoamhtiteoiehllrldfuatlhlhwmepiasroesgsahlthociegrhieahiennrlsygtsiroiepxoflrtfyoetiveth.oinenkseGeBdonusstpibeloel f
geance was pleased   to commission free and sovereigri grace
bow my rebellious    and hardened heart to                                                 to
                                                                         obedience         of
MT- 10]            THE GREAT CHANGE.  ]3

IChrist.  date my, first serious impressions from reading the
truly excellent Mr, Alleine's Alarin to the Unconverted." In a
book of Family Memorials, which he began to write soon after

he went to Homerton, tliere is a page referring to these par
ticulars of his early history. And still further on in life, when

he had been upwards ,of three years in the prominent post of

ttCuhhteaoprm,eli,naniLs^tprnyordjn-pant--hseehrevviecareygawpinhuibp,ilh^icttro^oodckuccapesldiao.cn,teheionfsuNhbeisjwecoBt rridoniandaatsioSimntrielaetort
style.

 ¦·Ju4ging fr,om the         untarnished purity of his longi public
cGaorede,"r, from his, high   attainments as one who " walked with
                             from, the .holy temper of his mind, the
           and especially
impression is perhaps very general that in his early days he

niust ^ave; passedjiwi^h comparatively few aiid, slight tempta

^tions^ .through^                     process, the several

stages of which wpre. scarcely distinguishable pne from another,
so early ,dld the light begin tp shine, and so almost naturally

m lus.case^id it continue to shine brighter and brighter unto

the perfect day. ^.lasj ,np, jhe, would say ; the, change was not.

gradual; the line which separated what he had been from what
he became was wide enough, even at,,the ppint ofjunction, to
be fpr ever impript-ed pn his memory andiheart. The contrast

between, the two was. great; and ,the vivid recollection of the

one seemed ever, tp be operating as a motive to renewed pro

gress in, the( t3irgction,,of the other ; so that he had few; equals
for the degree in which he made, the past to bear beneficially

on the present and thus on the future- By keeping these par

ticulars in sight, very much to be met with, in subsequent pages
will receive its best elucidation. His prpfpund submission to

the r sovereignty of ,<^jpd, ^he,, manner, inr which he confessed,
deplored,, and deprecated all, sin, apd jfche still more surprising

tone and style of his grateful and joyous emotions, as one who

had been permitted,. tp, experience,the renewing and sanctifying

grace ofthe. Divine Spirit, arose in no small .dpgree put of these

early fact^, which, ap,,the papers abpve-mentipned show, would
have occupied, a prominent placp* b,ad his, hfe, been written by
his own pen, and,which, therefore, .deserve to be carefully; kept

in view here.  , i . ., . ..; ,

The freedom frqm restraint whiigh marked his pursuits as a
boy, had been long enough indulged to give a very strong bias
14                  THE GREAT CHANGE.                                             [1Tt>°-

to his character; so that when arrived at the point where the
                    it cannot be            of surprise that
new course begins,                  matter                                        the
change should form  quite a crisis          history. Yet it
                                    in his                                        'Oc

casioned no loss of power; his intellectual and moral 'foWeS Was

not abated by it : only the direction was altered : and occurring
when it did, all the energy of such a nature as his' was ready to
be acted upon, and then to act, in conformity- with the new
motives; --in this way, 'both time and the peculiar circum

stances under which the change was accomplished, would-be

favourable to the greatness of the future results. That in
dependence of inquiry which he carried with him throughout

life, would occasionally urge him nearer than men in general
deemed safe, towards the edge of the precipice beyoiid which

the great abyss stretches away unexplored, unfathomable : and

there he would stand awhile noting down, calmly enough, what
he saw, or thought he saw. But this habit, which was formed
prior to his conversion, found its safeguard in the process

through which he then had to1 pass. The intensely ' vivid
realities of his early experience were like so many Alpine sum
mits on which the light always seemed- to rest, and which to

himself were ever visible, whatever might >be< the distance ¦ ©f

the horizon towards whiclrhe was at times disposed to wander
beyond the common range, or even the common' ken. Although
the region might never : have been examined, much less; laid

down in any existing charts--utterly wanting therefore in roads

and even way-marks-- to himself these Alpine summits invari
ably furnished a sure clue to his position (¦ At timss, indeed--

as is not unfrequently the case in mountainotis districts --he

might perhaps think himself nearer to them than he really was ;
yet, even then, they were never out of his sight; nay, often,
with a skill and celerity which could scarcely fail to excite ad

TJT^0hAmpmiwhhtoaiilamsaipswzrnreaiydsakcndteseaeie.aorlrdfnpeensddels,aauNrtnimrhmntodhioeclwdyoomtlwwdiysffiieoaotft°cmsiurtfnio-hsloucdeitbivshtcvrteeh-eehseyhehr;°eaocfnkteriwlorodlsiaysnsm'tdtftaeihdmrnubrheoidsm-lielshittiisegtefphhiiinonmoeiwtsgwrudhtatihsaeghstwronrhaoHeatchetuoyehiti-scr,hiatnlatbhieadostkeaexdhreeycimatsohktbtefe.esehtitonetthahhmhpncdTeaeaeieornt,ninb-getghsoe.hnsr<au^eneec:vcn*aeeye;*hto»ohhrotc«raofaofa.hdnd'malawltfb^yhdsiainleneiuetvneehscdpsegnehdes,
                    if,
                                                                               a
¦ffiT- 16-]         THE GREAT CHANGE.                                                 IS

points of devout thought and emotion should be found within

the limits of its oWn experience ; that there- should always be a
creed in the heart which the head should never be allowed to
call in question ; great facts in the life, which would give to

religion a Substance and a. reality, which no subsequent in

quiries pr'disgassions could disturb.

   With a view, moreover, to a just estimate of his character
and the force pf hig example, great stress must be laid on these

particulars of lrjs early life. Forif it be supposed that nature,
as it is termed,-ihadi done much for him, so that the results of
his eminent piety, visible in his long, public career, are not to

he set down to the. credit of Christianity alone, the soil having
been pf .itself exceedingly well prepared for a more than

commonly free growth !of pthe fruits of holiness, the truth

respecting him will be very imperfectly apprehended ; nor will

that grace: which made him what he was, be sufficiently thought
                    to make others like him also. A more
of as fully

heroic man as a* "disciple of our Lord, a truer and a braver

athlete in the great conflict with all evil, it would not be easy to

find.; Of strong impulses, of a quick and glowing temperament,

and able to act powerfully on others, it was no easy thing for
him at the outset to "put on Christ." He could not glide into
the wholei armour of God just as though he had 'been, .ori
itginally made for
                    Accordingly, : how correctly soever he

might,  Ie,xbpruetssrthea.ngirmacpeorotfanGt odartwichleichofwhaiss.wbiethliefmein,"  the words,

" Not                                                                                  it was no

less true, that to his own vivid apprehension therei lay in these

Words the secret of all that he was, in direct contrast with what
he felt he would have been if his maturity had risen naturally

upon the foundation of his early years. Barely, indeed, has a
motto-, after such constant use, preserved so much of its original

brightness, with the inscription as deep and -the letters as

 legible as  . though the;wondr;0.usriohligation  it recognizes                       and
3celebrates  had been of the most recent date     ; but, in' truth,                   the

greatness of ithe, mercy bestowed upon him in the sixteenth
year of his fags, grew more' and more surprising the- longer: he
lived ; the very rate of his progress in the Divine life*.- serving
to affect his heart the more deeply with; the memory of the

impulse which, at the 'first, had sent him forward in the new

and, heavenward direction; -
CHAPTEE II.

COMPLETES HIS APPRENTICESHIP-- ADVANTAGES OF THIS--DEniCATION TO
      GOD --DIARY -- INTIMACY WITH MEDICAL STUDENTS -- LETTER OF MRS.
      PYE --HIS EARLIEST KNOWN LETTERS -- SABBATH EVENING MEMORIALS

       --BECOMES A MEMBER OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH-- SABBATH EVEN

      ING MEMORIAL, ON THE DAY OF HIS UNION WITH THE CHURCH--
      DEATH OF A SISTER--SABBATH EVENING MEMORIALS -- OCCASIONAL

       MEMORIALS.

   Pye Smith's term of apprenticeship was allowed to expire

before any decisive steps were taken with a view to the
Christian ministry. The time, however, was not lost in rela
tion to his ultimate pursuits in life. He was still in free, daily
contact with books; and from a variety of motives in hisown
mind and in the minds of his parents, every available oppor
tunity for increasing his knowledge would be improved. Nor
was it of less importance that his character should pass
through a course of discipline, under the influence of his;
newly-embraced religious principles ; partly to reveal to him
self the points which might still be exposed to danger, and
partly to render him practically conversant with the only sure
grounds of defence and safety ; and it was not a disadvantage,
but the contrary, that this process should be carried on while
b£ was in connexion with the world of business, instead of
being confined within the somewhat artificial limits of college
life.

   Soon after the date of    the   great change, he drew up a
paper, the design of which  wijl  be learned from the following
passages : --

   " Hoping that the Lord in rich and
some measure to shine into my heart,
knowledge of God and of myself, but

ilmmentally sensible of my own weakness,
                                   infinite grace has been pleased in
                                  and to give me some degree of the

                                   being, at the same tile experi

                                   sinfulness, and inconstancy,
JET. 16.]                              DIARY.                                              17

induced to make this solemn Covenant with God ; hoping that he will
Ienable me by his Divine grace to keep the same, and that he will carry on

the good work which would fain hope he hath begun in my soul, notwith
Istanding every obstacle which the wickedness of my own heart may raise.

  therefore bow my knee at the throne of Divine grace and mercy.
"·O Lord ! thou Father of all living, Searcher of hearts, and. Trier of
the reins of the sons of men, be pleased to look down in a way of mercy
upon a vile, guilty, wretched worm of the earth, who presumes to approach
thy awful throne, encouraged by thy gracious promises and invitations
           in thy   most Holy Word.
contained    Most    High God, for the                deepest  contrition  and sorrow upon

  I" ask,
Iaccount of the sins have committed against thine Infinite Majesty. Let
me be humbled in the dust before Thee, under a proper sense of the evil of
Isin, and hatred to it as the greatest'evil.

   " adore Thee, O Lord, that Thou hast devised a way whereby Thou canst
be just, and' the justifieriof the ungodly, even the new and living way,

IThe Lord Jesus Christ, the Lamb, slain from the foundation of the world.

Grant, most merciful Lordi that even may be washed in his blood, and
clothed in his perfect righteousness. Make me to rely upon and trust to
                                     faith: it                 Gift,     Lord;
      by   a  true  and  living                   .,  is  thy         O         oh, bless  me
      it.
with                     ,."-.'.i".

" Be Thou wife me, Great God, at all times : preserve me from sin of
every kind : let me hate it more and more ; and let me be saved from it.
Particularly, O Lord,i Preserve me frTM the sins of pride, hypocrisy, vain
glory] self-righteousness, and all imaginary excellency. On, let not these
have' the' dominion over me.

"I IwOthiytGhowdainllloolinfwmgGysrsopaelocerewvm,aennarltfy,fao,.nrwdditmmhL,eiogahrgfdtru.a,lcls'emr"eWarsneiotdnlhudosteutiorrtennTmghtytoehseefltoforsctkaaoekneeTpdhoaethlenli,ossthihmneinnyeagen.e'fdnogriOatnhghiqe,tmuogietivbynee.t
me grace to help in time of need.
"Now,         God pf heaven and earth, have mercy upon me: hear and
grant these weak and imperfect petitions. Forgive the sin of my best
duties; and give me out of thy fulness grace upon grace, for the sake
      merits alone of the Lord Jesus Christ,              to whom with Thyself, O Father,
and   the Divine Spirit, one living and true              God, be endless and equal praise,
and
adoration, and worship, ascribed by all creatures, in all ages, through all

eternity. Amen.                            its (I hope)         sincerity.
"'I                                    of
      sign    this covenant iri token                        ,   " John Pye     Smith."    *

   For about six weeks in 1791, he kept a record of his

religious feelings ; yet not without omitting several days from

the date when it was begun to that of the last entry.

"Lord's-day, April 17.-- By reason of my own wicked and corrupt
heart's taking occasion of 'several great occurrences in favour of freedom,
Irights, &c, and an unbecoming attachment to some learning,                         have   woe
                                                                                religion   in a
fully deprived myself of the life, enjoyment, and comfort of

   * The date of this paper iff 1790 : it is at the top, and in blacker ink than
the rest ; but in his own -writing. --Ed.

                                                                                                          C
19,                                    DIARY.                                                                                                 [1791.

I I I ..... I I I IIrmltwfwmvoeuheviiyvyelttreehhvsprioHoenrgsswounituromvrlnetmciioaanhectlsvelaayiimnqtcleitruhoeientraianacrneevs,unkeslueysedswrten)atfainohntl;nrarigusdot,yhsifhvedtiuamestsavntyteooorpheerwnrheexnofancgfeSodieLttlarstahlolabaeblrkesbmnldeesaacqs.ysnty.uhhemias-scodhsskiBfanayubdlttlasehoteeiasnnnGebBoniodptlhssewdoeelaesm,;ivsta(eheesyIsdeetOtgdwmhtaeGnioemnn(toduaIoekdaislnr,.wdyfuagaalrovletsyfuhoaueeldaidbnrvtelrLelelhuimoerghtusnrhieotdnmtpfes,taebhhdmv)dalioyscdruwuoer,padriuaicedntadlohhddndyf
        to me, a hell deserving         wretch,  be graciously pleased, to  keep me
mercy   the worldly part of this       week in   a particular manner near   himself j
during
        thhaernodmuga2hy0.bre--ichhoTnhmoeuesrerecdyt,waopnodsdsgaelsyossriinfgiedh.aavseAenmsceeonnosfiadnrederaliAbgmliyoennv.uaproiend.my
Iso that                                                                                                                                      Some   ;
   " 19                                                                                                                                        soul
times,
and at other times lamentably drawn away by the natural levity of my
mind, and the outward objects which have presented themselves suitable
Ithereto.     have no hope but in the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ
Iunto eternal life. Oh, that           may know him, and the power of- his

Iresurrection !                                           now reduced! This day

   "21. --How is the gold changed ! How am
I Ihas been marked with the blackest ingratitude, levity, and conformity

to this vain world. Ah, what should be if was left to myself ! ·
  I" 24, Lord's-day. --Notwithstanding my infinite unworthiness >and con

tinual guilt, the Lord, trust, is repeatedly favouring the most unworthy
Iof his servants and chief of sinners with his gracious and Divine influ
ences.  have continually experienced the bad effects of my necessary and

unnecessary dealings with the world on week days, in deadening my

I Iwa"rmLothrd'sa-nddayl,ifeMafoyrGod.
                                 have  generally  found,  that  when  am enabled
                   1. --
Ito be most watchful and spiritual in the beginning of a week, have con
tinued in some measure so for the latter part of the week ; and so, on the

other hand.

  I" 3.--May not with reason ask, Can the love of God be in a heart so
If Ifull of sin, the world, and self?           have ever through sovereign mercy
Ibeen made a partaker of the grace that bringeth salvation,
Ithat                                                                 am certain
  I"
        am a very unprofitable servant indeed.    bewildered       and perplexed                                                              at

     5.-- This night feel myself as it were
the recollection of my great sinfulness, my cowardly conformity to the
world, and as it were alienation from God. This dead, cold frame has
very much of late prevailed against me. Oh,
                                                          may the  Great Redeemer
                                                          wish.     find' that when
I I Ima"ke16p.e--rfecthahvise
                   strength in       my weakness.
                   not to-day         lived as would
I I I Imacowatm"egomsn1utai7lfdfny.o--drmdt'moheYenygetosLCoaodrhre,ordifsmetfvtioyahirlnefairsiRlelpepnrhdrdoeiessfsee,esmsnispfeiteorycwnie?.aitldhgoAommwoedhna;etscyssaoereteuvfneutrlohaamvnceedo.mrdemeasasinroodnustyootoup.r'fauiislfHeiel natenh'sdei
I f ~? *aj It
feel    much  sin    ^7?re    made more and more a Partaker        of His holiness,!.
                   daily in  my thoughts, words, and practice.
coTM^ w 7I ?compassed me about,                                       O that were
                                        * GQd;   y6t' th°USh  iTMTMable evils have
                               have  reason to   sing of the
                                                              goodness and mercy of

I" 31.-I have to-day been much as too frequently am-in an unfruit-
MT. 17.J     INTIMACY WITH MEDICAL STUDENTS.        19

ful, earthly frame ; yet, blessed be the Lord, notwithstanding my great and
repeated provocations, he does from time to time afford me some gracious
quickening.  O for life, spirituality, uprightness, vigour in the Christian
course !"

    Such were the trials, and such the feelings which marked
the commencement of what proved to be a long and an eminently

honourable Christian pilgrimage. -- "Without were fightings;

within were fears."

  't

He became acquainted with two medical pupils in his native

town : Mr. (afterwards Dr.) Benjamin Eobinson, and Mr. W.

Moorhouse, whose valuable communication respecting these
early years has already been quoted. The, three young men

used to   rise at four o'clock  infewthetimmeosr,"ninsgaystoDrre.adSmGirtehe, kintoa
gether.
           "After reading a
Istatement taken down in writing by one of his sons, " pro
posed to introduce the subject of religion at one of our meet
ings. They acceded : and as they both attended the Unitarian
I IDpCrhiovavipneeidtl,yy.o' urcEhpooobsienints,f'ooarnndsmainyde,vseu'rbWjaeefcltlte,rw' tahtrehdisnEkvwieydnoetunctoehsatvheeofiUnnvCiinhtacriirsbital'ysn
I IChapel.
             was seventeen when                     first thus defended this

doctrine. Moorhouse, however, acknowledged his incapability
to answer me ; but still went with his friends to Mr. Groves's."

   Part of a Letter from his great-aunt, Mrs. Pye, will show how
that judicious person was aiding the culture of his piety at this

time. It is dated January, 1792.

I" My dear Nephew John Pye Smith, -- thank you for your acceptable
ILetter. should have answered it sooner, but various things have occurred

Ito prevent me, some of whieh, suppose, you have been made acquainted
Iwith. It gave me great pleasure that you wrote to me in so serious a

style; and also that hope you have 'a relish and experience of the things
of God. · Go on; my dear child, and as you grow in years, may you grow
Iin grace and in the knowledge of Jesus Christ. When read your Letter
I am ashamed to think that I am so veiy deficient in expressing myself to

Iwhat you' have done in your Letter to me. You have said all ; cannot say
Imore, nor with greater propriety.          don't say these things to make you
Iproud of yourself: NO ; hope it will make you more humble, and more
thankful: because every good and every perfect gift is from God. May we
                                            glory.
have our eye more to God    Cahndrisht.i"s          Endeavour to be useful in the

world/ and to the cause of

We now come to the earliest keown of his own Letters, three

                                                                                        c2
20 HIS EARLIEST KNOWN LETTERS. [,T92'

of which have been lent by a very aged lady who knew him
when he was quite a child-- Mrs. Kirkpatrick, of Homerton.

    " July 24.-- There appears to be an uncommon energy in those words, of
the Apostle Paul, where he declares concerning Moses, that when he was
solicited on the one hand /by all ttuUworldly splendour, honour, and mag
                of the most attracting; and on                    Gthoedo,--the'hreheannddu, rethde.daesspsieseei.ndg,
nificence have  afllicted state of the people of
suffering, and
IHim who is invisible.' But it is easy to multiply words.                              have, often

written and spoken with apparent earnestness some of the most interesting
Iand important truths, while have felt little of tie power of those, truths
I Iupon my                                                                              Spjrit  pf
                                                                                       myself   at
all grace,
all times
           own mind.                   But now, trust, hearftly beseech^thej
           that he may                              respected      correspondent
          to ' endure as               enable  my                                 and
                                       seeing  Him   who is       invisible."

    " Aug. 24. --How beautifully does the beloved disciple describe the fleeting,
                                                                  ' The world passeth ojooy,and
vthaein,faashnidontrathnesriteoorfy.'  state that we live  in.   misery are always annexe^-to
                                         Disappointment    and

our dearest worldly enjoyments. This we find true by constant experience;
but so foolish and ignorant are we, we repeat our folly and consequently

our griefs, daily. And indeed, thus we ever shall do, if left to ourselves,

Iif left unacquainted with that which the Psalmist, says is better than life,
   have often questioned the reality of my religion from the circumstancijj

Iof not being favoured with spiritual joy and happiness in so glorious a

manner as others of whom have heard. But, setting aside the ponsi-
deration of our own enjoyment and happiness, surely we are .bound by
every tie, the most endearing, the most sacred, the most.obligatory, ,.|p
glorify the Lord our God. Is He not infinitely, supremely, andj only Worttiy
of our highest esteem and                      H? olTinoetshse.'  contemplations  of,
mind He appears ' glorious             love                          We can have  no   a renewed
                                                                                       better evi
                                        in
          1th9.e--cFhraenqgueeonftloyurthneatsuoreves rethigann
dence of                                                         this, spiritual discernment.    ,
   "Oct.                                                         hand of God blasts our most
                                                                                                fa

vourite hopes, and effectually contradicts our most desirable wishes, , ^That
which we think is absolutely essential to our happiness and usefulness is

often  suddenly     taken from us. But after all, tye&sgflis p he, man                 whom     tfqaf
       chastiseth.                                                                      fruits
Lord                   Let Him but enable us to reap, from it ,
righteousness, and we shall gratefully adore His correcting hand."

   While it may be inferred perhaps from some of these passages
that at the age of eighteen, Pye Smith had' grown familiar with
the theology of Howe and Jonathan Edwards, others of them

clearly evince a very close self-scrutiny: so, that his knowledge
of books and of his own heart went <on together.

of  He seems never to have,                    resumed a          regular diary        after  that
    a few weeks' duration in                   1791. But                               the,   next
                                                                   in August of
tyesoaevgmaeerne,thinhepgeruorapwfdootisthpehet,edLaaontrbhddoe'ostkphdleaawnyhreiococnhforwsdhersepi.taiirannalgstewo dh,upoisicewehcdnes.ahorcieoscfantpshoaiootpuneagarlhwl.ltyasyfTsoihnrecottshhneee-,
¦^T- 18-]                      SABBATH EVENING MEMORIALS.                                                                                                                  21

fined tq the Sabbath, will supply the immediately following

materials, ,,A 1(, ,

  I" Lord's-day - Evening, August 19th, 1792. --To-night read over the
I Isolemn covenant made some time ago, wherein, ' declare myself in
Iviolably engaged on

world, the flesh, and
                                 God's side     ;  declaring irreconcilable war                with                                                                      the
                               the devil.'         that this transaction may be                more                                                                      and
                                                O

more abidingly impressed on my mind every day!                                   have begun this
Iweek. O my God, keep me through the busy part of it in Thy fear,

love, and fellowship. Should see the next Sabbath-day, O let me not
                            on so ungrateful a
                             evening, August
Ihav"eLotordr'es-fdleacyt                       week           as the  last has been.  little  farther                                                                     in
                                                                 have  proceeded a
                                                26. --
I Ithe solemn work of self-examination.
                                                                    hope that did it with serious
Iness, caution, and dependence upon God. Eternal thanks to His holy
name, hope He hath testified to His own work. It will be profitable to
repeat this awful yet very beneficial work every Sabbath-day. But all my
duties are defiled. My best 'days
' Enter not into judgment With                  are  abOunLdoarndt.ly'   sufficient to condemn me.
      unspeakable           gift of his Son.'   me,                      ' Thanks be unto God for
      Now, having            begun another
the"                                           week,           may  God  enable  me to walk worthy

of the               Lord   unto all well-pleasing, being fruitful in every good         work to His
gldfy.                 Let  an abiding "sense of His increasing mercies to me,           excite me to

holy, humble, grateful obedience ! Let Jesus be exalted ; let me be abased !

Cre"aSteepttr.u2th.--inThme ypvrienrcyiphael aertn,dOofLomrdy  ! Amen.        memorials  on    Sabbath
                                                               writing these
evenings that they may be a means of quickening me in the divine life
                     is,
                                                             O
                                                                                                     O

                                                                                                                                                                        !
amongst the snares and temptations of the week.                                  most holy God let

this valuable               eJnedsubsebeanswerepdre. ciousr--eihgonlinienssmmy ohreeadrte.lightfuklee--p smine                                                           near
Thyself. May                                                                                                                                                             more

hateful in my esteem than ever. May God bless me with the saving and
sanctifying influences of His Spirit more and more every day Even so.
For the sake of Jesus Christ nry Lord. Amen.                   I
  '" Sabbath evening, Sept: --This day trust                         I
                                                                        I
                                                                               I!
                                 I 9.                                         have been enabled to

lbok unto 'God for a blessing upon His word and ordinances.                                    bless God

for any gracious manifestations of Himself to me.                                have reason to be

ashamed and confounded on many accounts; more particularly let me
recollect, with grief, the wandering and distraction of my mind in public
prayer to-day.                 may this week be spent in acts of love and gratitude to
                            O

God!                 that my zeal, diligence, ardour, and constancy in Divine things
      it it I
ma"y         to Oabundantly increaseweekI!      have been severely exercised with the
                   7.Sept. 23.-- =\The last

impetuosity of my raging         lusktsn,ewimpwrhuadte'ntly              and  sinfully stirred up by
           ih'a book before                                            was.      have paid dear, for
                                                               I it
my wicked curiosity, in proceeding further after found the improprietyI II
                      May God help me to take warning from these things.
of it.               am this week to confer with Mr. Brewer about that                 serious                  duty,
   "

Church fellowship.             may the Lord preserve me from all rash, hasty pro

ceedings! May he give me His blessing!                                   would commit this, and all

my ways, to the hands of my faithful and compassionate Redeemer.                                                                                                           O

mo"uOldctm. y        spirit at thy will Amen and amen.!
                     --The last week was memorable one.
                                     a                                        ought continually to

call mind, in order to abase and humble me. Upon taking a review

of this morning, in order to confess and lament my case before God,
22                         BECOMES A MEMBER                     C179a-

I found the most awful reason to criminate myself, particularly for these

    I" 1. That after  had (I trust) enjoyed something     of God the last Sab
Ibath-day,            way in the. evening to some         unprofitable conver
              gave
sation, which brought a backwardness into my mind towards Divine

Ithings.                                     lying too long i.n bed every mqrn-
    " 2. That wasted precious time, by       darkness, and perplexity into my
              one), thereby inducing guilt,  the moments which ought to be
ing (except   robbing the Most High of
heart, and

spent in seeking His face.
   " 3. The hurry, deadness, indifterency, and want of affection in duties,

particularly   secret ones.          of  my  soul  every  day.
   " 4. The   consequent barrenness
I " These things I have spread before the Lord, and lamented them. And
  trust He has not, in His wrath, cast me off; but has manifested Himself
unto me graciously in his ordinances to-day. O that this week, on which
I am entered, may, by the rich goodness of Jehovah, be spent in His love
and fear ! May Jesus be my support and strength in doing and suffering
every duty. ,. . . Let my glory be in thy salvation! See Alleine on
John viii. 29."
                                             take a retrospect of the two
  I" Lord's-day evening, Nov. 18.---When
I Ilast weeks, find much to abase and humble me before God, and, trust,
much matter for the greatest thankfulness on spiritual accounts. Let me

Ifor the future carefully guard against these following things :-- 1. have

Ibeen too un watchful and heedless after secret prayer in a morning. 2.
have been too negligent and backward in secret ejaculatory petitions
Iamongst my worldly avocations. 3. have not taken such a precise and
Icircumspect care as ought, that my table become not a snare to me. . ,
IWith respect to the frame of my mind in the duties of the day, have
Ipeculiar reason to bless my God.        lay the crown at the feet of free
Igrace.                                         -.. ... , ,,.. .......,-,.¦.
   " have     now  before  me a week  of the most awful and important ,b,usiT

ness. O my God, strengthen me ! Let integrity and uprightness pre
serve me, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and God.
                                                                Amen and
amen."

  ' The " awful and important business " of that week was his
admission, on a profession of his own faith and hope, into the
Church of Christ. As the paper which he wrote for the occasion
has been already quoted in the narrative of the circumstances
ofthe change in his, character in 1790, it will be. referred to
now for the light which it sheds, incidentally, on the delay of
his membership until about two years and a half later.

I II I I Ittteiamaeixrogripa"nsreeiogs.nFrriigone,onerfGfcdrtweaoohdmdtaelhosawnHfmtfagooirryualmtylfgiidtgmlerySnerieonpaprtiearehraiwnrstau,camddaeosedofgboegmrewfdreeeetehnhansitectthflhoynaocratftodthsmutisoeertmcmerreoreeuonsousrnefltedimircdmteahnyleitaeogeonvniiofnervnsreao,slhhruuiigaaaolcsndivhuo,desnana-osroaefstctaodtachlotomeeuruekbnydonlttii,ffgossf,dweiotoopirunsenorlt.nkirnbuetcysnaosiIldpe'psavoaseaalmslrsnnlaoyed
^T- !8.]         OP THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH.                                          23

sudden suggestion, banishing all my fears, and filling me with the highest
Ijoys. At another time endured very great anxiety of mind on account of
Ia notion which had got, that true faith consisted in a firm persuasion of
Imy own particular-interest in Christ. But afterwards gave thanks unto
IGod, that my first experiences were not of that kind had so
Idesired them to be. It was discovered to me in due time, that                     earnestly
judge of my spiritual  bsetaetexciftreodmbvyiotlheentdewvoirl k;i--ngbsutoffrommy  must not
God permitted) might                                                               passions, which (if

                                                                                   inferences deliber;
ately drawn from a comparison of myself with the scriptural descriptions

Iof real religion. In this manner was enabled gradually to derive com
fort and good hope through grace.

  If" it shall seem good to this Church of Christ to admit me into com

Imunion with them in divine ordinances, solemnly call upon, and earnestly
intreat every individual to deal 'faithfully with me; to warn, advise,
reprove, and in every respect to watch for my soul, as we shall assuredly
give an account to the Great Head of His body, the Church.
                                                                      " John Pye Smith.

   " November 21, 1792."

This paper clearly shows that he had been entangled for a

time with an error which has troubled, and continues to

trouble, not a few :--namely, that if the result which Christianity

is designed to produce in the hearts of men, is not effected in one

particular way, we have great reason to doubt whether it has
been secured at all:--the process, means, and circumstantial

accompaniments of the change, are thus for a time raised into

greater importance than the change itself. Nor is it to be

wondered at, if the very cure should be delayed by the patient's

anxiety, which is apt to become morbid, about the modus

operandi of the remedy.

Yet here also, as in many previous instances, the actual
                                                                        was passing-- in
ttrearimniinttgingth* raonudghpawinhfuicl hasthiits   anxious inquirer  out eventually to

                                                     was then--turned

be of great advantage to himself, and through him to very many

others. By increasing his solicitude at the time, it furnished

constant occasion for deep thought, for much reading of the

best kind,  for  waewll eaisghbiyngbooofkse, viodnenbceothassidseusppolifetdheb' yquheisstioownn:
experience
             as

so thatjby not coming as early and as easily as he had expected

into the liberty ofthe Gospel, his own nature, and no doubt all

his habits, would be held for a time under a restraint, alike

trying "and salutary to one of his temperament. This was,
however, to him an unexpected widening of the range of his
moral history in its earliest stage, and as such it proved a last
ing gain to all his expositions of Divine truth in his long public
g4                       DEATH OF A SISTER.                                          C1793-

lieinfveerre--nteefawocirnhghaasavnaidnpgrsianvncecirptiilffeiye,idntghiattthaetshehauompfaeacrnta, thihoeenarowt,fomtuhludestHthboeelnycveSiefpowrirteihft
              the measure of    a Divine prerogative,        and nofc.by
according to  technical rules  deduced from a limited         number of
narrow and
                           He was         thus made to see from the
cases of conversion.     that intense      mental insight which only, a
beginning-- and with
severe process can effect-- how impossible, and therefore how
              was, to attempt to                       Infinite One to forms.
improper it                               tie up  the  multitudes comingin
              it for himself, and         happy
Happy was                                         for

future years under the effect of his              seextteansdetdhouugshefuitlnehsaSdj'ubtheaetn
the new nature was not allowed to
cast in a rigid human mould. He was, in truth, being led by^

a way that he knew not.

   On the Lord's day after his admission to the Church, he
renewed his dedication to God in a written paper, similar in
purport to the one mentioned in the- earlier pages of this
chapter. And in the evening he wrote :--

    I"This has been the long anticipated day on which have sealed my
engagements to my God by my first approach to His sacred table. Last
                                          me the right hand
                                          to whom am hoW
IFriday evening, our honoured pastor gave                    of fellowship*
                                                             joined. "
in the name of the Lord and of his people
   " God has spoken peace to  mthyatsoubll,eslseetdmehonpoet 'tuwrnhicahgaisnhatoll  folly. The
Lord keep me 'looking for                                                             shortrytbe
I Irevealed.
              that may never be unmindful; of the solemn charge
Ireceived on Friday night-- of the engagement which this< day signeld to
Ithe Lord-- and of the awful seal of it which have to-day partook of.
O for the presence  of  Jteosuestertnoalmlyifes!oul,Amtoenthaendstaremnegnth."ening  my: graces
and nourishing me   up

  " Dec. 5, 1792. -- On  the evening of this day, at twenty minutes                  ^>ast 11
o'clock, it seemed good  to a God whose nature is infinite holiness,
                                                                                     wisdom,
and goodness, and whose ways are all equal, right, and gracious, to take
out of  this world                        Ruth. She was born June
        had lived   my late dear sister                                              8, 1782, so
if she              to the 8th, (the day  on which she was buried,)                  she would

have been ten years and a half old. This dispensation of Providence j is a
Ihwtdabvdmhpeeeeeheapaer"raaynnrnettYafhtkhasmrfe:!ieiacuts--tanautlnewcrvYlhttrreeyaeoihisesesawwissssd,tatrooimusnowsiftepkuenlaaooecfrorshunehduteattipusscwjmgoourtuoreennstabeoentnesdm,touesynyfbtsinye-fnieoeslpgasflngbuaaceiytlncrclnhaleoinryeennauicmesndtnussagyetsm--,rsomursp;scdu,ieattsydnoaarra.egctnnntieyccadefsuekexhWtolaew--apainfnneravdltdfnyehievdaheueewbwamndewavec.ediyyelxhnialtpifhrlacdeblmraitcr:enyhuetitmxgeeshneterd--aeh.dr'he-kfasamowtt¦dWarr:oo--iw'atshnkhttf1eeehut.v.neiltpmehTrtrhoeihgh2sakmeranneyjwtiudoasThhi,wdthnm'eeagngaosndyttf
JET. 1.8.]              OCCASIONAL MEMORIALS.                                               25

during her long illness she was so very little afflicted with pain, and knew
nothing of those pangs which so generally attend death ; her departure
resembled a falling asleep. 3. That the Lord put it into the power of my
parents to manifest their affection to her, by affording her every attention,
and procuring her every help, during her lingering disorder --a consump
tion of,the lungs, which terminated in a dropsy. 4. Above all, that though

her uncommon taciturnity and extreme reservedness in the last stages
of her illness prevented our conversation with her--rather, hers with us--
Ion Divine subjects,    yet we have various reasons
                        things of God. About three                     to hope    she was properly
affected withithe,                                                     or four    weeks before her
death, had been endeavouring to explain to her the nature of salvation,
as it includes things done for us, and things done in us. Speaking of the
                        Spirit, and              the encouragement there is to
                        she asked, '             But how must pray ?' Now,
Iwork of the Holy                                                                    pray for His

saving operations,                                                                   this question,
from her who had been taught to repeat her prayers from the time that
                             (I conceive)               a knowledge
she could    speak, evinced                                            that  something else was
required                     the external               act. A few     days  after that time, she
            in prayer than
Isaid to her mother, ' It is said, that him that cometh unto me, will in no
I Iwise                                                                            said in prayer
I Ilast                                                                           her evident con
      cast out  ; but don't                     know    how to     come : but
     night,                                    well as      can.'   Add to this
                will come as
tinual thoughtfulness, her delight in hearing prayer, hearing the Scrip
tures read, hearing spiritual conversation, singing, &c. We had no reason

to think that she was at all influenced by the slavish fears of hell, or the
Iapprehensions of death. She -never discovered any such thing.
                                                                                            there
fore have good hope that God has delivered her from this evil world,
                         fhoarpepvyerr.e"gions
and admitted her to the                                 of   eternal   felicity,  where she shall
sorrow and sin no more

' Hi's next ^abbath evening memorial is dated December 23.
I" Since the time wrote the last memorandum of this kind; the exercises
Iof my mind, and the dealings of God with me, have been various.                            had

Ithat, day -made- my first approach to the Lord's table, and sealed my solemn

 (and firmly trust sincere) vows by that holy ordinance. But, alas ! my

Isubsequent frame of mind did not answer, as it should have done, to my

" obligations. ., Barren, cold, and lifeless seasons have frequently felt since.
Yet the Lord has not forsaken me. He hath dealt bountifully with me ;
I Iani"diDheecr.e;2w4.ou--ldThissayevteonhinisg                   the Lord hath helped me   !
                                               praise, Hitherto  reflect upon two things,   which
                                                    was led to
I am assuredly sensible have been great hinderances to me in the work and
            of God :--
service                  ,: ,

  I I" 1.
            have freeuently lain               in  bed  too  long  in  the  morning  ;  by  which

have brought guilt into my conscience, barrenness and deadness. into my
soul, averseness, to, drawing near to God at a throne of grace; and have
irrecoverably lost .those most valuable portions of time, which might so
very profitably be spent in prayer, meditation, reading the Scriptures, and

Iother valuable and useful-books.
   " 2. have often indulged the appetite of hunger to, the disturbing of
     mind, and unfitting me for spiritual duties.
my"  Considering the bad effects of, these two                     underminers    of my     peace--

Iand the happiness and utility that will result from the contrary conduct,

in humble dependence upon Divine strength -- have to-night solemnly
renounced them before the Lord, and resolved to maintain a strict and
constant opposition against them.
26                     OCCASIONAL MEMORIALS. -                                                    [ ' 79;i-

I I I I Iolotoh""ekr1Isn.ortAohfrsaedeteslor oatmnhtearmayestyao,fwteaarwtwscaoahklr,eedmasinnnddlyisaicrfoemvisteoorrlbvn:eei--ngtfoi,veupsroeo'cvtlhiodecekdfoollrowabefitnegirn, hheelpwasli,tlhla,nidmI mwaneilyl

Idia"te2l.yarise.  be  very careful at my meals, to give              over wi.th some appetite

            will        will never read anything, unless              necessitated, till have
I Ifor more ; and
returned thanks to God for my food.
    ODeLco. r3d0, .--unLdoerrdta'skeDTahyo.u--fTohr ismeda; yandhabveefobreeenverhowniothuremde.     Amen.
    I"                                                                                            by the Lord

    "                                                                 and a                heart  to make a
Iof love and mercy with permission, opportunity,                      God.                 What
                                                                                                  am I, poor
solemn renewal of my afore-written covenant with
worthless wretch, that should be admitted to sit down with the King at
His table ?--a                                                      with the infinite and  inexhaustible
                   table richly spread                              ! Grace !--Worthy is   the Lamb that  trea
sures of grace     and glory: -- Grace                                                                     was

slain !
I II
    " Monday Morning, Dec. 31,    1792. --Yesterday                     was at the Lord's table.
    have renewed my covenant                                          have acknowledged, that
                                  engagements ;
I Iam not my own ; have taken the awful oath unto the Great God and
I Iour Saviour.                   HdaiosclgyelirmNnepadsmeethofefortbhoaednyyKiatnongkdenobflfooGordragcooeof dmin!--ytBLhoeurtdh'dthliyne
                       trust had

ordinance : Blessed be His

work is not done. Having
the appointed symbols, it remains for me by faith to continue feeding upon
Him, to the increased exercise of repentance, love, new obedience, and every

Igrace. To this end, shall find my account in frequently recollecting the
I Iviews had, and the dedication made at the sacred ordinance ; and that
both statedly, in my secret, retirement-- constantly, in my daily walk and,
carriage,-- occasionally, in seasons of difficulty, --when
poses, -- when corruptions grow strong,--when afflictions                                  the   adversary op
can have such an influence upon                                                            fall  out. Nothing
                                                                    me to quicken me in every difficult and
I Ioseutlrof-Lditoo.rndyiAnJemgseudnsu."Ctyh.rist'.'GodThfeorrebbidythat should glory, save in the cross of
                                                                    may the world be crucified unto me, and
CHAPTER III.

OCCASIONAL MEMORIALS; -- THESE MEMORIALS FINALLY DISCONTINUED --
      COLLECTS FOR THE BAPTIST MISSIONARY SOCIETY --LETTER TO THE
      REV. JOHN FAWCETT --THE " IRIS " NEWSPAPER-- EDITS THE " IRIS "
      FOR SIX MONTHS--MR. JAMES MONTGOMERY'S CORRESPONDENCE --MR.

       MONTGOMERY'S REMINISCENCES OF THIS PERIOD-- EARLIEST KNOWN

       PUBLICATIONS.

   Although about the time at which this narrative has
arrived, communications took place between Pye Smith and

some of his friends respecting his becoming a minister ; our
clearest guide for a year or two further is still to be found in
those occasional records of his feelings and conduct of which

such use .has been already-made; and which --accordingly --

will still be quoted. ' l1

" January 1, 1 793.---Now another important period of time is concluded :--
another year is gone. The good hand of God upon me has spared me to

the first morning of a new year, and has inclined and enabled me to begin
it with Him. ' Bless the Lord, O my soul, and let all that is within me
bless His holy name.'
                                                                     have
  I" I. Let me recollect and recount the mercies and goodness which
received in the course of the past year.

  I"1. He hath redeemed my life from destruction. Many whom knew
Ia year ago are now numbered with the dead : and one very near to me
Ishall see no more till the Judge appear. -- am alive ! 2. He hath con

tinued unto me health of body, and comfort of circumstances and friends

through the past year. How differently have many been dealt with. He
crowneth me with loving kindness and tender mercies ! 3. He has appeared
signally for me in a way of providential goodness in a gracious variety of
respects ; particularly in one recent instance. 4. He has dignified* me in

making me of any service to Him in doing any good to His people, either

Iin furthering their temporal or spiritual concerns. 5. When have
wandered from Him, He hath restored my soul : He hath from time to
time healed my backslidings, and manifested to me pardoning love and re-
28                OCCASIONAL MEMORIALS.                           [17118.

claiming mercy.   6. He has averted from  me many,   many evils -- delivered
from many snares  and temptations--and    prevented  me with the rich ,and

suitable blessings of His goodness. 7. He has mercifully enabled me in
some good measure to cleave unto Him. He has kept His unworthyi

servant from fatal apostasy from His good ways. 8. He has honoured me
with a name in His house, and the public confession, and seal of His
covenant -- and innumerable other great and undeserved favours. Ah !:

what am I, O Lord God, or what is my father's house, that Thou hast
brought me hitherto ? Thou hast preserved my soul from death, mine eyes
from tears, and my feet from falling.

  I" II. would record, for my humiliation and admonition, some out of the
Iinnumerable transgressions of the past year, for which desire to be,ash.amed

and confounded before God.
I" 1. have sadly and scandalously wasted a great part of that precious,
Italent-- time. How many of the most important and valuable hours hav/fl
  completely lost by lying too long in a morning ! How much is for ever
Ilost in vain loitering, useless occupations, trifling and unprofitable conversar

tion! 2. have very often grieved the Holy Spirit of God by my
I Iprovocations, and have thereby brought guilt, barrenness, and unfruitfulness

into my heart and life. 3. Though have, trust, heartily renounced a,ll
idols, taken the Lord

Ito Him,-- yet, O how
                  God to be my God, and devoted myself     unreservedly
                  foolishly and falsely have dealt in His   covenant !

                                                             strength,
"III. IIn humble prayer for and dependence upon Divine
would make these resolutions. The Lord in mercy help me to act up to
them !

I II I I I I I Ibemaoamhmshxefnoefyyoeidr"agdnrtrriltagmwctlal1neaoti.caesitinmoenoisiyonksndsyna,gg--W,mn!thuhut'dioeihallnarltl2ntoeRpcynhb.uee,edeesgrrdttahhHmeaehnweteoaiabsondamvpedirtrleeeiyhiloilnny,mefbgbdogleoep.itfdy"lorelieegmetegnhatlsJe.ooteesnhrreiseyn,tauts.fHrisiihmnajnn,uoeeninedtlse4dtdee.tghd.'rmaef,TAusvaheslsTAanonidolduowuutu,ftemoihtllmumhialovasoaenryyebftdlyauydhttenpoeiiemend,tDaideneatari,rFh.tnvnn,iisiddsnintwauyieMysnew.tehdriasehiaelhyesrlmtr5,al-hmp.pGlooalrruoftwaebldcifevywiihamwleeiliismtalcrpahlb,otm,fpo,ecenrrhot.testrmhfarhiesuedenusealec3tdLurh.ioLi'opt-nteviArogfhoi8dexennse,nr -

Thus he began the year with God, himself, and with duty.'"/,.

   "March 31, Lord's-day evening._I

ZuhLmy God during part of the last week
                            was enabled to           be importunate with
                            and this day for
                                                     His bleslS
ES?"^nd"Tt r^^^^1^^ ** L--lJSHtTove to
                  ^                                    solemf^nd

                                          T MieVe the Lord **

- --to .awi-Let *!££?#:                   ^Hhallglo^
MT- 10']                 OCCASIONAL MEMORIALS.                              29

Iimmutable love shall see His face,   and serve Him without the        intervention
                                     guilt of corruption, and the      veil of flesh.
of the darkness of temptation, the                                      some drops
Lord, meeten me for the glorious      season. Graciously afford
            pure river which flows from
from that  26. Lord's-day evening.-- In  Thy throne  !             of  the  Lord's
                                         the solemn
   " May                                             ordinance
I ISupper; of which this day did partake, hope He who binds up the
Ibroken-hearted did not leave me alone and destitute. cried unto the Lord
and He heard me. Blessed be His holy name for ever. Oh, Thou Glorious
Redeemer, help me to remember Thee continually.

  I" June 30. Sabbath evening.-- Another month has revolved, and have
Ibeen called again to present myself at the table of the Lord. Had the
Ifire and powers of an archangel, could never utter the loving kindness and
Irich grace which the Lord has manifested to me. Not only hath he de

livered me from going down to the pit of eternal ruin, (where most justly
deserve to be,) but He is sovereignly pleased from time to time to revive my

Igraces, to strengthen my soul, and to enlarge my feet. But let me re

member stand not in my own strength. Let me not lean on that broken
reed. O may the Lord Himself keep me still in communion with him ! May
He keep me lowly, meek, humble, penitent at His feet. Lord Jesus ! Deeply
impress   Thine                upon my heart ;                     depart
Thee!"           adored  name                   and O let  me not           from

    Brief records of the same land occur for July 30 ; August 25 ;
 and Sept. 30. The last for the year is

    f' October 29. Tuesday morning. --The principal use of writing these

Ismall memorials, is, to be a remembrancer to myself ofthe vows make, the
I I Iviews, have, and the obligations am under when am brought to the

Itable of the Lord. JCet me then henceforth remember, that to answer this

 design ought to peruse them oftener, that they may be more strongly im
 pressed upon my heart.

  I" ¥($$· January 26. --This day have been permitted to sit down in the

Ipresence of the Great King. Infinite is my guilt and vileness ; have

Ibroken the most solemn vows, and the most sacred obligations, but yet am

encouraged to look towards God's holy temple ! Blessed be His holy name,

Ithat have any consolatory hope that He is still mindful of and gracious to
Ime. O that may experience the cleansing efficacy of the blood of Im-
Imanuel in a more divine and truly glorious manner than have ever yet

Iknown ! A sight of His glories will be the bane of every lust : only that

can effectually mortify the strong corruptions which have to fight against.
Give me habitually, Lord Jesus, to be exercised in acts of holy and self-
abasing love and admiration, excited by the consideration of Thy infinite

amiabjeness and inexpressible love and condescension. With such glances
of heavenly day, O shine upon my path, and guide me through this barren

land ! Amen."

   The next is for March 2 ; which is followed by one for April
5; and, tiien there is a pause until Dec. 28, beyond which no
others are to be found. , The last is as follows :--
30          THESE MEMORIALS FINALLY DISCONTINUED.    [179-1.

" Since the above was written, many events both in the natural and the
Ispiritual life have occurred to me.
                                      have walked in various paths, i but
I Ihere raise my Ebenezer; through the good hand of my God am arrived
I Iat the present day ; mercy, in rich and sovereign variety, has been exercised

towards me. To-day have been publicly avowing that am the Lord's.
The remembrance of my manifold defections has caused just shame and con

I Ifusion of face ; but hope can testify to His praise that God hath not for
Isaken me, nor hath my God forgotten me. As have now so repeatedly
and solemnly sworn to be His, O that His grace may unite my heart in His
fear. Let Jesus's love crown the end of this year, and be the future con

templation and joy of my soul so long as my abode is here. O let Thy
mercy come unto me, even Thy salvation according to thy word !"

   These memorials were but irregularly kept from the first ; as
time went on that irregularity increased, until at length, when

the book is only a little more than half filled, they were relin

quished, with no trace subsequently of anything of the kind
having been resumed. His early acquaintance with the
Puritans, both in their Lives and Writings, made him familiar
with Diaries ; and knowing that many good and holy men had
derived benefit from such records of personal experience, he
could not help trying a similar plan for himself. But, in
truth, his was not a character         likely to profit much by
this kind of composition. He     ever  not go elaborately into
                                could

the details of his history, much less continue to write out from
day to day an analysis of his feelings : for throughout his -
whole life, no man scarcely could be a more inapt or reluctant

subject for his own pen or tongue than he was. It is implied
in the one for Oct. 1793, that he did not read them often
enough ; probably he could not make them with sufficient fre
quency and  warmth of interest-- to secure any efficient help
from them.  When therefore they were found to Vail, he had

the wisdom, the courage, the grace to cast them aside entirely,
and  to betake himself with intenser
the  Divine Eedeemer; committing      earnestness than ever to
                                      himself, by stated and
especially  by ejaculatory prayer, to One who
him from                                        was   able to keep
            falling. And if the altered plan   was
mony with the cast of his natural character, it      in fuller har
foundation on which there rose in after years
eamce of his personal piety.                         was also the

                                                      the striking

c-oamHspeerdetiesntaicgnyagiunfoi,srhthtehedekfnorooffwmicleetsdhgawethsiwcuhhpipchlhieedshuebbyascebqqouuoierkensdtl-yinbfycilrleeexadpseerdieTnrhycise
MT. 20.] COLLECTS FOR THE BAPTIST MISSIONARY SOCIETY.  31

ing as were   these early lessons, and remote as they then
seemed' from  all prospect of ever being available for the

good of others, they were neither lost upon himself nor to the

world. Rather, they were like seeds retaining their vitality in

a dormant state for years, but which, when the circumstances

favourable to their germination had arrived, were as active for

life and fruitfulness, as though no time had been lost in the

meanwhile. He was still being led by a way that he knew not.

Among the Missionary Societies of a comparatively recent

origin, the priority is due to that formed by the Baptist De

nomination, and which selected India as the field for its first

operations. Towards the end of 1792, a meeting was held at
Kettering, when a few names which will ever be illustrious --

Ryland --Sutcliff-^Carey --Pearce--Fuller --took their place at

the head of what has become a catalogue of worthies, each

great section of Evangelical Christians having its own repre

sentatives, by whom as a whole the Church is now seeking the

salvation of the world. When Carey sailed for India in 1793,

the work was practically begun. It is deserving of notice, that

as early as the next year, and therefore before popular feeling

was alive to the subject, Pye Smith had heard of the move

ment, and was ready with the following appeal to his friends

on its behalf ·--" Animated',,,we trust, with sincere thankfulness

to the God of all grace for the door which He has opened and

the encouragement He has afforded, to the truly noble design

of making known the unsearchable riches  of Christ to  our poor
                                                       time de
benighted brethren, the Hindoos ;--and,  at the same

sirous of doing  every thing in our power to  further a purpose
so unspeakably                                are under -written,
                 excellent,--we, whose names

do think it our indispensable duty, next to our fervent sup

plications to Him who alone gives the increase, to contribute

as Providence has enabled us towards the sum required for

this work; believing that our mites thus employed are only

rendered to that God to whom ourselves and our all are
unreservedly due."

The names follow, with the sum contributed by each ; his own

being among the number. The amount was sent to the Rev.
John Fawcett, of Brearley Hal], accompanied by a note :--

   " Reverend Sir,--Inclosed is a bill, value £6. . 14. .0, being the

amount of a subscription privately made by a few young
g2  THE " IRIS " NEWSPAPER.  E1796-

pthsgHhteooeaerponasdeocdmnessitaosh, sfaoinctotfhaeneucRtsheeetCisovshs.wauBsMrereicmrlryneh.a,g, lcaBlafolrr.ncenodowfminneWttherra'edaisbtutplHoatCeimooicasnnuevglbniearltweerrygsitlsahlcnitaoniaotmgbrnerboo,wiuwnairflacol tccriebeoirxepntcethlaureebtp.oilooebfnnecsBntiireuotci.fnt"uittmwhsoeeof

   Although in 1794 and 1795, the way was gradually opening
for him to enter the Christian ministry, the details may be
reserved until the time when he was admitted to Rotherham
Academy: and as this took place in 1796, we shall go at once
to the beginning of that year for the incidents by which the
development of his character may be progressively traced.

   In January, 1796, Mr. James Montgomery, the Proprietor
and Editor of the Sheffield Iris, had to sustain an action for
libel, which was tried at the Doncaster sessions. The matter
charged as libellous had appeared in that Paper in the pre
ceding August : in substance it was this. In a noisy demon
stration of a multitude of people in the town of Sheffield, the

Sheffield Volunteers were called out, by whom two men were

killed. The Editor of the Iris had the courage to intimate to
his Readers, that the Colonel of the Volunteers, in issuing

the orders which led to this sacrifice of human life, had acted
with greater precipitation than the case seemed to warrant;
especially as the persons killed had taken no part in the so-

called riotous proceeding, which the Volunteers were com

manded to put down by force of arms. For giving utterance
to this opinion in a style which most persons at this day would

deem humane, and therefore laudable, the Poet-Editor was
sentenced to pay a fine of £30 -- and to" be imprisoned for six
months in York Castle.

   The Iris, which had not long before come into Mr. Mont

gomery's hands, had to be carried on during his absence by
some one who was thought competent to superintend both the

editing and the printing ; and who, moreover, would not shrink
from the risk which might be involved in even a temporary
connection with an oppressed, and we may say, persecuted
organ of public opinion :-- a risk of no small magnitude in

1796, as compared with what it would be now. It must also be

added, that as the Paper was not at that time a very profitable
.ET.T2.]       EDITS THE " IMS " NEWSPAPER.                               33

concern, no motive for encountering either the risk or the
labours of editorship, could have been suggested by any
prospect of pecuniary gain. Just in these circumstances, the
services of John Pye Smith --whether asked or offered, we
know not --were accepted ; and from February 5th to August

5th he discharged the editorial duties. Such an office at that

period did not, it is true, demand very large attainments ; for

those early Papers, especially the provincial ones, drew upon books
and upon other Papers for their materials, to an extent which

can scarcely fail to excite a smile as compared with the modern

newspaper press. The correspondents of that day did a great

deal towards filling the columns from week to week : they were
often ceremoniously, and sometimes obsequiously polite ; and
some of them would indulge in pleasant allegories, often too

feeble to be amusing, apparently with a view to catch the at

tention of Readers half awakening out of a long sleep. But as
the public mind has become more and more intelligent and

energetic, the Press has increased in power and influence ;
growing with the growth of the Body Politic, and in its turn
largely aiding that growth :--like plants which as years roll on,

are constantly enriching the soil by which their own luxuriance

is increased.

  If we are correct in tracing Pye Smith's contributions during

his editorship, the short paragraphs which at that day held the

place of the elaborate leaders of the present, will supply the

following gleanings : February 19. " It is pleasing to turn from

viewing the gloomy aspect of politics, to                     contemplate the
generally flourishing condition of science                    and literature."

February 26.   A passage which assigns                 one of the causes  of the
then existing                                          " the destruction  of the
               scarcity of provisions to
     English                                                  ingurgitation by
old  rich and  system of  small farms, and their              error in a matter
the            overgrown
                           farmers." May 6. An

of fact is corrected ; and a request is made, that the Editors of

other Papers who had copied the error would now copy the cor
rection :--eminently characteristic in both parts. Having men

tioned in the same Paper some riotous proceedings at Hull in
consequence of the high price of food, this is added in Italics :--
w" oTuoldthethDeyeadleorsuinntoPryoovuis;i'onasndweto         ' Do unto
                                                       say,   Poor we    others as ye
                                                         the             repeat, that

tRhieotvsenmgeuasntceneocfestshaeriLlyawinscroenastehethGeuipltryic."e--oSfufcohodw, aasntdhebrwinagy
34      MR. JAMES MONTGOMERY'S CORRESPONDENCE.           [l796.

in which he sought to discharge what may perhaps be called
the most hazardous part of his duty :--the insertion of remarks
or comments on public events from the Editor's own pen.
    Several motives would join to produce this tone of modera
                                     probable risks, would stand- con
tion.   His own position,  and
nected   in thought with             Montgomery's :--his friends, his
                           Mr.

relations, and especially his mother, could not fail to ply him
with cautions and entreaties :--there was also the decisive ripen
ing of his views in favour of the ministry ; and the growing
power which his judgment was securing over his impulses.

Added to which there would be his fine sensitiveness of feeling

in regard to the property of another, acting like a check on all
such utterances of opinion as might, perchance, be turned to
the disadvantage of the Paper. Happily, therefore, though) he

was new to the service, and the waters were far from calm, his

place at the helm was followed by no disaster to himself, nor

to the interests which had been temporarily entrusted, to his

hands : but when the time came for his Superior to resume his

post, he could do it without having to encounter difficulties

which had arisen during his absence.

    A few brief extracts from Mr. Montgomery's Letters, will

show the watchfulness and affection of the Poet-Editor- for his

substitute at Sheffield during the months over which: we have

been passing.                            ·               ¦

   " York Castle, January 23, 1 796. My  dear Friend,-- You haye. now stepped
into my place, and you will not long be  there before the anxieties and vexa
Ihtiaornasssatytoeun.d"ant on the discharge of any painful public duty will begin to
" January 30.*  am exceedingly glad to find you take so tender andiat*-
I Istatianiiuwvontr"eneodasyFaftdererubobcelloymlrnsunetpgcahseaeeBrecnryn,mntyeiinrpf1oi-gan3u1r.rstetmheylyiesyn.t"idmmIhwiragauievnstcleefaha:trilyooeibtonnetua,lertftihirmrhtemoaoipolrm,ermnucedotdilsot:ieoglg,nreiistvangpenczhaedertmea. almyftnooBodbrduemfettsrrritaueabkrtnteeehedws,ps;aaheonrycierypots.ut"ofhufterno''.t~behdaeverUieenr,ragtdochahbeonsufermrrscvieieeannndk,
Icsythiaebrotl"eeu,iAgtfahprhnoradymisol au2gmnr.ivxefe,ireYnittehoynmaudtearstyhtiLnoeiepeuntxdtapeiannrrregedrsestvmchiebeerolieyvddeeicmsdsoctuntyhhccaehcisrrognmhe.mabrooairnsfnIestientdhhgt,oautrctcasotonrnnudmtcsaeteia,nfliesnwxdihctneiocgeadhrsbeinmaagdtluywc-ndaheisfwtfaoishcs!au:'fppilbntopyudsy,,t

  * "York Castle" and "My dear       Friend" will not require to be repeated :
                                     where the contrary is not intimated. En'.
they are, however, to be understood
/6T. 2a.J       mr. Montgomery's reminiscences.                                                      35

fyoorum." y own sake, but uneasy from the beginning for yours, to repose in

  I" May 1. My captivity now begins to decline down the hill, and shall
I Ionly have nine weeks to stay here on Tuesday next: but fear shall not
                         tShheenffiteoldS;cathrbeoDroo'cftoorrsthheerbeensaeyfititowf islel abbeatahbinsoglutaenlyd
return immediately   to
necessary for me to  go
I Idrinking, at least a fortnight. Of this apprize you thus early, that if
should be obliged to go there you may be prepared to indulge me with your
kind and invaluable services a few weeks longer than we expected. . . ' .
I IThe management and arrangement of the Iris has continued to afford me
much satisfaction.     shall tremble when resume it into my own hands,

lest its credit should fall with the resignation of its present Editor. But tell

that Editor from me not to hack and hew Pitt quite so much in the London

News; and to be particularly  mcaorsetfiunldiunbitthaeblSeheafufitehlodriNtye.w" s  not  to  insert  any
home occurrence without the
I" July 4.
                take up my pen with pleasure to snatch a few of the last mo
Iments of my imprisonment, to inform you that shall be set at liberty as
Iearly as please to-morrow morning. Pray, insert in the next Iris a plain
unvarnished paragraph just.mentioning the circumstances, and adding that

Iin consequence of having suffered considerably in my health during the four

first months of my imprisonment, have, by the advice of the Doctors, gone
for a short time to Scarboro'; so that it will probably be a few weeks longer
Ibefore have the happiness of paying my personal respects to the friends of
Ithe Iris                am exceedingly impatient to return, and ease you of
those irksome burdens which you have so patiently borne for me during these
six unfortunate months."
" Scarboro', July 17. You will not be angry at my impertinent advice,
Ibecause it is not given under the idea of instruction or injunction, but merely

that some of the hints throw out may assist you in pursuing that path of
Ifmoderation and security which no man living is more capable of following
than yourself.       any riots happen before my return, do not tell any dan
gerous truths --nor any wilful falsehoods :--the latter part of this advice is
unnecessary, but you must particularly be on your guard to observe the
former." *

   At the Autumnal Meeting Of the Congregational Union held
in October, 1849, at Sheffield, Mr. Montgomery dined with
about two hundred and fifty gentlemen at the Music Hall in

that Town. In returning thanks to the company for their
good wishes respecting his health, he said --

  " It was about fifty-seven years since he came to Sheffield, not knowing

more than an individual by name. His earliest Christian friend in Sheffield,
of this denomination [the Congregationalists] was John Pye Smith, now one
of the most learned and distinguished of their ministers, but then a young

* Among Dr. Smith's books there is a copy of the Poetee Minores Grcsci.
"J.Cant. 1652, on the fly-leaf of which in his early handwriting this occurs :

     P. Smith; e dono Jacobi Montgomery, amici dilecti, poetseque preestan-
tissimi. 1796."-- Ed.
                                                                                         Dg
36           EARLIEST known publications.                                                              [1796.

man about his own age, in the establishment of his father. During six months
in which he [Mr. Montgomery] was absent from home -- [This allusion to Mr.
Montgomery's second imprisonment was received with loud applause, the
whole company rising] --John Pye Smith had the courage to step into his dan
gerous place, and conducted the Iris to his entire satisfaction. From that
period till Dr. Pye Smith's removal from Sheffield, their intercourse was fre

quent, but little of it related to politics, in which they incurred dangers that
wiser heads might have avoided. In attending the meeting last night, he
had been forcibly reminded that in those early days he occasionally accom
panied his friend John Pye Smith in preaching expeditions to the villages,

not to assist, but to enjoy the benefit of hearing his friend. He remembered

that they went on one occasion to Laughton, where Mr. Smith preached in
the morning in the house of a substantial farmer, and in the afternoon to a
large congregation in the farmer's barn. He knew that this system of itine
rancy in the villages had been maintained for many years after that time i
but it was interesting
                               to  rdeicsatilnl gtuhiesheeadr.l"y   labours in this field  of  a  man  whose
labours had made him           so                                  -- Newspaper report.

   At the chapel               in Queen   S"trSeoectiewtyithforwhRicehligPioyues               Smith was
                               existed a                                                        Improve
mcoennnte,c"tecdo,mpthoesered   probably
                                          for the most part of young men
about his own age. Essays or Tracts were occasionally written
by some of the number, which if approved were then printed,
and circulated by sale or gratuitously with a view to the spread
tt--"asw"oohtfaeAaNcTestonhCaenSnrdehtpovrEerraecriseosrtisspnetitiuvaanitabeyytrfthrenjoeoedoitctomoFfytftuibwItCUlwtilylhenhuhae-irscsCphtithhsiaomrLetigmainahaetttemsne--roatoiwuswtdywananMunaeisocosadtaenoamnrdaldEymeInwnnnenwifaafttmieoshsidbtirbhrgecies1ohdleoir7btfg.amy9omnt.te5uh"he:reaenh*PdttoaDhm;oHriusdtHioari,t.canneyubdh. llaooeaOwlwFfrsnaA*oeCse*dCvhped*hrorerruie,fsenrNptscttiaaish*ahtsre*lneets*s:iodde"s

      ^ ^^Frien^-                          «*y»TM*&                t0 enfOTCe
                                                                   -quest,
£ X^ * ISat

^ 'T ^ ^ ^ ,,/«,-d^rvelt deed on
                               C°mplian?r                          y°U haV6    «» ^P°rtant Chris-

                                                                               now present to you.

                                                                                   f^ured
t^^&s^^^.^r"7^ ^i6 «s.
                                                                               me to-request
                                   cannot doubt but you will join me in beseeching

nl«Z Zt\Zt?: ^Society                                              Dunt°n- Mr- Cr08s of tae TTM*
                                   ^£%** *" AbridSmei*
te Til5^^ *ZtWorkTfrom aHdiJion nubLh                                                             Dunton's
                                                                   **in 1819 '
discovering  "ourte^                                                            that in 1850, on
iET. 22.]          EARLIEST KNOWN PUBLICATIONS.                          37

the God of all grace to afford His blessing to this imperfect endeavour for
advancing His glory
   " Your association  among    the children of men.           your  acquaintance
                       for the  valuable purpose of enlarging

with the nature and evidence, the doctrines and precepts of our Divine and

holy religion, is truly laudable: and it will be to you highly beneficial, if you
are solicitous to increase in the practical influence, as well as the intellectual

knowledge, of the truth of God.
   " Permit me, my dear friends, to urge this consideration with the earnest

ness resulting from a sense of its infinite importance. ' Take heed, brethren,
lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the

living  God. But exhort one another daily, while it is  called  To-day,  lest any
of you  be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.'
" To labour after an extensive and intimate acquaintance with the grand

contents of the Scriptures, is the duty of all who enjoy the means of so doing.

In the present day of evangelical light, ignorance is the fatal disease, and
will one day appear to be the destroying sin of multitudes. But, as you value
your eternal interests, beware of resting in a religion of mere speculation.
Light in the understanding, without purity of heart and uprightness of life,
will only give aggravation to your guilt, and add pungency to your future
misery. Or, if you possess all these in a measure, and so are partakers of
that grace which will assuredly end in glory--yet, should you become remiss

in the exercises of internal piety, you may get full of barren notions of divine
things, but your souls will be empty, your consciences will be defiled, your

spiritual vigour will be impaired, and perhaps the next rude assault of temp
tation will lay your honour in the dust. Your only method of preservation

from these dreadful evils, is to walk humbly and faithfully with God, de
pending on the fulness of the Lord Jesus for all needed supplies of grace and
strength.

  " That the only wise God, our Saviour, who alone is able, may keep you
from falling, and present you faultless before the presence of His glory with
exceeding joy, is the sincere prayer of
                                         Your unworthy Brother,
« Dec. 17, 1796."                                   "Erastes.

    The style of the Tract throughout resembles in a remark
able degree that which is found in his later works ; and even
at that early period, the plan of adding illustrative notes, which
is not a characteristic of young authors, appears to have been
decidedly formed, as it is known to have been constantly kept
up by him in later years. Maturity of judgment beyond his
age, and great accuracy and order in the arrangement as well as
the expression of his thoughts, evidently belonged to him at
the time when the Tract was written : and yet it must be re
membered that he had been for the most part self-taught, and
had hitherto been left to acquire and digest his materials

amidst the cares of business.
                CHAPTER IV.

- -HISview--H-RTIsPNRLOEIRSEGOVrHEe.TTFIsSTSHAKMpIETDNE.eHPRROEcAEPHtSWRRHiTn'AELSIOgLMENOLDTHCBIStGPCIUhA-SSEAPSCe----SAIAMINRODc"OETENELhOSNMTAErSLHCTYi-TLsATHEYHtLUIRiESIaRN-nTEACSOOT1HSBm7UUJHECOB9RICiHJSN6nECTUC-IiHOFHsTRT--ANItICHOSSrTHENEyHN--MEGTOpHERREVTrUREE-OeESTMATRlTOIAiNCHmNRGOITSOFSMiHMAnT-EHEHCIaPN-ILEISArRDLERyRIETTH"VETYAd.NESTMiRTOEfIJN.fRSiAV-cHBLCIATCuIREASCOElEDTQStWETFUiTeMEEIHERIYLsRNER
LOW-STUDENTS    HIS LATIN ORATIONS    LAST LATIN ORATION

--DISTRIBUTION OF HIS TIME AT COLLEGE -- LETTER TO REV. J.
KIRKPATRICK-- VISIT TO WYMONDLEY ACADEMY-- CHESTER-- LETTER

TO DR. WILLIAMS -- LEAVES ROTHERHAM.

  It has been   seen that as early as 1792, a few months prior
                his joining the Christian Church, Pye Smith
to the date of
                 Letter from a friend on the important subject
had received a
to which this chapter is devoted. An imperfect copy of his
answer remains, showing, that his thoughts were not at that
time leaning towards the work of the ministry; but were
rather on the side of continuing in his business as a book

seller. By the next year, however, some change had taken
place, for he felt it to be his duty to engage in occasional

services as a lay preacher. Yet even here he had to meet with

difficulties ; his parents were disinclined to fall in with his

desires, as may be learned from a copy of a Letter, under date

1793, designed for his Pastor, Mr. Brewer, but which was not
sent until February, 1794 :--

 I I" As far as can know myself, can sincerely assert that my leading views

in this affair are simply to arrive at some satisfactory determination respect
ing what has long occupied my thoughts in a hesitating and uncertain
·ST. 22.]              PRELIMINARY DIFFICULTIES.                                   89

I" To answer this end, therefore, will state some objections (all of which,
Ifexcept  the last, were made to me by my father) with replies to them.
   "      you undertake any such public engagement, you will draw a number         of
Iobservers upon you, who  will bestow the most curious and critical
                                                                     attention,
and will probably pass a  severe and ill-natured censure upon you.*    To this,

think, no very elaborate answer is needed. May it ever be far from me to
desist from the performance of any duty on account of such persons as these,
Itor even to give myself one moment's anxiety to please them.
                                                               would be a
sad degradation of the Christian character to be influenced by such a con

sideration as this.

   " You are now engaged in the acquisition of several branches of learning,

which, together with your necessary attendance upon business, leave you little
or no leisure to make proper preparations. This objection derives all its
weight from an erroneous supposition. It takes for granted that to collect
proper matter to fill up ten minutes or perhaps half an hour once in three or

Ifour weeks, would occupy an unreasonable portion of time. think that the
Ilittle remnants of time which can employ in this manner will not trespass
Iupon my necessary avocations, except a little time immediately previous to

the performance ; and this will not, apprehend, be thought an unreasonable
request, provided that other objections can be removed.

  " In your present situation, which has the advantage of being in some re
spects a literary life, you will be more useful, and certainly less embarrassed,
than even in the capacity of a preacher of the gospel. This is again a conclu
sion from premises not proved. You, Sir, have some knowledge of what have

long been my sentiments about the sacred ministry. But, in order to give
Imy ideas more precisely upon this subject, take the liberty of inclosing part
I Iof an answer to a Letter which received in July, 1792.  am now still
Imore satisfied of the truth of the principle upon which then expressed
myself --that no one should ever presume to take this honour upon himself

unless clearly called  of God.       for  your  offices.  This is a more rational ar
   " There is no need
                        whatsoever
Ifgument than the former.
                                     what it asserts be true, there is at once an end
Ifof the matter. It would not become me to contradict it.
                                                           any facts exist
sufficient to confute you are best acquainted with them.

  " Is not an unbecoming forwardness in you to wish to enter into an en
is         I                         apprehend that every Christian, so long as
     it      I

                     it,

                        I
gagement of so public a kind?
he in this flesh, has reason to lament imperfection in motive as well as in
action. As far as have been able by serious research and prayer to know
my own heart, can sincerely assert that my impulsive motives are earnest

and humble desires that God may be glorified; and (if agreeable to His will)
that may be in some degree instrumental to promote His honour among my
I

fellow-creatures. But do not pretend that do not feel other base consi
           ;                                         II

            I
              I
derations  sometipmrienscipleyse.t"  dare affirm that  allow them not, neither doit I
act upon   those

   The original draft of the above Letter was left in this un
finished state and in that state the writer copied and sent
to Mr. Brewer with short note explanatory of his reasons for

   · The Letter relates to lay preaching, excepting in one or two parts. --Ed.
           ;

                      a
40  LETTER TO HIS MOTHER.                                          [1790.

so doing : and evidently with a desire, perhaps an expectation,

that the Pastor would confer with Mr. and Mrs. Smith on the
subject. Two Letters then follow, belonging from their con

tents to the same period, but without any date or address on
the outside; and which, on that account, and because they

were found among Dr. Smith's own papers, were probably never

out of his possession.

    The first was to his mother ; to whom he thus wrote :--

  I"Iflam not deceived, think you have an objection to such characters as

preaching tradesmen, from an idea that they are usually regarded in a con
temptible light. Too many, indeed, are contemptible, and deservedly; but it

is for other reasons than because they are merely either preachers or trades
men. With regard to what you have said concerning the work of the min

I Iistry, must observe that in what wrote yesterday no such thoughts were
I Iin my mind. Since the conversation had with Mr. Brewer last winter,
have uniformly regarded it as my duty to continue in my present situation,
Ittill Providence should clearly show the. propriety of a change.
                                                                   would he
Ian act of ungrateful disobedience for me to put my father to such inconve

niences as my absence would probably occasion. In so doing could not rea
sonably look for a Divine blessing. In the conversation just referred to, Mr.
Brewer was of the same opinion ; he added, that he conceived it was my duty
to embrace every opportunity for study and improvement in literature, par

ticularly sacred literature : and he intimated, what he had before positively
and fully declared, that it would be proper for me to attempt serving the
cause of Christ in an occasional manner.
he gave me."                              This is the substance of the advice

   This Letter was evidently written before the term of his
apprenticeship had expired; and although he yields up the
point respecting the stated ministry during that term, he puts
in a plea at once cogent and becoming, suited to his position
as a son, and yet clearly expressing his sense of a higher duty--
that he should be allowed in the meanwhile to study the

Scriptures and to preach occasionally, if he could do this with
out detriment to his filial obligations. Nor is it without its

significance, that he had to fall back on the opinion of Mr.
Brewer, in support of this moderate request.

Although the next Letter is also without a date, there are
references and expressions which show it to have been written
either towards the end of 1795, or early in ] 796 :--written,
therefore, after the close of
minated April 2, in the former  his apprenticeship,  which ter
                                of these two years.
                                                     It will ac-
·ST. 22.]  LETTER TO HIS FATHER.                                                          41

cordingly be read as the production of a young man who was
then, to use a common phrase, his own master.

  I" It is now five years and a half since began to be seriously concerned
I Iabout eternal things. Through Divine mercy, though on ten thousand ac

counts have reason for shame and self-abhorrence, humbly trust that that

Iconcern has not been of a slight and transient kind. To be unfeignedlyand

universally devoted to God is, hope, the object of my ambition. To be en
abled in any way to promote His cause among men would be the rejoicing
of my soul. For a considerable time my mind has been influenced by a
powerful inclination towards the greatest and most momentous of all engage
ments, --the service of God in His sanctuary. Yet, as such a propensity,

considered alone, should have little regard as a reason for important action,
I-- have hitherto thought it my duty to observe strict silence on the subject,
Iexcept to one or two intimate friends.
                                                      have constantly committed this
                                                                         will direct my paths.
aff"airMuyntroeatshoenLfoorrdm, parkainygingknaonwdn  hoping that    He  mindto you is this. --Time
                                                       the state of  my

and opportunity for the service of God are hastening away, and the inclina

tion of my mind towards the sacred work does not wear off, but increase ; it
Ifwould therefore be very desirable to bring the matter to some issue.
                                                                                          God

has any work for me to do in His Church, the present favourable opportunity
for beginning a course of study to very great advantage ought not to be ne

Iglected. But if it is not so, it is time that should lay aside all thoughts of
Iit. am indeed not able to form a satisfactory judgment upon this great
Iconcern.  trust that my eye is single. Perhaps if the matter were fairly
Istated to a few of our most serious and judicious friends, their deliberate

opinion might decide it : am sure it would be of very great weight with
me. Mr. Brewer, whose kind friendship, instruction and advice will never,

I hope, be faintly remembered by me, is in possession of some papers upon
Ithis subject, which put in his hands near two years ago. These will show
                                                                     three years.
           the state of my mind for above                            the way of
           is to know what is in reality
Iwh"atMhyaosbbjeeecnt                                                              duty.  Whatever

a it
   is

                                                       a it,
                                                                   a

                                                          it

                                                                                                        it,

                                                                                                                                        ;
tDhiavtinmeahyelcple."arly appear to be will thankfully and cheerfully walk in            by

   Mr. Brewer, to whom such frequent references have been
made, appears to have resigned the pastoral office at Sheffield,
and to have accepted one in Birmingham, early in 1796. When
his purpose to make this change became known, his attached
pupil and member, Pye Smith, wrote long Letter to induce

him to remain at Sheffield. Without quoting from this paper,

       due to the Beader to mention since presents the first

example that has been found of peculiarity in Dr. Smith's
style which can scarcely fail to have excited attention--namely

    sudden transition from pleading with man to an earnest

appeal or supplication addressed to Jehovah. In this way, and

with his own pen, what might have been in many cases the
42      OCCASIONALLY PRESIDES AT CHURCH MEETINGS.                                fl796.

silent ejaculations of the heart, are made legible: His devout
aspirations have for the time a kind of self-recording power, by

which they are brought into view with all the freshness and
energy of life, as distinct from a mere reference to them as
prayers which he offered in private. Writing to Mr. Brewer

he says :--" Can you forsake a people who love you as their

own souls, and who are ready to do anything that they can for

y0U ?--" The unanswered question, the line that leaves the

matter in suspense, are instantly followed by an appeal com
mencing thus : -- " But to whom should we go,                         Lord, but to

Thee ? Give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man.

    prepare mercy and truth to go before us. We are called by

Thy name ; we are thine ; Father of all mercy, be gracious
unto us !"

   When the Church at Queen Street Chapel were about to
invite the Bev. James Boden to become their Pastor--an

office which he subsequently undertook, and sustained for a
                                               lalabroguer,"--
long    course of   years of useful                             an  address was  pre
pared     to the "  congregation at                                 which there  is a
                                                                of
copy in the handwriting of Pye Smith. It begins thus :--

   " Our dear Christian Friends, -- The situation in which we

now are is indisputably of the utmost importance. Destitute
of a stated pastor to go before us in the Lord, we look up to
the Great Chief Shepherd for His guidance and protection;

and we earnestly entreat your union with us in the exercises
of fervent prayer and supplication, -- now more than ever
urgent and necessary. After serious deliberation, it has ap
peared to us advisable to consider on the propriety of giving
a solemn invitation to the Kev. James Boden, to accept of
the pastoral office among us. Though the right of electing
a minister belongs to us as a Church, entirely, solely, and
exclusively; yet we consider the concurrence of our much

esteemed    borfetthhreenhigwhheostciommppoorsteantchee."great  body  of  the congre
gation, as

   During   the vacancy in the pastoral office at Queen Street,
Pye Smith
            was occasionally called upon       to preside at Church-
meetings.                                      Eotherham who still
            A fellow-student of his at
survives, the Bev. John Hammond of Handsworth, says, in a
Letter  17r9e6c,en"tlfyourreceoifveuds,
July,                                    that  at a Church-meeting held in
                                         were  admitted, when he gave us a
JET. 22.J  HIS SUBJECTION TO HIS PARENTS.                                               43

serious lecture." A Letter addressed to him at Homerton, in

January, 1809, by the Bev. William Thorp, then of Bristol,

Ibut who when

lowing passage
                a:--yo"uBneg  man lived at  Sheffield,                   contains the   fol
                              pleased now   to accept                    my warmest
                                                                                        ac

knowledgments in return for the advantages derived from our
former intimacy. It is to you, Sir, together with the instruc
tions of our worthy pastor, upon whose ministry we then attended
Iwith delight, that owe
Irudiments of whatever
                              kthneowruleddimgeentsh,avaendsimncuechacmqourieredth."an  the

In these various ways his activity and his talents were
constantly finding employment, prior to the time--which was
now close at hand--when he gave himself up entirely to the

Christian ministry. The opposition which had been mani

fested at home against his lay preaching arose from an appre

hension that he would not be content with that; while the true

ground of the reluctance must be sought in the fact, that as an

only son, and as one eminently qualified to acquire and com

municate information respecting books, the father could not
be easily reconciled to the thought of losing his services : for
besides any pecuniary advantage which might be anticipated
from retaining him in trade, the parents would feel a degree
of pride in the prominence which a child of theirs was gra

dually acquiring among literary men. Three or four notes
from Samuel Taylor Coleridge remain to show, that the young
bookseller was not at that early period

If Inent person--in one of which Coleridge
                                            unknown                      to that emi
                                                                             can serve
                                            says, "
Iyou or

to hear
           Mfrro.mMoynotug."omeArny dinunadneyr pdoastsei,bl1e79w8a,y,a    shall  be happy
                                                                         Letter   addressed

to him by the late William Roscoe, already distinguished for
      Life of Lorenzo de'     Medici, pub. in 1796, concludes thus--
Ihis
      am very sorry your      short stay in Liverpool prevented me
"
                      of your   thsioscineetyig; hbbuoturhhoopoed."to
from enjoying   more  visit to                                           be more        for
tunate on your  next

But while it is easy to appreciate the force of parental re

luctance in a case like this, the son's obedience and docility
must by no means be overlooked. In addition to the ardour
of his natural temperament, it is well known that young con

verts in particular are apt to ascribe to their zealous desires

and purposes an authority before which most other claims

ought to give way : and as the master to whom he was bound

was also his father, his conduct would not have been without
44               LETTER TO HIS PARENTS.                         [1796.

precedent had he put forth urgent pleas for an early dissolu
tion ofthe tie, that he might the sooner be at liberty to enter
the ministry, especially as the age at which he ought to begin
his studies was rapidly passing away. He appears, however,
to have patiently continued his course not only to the close
of the term of his indentures, but to nearly eighteen months
beyond ; although for the whole of the latter part of that time
he was striving more and more to meet parental objections, as
one who was increasingly conscious that a hand which seemed
to beckon him away from trade was ever in sight.

   In the month of August, 1796; being on a visit at Hanley,

in Staffordshire, he renewed his appeal to his parents thus :--

    " For upwards of five years the taste and inclination of my mind has been
fixed upon the evangelical ministry, in a manner perfectly different from the
crude and transient vagaries of an unsettled disposition. The late conduct

of my friends and the Church in bringing me forward without any director

indirect interference or manoeuvres of mine, has served still more to confirm

and settle that inclination. Experience has long and uniformly taught me
Ithat my faculties are some way incapable of, and inadequate to a commercial

life. Yet hope that my general conduct has been such as that you will

not attribute this to wilful inattention. That which has ever appeared to

Ime as the grand difficulty was the inconvenience which apprehended would
Iresult to you from my absence. On this head would only say, that if my
removal should be with the countenance and approbation of Providence (and
God forbid that it should ever take place otherwise) no really ill conse
quence would result from it. With regard to the advantages to be obtained

from a short residence with a tutor so pious, prudent, and learned as Dr.

IWilliams, they are too great and important to be faintly desired. These
facts commit to  your  candid  reflection  and  the overruling  guidance of our
gracious Lord."

   This Letter not only brought the question afresh and in all
its bearings before the attention of his parents, but it is re
markable for containing a strong expression of his inaptitude

for commercial life ; not disinclination merely, but something
like incompetency : an early dictate of his self-observation
which was borne out by incidents that occurred from time to
time in after years. He was, indeed, scrupulously exact in all
money transactions ; kept books of account for his private as
well as public affairs ; had his receipts and disbursements so
punctually posted up, that a balance could be struck almost at

any moment : and yet he would probably have failed in business
for this sole reason, that his confidence in others was ever apt
^T. 22.]               LETTER TO THE CHURCH.                      45

to exceed the limits which a just regard to his own interests

required. And if imposed upon in any way, he could bring
himself to submit to the wrong far more easily than resort to
strong measures to obtain reparation. In relation to this whole
class of questions, he belonged to that order of persons who
                                                                  prin
from    natural  disposition, or  from the force    of Christian
ciple,                            to give than to  receive."
        find it  " more blessed

To his communication from Hanley, either no answer was

sent, or none is to be found. Probably it was met by full con

cession ; if not in words written or spoken, yet by parental

kindness making arrangements for new plans, both for him

and for the family soon to be deprived of his active services.

But, in truth, this is explained in a Letter, addressed to the Bev.

Maurice Phillips, at that time Classical Tutor at Rotherham.

   " The kind attention with which you have always treated me, while it must
command my truest gratitude, encourages me to request of you direction

I Iwith regard to circumstances in which find myself in some perplexity.

need not recall to your recollection the conversation which you once intro

Iduced at our house, on a subject to me of the highest importance. After
Ihad the pleasure of seeing you last at Masbrough, called on Mrs. Pye. She
Iadvised me with great affection and regard on the momentous topic. Among

other things she remarked, that it was highly proper that should again

Ifreely open my mind to my father. The propriety of this appeared evident :

  therefore took the opportunity of being in Staffordshire a few days after

wards, to write to my father a brief statement of the case. On my return

Ihome, find that the grand objections have ceased to exist, and that
Imy parents consider it as a sort of settled point that am to change my

Iresidence.

   " Here my difficulty arises. Hitherto have cautiously refrained from any
interference of my own, wishing to have the completest evidence of the
agency and approbation of Divine Grace and Providence. But at present my
Iground is different. Now, conceive, it becomes a duty to attend to this
Iaffair in the same way as to any other occurrence in which might be
Icalled to act. May then be permitted to ask--Does anything remain to
I Ibe done                                                    to leave it

entirely
          by me    ?"  Am  to take any step whatever ? Or am
          alone ?

   An early answer from Mr. Phillips gave him encouragement

to proceed ; and pointed out the next step to be taken ; which

was, to submit his desires respecting the ministry to the con
sideration of the Church of which he was a member. With
this advice he complied in these terms :

  " It is now near four years since you honoured me with admission into

your communion. For that admission, for the privileges of gospel orderand
46                           LETTER TO THE CHURCH.                                    [lTOfl.

Ifellowship, and for all that love and care which have enjoyed among you,
I--I beg you to accept my sincere thanks.         am now under the necessity of

requesting your serious and impartial attention to a circumstance of the
greatest importance. For several years my mind has been more or less occu
                                         engage in a work, however despised by
pied by  a strong propensity to          most holy and honourable upon earth,--       the
profane  and infidel world, the                                                       the

sacred work ofthe Gospel Ministry. These inclinations would probably have
remained a close secret in my own breast, had not many of my religious
friends from time to time inquired into my sentiments        on           the subject, and
favoured me with their advice and encouragement
                                                                              It is not per
IIthaps necessary to mention any names.
                                                  may suffice to say, that            princi

pally allude to several valuable members of this Church, and to a consider
able number of respectable ministers. Notwithstanding these things, there
were difficulties which kept me in a state of suspense, till you, as a Christian
Church, thought proper to call me to make occasional attempts to speak of

the glories of Jesus and His salvation. Since that time, my doubts and diffi

culties have been in a surprising and unexpected manner removed. By the
Iadvice of many of my friends, concurring with the disposition of my own

mind, have been led to think of devoting myself wholly to the service of
God's sanctuary. With such views it is very desirable to have an opportu
nity of retirement for purposes of study and improvement. Such an oppor
tunity, and that of the most favourable kind, now presents itself. The esta

blishment of the Yorkshire Academy at Eotherham under a tutor, so eminent

for learning,  kwiinsddo."m  and piety,  as  Dr.  Williams,  affords the  greatest    advan
tages of this
If" you, my dear Friends, approve of this design, and are willing to give
it your  csouucnhteanarnecceomamndenadpaptiroonbaatsioyno,uymouaywtihllingkrepartolypeorbltiogeDrm. eWbilyliatmranss."

mitting

    The recommendation of the Church was forwarded to the

Committee of the Academy ; and soon after a Letter was sent
to Pye Smith by Dr. Williams,
enter Eotherham "as soon as                  thoelept lehaismedk."nowSptehaakt inhge   might
Committee of the Institution,                   Dr. Williams says, --                  of the

                                                                                      " They
approve of your coming; but the idea has been suggested,
that too great openness and decision in political sentiments
Iwould be improper in this situation, and in a theological
student. For my own part                       am satisfied you are beforehand
with them in this opinion.                   The grand object of your studies

will be those  things        which pertain to the souls and everlasting
interests of   men."            Besides earlier indications which Pye

Smith had given of warm political feelings, when it is remem
bered that he  had stood
the place of   Editor of                 only a few weeks before this date in
                                         the Iris, the caution of the Com
mittee can easily be accounted for.
in which Dr. Williams alluded to                   But the delicate manner
                                                  the past, and the way in
JET. 22.J        ENTERS ROTHERHAM.                                                              47

which he anticipated, and thereby as it were obtained security

for the future, show, that if the elder was gentle in his course

of treatment, the younger was understood to be happily open
to the full influence of such a method:--impulsive, perhaps,
from the vigour of his nature, but of a tractable disposition,
and therefore always accessible to mild and kind advice.

  IWriting to a correspondent, September 10, he says :--" This

morning am going to Masbrough, as a student in the Academy
under Dr. Williams and Mr. Phillips. Some time spent in

Isuch a retirement, with such advantages for study and improve
ment, will, hope, with a Divine    blessing,  be  of the                              greatest
service to me." *

He was now therefore fully committed to the work of the

ministry, from which he never after withdrew his hand.
Scarcely could any one's judgment be more enlightened or any
heart be more keenly yet intelligently alive, in regard to the
duties and responsibilities of the work, than his was at this

time : and it would be all but impossible to find an instance in
which the earliest impressions were retained tbroughout a long

life in such purity and vigour. His creed in all its great

features remained unchanged ; while his piety was constantly
growing in power and moral beauty. The foundations con-

   * Rotherham, or in early days often called Masbrough, Academy,--now
Rotherham College --was established for the purpose of educating young men
in classical and other learning, in the languages and criticism of the Scrip
tures, and in Christian theology, to prepare them for the Christian ministry
among Evangelical Nonconformists. The Institution was begun in 1756, under

the Rev. James Scott, of Heckmondwick, near Leeds. Prom 1783 to 1794, it
was carried on at Northowram under the care of the Rev. Samuel Walker. It
was then removed to Rotherham ; and in 1795 Dr. Edward Williams was ap
pointed Theological Tutor, an office which he held until his death, March 9,
1813. In his earlier years he had occupied a similar office in the Academy at
Oswestry, whit h he resigned in order to become pastor of the Church assem
bling in Carr's Lane, Birmingham ; and from the latter he removed to Rother
ham. Besides editing the writings of Doddridge --President Edwards -- and
others --often with valuable annotations --his own productions as an author
evince no small measure of originality and vigour of mind. The most con
siderable of these --An Essay on the Equity of Divine Government and the
Sovereignty of Divine Grace-- attracted much attention for many years as a
metaphysical treatise on a difficult branch of theology, and is still read with
interest by the inquisitive student. The coincidence is a little singular-- that
the longest-continued of Dr. Pye Smith's -colleagues at Homerton, the Rev.
Wm. Walford, joined the Church in Carr's Lane at the time when Dr. Wil
liams was the Pastor : so that under somewhat different circumstances, both
                                   oefroundeitiwonhoamndMpri.etWy.a"lf--orEddj,ustly
Tutors had been   under the care                                                      commends  as
                 esteemed for his
" a man greatly
48                  ROTHERHAM ACADEMY.                          [l790.

tinued undisturbed, though not unexamined      ; it was the  super
structure that was ever giving fresh signs of
                                               progress.

of  In a Letter to  a friend, dated October  17, he mentions the titles
                    he had been permitted    to borrow; choosing-from
    several books
HaReulasmtr--gileiLtryifneuomof fbHPearaul:yl--tbhueFryltaoivnnec--ll'usSdeermTaoomuncsohnsgbtoynoeWthiesorhsfa, rSBti--anxcWteerari'ttsyts--SoaSnianittnhset

Indeed-- and Sacramental Meditations.
    Thus early, at least, he began a practice which he idid not
relinquish throughout the whole of his busy life, and which he

was accustomed to press in the  kindest manner on the atten
tion ofthe Students who came
                                under his care: --that was, to

have always in course of reading a book or books of, the purest
and most heart-searching style of practical religion^ This was

adapted both to invigorate the sense of duty, and also to

enlarge the reader's knowledge of moral obligations : the con

science would be informed as well as quickened by daily icom*

munion with the best authors.                                i

At the time when Mr. Pye Smith entered Botherham* the

whole Academic Body did not probably exceed ten or twelve.

Among so small a number, and at that early day, there was

scarcely any external stimulus to great mental exertion : no
frequent examinations, no direct trial of strength betweeni,man

and man; nor any of those incitements to success which

abound in the National Universities. His curriculum, ac

cordingly, had to be run, if not altogether without companions^

certainly without competitors :--a state of things which: ought
to be known, both for the sake of placing- his actual attain

ments in their true point of view, and also as Serving to ac?iti
count for the scarcity of materials by, which his course of studyi I.
and his success while at college* can now be ascertained! There'

was not at that time, nor until albout forty years late^ftnytK
chartered University to hold out the opportunity of matridul,aM
tion or the honours of a literary degree, to the- members of
Nonconformist Institutions :   awnidthitthisesircasurccecelyssnoerscesinsaroyurtod:aadyih-i;f
that the Tutors-- as compared

must haveishared in some of the disadvantages- of that want of.,
stimulus among the students of which mention hasbeen made.- >j-
    :-«The following particulars are supplied by the Letter of Mr,i>
Moorhouse, written in 1838      Previous to his entrance at
JET. 22.]             ROTHERHAM ACADEMY.                       49

Botherham Academy, Mr. Smith was not only a superior

linguist, but was skilled in natural history, anatomy, and some

branches of medicine. In the latter, he occasionally prescribed
as a mere act of friendship for his fellow-students. A small
serpent having been killed not far from the eollege, he dissected

and embowelled;       and had its skin properly spread open on a

pasteboard accompanied with his learned description of itsit,

genus, species, scales, &e. The students had no greater amuse

ment than to get young Smith into the library rostrum, to de
claim on any subject he thought proper; for they were sure of

both instruction and entertainment. In anatomy his knowledge

was even then extensive. He lectured in the library on the

subject to his Tutors, the Students, and some friends from the

neighbourhood borrowing for the oecasion human skeleton
                                             :
from some medical friend.
                                               a
   " There was one thing in Mr. Smith which completely puz

zled all the Students, not his Tutors also namely, his time,
                      if
                                 do not think he had any class
                                :

                           I
manner, and eourse of study.

mates except in Divinity for all looked up to him not as
                                                            a
class-mate so much as an oracle. They all saw, and probably             ;a
envied his treasures of knowledge newly acquired, flowing in
from some quarter, but could not imagine where he had them

as they had apparently the same sources as to books, instruc
Ittion, &c.
             was observed that he never appeared            hard,

fagging student, nor plodding reader, poring his eyes out
                      a

over books. He seemed to tear out their entrails by vio

;lence and one might almost think him an exception from the
       a
common aphorism --Sine labore, Dii dant nil mortalibus. He

burned no midnight lamp: he paid occasional visits among
his numerous friends; and took his regular turn to supply

distant congregations, and probably was in no excessive hurry

home to the Muses. Yet his mind was always at work, always

in advance, always accumulating.   believe the whole secret
                                   I
was, his most uncommon quickness of perception and judg
ment, which enabled him to see through systems of everya
kind at glance, or with comparatively little application --
                                                            :

though, doubtless, he must have had his toilsome moments as
                         -- Several of the facts, and the entire
well as inferior

spirit of this communication, are corroborated by the testi

mony of the Bev. John Hammond, in Letter lately received

from that gentleman.
50   ROTHERHAM ACADEMY.                                                                                                     [1796-8.

    But there .are materials of a more definite kind both as to
date and subject; and which, as being in Pye Smith's hand
i"w(smia.rSpiyety.esinU--irngfae,b"cthumtoiissoamnoyffiyrbaseoftfeefslwylaoehiwLdauer-tm)scottatuushndrpeeeesnapkktlnosao,nfnowtirhnoleeftdhtHghweeemuh.mis--wcehialnvOnteiessfMr. tihoonuufdAsr1,sm7des9oetl6vanlietgvaesend--rtd,eh--deO1""mf7--9Tei7shhxe:ea"
trinsic objects.-- Of God. Yet, under all these : humiliating
circumstances, our knowledge of the properties and, relatipns
                              Plinmeuitms.atoIlto,giys--proNpaotsuerdalJ,*T}haetotelomgpyt,
of things is almost without
a rude series of Lectures on
and Moral Philosophy. A vast field."-- The manuscript Is of

a small quarto size of about thirty pages; containing therefore

little more than a series of Axioms, .Definitions, S.c^pjiaj and
Corollaries, very much in the style of
                                           books ^ later
years; and like them supplied with\re|erences^ to works on
the several questions. Besides Locke, who. is the, leading

authority, he quotes or refers  ttohe.BeRaetstuier'rsectEisosna--y PoanleyT'sruEffvlei

Hartley Qn Man--Ditton On
dences--the art. Metaphysics in the Encycl. Brit. -- Beid Qfyibhe
Human Mind-- -Grotius, de Veritate--S-' -Gravesande,, r^« J^i-
dentid, &c. One passage may be.igiyen, as serving;, ^^us-

trate the maturity of his intellect and style, of writing at this

period: -- "We may infer that the causes, of tho^, various

degrees of certainty with which we apprehend . truthj^ arise
from ourselves ; and are to be imputed to fye .narrpWj ljntitsfipf
our understanding, to the diminutive and cont^cto^. extej$3of

all human knowledge, and.,to the imbecility of our reaspnj^g
faculties. Tp Him whose infinite intelligence .discerns Jhejend

from the beginning, whose all-pervading wisdom comprehj^ndji
     a simple and, uninterrupted view,
in   causes an<l effects* all natures and  parlol pbeertiniegss--(  and /relaiions^
all
                                                                    to Him there

|si; nothing uncertain  or  dubious,  but all. is.-.sejf-e^^nft and
necessary truth."

     His attainments even., at this early period we^ jnot fllsebj
                            is
                               it

                                                      a

                                                                                                                    di?
lead him or others astray, while he had these correct vie$s of
the causes of the limitation of all human knowledge On the
one hand, and of ,the infinite compass of the Divme intfilljigenc?
poexonewrtechirseeaon:td--heearnn.edrgHyth,oewwiltahrtatrseeur chcohmuimntgoilitofyiuntadn'hdorteyvoienurneagncnemysaienni
                                                                                                                            of such
                                                                                                                            cfoonrsmta'nt

                                                                                                                                       of
MT. 22-24.]        HIS LATIN ORATIONS.                                             51

words, but rather like an ethereal essence which has been
diffusing itself through the whole of the mental operations, so
as to appear as a part of the thought, and not as a crude
appendage to the language.

   During the last three years of his residence at Botherham he

delivered a Latin oration at successive anniversaries of the In

stitution. These are preserved in a small manuscript volume,
in his. own perspicuous hand, and afford perhaps the best speei-

mehs extant of his Latin style, which was at once pure and
vigorous.

   The subject of the first^ delivered in 1798, was The advantage
of learning and philosophy for the hist discharge of the duties of
the Holy ministry. Judging from the opening remarks, the use

of Latin was then introduced for the first time at the annual
meetings of the College ; and therefore the speaker expresses

diffidence hi himself, with a modest confidence in the indulgence

of his hearers. Before he enters upon his theme, he denounces
in strong terms every attempt to substitute1 learning in the place
df real piefy: nor will he venture to maintain that learning isabso-
lutely indispensable to the ministerial office ; it is rather on the
ground of its great utility, than as a sine qua non, that he attempts
to advocate its claims.' Having thus carefully prepared the way,
he^roceeds to enume'f at&'the several kinds of discipline in'which

                  for the Ohris'tian ministry should be trained: ar

ranging them in the following order, and pointing out in con
nection with each, its characteristic adaptation and merits: --
The Hebrew and Greek Scriptures --Latin for the sake of Theo
logy and Criticism-- The Christian Fathers --The Classical
Authors --The English Language --History --Natural Philo
sophy --Astronomy --Natural History --Chemistry *-- Logic--
-- and Mathematics. The Essay, after referring to the arrogant
and impious nostrums which had been set wildly 'afloat' by the

   * Touching for a moment or two upon Chemistry, which was at that time
an intensely excitihg subject to ardent minds ; his indignation was fired at the

recollection of the cruel injury iwhich the science: and humanity itself had sus

tained about two,  years before, when    -Robespierre   sent  one of the greatest  ofthe
French Chemists     to the Gruillotin :                  hie                       audi-
                                         -- " Excursus        veniam concedite,

tores, ut memorise semper colendse iHustrfs chemise ihstaufatae auctoris Lavoi-
serii debitumveneraMonis et moestus honorem tribuamus. Indytus ille, post
vitam et opes regales scientise augendse humanoque generi benefaciendo in-

esunmtopctaescidSitEev"itie Robesperii immanis tyranni, virih florente aetate, letho cru-

                                                              E2
52                     EOTHERHAM ACADEMY.                                  [l800.

French Eevolution, concludes with enforcing the duty of re
buking these utterances of ignorance                      by true and
thorough learning, which, so far from         and vanity
                                              tending to  puff up the

possessor, would be the very best means to keep him modest
and humble. All who knew the writer intimately, will recognize
in this a very characteristic production.

    There is both a Latin and an English copy of an oration for
                                              apparently, a translation
the anniversary in   1799:   the one being    " The subject which you,
of the other. He              the latter :--
                    says in   have assigned    to me is to shew --" The
my ever honoured    Tutors,

importance and necessity of an intimate, correct, extensive,, and
cmroiAtsicttaptlrhoefaitccaoqbnuleacilnudtsaiisonccnhe,arsgpweeitaohkfintthhgeeoCfHhtohrlieystBiaSinbcrliepm,tiuhnreiessrter,ym.i"nar¦ko>rsrd:&--¦ r' r"tHo ;et<r]<te<e>;

we have a rule of life and manners, including in one word of
universal comprehension -- love --*very duty <of every possible

circumstance and relation. Here is the treasure of the man of

God, full of all the riches of grace and wisdom, munificently

rewarding the diligent enquirer, and, after the labours of ages,
as inexhaustible as ever."
                                                           >

   His Latin oration for the anniversary in 1800, the last year
of his residence at the Academy, was on the Grand distinction

between the Christian Church and the world. The contrast

between the two in many points of principle and conduct, is

briefly but very clearly stated. Speaking of the forgiving
spirit of Christ towards His enemies, and of the implacable
temper which some professing Christians cherish -- as though
they had in this particular studied Virgil rather than the New
Testament-- he pours out a glowing expression of fine feeling,
                                       in after years :--
such   as was not uncommon    to him                           f o ,1;,....
      Quae Turnus, Latino ad   pacem   hortanti, plerique
   "                                                       hominum

qui se Christianos jactant sasvo corde effantur.                           v; M
      '  Et nos tela,
                       pater, ferrumque    haud debile  ;sdaenxgtur ias.'  -¦ ¦· 1
         Spargimus,    et nostro sequitur   de vulnere

   "                                                           Mn. xii.    50.
injuriis
          quanto sublimior sinceri Christi sectatoris virtus,               qui
          omnibusque malis lacessitus, fortiter audax omnia                per-

peti, casus iniquissimos invicto amore et mansuetudine sus-
tmet'!     Hie  patientia
ciivini."                  sanctorum.  Hie decus et tutamen regnj
JET. 26.]     HIS LAST LATIN ORATION.                       53

Before the life of the Author of this passage comes to a close,

the Beaider will have occasion to perceive that it was not

artistically (thrown r>in for the sake of heightening the effect
of the composition :--and, indeed, it is pervaded by so genuine

a tone, <that: if nothing more had been heard of the writer, it
would be at once classed among, heart-utterances. But although
his power of patient endurance and of a Christian requital of
injuries was subsequently known to be extraordinary, few could

be aware ofthe date when this habit was fixed on the only sure
principles. From such early memorials as these may be

learned the secret of his greatest moral triumphs: for they

show how mere expediency was not his rule of action ; but that

he began when a young man to call in the aid of Christ's

authority and example for the regulation of temper and con

duct alike,                            i

  It would be wrong to withhold from the Patrons, Tutors

and Students of Eotherham College, the brief, passage in which
one of its most celebrated ahimni'took'his public leave of their
predecessors in 1800: --·"Faxit pater luminum ut omnes
HIS MC3NIIS ACADEMICIS ENUTRITI, RADIIS SUE VERITATIS, IL-

LUMINATI, CHARITATE IMPLETI DIVINA, S PIRIT U SANCTISSIMO

IMBUTI, HINC AUSPICIIS CC3LESTIBUS EXEANT, LONGE LATEQUE

SACNEIMPTOROFlDIlElLitIjsETQILNEDMEEFNESTSISQSIMIMOPEPREIRI MJeUSLUTAFINCEOSRDPAROHTOEMNIDNUANMTA, DEIT-

gant ! Sic munificently vestrje, Fautores BENEFICI, SIC

LABORD3US ET  FIDELITATI -VESTRIS,  NPORR.UEMCEJPTEOXSREEQSUUSTUUMMMFE, RCITA,E"I
ET COLENDI.;  SIC VOTIS OMNIUM BO

The Way, in which he aimed to appropriate his time. while at

the Academy, may be inferred from a single page of. small

quarto paper, in which he has given the hours and their several

duties, in Latinl No date is annexed; From this we learn

that five o'clock was his hour for rising, when he prayed and

read the Scriptures in private. At six the. Students assembled

for prayer.   then looked over his, manuscripts or studied

geometry until eight, when the whole family met for morning

worship. This was followed by breakfast. Then came prepara

tion for attending the Lectures of the Tutors ; any spare time

at his disposal being applied to classical reading- At half-past

ten the Lectures began. At their close he again spent some
54                   LETTER TO REV. J. KIRKPATRICK.                                      [iSQO.

 time alone in prayer and reading the Scriptures : and after this,
 whatever time was left until dinner at half -past one, he devoted
 to natural philosophy, or to arithmetic and algebra. Between
 dinner and tea, he read history, and set apart some time to in
 struct those younger than himself. After tea came compdsi-
tion, and the reading of Ancient Authors.' At half-past'sevefi;
family prayers--followed by supper. , He then read gp'fjae
devotional book until ten ; after which with private prayer and,,
the Sacred Scriptures he closed the day. Thus, like the Pro
phet Daniel, "being in his chamber, he kneeled upon his knees1'
three times a day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God':''"
he also had a regular course of devotional reading ; and he
omitted to specify any hour for exercise. Prohably it was the
case in that early period (as he was occasionally heard to sky
to his Students in later years) that ' he found change of pursuit
a sufficient substitute for walking in the open air.' *

   Prior to the anniversary in 1800,                    at which the last of his
Latin orations was delivered, some                      proceedings had taken
place with a view to Mr. Pye Smith's
                                                         removing from Eother
ham to Coward College, then situated at Wymondley in Hert-

   * As the student  will like to see  a  copy of       the  original document,  it is here
subjoined.-- Ed.     studiorum, pro
                                                     '  '"'  '''H!.,,',.    ¦    CJJ If?l
   " Typus horarius
                                       singulis diebusr      i                     ,,5",'JJi.,:Q9VJJl
Hora.

5. Preces et Lectio S S.                                                         ,'                    . 11
6. Preces Academicse.
                                                             ¦ ., ,..;,.
      Scripta legenda.

       Geometria.
8. Preces domestieae matutinae.

      Jentaculum.

      ^£SZIT^TM\ te»P°"cuiAUqUld                             auctorlbusveteribus
           Ursecis Latrmsque legendis     terendum.
10£.  Lectiones,                                                                                   i,

      Preces et lectio SS.                                                  , ,;,,
      Pbilosophia naturalis, sed die Martin
H,    Prandium.                              Jwov;ids,,q.ue Aant·h,metic.a  et Algebra.

      Lectio historise.                                                     ' ': ' ' ''

      Puerorum docendorum munus.
      Merenda.

7|.   Scriptio, et lectio veterum.
      Preces domestieae vespertinee.
      Ccena.

      Lectio sacra.

10. Preces et leetio S S.
AIT. 26.]      VISIT TO WYMONDLEY ACADEMY.                             55

fordshire. The following passage from a Letter, which he

wrote to the Eev. J. Kirkpatrick, will show his feelings in the

prospect of the change.

" My intention of spending the winter at Aberdeen is relinquished for what
appear to me very sufficient reasons. My time there would be almost en
Itirely occupied in preaching and travelling, so that should have little leisure
Ifor attending to important objects of improvement.
                                                        therefore think my
self much better employed in pursuing my regular studies at home in this last
Iand imoat valuable session , and in making attempts at usefulness, on the Lord's

days, pi the neighbourhood. Besides, must of necessity be absent for some

Iweeks in January and February, if the Lord permit, on a very important oc

casion. mean, a visit to the Rev. Mr. Parry, of "Wymondley House, near
Stevenage, in Herts. The object is to obtain an opportunity of mutual and

satisfactory determination with regard to my settling as Classical and Philo
Isophical Tutor in the new academy of Mr. Coward's Trustees, now established
at Wymondley House.  have no time nor paper to trouble you with a par

Iticular detail ; nor is it necessary, for Dr. Williams will give you ample in

formation of the whole affair, and have written more minutely to Mr. Alliott.
IThe proposed engagement does not involve any dereliction of the Christian

ministry, which pray to be enabled to make the great object of my life.
But in subordination to the service of the Redeemer in the preaching of
is if,

           II
                                          I
His glorious Gospel, may be any other way collaterally useful in the pro

motion of His cause, shall have reason to be thankful.  trust that my only

desire to know and to pursue the path of duty, to hear and obey the voice
of God."

In the first instance, the Trustees of Coward College sug

gested, that Mr. Pye Smith should leave Eotherham before

the expiration of his term, and that he should complete his

studies at Wymondley; while he was to aid in the classical
training of the young men with view to his becoming Clas
                     a
                              aa
sical Tutor at the end of year or two. He acted. on the
advice of his friends, and from sense of gratitude to the

supporters of the Academy where he had been educated, by
declining this proposal. An invitation was then sent to him
from Mr. Coward's Trustees to visit Wymondley for five or six
weeks, in order to the forming of an acquaintance between the
several parties, preparatory, as might be hoped, to closer
                     :                                  a
                                                                    a
                                 it
and longer connection and with this he complied at the end
of the year 1799. During this visit he was strongly impressed
with sense of the importance of providing for probationary
a

term of three        residence, before any young man was to
be considered as fully admitted to the benefits of the College.

But the Trustees not being favourable to such an arrangement,
   56            CHESTER.--LETTER TO DR. WILLIAMS.                                 [1800.

   his services  were no    longer sought for, and he returned to
   Yorkshire.               improbable that as a young man without
                 It is not
         prominent place in society at that time, his conscientious
   any   firm, yet most respectful manner of urging his views, was
   and   as a kind of reproof by the small body of gentlemen who
   felt
   were in those days the guardians of Mr. Coward's property for

   the use of the Institution; and it might also be deemed inex
             to have anything more, to        :do. with   one who ahresaiy
   pedient  such decision of character.         Nor is
   shewed                                                it unlikely that if

.  he had remained, he would have met         with difficulties: from these
   ofthe Trustees who were.understood,
                                              to hold Arian views ^par

   sons of the strictest probity, indeed, but not suited to his order
   of religious creed or feeling.

       Soon after his return to Eotherham, and before, the Close; of

   his term of residence, he went to Chester, to supply a vacant
   pulpit with a view to the pastoral office in-: that city. While
   there he addressed a Letter to his Tutor Dr. Williams, sonie
   passages of which will be read with interest' :--

     I" It is with the greatest pleasure that embrace thei stipulated season of

   I Iwriting to you, as eagerly anticipate the favour which hope to enjoy of, a
   ILetter from you in return. . . . Through mercy arrived here early in fjjie

   Iday, safe and well. On my arrival, found with surprise my name m "-the
   Newspaper as the preacher of a sermon for the benefit of the Infirmary of
   this City. Ere this time, you have unquestionably seen the outline of Mr.
   Taylor's projected bill to persecute the dissenters. Whatmockery to talk of
   his friendship to dissenters ! This is adding insult to cruelty, exactly in.rcpri-
   formity with the manners of all persecutors. O that the Spirit were poured
   from on high on all who love the Lord Jesus Christ, that they may with un

   accommodating faithfulness obey the eternal authority of their Lord, and

   meet the consequences with the true Christian magnanimity of meekness
   and love ! Even on selfish grounds, thus to meet the storm will be the best
   method to retund its fury; and on Gospel principles, we surely ought
   joice and be exceeding glad to be counted worthy to suffer for
                                                                                   sake of

   Jesus. The Church has now enjoyed the longest cessation from outward

   tribulations that her annals have ever known. The great Refiner knows
   that she needs the furnace. The wrath of man shall praise Him, and He can
   easily control its superabundance.
   Father, glorify Thy name!' O that   Let us humbly cry,  'Thy will               be done!
                                       every professor of                          saw and
                                                           godliness

   felt the glory and importance of the passive heroism of the Gospel ! The
   Lord help us  to rely on Him, and  in all  our ways
   said Luther,  cum Christo pati     quam              tcougmloCri;feysHairme.."  MALLEM,
                                              regnare

         To complete at once the information which his Letters contain
JET. 26.]  LEAVES ROTHERHAM.  57

respecting Chester, it may not be improper to quote a passage

written by him from that City to a correspondent in London about
three months after the date of the former :-- " Perhaps it is not

altogether presumptuous in me to say, that the Church here

Ientertain a kind and favourable opinion of me as one in some
degree suitable for them.  believe that, since the days of Mr.

Matthew Henry, there has never been so encouraging a prospect
I·for the promotion of the Bedeemer's kingdom in this City; and
   confess that the affectionate attachment of my friends here,

ntihe. apparent increase of the Congregation, and various Other

peculiar circumstances, have made a deep impression upon
me."'

    After all the difficulties which had for a long time impeded
ihis entrance on the Christian ministry, it is pleasing to find his
 mother writing to him thus: -- "May the blessing of God be
 with you, and own your labours for some good in His vineyard.

I Irejoice in, and am thankful for an interest in your prayers.

 think it a great mercy that the Lord has heard my imperfect
 prayers for you from your infancy, and in the course of His pro

Ividence has called you to the important work in which ydu are

 benygyaoguingc.ontinuhaoplley."He,. will not leave you alone, but will stand

    At the anniversary of Eotherham Academy, held June 25,
 1800, a resolution was passed in these terms :--" That the pre
 sent meeting expresses its approbation of the deportment and
 improvement of. Thomas Burton, John Pye Smith, ;and James
 Kay during their iAcademical course, and empowers the Tutors

 to give them Testimonials
     And with these Testimonials, his formal connection with

 Eotherham terminated.
           CHAPTEE V.                          --¦.[

                                                  -.-- 1

HOMERTON COLLEGE-- -APPLICATION TO DR. WILLIAMS TO , RECOMMEND A;

TUTOR FOE HOMERTON --LETTER OF DR. WILLIAMS, F.ECOMMENDING

MR. PYE SMITH--HOMERTON COMMITTEE APPLY TO MR. SMITH-r-HIS
COMMUNICATION TO THE COMMITTEE--LETTER TO HIS MOTHER--DIFFI

CULTIES --LETTER TO   REV. THOS.  TOTO¦ MWR¦L·.E' i,-T-.OSW'T¦ ALTEINGACC: EDPIFT¦ IFnNICGnU.LIT.N-:IEVSIT--Ait',

DIFFICULTIES REMOVED  --LETTER

TION TO HOMERTON-- ENTERS ON RESIDENT TUTORSHIP --INAUGURAL

SERVICES.                                      J

                                  ::

  In commencing the earliest chapter of Dr. Pye Smith's his
tory in connection with Homerton College, it will be well to

begin with a brief account of the Institution. This will at once
supply information respecting facts/ and serve to explain some

of the names or terms which will occur in the  of the

narrative. The Horn. Coll. Beport for 1850, which was pre

pared by the then venerable and retiring Theological Tutor,
with an appendix, which was drawn up by Mr. Fox, the legal

adviser of the Society, and which contains some most valuable
details, is the chief source of the following particulars.

" The Seminary resulted from the coalescence of two Aca

demical Institutions, about one hundred1 and seven years ago;

a union  awnhihcohnoafutrearbplereavsioceunsdednisccyrepoaf nccaynadnodurriavnadlshjiupd, gdmeemnotn."
strated

The elder of these Institutions was The Congre'gational Fund

Board, "which was established in the year 1695, as well to as

sist congregations in the country too poor to maintain their own

ministers without extraneous aid, as to educate young men for .
the Christian ministry. The other Institution bore the name of
the King's Head Society, which was founded in the year 1730

by a few Protestant Dissenters, who held their meetings at the
King's Head in Sweeting's Alley, a house which was kept by
                      homerton college.                   59

one of their number. In 1 742, he removed, and with him the
Society, to the King's Head in the Poultry, where the General

Meetings   continued  to be  held during  more than eighty years.
          means by    which   they [the   King's Head Society] re
   " The

solved to work out their design were twofold. The one, in its

nature temporary, was to make an immediate stand against the

prevailing errors of the day, by settmg forth several important
doctrines of the Gospel which were then, by various persons and

parties, principally opposed, i The other, which looked to future

times,  lipan' fdorrtehmeawinosrkthoeftlhaestiCnhgrismtieamn omriainl isotfryt,heyior uznegalm, ewnaswhtoo
train

should teach to One generation after , another, the Doctrines of

the Beformed Churches, as they are summarily expressed in

what were called the Articles of the Society, and in the cate

chisms of the Westminster Assembly. The Society through all
its phanges has never lost sight of the obligation to provide for

the teaching of these doctrines. It would be difficult to point

out an Institution which has changed so much in form and

manner of working, but which has so unchangeably held forth

the great truths for which it was established.
   "iTo accomplish their immediate object, the Society founded

a Lecture at the Meeting House of the Bev. Bobert Bragge, in

Lime Street. Every week, from the 12th of November, 1730,

to the. 8th of April, 1731,-aisermon was preached in defence of

some one of the great doctrines of Eevelation. These sermons
                      1732, under the title of ' Sermons
were published in     Lecture.' The Lecture continued      preached
at the Lime Street                                        for nearly
a hundred years afterwards. It became a Monthly service,
held at the Meeting-houses of different Congregational min
isters ; and in later years the preachers were not confined to
points of doctrine.* , Many of the sermons were printed sepa

rately, and some shew, upon the title-page, the connection
between the Lecture and Homerton College. In 1820, a

resolution was passed, which opened the Lecture to ministers

who were not members of this Institution. It survived but for

a short time this separation from the Parent Society. In 1829

it- had dwindled to a yearly sermon, and then wholly

   For the other, which was the more important, and as it has

   * This was the.Monthly Meeting, or Monthly Lecture, at which a considerable
number of Dr. Smith's printed discourses were delivered. --En.
60                 homerton college.                             L1800-

proved, the more enduring object of the Society --namely,1 the

training of young men for the Christian ministry, we have the

following information. In 1730, "when the King's Head

Society began, the Fund Board received such students only as

had already made what were at that time deemed respectable

attainments in classical literature, whom it supported through

four years of study in theology. ·¦ The new Society was rigid in

requiring evidence of an earnest belief in the doctrines which
it maintained ; but it required less of previous attainments in

human learning, and extended its course of instruction over

six years. The two institutions soon -began to work in unison'.

. . . From the year 1754 down to> 1801, on several occa

sions in which the two Societies were mutually interested, each
had appointed a Committee to meet together and consider and

report. In the year 1808, the King's Head Society, with the

approbation of the Fund Board, appointed a permanent -Visit

ing Committee, consisting of an equal number of persons from

each body, which was to meet monthly at Homerton; and to
superintend                                         Inbeinthge'
subscription  the    affairs of   the    College.                 year 1817,
              to   the articles;  of   the Society               abolished, a

Managing i Committee was appointed to conduct the affairs! of
the Society. The Managing, Committee met at the King's

Head. The Visiting Committee, consisting iof two members pf

each Society, met at Homerton. Gradually the business of the

Society fellinto the hands i of the. Visiting Committee, until the

year 1824, iwhen the1 two Committees were, united -in onej and

called ' The Committee; All the members of this Committee,

including those nominated by the Fund Board, were appointed

by the Homerton College Society.        By this1 Committee'      the
affairs ofthe Society have since been  conducted." ; " '!<¦ ,r
                                                                   ¦

The list of Tutors before and after the union of the two
Institutions is replete with honourable namesj Among tiiem
Dr. Smith   mSCoaecmnietbitroyind."gs--Me,rD."rJ.tohhJaotnhlenEaarmWneeadsl,kaecnard,llejwuddhboicysieoPurposrfoemvsiesnomcrebeJorwhaonsf
Martyn, of
the Eoyal

Classical and Hebrew learning, "in which there is reason >td
believe that he possessed         ordinary degree of attainment."
                           no     His learning must be- presumed
--Dr. Zephaniah Marryatt.
                             "

to have been very great; as it was upon good grounds affirmed
that he was intimately acquainted with the whole compass" of
Greek and Latin Literature, the Fathers; and the principal
JET. 26.]  LETTER OP DR. WILLIAMS.                            61

writers of,the middle ages. Tins prodigious amount of reading
could scarcely have been sufficiently digested ; and for it he had
made imprudent sacrifices of healthy power, in having through
many years sat up* in study two, and sometimes three, whole
nights in a week. His religious character stood very high ;

his usefulness, as both a tutor and a preacher, was great; and

he died in the joy of faith, in the year 1754." --Dr. Conder ;
Dr. Daniel Fisher; Dr. Benjamin Davies; Dr. Gibbons; Dr.
Henry Mayo ; the Bev. John Fell ; the Eev. John Berry.

And next in this succession of erudite and good men, the

honoured Tutor thusispeaks of himself: -- "John Pye Smith, a

native of Sheffield, and great nephew of one of the Society's
early students [Bev. John Pye], and who had just completed

his course in the Academy of Masbrough, under Dr. Edward
Williams and Mr. Maurice Phillips, was invited to be Mr. Berry's

successor. The course of duties to which he was thus called
by the King's Head Society and the Congregational Fund
Board, he entered upon' in January 1801."

   Early in >the year 1800, when the Classical Tutor then re

siding at Homerton intimated his purpose to resign his office,
a joint committee of the two Societies was appointed to confer

upon the best means to be used to fill up the expected vacancy.
The Minute Book of the College records, that on Monday,

March 17, a prayer meeting was held at Broad Street to seek

Divine direction : a special service, it would seem, for the oc

casion ; serving to show the piety and earnestness of the men

to whom the business had been entrusted. One of the members

of this Committee --the Bev. Joseph Brooksbank --applied to

Dr. Williams for information respecting the suitableness and
qualifications of Mr. Pye Smith : and in reply Dr. Williams sent

Ithe following letter.           " Eotherham, June 5, 1800.

  " It is with great pleasure  comply with your request, and
Ithat of the joint Committee, in reference to my young friend,

Smith. The questions you put shall endeavour to answer
with all the plainness and impartiality in my power. Mr.

Smith, who has lately entered on his 27th year, the four last of

Iwhich have been spent in my   fa'umnidlye,rsistaandminagn,'  of real as well as
                                                                well cultivated;
ready abilities. He hasa good

his ' personal religion ' is hope unexceptionable ; his ' natural
62                             LETTER OF DR. WILLIAMS.                        [l800.

t'permupdeern'cies' good,  open, generous, benevolent,            and grateful; his
                                                                  seldom indeed bfe
                    even   in smaller matters can very
Iimpeached, considering his natural vivacity, and perhaps may
add his too sanguine expectation, which, however, time and ex
Iperience will correct. As to ' his ability to communicate know
ledge to                       know    no one  Gorfeheiks,'agies  equal  to him: ' His
acquaintance   with             Latin    and                       very   considerable;

Latin in general is familiar to him, which he writes with ease
and elegance. For the time he has learned Hebrew (about tWd

years and a few months) his proficiency is very respectable, and
which he construes into Greek freely. He has some acquaintance
with modern languages : perhaps there are few who have noH

resided on the continent, or are not in the constant habit of

teaching more at home in the French.is it,                 to the intricate'  parts
   " He has not paid so much attention:

of the Mathematics as perhaps could be wished not for want
                                                                         a;
of abilities for that kind of study, but owing to pressure of

other business. Whatever he learns, he wishes to' draw from

the fountain this accounts for his preferring to read Euclid in

Greek, when he went through few books of him about twd or
                                            a

three years ago. There are few branches of natural philosophy

which he not well qualified to teach in the popular way.
                                                                             is

                                                                                 I
may add, his acquaintance with Moral Science* Logic, Ethieby

Pneumatology, Physiology, Anatomy, and Chemistry, by no

means inconsiderable. He has some acquaintance with Botany,
the Materia Medica, and the Theory of Physic -- which things
                                                                              I

notice for the sake of giving you an idea of his active turn

of mind, and the comparative ease with which he imbibes
knowledge.
    " He certainly does possess, with habits of sufficient ap
    a
                  '
plication, mind likely           to make future            aanttoafifnicmiaelntcsapianciteyv'erasy*
kind of useful knowledge,         suited to such

that in question, and even now possesses a considerable fund.
His acquaintance with History, civil and ecclesiastical, with
Literature in general, and with books, far greater than migh*
be expected   from             his years.      a
              the                                      is
   " think                     Committee    act wise part in turning their
I                              .person, in  whom discordant habits are not

             a
                         a
                              a
vi^ews to young

ffolixuneeednw,cehwoohfohraehsli,agsbioens,ipduesbrilsivciniggco,huharoranoceftsetmr'rinetodp,uftoartgmioo,nod'antocdosneusentkdi;teuertisoptnhe,ec:iaainlnldy
                                               a
JET. 26.]  HOMERTON COMMITTEE APPLY TO HIM.  63

an, orderly method of study-- one who is not a mere scholar,

divine, or preacher, but also acquainted with business to a

degree sufficient for the situation --who has a prevailing desire

to please and oblige, as far as consistent with integrity-- and a

Iremarkable ascendency over young minds for their good. SuGh

a young person, believe, is Mr. Smith.

    It would be possible, indeed, as you may infer from the
preceding account, to point out some traits that if added would

Iform the character more complete ; but--taken as it is-- do

not know a superior for the situation at Homerton.
    " P. S. Should you come to a resolution to treat with Mr.

Smith, he would consider his being at liberty to accept a
pastoral care a very material circumstance."

   Acting in conformity with the recommendation which is im
plied in the whole strain of the Letter of Dr. Williams, the
Committee at once opened a communication with Mr. Pye

Smith; and a correspondence between him and the Bev.

Thomas Towle, who was their chairman, began. This led to
an arrangement for a personal conference between the re

spective parties, which took, place early in July. A statement

in Mr. Pye Smith's hand-writing, but without a date, arose in

all probability from this interview ; the Committee desiring to
have his opinions upon the points mentioned, and he complying
with their wishes in the manner following :--¦-

             " The Joint Committee of the King's Head Society
       and the Congregational Fund Board, having requested of

        the undersigned his sentiments relative to the particulars

       of information communicated to him,--he submits the
       following brief observations :--

   "It is with, peculiar pleasure and the highest satisfaction

that he learns the careful and decisive plan adopted by the .
Societies in relation to that great and fundamental article, the
admission of Students. With regard to particular arrange

ments, he considers the views of the Societies as justly de

manding approbation, and he professes a cordial coincidence

 with them.

    " He readily meets the proposition of the Committee that,

 supposing a connection with the Societies in the capacity of a
 Tutor, he shall engage not to accept of a pastoral charge, unless

it shall satisfactorily appear to the Societies, in the event of
04          LETTER TO HIS MOTHER.                      [1800.

any such application, that such a charge is fairly and fully com
patible with the due fulfilment of the duties of his academical

function. The Committee has heard him state the several

reasons, powerful in his apprehension, for which he could not

make an absolute and unlimited engagement, in no case what

ever to accept of a pastoral office.

   " Admitting these fundamental provisions, and granting such

a reciprocal harmony as appears to exist with respect to sub

ordinate particulars, he is free to declare that, should a wise

and holy Providence lead to such a connection, the engage

ments of a Tutor are agreeable to his inclinations ; that, relying
on Divine support and hoping for the prayers of the Con

stituents and the people of God at large, he would labour in

the cultivation and improvement of his own mind, and the

adoption of every other means in his power, in order to the

conscientious and satisfactory discharge of his important duties ;
and that with regard to all other regulations and arrangements,

he should cheerfully confide in the care and wisdom of the

Societies.                                       " John Pye' Smith."

Notwithstanding the attractions of such an office in the

vicinity of London, to a young man who had hitherto lived in

a country town, the Eeader sees how clearly and firmly Mr. Pye

Smith expressed his attachment to the Christian pastorship, by

treating it as a question which in his case was not to be fore*

closed by the current arrangements. Nor is it less instructive .
                                                      that " fundamental
to notice the stress    wohficshtudheentlsa;"ys   on  the sort of pledge
article, the admission                           and

which he gives respecting the labour he would bestow upon the

cultivation and improvement of his own mind, with a view to
the better discharge of his duties.

As it is probable that he went from Chester to London to
meet the Joint Committee, so on his return from Londpn he

went at once to Chester, and not to Sheffield : which led to his
            Letter to   his mother respecting his new
              " From     this, as well as from what
addressing a                                           prospects
                                                       wrote, last
Iand feelings.
week, you will perceive the

Ithis most important object.
I I Ievery light that can, and
                        state of my mind with          regard to

                           have endeavoured to         view it in
                          trust have earnestly
                                                       entreated.
JET. 26.]     LETTER TO MR. TOWLE.     65

I IDivine, teaching and direction,-- and seriously think that

could not have clearer light or more convincing satisfaction on

Isuch a question than appear to have in this instance. But
Ibeforel fully make, up my conclusion, hope to see my dear
friends in person, that we may more particularly converse on
every part of the subject.
or 14."                     The number of Students is 12

           :

    There were however at that time, difficulties connected with
the resident tutorship at Homerton, which could not fail to

make a young man hesitate before he accepted even the most
cordial invitation to enter upon the office. Besides the care
and management of a large miscellaneous family; including the
whole Body of Students, and the servants necessary for the
establishment ; the arrangements of that day required that the
furniture for the household should be provided by the Tutor,
just in the same way i in which the head of a boarding school
provides for >the accommodation of his pupils. The College

Library, however, and it is presumed the Hall, and a room for

the Committee's use, were furnished by the Institution. Now
as Mr. Pye "Smith had perhaps never had a single week's ex

perience in housekeeping, and as the outlay of money, which
the1 above plan involved, was somewhat formidable to him at

that period, he could not go forward without further consid

eration and advice. He wrote accordingly to Mr. Towle;
stating the ' facts, and their ' bearings on his 'feelings, in the

I Ifrankest manner.             ·-
   " Since left town
                      have endeavoured to make the truly
Iimportant object 'before me the subject of my most serious

reflection, and-- trust--earnest prayer to the Father of mer
cies. Besides my correspondence with my friends, jn York

Ishire, have had opportunities of personal conversation with a
Ifew friends to whose judgment pay great deference. Their
general sentiment is, that the call of providence is very clear,

Iand that therefore my path1 of duty is plain. But, Sir, must
Ifreely ackndwledgVto "youy'that feel myself perplexed and

agitated to a very distressing degree, and that the burden of
anxiety seenls rather increased than alleviated. The principal

Iconsiderations which" have so- forcibly pressed upon my mind

will take the liberty of submitting to you.
   " The situation to which the Society has done me the honour

of inviting me appears to my view more and more solemnly

                                    p
0(3        LETTER TO MR. TOWLE.                           [l800.

Iimportant

now more
           and arduous. But that      part of the office to which
           particularly refer is the   charge of temporal con
Icerns. To you need not enlarge on the nature and magni
Itude of this charge, and the indispensable necessity of its being

attended to in the best manner. But when consider the un
remitting care and attention requisite to the proper discharge
of viewing in conjunction with the great work of the
'a         ;

      it,       it

                Ia

                             it

                            I
ministry and the constant studies and labours of tuition, and
then comparing the whole with my youth and inexperience, dt
appears altogether burden to bear which with suitable pro

priety and success cannot flatter myself that am adequate.
                                           I
In connection with this, becomes me to take into the account
                                                    a is
the sum of money necessary to be sunk at the commencement
of my engagement. For this must be under obligations toaI
                                                                it
my friends and my mind revolts at any measure, which would                        a 6,
be productive of real inconvenience to them, or would include

         sacrifice of my own independence.   trust, knows that my
         " The unerring Searcher of hearts,

single desire is, to be conformed to His will and devoted to
IfHis service in whatever way He may appoint.
                                                          be His

wise and holy pleasure that should enter upon the arduous
           I

               is

                    I
situation proposed, am persuaded that He can and will make
 His grace sufficient for me.' Out of weakness He can perfect

strength. But here my difficulty, considering the whole con
nection of circumstances, to ascertain what the Divine will."

         To this Letter Mr. Towle sent an answer, dated August full

of wise and well-considered suggestions, and confiding and affec
tionate in style, as though father had been writing to son.
           it

                                   a
On the 14th of the same month he sent also Letter, the design
         which was to inform Mr. Pye Smith
of       the Society, was resolved that "in  that at    general meeting
of                                           future "  they would "pro

vide the Furniture necessary for the accommodation of the
hTpoTeepounewthcnoaleerd.f'"osabrnewdMe"onrSrT.ditnhusSvi--dsmiet"ientmhtdbs--aettiionnewgrhsitatihtaclhethuepAshahcerihtasaddapooecepfmcsieltyyiphnteaadttnehbcHeteeusoersmmoinwfeienrtostheroseddn",so,"--f:ft--aithcotee"tItuwhotsaeewwyirohwMueicaxlrhds.-
be superfluous to say that the resolution of the Society adopted
on the 12th inst. which you, Sir, have in so obliging manner
                                                       a

transmitted, could not but greatly add to my encouragement.
JET. 26.]  CHOSEN RESIDENT TUTOR.                                         67

I IWhen survey the whole, am clearly convinced that for me to
keep my own mind in longer hesitation, or to hold the Society
in further suspense, would be very unnecessary and unreason
able, as well as a most unjustifiable return for the distinguished

kindness shewn me by you and the other gentlemen of the So
Iciety. To you, therefore, Eeverend Sir, as the chairman of the

Society, signify my compliance with the invitation of that

Society to the office of Eesident Tutor in their Academy at
Homerton, upon the terms of the propositions which have been

I Iofficially made. But at the same time, feel that the charge
Inow take upon me is one of solemn and weighty responsibility ;

to support which with comfort and success have peculiar need
Iof the prayers of all my friends, and the daily renewed supply of
the Spirit of Christ Jesus.  assume the awful charge with fear

Iand trembling, but with a supporting confidence that He who

has, trust, called me to it will exalt His own praise by ordain
ing strength out of weakness."

Besides other Letters from Mr. Towle, that gentleman wrote

one dated September 12th, to apprise Mr. Pye Smith that the
Congregational Fund Board and the King's Head Society had

each held a special General Meeting, the result of which was,

that he had been chosen      Euensaindiemnitty."TutoHre  to the Academy    at
                                                          concludes thus
Homerton " with perfect                                                   :--
" And now, my dear Sir, that God may sanction the important
business which has given rise to the-- on my part--very pleasing
intercourse that has commenced and continued between you
and myself,-- with His blessing, is the earnest prayer of friends

here,  and of no one more than of             brother,"
             " Your affectionate friend
                                         and             &c.

In this confiding, generous, eminently Christian style, did

the good men of that day and their new Tutor go through these

preliminary arrangements. How much may be learned by

tracing the first steps of the process, as well as by contem
plating the subsequent results !--Are not the issues of things
included in their germs ?--As Mr. Berry kindly met the wishes

of the Society by retaining his office up to Christmas, 1800,
Mr. Pye Smith did not enter upon residence until the new

year.

   Writing to an Uncle at the close of January, 1801, he thus
states his feelings and some historical facts relating to his new

                                                     f2
68                   inaugural services.                                    De

position. " To trouble you with the detail of particulars which
                     or will hear more immediately from my
you already know,    auffnencteiocneastsearymoicncdupwatiilol njooifntimweithanmdypadpeear.r
mother, would be an
Your friendly and
Aunt in joy and gratitude, that my prospect here not merely
I ...equals but exceeds our hopes. O that my heart may ever say
with increasing fervour--What can render to the Lord for all
His benefits to so unworthy a worm!                                         We entered

this house on January 5th. On the 14th the students came ;
and on the 16th was the time appointed for our solemn opening

by prayer and other suitable
   The new Tutor's Inaugural Address to the Students was

subsequently printed : but as copies of it are now scarce ; and

as it lays open in his own carefully chosen words the varied

duties to which he was about to dedicate his time ; his motives

and methods in discharging those duties ; the suggestions and

hopes he had to offer to the students ; and his warm desires for

their piety and abundant usefulness, it is entitled to a place in
                                                      it,
                                                                            it

                                                                                      in
these memoirs of his life. Portions of moreover, reveal

such an artless manner the simplicity and confidingness of his

disposition, as to furnish in that respect an insight into his

character, important to complete the likeness. That was

written under the influence of very animated feelings, partly

the result of his vigorous impulse in the pursuit of knowledge,

and partly of his new prospects for turning that impulse to the

best account, will be obvious to every Eeader. But highly

charged as  it      with qualities drawn from such source, the
                                                                            ?a
                is
                                                                                       j<
whole of his subsequent history only serves to show with1 how

little of abatement, on the score of too sanguine expectation,
                           a
                             a
this earliest of his productions as Tutor may now be contem
plated. Earely has so full schedule of duties and modestly
                        a

eoxfpfrifetsyseydearpsr'omduisraetsi,onbeenanfdil,leidnduepedb,yunlelifsesa of such usefulness,
                                                                            great diligence had
                     ;

been united with much prayer for Divine succour, the spring
time of his hopes and the realized fruits, could never have

b"thoNerynoetdtoh:a--bt ubctulotthseeatgrertasheceembcolloafsnGecoedoftwoahllie,cahchwhaoesthwneirotthwhhmeiceahrd"intohsisayc:a*s--e
    I

           ;

                                        :

                                                  is

    The Address will commence the following chapter. .
CHAPTEE VI.

INAUGURAL ADDRESS AT HOMERTON -- HIS WIDE RANGE OF DUTIES AS A
       TUTOR-- HIS FAITH AND TEMPER AS A CHRISTIAN FAVOURABLE TO
       THE SUCCESS OF HIS PLANS-- HIS EARLY PLANS STEADILY PURSUED
     IN LATER YEARS -- THE ULTIMATE TRIUMPH OF HIS EABXY LABOURS
     --ENTERS ON HIS DUTIES--RESPONSIBILITIES OF DOMESTIC MANAGE
     MENT--LETTER TO AN UNCLE-- TO DR. WILLIAMS-- LETTERS TO AND
     FROM DR. WILLIAMS -- LETTER TO THE STUDENTS AT ROTHERHAM.

" An address to the Students of the Congregational Academy

at Homerton, delivered on the occasion of entering upon the
office of Eesident Tutor, by John Pye Smith.

 I" My dear Friends,

" stand before you in circumstances of peculiar and interest
ing importance. To suppose for a moment that you are not

sensible of this, and that you do not, in some degree, feel for

Ime, would be doing great injustice to your understandings or

your dispositions. It will not surprise you if say that the
feelings of my own mind, on this occasion, are indeed solemn
In a sense, my all is at stake. The situation
am now entering, in obedience, as humbly
and affecting.

I Iupon which
trust, to the voice of God and duty, is one which involves a

responsibility the most awful and awakening, and which is con

nected with a train of consequences that will have the most

material influence upon my peace of mind, my social enjoy

ments, my usefulness through life, everything, in a word, dear

and valuable to me as a man, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus,

Iand as a minister of His gospel. If, through rich grace, am
kept humble and faithful, and am enabled to be diligent and

successful in the discharge of the great duties before me, my
most favourite wishes will be gratified, the hopes and prayers
70              INAUGURAL ADDRESS                    [l*01.

IItsomshhhfeeoanmultgl'l,yhdloaafrprvnyirdeeonvotdetfhoseoinwfuuucrinollflhmiGlabpopeiedpttsiaenanneenstsxwdstteeornoSessafdiuvvf,peaiopiauloinanrrd.ntgdtthahIetfein,twdbhoiuhesnropdvleteeehnnreswyaoiobolfltluhemtreseyreddtouehutonainegfndsadl,gi,fteeo,
and shall entail upon the remainder of my days the bitterness
Iof disappointment and regret.
    " have no hope of escaping such a distressing    consequence
                                constant dependence
but in  placing my first and  which ' giveth power    on that Al
mighty  and Faithful Arm
                                                     to the faint,

and to them who have no might increaseth             and,

subordinate^ to that divine and gracious aid, in my best en
deavours, in some degree, to deserve and to maintain the
esteem and confidence of our honoured Constituents, and of

you, my dear brethren. My first wish, therefore, is to fix the
impression on your minds and my own, with a deep and abiding
effect, that, except the Lord unite our hearts, strengthen our

hands, and bless our endeavours, vain, utterly vain and fruit

less will be all our efforts. Next to the establishment of this

great principle, and my reliance on the continued friendship of

Ithe two respectable bodies which unite in           this

Academical Institution, turn my eyes and fix my hopes, my

dear friends and pupils, upon you. My interests, my comforts,

are intimately involved in yours. To be the instrument of

directing your successful progress in the path of sound and

sohd knowledge, adorned and sanctified by the        of

real holiness and Christian love, will be the joy and honour of
my life. But without your cordial and steady concurrence; my

best intentions and utmost endeavours must be ineffectual. ' It

is yours, to crown me with blessings, or to pierce me to the soul

with sorrow and distress. Without the aid of your candour and
affection in friendship, your diligence and improvement in
studies, your love of order and harmony in domestic society,
and your fidelity and fervency in the spirit and practice of vital

Igodliness, --without the fulfilment of these requisites on your

part, totally despair of seeing our union blessed with success
and happiness.
  I" These considerations,
                                                     present to
your minds the reasons of                            my course
                gentlemen, will     obviously
                my desiring to     commence
of exertions, in the office upon which now enter, with a par
ticular and affectionate address to you. In this address my
JET. 27.]  AT HOMERTON COLLEGE.  71

Ileading objects are to lay before you a general account of those

plans of scientific and literary instruction which have formed ;
and also to urge upon you and myself the serious consideration
of those reciprocal obligations and duties, the due fulfilment or

the neglect of which must ensure or destroy our mutual use
fulness and comfort. --Far be it from me to arrogate super

cilious consequence to myself, or to accost you in the style of

an imperious dictator. As my beloved brethren in Christ

Jesus, as my associates in our common labours for the advance

ment of His kingdom, as candidates for the honourable and

Iholy service of His glorious gospel, entreat you in the spirit
Iof meekness and love, beseech you by everything precious
and sacred, that ye would deeply consider your infinite obliga
tions to your Lord and Eedeemer ; that ye would walk suitably

to them and worthily of them : and that ye would strive together

in your prayers to God, for yourselves and for me, that He may

graciously condescend to crown with His blessing our important

relation.

  I" The departments of literature which were assigned to the

province which have been led to undertake, in the proposals
made to me by the Joint Committee of the Society and the

Fund Board, are so many and so various as to form an object

of very serious magnitude for the efforts of an individual. Yet

it would have been highly culpable in me to have acceded to

I Ithose proposals, if had not felt a degree of hope that should
find myself equal to the engagements, by the exercise of con

stant diligence, and in reliance on the blessing of the Most
High. Your consideration and candour will teach you not to

expect from a young man, in his first attempts, upon a field of

exertion so very extensive, the same enlarged comprehension

of mind, the same depth and accuracy of knowledge, and the
same fulness and felicity of elucidation, which you will be en

titled to demand even from that very person, after the lapse of
years, with increased opportunities of experience and improve

ment. The subjects themselves are such as are congenial with

my taste, ; and, in various degrees, according to circumstances
and occasions, they have from my earliest youth occupied my

attention. That attention, if life and ability are granted to

Ifulfil my designs, it will now be my endeavour to employ with
increased ardour and industry.  may here also observe, that

the wise and salutary regulation of the Society in forming a
-2                       INAUGURAL ADDRESS                                                        [1801.

separate establishment for preparatory classical learning, will
                     secure superior improvement to the student,
not  only  tend to  highly advantageous to the resident tutor, since
but  will  also be
it will put into his hands more complete opportunity and liberty
                         to higher objects.
    bend his  attention  these remarks, proceed
    " Having  premised
Ito                                                to  the                                    particular

consideration of those departments of science and literature
which it is my professional engagement to occupy. These
naturally divide themselves into two classes, Sciences and

ILanguages. The course which intend to pursue, with regard
Ito each of these classes, will now in a brief manner describe.
In the present age of such universal and successful attention to
all the branches of natural knowledge, the study of Natural and
Experimental Philosophy, more than in any past period, forms

an object of real importance and necessity. This necessity is
rendered still greater by some other peculiar circumstances
of the times. The facts of physical science, by many who.
arrogate the style of philosophers, are perverted and abused

to support the cause of materialism and infidelity. By no

methods can we fairly demonstrate the futility of this false

philosophy and vain deceit, and detect the corrupt sophistry

and disingenuity of its advocates, than by the honest investiga
tion and the satisfactory deductions of a just and solid philo

sophy. Thus we may snatch the usurped weapons out of the

hand of impiety, and, using them according to their native in
Itent, ' rise through nature up to nature's God.'
    " On these accounts  have felt particularly desirous of

having it in my power to deliver a perspicuous and comprehen

sive course of lectures on Natural Philosophy, illustrated by
Isuitable experiments. This course will comprehend the fol

lowing subjects, in the order in which repeat them :--History
soofphpihcialolsionpvheisctaigl atkinoonw--leGdgeene--raPlripnrcoippelerstiesanadndrullaewss
--Mechanics--Hydrostatics and                                                                 of   philo
Acoustics-- Optics-- Magnetism--                                                              of  matter
                                  Hydraulics--^Pneumatics
                                  Electricity --The recent                                        and
coveries known by                                                                                 dis

 I" These subjects,
                    the name   of Galvanism.       which                                          reserve
                     together  with Astronomy,

for a separate course, form the whole of what is usually in

Icluded in a course of Physics or Natural Philosophy. But
should think this course incomplete and unsatisfactory, unless
succeeded by a comprehensive view of those delightful studies,
JET. 27.]  AT HOMERTON COLLEGE.  73

which are now the favourite subjects of attention throughout

Ithe whole scientific world, Chemistry and Natural History.

propose, therefore, to bring forwards a general view of Chem
istry, according to the lucid and beautiful arrangement of the
pneumatic theory, and to follow that course by another on the
principal subjects of Natural History. This latter course will

include the following particulars :--The Physiology of animal

bodies, with a more particular description of the human frame
--Phytology or the science of vegetable nature, with an ac
count of the Botanical System of Linnaeus-- Geology and

Mineralogy --And, lastly, several subjects in Natural History

which cannot be so conveniently arranged under the foregoing

heads.

   " These three connected and successive courses, two lectures

being delivered every week, will occupy the term of two years.
Partly in order to prevent the multiplication of particulars in
.the course just described, which is already sufficiently extensive,

Iand partly for the sake of securing greater perspicuity and

harmony, shall assign the science of Astronomy to a sepa
rate course, and shall treat it in its proper connection with
the Use of the Globes and Geography. Another division of
science which belongs to my office is the art of Logic. This
subject will be introduced by three preliminary discourses on
the nature of artificial Logic, the history of this study and the
various forms under which it has been treated, and some prac

tical observations and cautions on the use and abuse of it. In

the course itself our text-book will be Dr. Watts's valuable
treatise. With a portion of that work, previously assigned, my

young friends will make themselves so thoroughly acquainted,
as to be able readily to give the substance of it by answering a

Iseries of questions which will include the whole subject of that

portion. After this, shall offer a few observations, more or

less largely as the case may require, in the way of commentary ;
and shall then produce a series of valuable quotations, in illus

tration of the subject in hand, from Locke, Crousaz, Duncan,

IEeid, Gesner, and others. Our references to these authors

will, trust, be found singularly useful, as well as entertaining.
   " This course will be succeeded by a view of Ontology, in

which we shall touch with brevity on the most useful of the

scholastic distinctions, in order that we may have the more

opportunity for a series of lectures on the Philosophy of the
74                   INAUGURAL ADDRESS              [lWl.

Human Mind. My aim, in this course, is to inquire into the
capacities of the intellectual faculty, the origin of ideas, the

formation and importance of mental associations, the imma
terial and immortal nature of the mind, its high and mo
mentous destination through an everlasting existence, and a
continued application of the whole to the discovery and, em
ployment of the best methods for the improvement of this
noble principle. The art of Composition and Ehetoric is, also,
an important part of the work assigned to me. Though the
gospel of Christ rejects, with noble superiority, the poor trap
pings of oratorial affectation and the ' enticing words of man's

             yet we have examples of the first authority, thp in
spired writers ofthe holy Scriptures, to show us the just and.
beautiful connection between the most glorious of all subjects,

and the genuine, the simple, the noble sublime of nature,
genius and truth. Besides, it is a plain dictate of common

sense that a Christian preacher has indispensable necessity for
a ready, correct, and judicious command of language, that he
may not darken the divine counsels by ignorant, unmeaning, '

and degrading expressions.

  I" On this pleasing and useful subject, gentlemen, propose
to lay before you a course of lectures, of which this is the out

line :--Nature and principles of taste and genius--General
nature and powers of language, with an historical account of
the formation of the English language, and some remarks on
its structure and peculiar character-- The kinds of style, the
properties requisite to constitute a good style, and remarks on
                                    speakers --An account of
several common faults in writers

the nature of figurative diction, with a view of the most useful

rhetorical figures,  and cautionary observations    on the employ
                     survey of the principal kinds  of composition,
ment of them-- A
prosaic and poetic, with observations on the character and re
quisite conditions of each.
ceospp"eiAocuiasmllyaseteilnerciatitlornepaatrinot gf oefoxntahmisfpigleucsor, autrisvueendwesrpilel eeccvhoe,nrysifsrtodmivinisitohane,prhebottulyyt
IbfSiancbreilspyttuEarpnepgse,laistrhhetoaGnbdreeetFhkreeanmncdhostBwovrmiatleaurnasb. lcelaTpshaserisct eso, feaxthnaemd pwslehosmoleewciloolfuprtsrheoe,
and, flatter myself, they will  be  found  highly   conducive to
our pleasure and improvement.
JET. J27.           AT HOMERTON COLLEGE.                                75

I" When this course is finished, design to read a few lectures
on the Study and Use of History, arranged in the following
method :-- Origin of historic memorials,
documents --Brief introduction to the     and diversity of such
                                          study of antiquities,
particularly of historical monuments-- General divisions of
history--A list of the chief historical writers in each division,
with remarks on their respective characters and merits --Eules

and observations on the most profitable method of reading and
studying history --Enumeration of some of the great and use

ful purposes, especially for a Christian divine, to which historical
knowledge ought to be applied.

"Mathematical studies will also demand a portion of our

regard; and it will be our duty and interest to give to these

pursuits as much attention as will comport with other engage

ments. This remark is founded upon important reasons.

Without an acquaintance with Geometry, Trigonometry, and

some properties of Conic Sections, many principles of Natural

Philosophy will be obscure or unintelligible. The indirect ad

vantage of mathematical learning gives    also, particular
it

                     a
                                 a
                                          a

                                    A

                                                           a
                                                                   it,

                                                              if a
claim to our consideration.  mind habituated to that con
nection, closeness and rigid demonstration which are the

eminent properties of mathematical reasoning, under the
conduct of sound judgment and spirit of Christian humility,

will have acquired distinguished superiority in the faculty of

clear, precise and conclusive reasoning, on all subjects. But

   would ill become student for the Christian ministry to

spend his time and talents in mathematical pursuits, to the

neglect or exclusion of theological studies, and other important

branches of human science. A well adjusted proportion of all

our subordinate studies, and due reference of them to the
                    is
best ultimate end,  matter of unspeakable importance. In
                        aa
this point, errors are often committed, and from such errors
                         I
we have too much reason to apprehend result the most banea
ful to the interests of true religion. The method which proit
                                          a
                                                   ;

                                                       is I

                                                                      it it
pose, for our attention to this department of learning, to de

vote small portion of time to each day so that the very
moderate length of time occupied by the study will prevent
a
from becoming burdensome, and the constant recurrence ofa

will ensure our progress.    shall, therefore, expect from each

academical student, every day, immediately after the morning
lecture, solution of question in Algebra and demonstra-
                                          a
76  INAUGURAL ADDRESS                                       [l801.

tion of a proposition in Geometry, alternately. With respect
to the higher branches of pure mathematics, the more abstruse
properties of spherical and conical figures, and the method of

Fluxions, it will not be expected that they can be professedly
Iincluded in a course of education comprising such an extent

and variety of objects, nor indeed am possessed of sufficient
mathematical knowledge to embolden me to the assumption of

such an undertaking. Occasionally, however, we may have a
student whose genius peculiarly excites him to the desire of

excellence in mathematical studies. In such a case, whatever
assistance or encouragement it may ever be in my power to

render, shall gladly be at his command, so far as may be com

patible with other duties.

  " In addition to these plans of instruction and improvement,

all of which relate to subjects expressly assigned in the pro

Iposals made to me by the Societies, wish to add another
Ischeme, which, persuade myself, will be found of substantial

benefit. This is a course of lectures on the Greek Testament;

the design of which is to lay down, and practically to exemplify,

the principles of sacred philology and biblical criticism.
" These are the outlines of the plans, which it is my inten
Ition to pursue, with regard to scientific subjects, so far as
Imay be favoured with ability and successful effort.
                                                      have in

timated that the course of lectures on Natural Philosophy,

Chemistry, and Natural History, will take up two years, two

Ilectures being delivered each week of academical residence. In
each of the other departments,  propose to give one lecture

every week ; by which method, if my calculations do not fail
me, they will extend to the same length of time. Thus, the
whole plan will take two years in execution, and thus each
student will go twice over every part of that plan. The several
series of lectures which have been now enumerated, recollecting
that one of them will come in course twice in a week, amount
Ito one each day ; and to
                         this course intend to assign the ap
pointed time of morning   lectures. Among these circumstantials,
it may be proper'here to mention one particular of our plan, on
which it wHl become us
will be expected to take  to lay great stress. All the students

m every lecture; and,    notes of the leading features, at least,
                         before the delivery of each successive
Iecture, shall request one of my young friends to recapitulate
the heads of the preceding one, in each course respectively.
JET. 27.]   AT HOMERTON COLLEGE.                77

This will at once usefully exercise the faculty of memory, and
will go far towards ensuring close attention and solid im
provement.

I" It is now high time to proceed to the other class of the
literary departments with which  have the honour to be

entrusted, the study of the languages. To this class we shall,
of course, devote the afternoon lecture. In consequence of the

excellent regulation before mentioned, the establishment of a

preparatory seminary, it may very fairly be presumed, that

every student will enter the Academy respectably furnished
with what is usually termed grammar learning. Our proper
Itobject, therefore, stands clearly before us.
                                                is to preserve

and increase the attainments in classical learning already ac

quired, and to add to them the study of the Hebrew language.
   " For the purpose of improvement in the Latin and Greek

languages, my first care has been to fix on a selection of suit

able authors. Two requisites appeared essential in making

this selection. The first is, that the books to be read be such

as, by the purity and elegance of their composition, will exhibit

an advantageous display of the characteristic idioms and beau

ties of the language, and so be materially beneficial in forming
a just and classical taste. The other essential condition is,

that the subjects of the respective authors be not trivial,

useless, corrupt or licentious, however adorned they may be

with the beauties of diction, but valuable as the vehicles of

important information and excellent sentiments. Keeping

I Ithese objects in view, trust that the works which shall

now mention, will meet with the fullest approbation :-- The

IOdyssey of Homer. --It may appear strange that mention
Ithe Odyssey in preference to the Iliad, and shall, therefore,
Iassign the motives of that preference. To the Iliad freely
concede the merit of possessing more splendid figures, and a

sublimer style of general beauty: but what is its argument ?

From the beginning to the end, the direful effects of wrath

and revenge, and the disgusting scenes of war and carnage.

The Odyssey, on the contrary, presents us with a richly diver

sified succession of admirable pictures, exhibiting in animated

description, not the field of warlike destruction merely, though

enough of that, but the far more interesting scenes of domes
tic manners, civil and social life, political institutions, mytho

logical doctrines, religious rites, and moral sentiments. The
78                   INAUGURAL ADDRESS         [1801.

Odyssey, in short, is a noble and inestimable treasure of
Grecian antiquities.-- Xenophon's Memorable Discourses of
Socrates; to be succeeded by the writings of Epictetus,
Cebes, and Theophrastus. From these authors we shall
receive an entertaining and instructive account of the divi
nity and the morals which the illustrious sages of classical
antiquity could teach; a subject by no means uninteresting, to
us, but calculated to be truly useful hi teaching us, while we

admire the propriety and energy of those sentiments which
natural religion could inspire, to deplore its essential defects,
to ascertain its real extent, to appreciate its rightful claims,
and gratefully to adore that infinite and sovereign mercy,

which has given us a Bevelation so divinely efficacious to clear

up the doubts of nature, to turn its conjectures into evidence,
its reasonings into certainty, its probabilities into demonstra
tion, and its darkness into the light of heavenly life and im
mortality. --

   " Cicero on the Qualifications of an Orator, Qnintilian's

Institutes of Eloquence, and Longinus on the Sublime. It is

enough to mention these noble writings, the deserved admira

Ition of ages. Their important utility is so obvious, that

should be idly indeed employed in urging it. --Virgil's .ZEneid,

to be followed by his Pastorals and Georgics, and then suc
ceeded by select parts of Horace and Juvenal. Here, also,

will advantage and pleasure be eminently combined. But if

the iEneid has been read at the preparatory seminary, under

the direction of its excellent and learned tutor, which we may
presume to be very probable, it may now be omitted.-- Grotius

on the Truth of the Christian Eeligion, to be followed by select
parts of Calvin's Institutes. Though these celebrated authors

are not to be ranked among the classics, properly so called, yet
the importance and excellency of their matter, and the well-

known purity and beauty of their style, sufficiently entitle
Ithem to a place in  this selection.
   " These elegant    and useful works,  form  the collection of

books, which propose to be read in our afternoon lecture,
Iaccording to an arrangement which it would be unnecessarily
minute here to describe.  may, however, observe, that there

appears no necessity for restraining ourselves to the term of
two years in this part of our employ. To read the' authors
now enumerated, with t,aste and profit, will sufficiently occupy
JET. 27.]  AT HOMERTON COLLEGE.           79

the whole space of four years ; or if not, suitable additions are
at hand. To the use of the Greek and Bornan classics, for

the purpose of improvement in their respective languages, we

must add the study of the Hebrew tongue. My intention is

that this study, so truly valuable and necessary to a divine,

should hold the same rank in the afternoon lecture as Mathe
matics do in the morning. By thus paying a moderate and
regular attention to this object, we shall ensure a daily pro

Igress, without rendering the study irksome or fatiguing. One

particular more would just mention. The writing of exer
Icises is of such importance as a method of improvement in

the study of any language, that should deem our plan very
Imaterially defective, if a provision were not made for this
purpose.   propose, therefore, to devote an hour, early in the

morning of every day, to the production and examination of
Latin and Greek exercises, and of English themes as trials in

Ithe practice of composition.
   " Thus, my dear friends, have laid before you a delineation

Iof those methods of academical instruction which are the result

of much reflection in my own mmd, for which have been
Imaking preparations according to my ability and opportunity,

and which, therefore, mean closely and diligently to pursue.

--Circumstances, undoubtedly, may arise to render certain

occasional modifications expedient; but, making due allow

ance for such cases, we shall still strictly adhere to our general

plan. You will readily grant that this whole course is of great

and serious extent, and that it will require the closest appli

cation of mind, and the most careful improvement of time, on

Imy part. During the first two years, at least, all the powers

and opportunities which can command must be kept on the
stretch of unremitted exertion. You will permit me also, to
observe that the execution of these plans, with spirit and

success, essentially depends on you as well as myself. Forgive
the, repetition of considerations which have been urged before.

The serious magnitude of the occasion will excuse me from
being confined by the rules of rigid arrangement. Yes, my
dear friends and brethren, without the support of your con
scientious diligence, your regular and orderly deportment, your

candid and affectionate friendship, my utmost exertions will be

Iunavailing. Without this steady support and encouragement
from you, my prospect is unhappy indeed.  must sink and
80                    INAUGURAL ADDRESS                     [l801.

faint under a load of distress and disappointment, too heavy
                          am persuaded better things of you.
Ifor me to bear.-- But
I IHad no claim but upon your humanity, could rest my hope
                      It will be the delight and glory of  my life to
even there  alone.                                         to fall the
spend and   be spent  for you ;--and will you suffer me
victim of that misery, which must be the result of my best
Iintentions neglected, my warmest hopes frustrated ? No, gen

tlemen, will not for a moment indulge a suspicion so inju
rious to you, and so painful to myself.
Itre"spHasasvinmgucehngfaugretdheyrouupr oanttietn. tioInt  will not
                             so long already,
                             was my first design            to have

entered more into the consideration of our reciprocal duties,

and the obligations we lie under to the cultivation of every
Ithing becoming and amiable in our tempers and conduct. But
   must refrain from enlargement, and shall, therefore, only
request your serious attention to three objects of the most

direct and interesting importance. These are Domestic Fe

licity, Christian Love, and Fervency in the Spirit and

Practice of Universal Holiness. If these objects are dili

gently regarded, peace, mercy, and increasing success will be
Ifour portion.
                they are neglected, which the God of love

prevent, what can we expect but wretchedness and ruin ?

  " That our Domestic Felicity may be established on a

permanent foundation, various essential requisites must be

carefully attended to by each individual of us. The laws of

our little community must be inviolably respected ; the love of

order and social peace must be uniformly maintained; and

Ihabits of kindness, candour, and regularity must be carefully

cultivated. With regard to this great object, am sensible
how much will depend on the internal regulations and manage
Iment of the family. This important particular lies upon me ;

and trust it is my determined resolution, so far as my power
can reach, that everything shall be conducted in a manner

strictly upright, kind, and liberal. It is, indeed, evidently

impossible for me personally to undertake the direction of
the minute affairs of family provision, and the like concerns.
The extensive range of my duties as a tutor necessarily puts
Ithat out of my power. But
                              am happy   in reflecting that those
truly important articles ofmanagement      are in better hands,
Iand have the fullest confidence that no exertion will be
spared in the fulfilment of that great charge. Yet, after all, we
JET. 27.]            AT HOMERTON COLLEGE.                 81

are encompassed about with the infirmities of our nature, and
we must expect a portion of its trials and embarrassments.

Permit me, then, gentlemen, to make one request, with respect

Ito the whole of our future connection-- a request which
earnestly desire to have continually kept in mind. Should a

Istudent at any time conceive himself aggrieved, from any

possible cause of a domestic nature, most particularly beg

that he would not distress himself or his fellow students by

Ibrooding over it in secret, but that he would confidentially dis
close the whole matter to me.        here solemnly promise to

receive every such complaint with thankfulness, to attend to it

with patience and affection, and to use my utmost exertion to

obtain redress. Your cause, my dear pupils, is mine. Our

interest is one ; let our hearts be one also.

   " But the blessing of domestic happiness will not be enjoyed,

unless it be erected on the basis of Christian Love. God is
love. The distinguishing genius and spirit of the Gospel is
love. The amiable character of #the Lord Jesus, ' Divine, in
carnate love,' is an eternal pattern of this heavenly disposition.

All the precepts of our most holy religion unite in one common
centre, and that is love -- generous, disinterested, active, patient,
Ifunwearied love.
                     we are the disciples of Christ, we must, we
Ifever must, cordially and fervently love one another.
                                                          we can
evade this conclusion --that is, if we are not the followers and
friends, but the disguised enemies of the blessed Saviour --

then what do we here ? Why do we bear his holy name ?

Why do we insult his eternal Majesty ? My brethren, if we

are not dead to every solemn, every sacred, every affecting
                                     'Let love be without
obligation, 'let us love one          love continue.'
dissimulation.'   '                  of God.'          ' Love is of
God, and he that     Let brotherly

                     loveth is born

"Lastly, suffer the word of exhortation from one who

sincerely wishes your best interest. We take for granted, and
we have surely a just right so to do, that you are living

Christians, the real subjects of regenerating and sanctifying
grace. But it is of infinite importance, not only that you be

sincere believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, but that you enjoy

the full influence and comfort of your faith, that the evidences

of your sincerity be clear and bright. No evidence will be
found safe and happy, but the impression of God's image on

your souls. Your situation is truly momentous. The eyes of

                                                       G
82                INAUGURAL ADDRESS                          [l801.

all are upon you. The prayers of God's people are daily
rising to His throne on your behalf. The hopes and reasonable
expectations of the churches are fixed upon 'you.
                                                             that you
may fully answer, and far exceed them! --For this supremely
desirable purpose, cultivate by every spiritual method, the
spirit of UNIVERSAL,                                          ' My son, be
thou in the fear of the  VITAL,   ACTIVE   HOLlIoNnEgS.S' .
                          Lord            day                Can there be a
                                 all the

Imore miserable character than a careless, trifling, vain, unholy
student for the ministry?        know from painful experience,

that an academic life has its peculiar temptations, which, unless
a vigilant guard be maintained, will induce barrenness, dark
ness, and awful distress of soul. Let us, my dear brethren,

watch with holy and lively zeal against these besetting enemies.
Close and humble walking with God, maintained by a life of
faith upon the Son of His love, will be our only protection from
these evils. As
just to mention   means conducive to this great end, suffer   me
                  two duties of distinguished importance.
us in the first place, conscientiously                       Let

vigorous ardour   in secret prayer.       maintain spirituality and
abound therein.'   The frame of our       'Watch unto prayer, and

                                           minds and our habitual
practice with regard to this duty, will diffuse their potent in
fluence through our whole characters. To live near to God is
the only way to live happily and usefully. Without holy com
Imunion with

languish and
        God in our retirements, the spiritual life must
        decline ; and dreadful may be the consequence.
The other duty which would earnestly recommend, is that of
consecrating a fixed and regular portion of time to the devout
reading ofthe holy Scriptures, and of the most awakening and
lively   writers on practical religion.      The
truth   will supply our souls with the            altar of heavenly
                                          sacred  fire of purity and
hliosoncfovfeenetnnho.eseuivrlo.eWigf ehap'tnAesdaahscaoeclHdloielatodhnu,uidsssdtijondeoawyGdt.eholeldh,lTeiingahtthehhttmaeh.nne,'aptThrlheuasseatkeyensphwcroeeaDnsroemrnou. crfeCBGHahotoiremidfsstG,,iaaonHn'didse:i'swwlaeatnhslikdlesl
               :that°faUthe0di0US aud offe»siTM
                                                              objects, with
WtTLwhich the holy Majesty of heaven ,is insulted,             a lukewarm,
                                                             most awfully
careless, unfruitful minister or student is the
tZT, h^, ^^Touch not the

God for help
        aunndcldeealnivearanndEcPepP. or0llauActihbnsgtta0inthainfrgsot.mateCarlsly°ampwpigreeahtrtcaihlnyecedto,!
JET. 27.]     AT HOMERTON COLLEGE.                                                   83

Iand from every occasion of evil. ' And the very God of peace

sanctify you wholly : and pray God that your whole spirit

and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of
our Lord Jesus Christ !-- Faithful
also will do it.' "                 is                      He  that  calleth  you,  who

   Looking at the outline of this proposed course of tuition, a
smile will be excited at its length and variety ; the whole being
in the hands of one man about twenty-seven years of age, and

new to the office ; and more surprising still, the whole to be

included in the short space of four years. The sprightly

criticism of his first pastor, Mr. Brewer, in a Letter from
              in April this
Birmingham                   year, must have                      startled     as well as
amused the    Student-Tutor                                       propose      to do too
                             :--" Do you not

much ? And will not some captious persons be ready to con
clude that your Address contains a typographical error, and
that instead of four years it should have been fourteen ?" And
that Mr. Pye Smith himself came to see that he had greatly

overtasked his time and strength, is clear from the following

passage of a Letter which he wrote to one of the Treasurers of

the Society in 1808 :--"From the beginning of my connection

Iwith the Academy to the resignation of Mr. Knight in 1805,
Ihad a disproportionate and excessive share of duties ; much

more than could discharge with inward satisfaction ; and, at

least, six times greater than those of the other Tutor. On the

appointment of Mr. Hill to the Classical Tutorship, a more

equal arrangement took place, which by a fair division of time

and  labour,  ofafcbiloittahtedsepthaertmduetnietss,." and  more  successfully  ensures
the  objects

But the outline of his purposes must be viewed in other

aspects. His attainments are known to have been from the

first very considerable : nor was this his only advantage ; for
he had acquired such remarkable proficiency and readiness in

the use of all the means of adding to his knowledge, that

it would be scarcely possible for any set of students ever to
get fairly abreast with him. His progress would continue
equal to, if not be greater than theirs, so that the distance

between him and them at starting would remain as it was,

or increase in his favour. It must also be remembered --that

he was free from the task, and for such a mind the retarding

exigency of teaching the mere rudiments of Latin and Greek :

                                                                 g2
84  HIS FAITH AND TEMPER AS A CHRISTIAN  [l801.

   bis Classical work with his students was an exhilarating
exercise for himself. Hebrew, in its elements as well as its
more advanced stages, was included in his department.

    At the commencement of his office, Protestant Noncon
 formists of evangelical sentiments had scarcely begun to feel
 the impulse which, towards the close of the last and the early
 part of the present century, was setting in very strongly in
 favour of scientific pursuits. The clerical profession was sup
 posed to demand a large amount of book learning:--and
 though some reverend persons had made for themselves an
 illustrious name, in consequence of the skill with which they

 had studied and the piety with which they had applied the

facts of science, especially those of Natural History;--yet

they were rather looked at as the exceptions to a rule than as
patterns for imitation. Nor were there wanting good men
among the Dissenters who were quite aware of the circum

stance --perhaps they knew it in an exaggerated form --that in

some cases, more especially on the Continent, natural philo

sophy had been turned in the most offensive manner to the
futile purpose of overthrowing Christianity ; nay, to discredit

if possible, the elementary truths of Natural Beligion. This

attempt had been .made so often or with such clamour and

boasting, that some persons were ready to fear lest faith in the
Divine Word should be injured by an increasing acquaintance
with the Divine Works. Now perhaps, young as he then was
and in a sense new to the world, there was no man who had a

clearer, deeper conviction than Mr. Pye Smith that these fears

were really without foundation. His Theism and his Chris
tianity -- the Book of Nature and the Bible --rested on a
common basis --deserved the same credit -- and culminated
in the glory of the One Great and Adorable Jehovah. He

could not tremble therefore, nor even doubt amidst the re
cords of the creation. Some of the rooms might be dark, but

none was haunted : and if even a human hand, was reverently

used to take down a shutter, much light would enter and
there would be less for the timid to fear ever after.

   His Christian character proved an admirable recommenda
tion of the plan which he had ventured to lay down. A per
fectly explicit avowal of the doctrines usually called Calvin-

istic, served to accredit him to many good men who had
MT. 27.]  IN FAVOUR OF HIS EARLY PLANS.  85

 imbibed some prejudices against the new class of subjects
 which he proposed to introduce into the Lecture room : and
 the depth, as well as the definite shape of his religious belief,
 not only inspired his own mind with confidence respecting both
 the safety and utility of scientific knowledge, but it imparted

 such a devout tone to his teaching on all branches of human
 learning as could not fail to give confidence to others also.
 Thus, while he carried his creed with him in a singularly life
 like manner into this less common and more suspected depart

 ment of academic training, he is entitled to the credit of

 ifhaving been among the earliest, he was not the earliest, who

 strove to graft upon such a creed the just and large claims of
 true science. The combination of these qualities in one man,
 and that man occupying a public station, was of the utmost
 importance at the beginning of the present century for consum
 mating that union between the two great sources of knowledge,
 the Word and the Works of God, which has been maintained

with growing harmony and benefit ever since. It may also be

 added --that the calmness with which he unfolded such an out

line --to a large extent, though not entirely, on his own ven
ture--and the calmness, considering the time and the persons,

 with which he, so young a man, was allowed to do this, affords
 an example of admirable discretion. Not the slightest con

troversial tone was suffered to disturb even the mere surface of

 the Address : no attempt was made to show the folly or the
impotency of trying to aid the cause of religion by muffling --

if that were practicable--the voice of science. In short, such

 a spirit prevailed in the Advocate, that his great object went
 home to the hearts of others as though they too must hence
forth give it a welcome, which would leave his course un
 fettered, because perhaps unfeared, for the time to come.

    Successive generations of students will remember the tena

city with which their Tutor clung to lectures on different
branches of Natural Science ; the use of which, in the skeleton

form unavoidable from their number and variety, could not

always be perceived. That tenacity however, embodied and
enforced a true and great principle : which was this, that men

set apart for the study and ministry of the Word of God
should not be allowed to remain wholly ignorant of His
Works ; and that principle was watched over and nurtured

in one mind at least, but that a growingly influential one,
86        EARLY PLANS ULTIMATELY TRIUMPHANT.  [l801.

through a period of forty or fifty years, until at length the age
was ripe and men were ready to do it the justice to which
it is entitled. This young Tutor was as one before whom there
lay a great Book, produced by a Divine Hand ; but written in
such characters as were either misunderstood and perverted,
or were not understood at all. To decipher these appeared
most desirable-- both to refute false renderings and uses, and
also to bring out the true. The first thing to be attempted
was to examine each separate page ; and so far as could be
done at the time, to classify the several subjects. No one
page might admit of being read thoroughly at once : nay,

there might be a difficulty in reading any one thoroughly, until
the others had been made to give up at least a part of their

contents. But there was a still more serious obstacle ; a suffi
cient amount of leisure and other indispensable requisites,
might not be at the command of any duly qualified person, so

as to allow of his completing the task, eager as he might
feel to begin it : indeed, more than one life might well be em

ployed on the work, and yet much, very much remain undis

covered.

   What then was to be done ? Just this :-- To find some one

who would be willing to take his stand unflinchingly by the
side of this Book--to hold it constantly open, or as much of it
as he could --to turn over page after page, indicating their
contents in outline, and pleading for attention being given to

them so far as known, or as opportunity allowed them to be

examined. And if this were done from year to year, success

could not fail to attend the effort ; not simply in regard to
what might be explained as time went on, but in the effect
which would be produced in securing sooner or later the best
arrangements for a fuller study of the whole.--The position
which John Pye Smith took up in his Inaugural Address
at Homerton in 1801, and from which he never after with

drew, was connected  in a remarkable manner with the opening
                      1850. The apex of the pyramid could
of New College in

not have been so much as conjectured by this comparatively
isolated  workman at the             but he went on-- as at an earlier
period--  with the present  base  :  and God gave him to see his
                            duty
                                  ;

reward. In an age when things were either rigidly frozen or
wildly fluctuating, his originality of thought assumed a
practical form, marked by such sagacity that he could abide by
MT. 27.]  EARLY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.                              87

his methods for half a century, until their triumph was achieved
and he rested from his labours.

   Having thus opened his first session as Tutor, the business
of the several classes began ; and, as before intimated, his
residence in the Academy-house brought upon him domestic
cares and duties in relation to the whole family. However

suitable an arrangement of this kind might have been to the

early circumstances in which the Nonconformists had to pro

vide education for their expected pastors, with the increase of
the body and with ampler methods of academic training, it

became more and more perplexing to all the parties concerned,
whether constituents, tutors, or students. Mr. Pye Smith's

life up to 1801, had passed in a way which ill fitted him for

that part of his task just alluded to ; his attention and indeed

turn of mind having been completely devoted to books, a more
entire stranger to the practice of one class of his duties could

scarcely be found. He might perhaps, study to make himself
tolerably familiar with the theory of such things ; but theo

retical rules in the face of actual difficulties would be apt to

provoke a smile, or might even increase the perplexity they

were called in to overcome. Being unmarried, one of his
sisters kindly came to superintend the daily routine of the
family : but it can easily be imagined that from his desire for

the comfort of the students, as well as for the tranquillity of his

own feelings, and from the fact that the pecuniary responsibility
rested with himself, he would have far more care upon his

mind than was compatible with that entire devotedness to

literary pursuits in which he would have delighted. To add to
the burden, for the first year of this great experiment the

average price of wheat per quarter was 115s. lid., while other

articles of consumption were high in proportion. On the

other hand, the sum allotted for the board of the students still

remained according to that comparatively low scale which
existed in many such cases prior to the commencement of the
present century. Nor was the extraordinary dearness of the

times adequately met by those occasional grants which the
Homerton Committee made in aid of the domestic expenditure.

   Under such    uanctoowmabridn,a"tiiotncooufldcirsccuamrcsetalyncebse,   which might be
justly called "                                                           a matter of sur

prise that difficulties made their appearance. At first indeed,
88  LETTERS TO AND FROM DR. WILLIAMS.                        [1801.

 these were not permitted to touch the students, but fell with
their whole weight on the Eesident Tutor, in the shape of
expenses for the support of the academic family considerably
beyond the stipulated means provided-for the purpose. Having
moreover no private resources to depend upon, he would feel

embarrassed and anxious concerning the future ; for with the

utmost generosity of disposition, he united a keen sense of
honour and punctuality in regard to all pecuniary obligations.
Nor must these details be deemed of little value in such a

narrative as this ; for if the links which connect one event with
another in a man's life are worthy of being traced, then it is in

the highest degree probable, so far as all existing evidence is
concerned, that we have just been going over more than the
mere antecedents to that great event in Dr. Smith's history--
his first marriage.

The following extracts from his correspondence' will show
his pleasurable and grateful feelings, during the first three or
four months of his residence at Homerton; and before he
could have been fully aware of the perplexities which were
                   :--In a Letter to

                   the Students :-- "
Igathering around him                    an uncle, dated   January
                                        Their diligence   and good
31, he thus speaks of
behaviour are exemplary.    have never expressed a wish with

Iwhich they have not most cheerfully complied. This is the

more to be observed, since may truly say that the house, with
regard to its internal management,
change of measures."                    has undergone an entire

  ITo Dr. Williams he says :-- " With respect to myself need

not trouble you with minute particulars. Opportunities pro
bably have occurred of your receiving information more fully
Ifrom my excellent mother.              In gratitude to the amazing
                               .  ..
mercy of our God, must                  my hopes have been every
                            say   that

...way exceeded, in thediligence,  seriousness, and  affectionate,
                       behaviour   of the Students.
respectful propriety of                              They are in
number twelve.             In literary
comfortably. .  .      All my wishes     respects we go on   very
                                        have been cordially  met,
and zealously

IStudents. A
    supported by the compliance and exertion              of the
    letter from you will be to me a treasure.
Itruly say, my heart is with you.                              can

well as in imagination, revisit those   that could in person as
delibly dear to me. Peace be within      scenes so truly and in

                                        your walls and prosperity
MT. 27.] LETTER TO THE STUDENTS AT ROTHERHAM.                       89

within your palaces !   foMryyofue.e"ble  but sincere  prayers  do  not
cease to be offered up

A passage from Dr. Williams in reply, will show how warm

was the interest he continued to cherish for his former pupil.

IThe letter is dated Eotherham, March 24.
   " Through a variety of channels have learnt, with no small
pleasure, that you go on comfortably. For your kind remem

brance, and especially for your own communications both

Iwritten and printed, accept my cordial thanks. Though
Ihave not written sooner, you are daily in my thoughts, affec

tions, and prayers; and be assured that feel particularly
interested in your comfort, credit and success. You are now

at the head of a family; yea, though young, a father to the

sons of the prophets. May you possess a double portion of the

spirit of wisdom, and that prudence which is profitable to
direct. You are now a Tutor of more than two months'
standing : long may you continue a burning and shining light ;

growing   deeper day by day in     humility and gratitude, in pro
portion  as human approbation     smiles upon your exertions."

   After the next Letter to be presented to the Eeader, Mr. Pye

Smith's correspondence appears to have met with a sudden

and long interruption --either few communications passed be
tween him and his friends, or if there were any, they have not
come to hand--so that for years subsequent to this date, the
narrative --deeply to the regret of the editor--will have to be

carried on apart from such valuable aid.

                                             "Homerton, June 2, 1801.
" To the Students now under the care of Dr. Williams and

the   Bev.. M.  Phillips, in the  Academy at Masbrough.         be mul
      My very   dear Brethren,
   "                              --Grace, mercy, and peace

tiplied to you from the Ever Blessed Jehovah, the Father, the

Son, and the Holy Spirit, the Eternal Fountain of glory and

Iholiness, of sacred love and everlasting life! Long have
wished to seize an opportunity of uttering my feelings of re

spect and affection towards you. In the society of most of you

I have spent many days of peace and comfort. Those days
Ican never return. A year ago had the pleasure of making
one of your number. Now we are separated by a distance of

place, and on my part by circumstances of engagement, which
90  LETTER TO THE STUDENTS AT ROTHERHAM.  [1801.

Irender it next to impossible that should ever see your Academic

body in full assembly again.  that every memorial of the

mutability and uncertainty of mortal affairs, may more disen
gage us from earth-born cares, and more quicken our desires

for that holy and blessed state where we shall sin, and sorrow,

and die no more.

  " It is needless for me to inform you that my situation, with

regard to prospects of comfort and usefulness, is eminently
pleasing and promising, since you have no doubt had this in
formation from various quarters. Next Wednesday your house

and ours will be in circumstances of mutual sympathy. Our
public examination on that day excites a considerable degree

of interest and expectation, both within doors and without, as
the method will be considerably different from what has been

heretofore. . .

  I"My dear Companions and    Brethren, though separated,. we
                              views, our desires, our feelings
are yet-- trust-- one. Our

are unfeignedly the same. The pleasure and great advantage

I Ireceived during my residence at Masbro' will never, hope,

cease to be remembered with flowing gratitude to the Author
of every good gift, and to our dear and excellent Tutors. May

each of you have all my mercies enjoyed there, in a tenfold

Iproportion ! Walk with God and he will bless you. The only

cause feel of sorrow for the present and regret for the past
is, the want of vital, fervent, pure, vigorous religion. Accept

individually my affectionate respects, and present the same to

Iour beloved Tutors. Farewell ! The Lord be your God.
                  " am your sincerely affectionate brother,
                                                         " John Pye Smith."
                      CHAPTEE VII.

             INTRODUCTORY-- HIS FIRST MARRIAGE--HIS CHILDREN.

   The kind indulgence and candour of the Eeader will not, it
is hoped, be asked in vain at this portion of the narrative.

Among those who approach the subject of the chapter with any

knowledge of the facts --whether from their Own observation at
the time, or from the report of others --much difference of
opinion will exist respecting the propriety of referring to it at
any length, and also on the way in which this is done. The

compiler, however, may be permitted to say, that ever since he
has had occasion to contemplate the work in which he is now
engaged, he has felt more and more the difficulty of being silent
at this part of it.

   He is aware that upwards of twenty years ago death ended a
connection which had been formed thirty years previously : but
as his duties in this instance are not confined within the last
twenty years, he feels conscientiously unable to ignore the pro
minent, shaping influences of the preceding thirty. He could,
indeed, have kept his hand from the work altogether; but to
put out of the written life --for leaving out in such a case is
putting out--that which the Divine Hand so obviously, for so
long a time, and with such a range of consequences, permitted
to be put into the real life, seems to involve a weight of
responsibility which he must not venture to incur. Moreover,
as the tribulation to the Sufferer was not lessened, but on the
contrary, was heavily increased by coming from such a source --
as compared with loss of health, with straitened circumstances,

or with almost any other kind of personal or relative affliction--

the true worth of his character and the greatness of his labours
92  INTRODUCTORY.                 [1801.

for the public good can never be fairly known, unless the dis
cipline through which the one had to pass, and the difficulties
which lay so surprisingly in the way of the other, are known

also.

  It is due to Dr. Smith's family explicitly to state, that in this

part of his undertaking-- as indeed in regard to all the materials
placed at his disposal--the writer has been left to pursue his

own course. And knowing, as he had an opportunity of doing,

many of the facts during his six  residence at Homerton

from 1818 to 1824, he can at the same time enter with all but a

brother's feelings into the reverence which the Children feel fins

their Father's memory; nor less, into their tenderness and
delicacy regarding the Source of his domestic griefs. In the

attempt to prepare this chapter in the history of a real life, he

is not sensible of any motive that is inconsistent with the

purest benevolence ; nor does he know of any reason why the
impartial Eeader, even though he may be a most sensitive one,
should not go over the ground so as to obtain a fuller know

ledge of the character of the subject of the narrative, and
perhaps in some cases, the personal advantage of a more pene
trating recognition in principle, or of a higher order of holy
and honourable conduct, in regard to the relative duties, re

sponsibilities, and privileges, which are so singularly, and yet

in the most inextricable manner, involved in our social position.
Not only has the compiler been most anxious to keep down the
style of expression when adverting to the difficulties and de

fects on the one side ; but if those difficulties and defects had

not been met on the other by a very unusual combination

of Christian excellences, this part of the story would have

been dismissed with the brevity common in such cases. If

therefore the Eeader seems to be detained awhile, as though
the real life were not making progress at this particular stage,

he will it is hoped find that in more respects than one, the very
peculiar state of things which had an actual existence for thirty
years is entitled to some expansion in the memoir. --May that

expansion not be deemed too long, nor the details too minute,
nor the spirit of it unbecoming, on the side either of censure
or commendation ; and may the whole be crowned with the
blessing of that Adorable Jehovah, in the history of whose
Providential Government the following pages may not be with
out their use !
JET. 27.]      HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                               93

   The Lady whom Mr. Pye Smith married was born in London.
She had grown up accustomed to see a great deal of company,
and had joined freely in the gaieties of the respectable circle to
which she belonged ; but in the year 1800 she appears to have
relinquished that kind of life, and became a member of a Dis
senting Church in the City. The Homerton Tutor met this

Lady for the first time in January, 1 801 ; early in May he made

an avowal of his love, and in less than four months afterwards
--that is, August 20th --they were married, she having just
completed the thirty-first year of her age, and he being nearly
four years younger. Her personal attractions are said to

have been considerable, and her manners fascinating ; she had
also great quickness in observing character, and a readiness

and force in conversation which added much to her other

charms. As her father had died some time before, the pro

perty which he left at his death had come into the possession

of his heirs, among whom this daughter was one. It is by no

means improbable that this circumstance, and her seniority in

years, combined with the want of fortune, so-called, on the

husband's side, and his extreme readiness to yield to her

influence, gave a confident style to her deportment even from

the very first. His affection was of the most tender and
fervent kind ; and scarcely if at all less glowing was his con
viction -- as                             at the time --that in
event " was    recorded with his own pen  the operation of an    this
                most signally manifested                         all-
wise and infinitely gracious Providence "-- a belief, probably,

which remained undisturbed by any of those subsequent trials

which it met with ; nay, which might even be confirmed by the
fact, that the Divine providential government had included

very much more of most painful discipline to himself from

this union than he could ever have anticipated.

    Early in the month of September the business of the Academy
began, when the newly-married couple had to take up their
residence, the one to pursue his duties as a Tutor, and the
other to direct and superintend the domestic arrangements.
The haste with which such important changes had been
despatched will be obvious at a glance. Enough time had not
been allowed to ascertain the suitableness of each of the prin

cipal parties to the other, nor to prepare for a new and mani

fold set of duties, on which one of the two would have to enter
94                   HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.      [1801.

without delay. This may be accounted for, partly on the
ground of those attractions which the Lady possessed, and
partly from a desire which the Eesident Tutor felt, to secure
as early as possible a guide and helper in that portion of his

cares which he was less able than many men to cope with : nor

is it unlikely that the property of Mrs. Smith promised, in his

estimation, both to obviate any existing pecuniary difficulties,

and to prevent  the   recurrence of future ;  so that the establish
ment would go   on   harmoniously in all its
                                              parts.--And it must

ever be kept in mind, that if blame attached to him for the

suddenness of such weighty movements, his strength of nature
and state of feeling held him up to the very spirit of his

marriage vows for thirty long years of toil and sorrow. Had

anything like this existed on the other side, no one would ever

have had occasion to think that the then happy union had

been too hastily formed.

  It has been already observed how the cares of domestic

management were increased at this period by the high price
of all articles of food, which could not fail to call for vigi

lant economy on the part of the head of such a household.

But as the several members which formed the one family had
not been brought together in some of their principal relations

until now, they had not got accustomed to each other's ways,

tempers, and deportment, so as to admit of that ease and

success in the operations of housekeeping, which are generally

secured where the ties have been longer formed, and are per

haps cemented by strong affections; and where accordingly,

when a pressure is felt, it can be distributed with comparative

readiness among the whole. The Students were strangers . to
Mrs. Smith, and Mrs. Smith was a stranger to them ; and if

they were slow to appreciate the difficulties of her position at

this moment, she, from the natural cast of her mind, would be

inclined to be more distant and perhaps imperious in her

manner than was desirable or proper. Then, also, that very

strong sympathy which the Tutor had expressed for the
Students in his opening Address, and which we have seen

corroborated by his Letters a few weeks afterwards, could
scarcely be kept up in the face of the new claims on his
regard; especially in the event of any difference arising be

tween Mrs. Smith and the Academic members of the family ;--
and he had soon to hear of faults, and to give admonition or
JET. 27.]            HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                             95

advice, which tended to produce a distance between him and
them. Hence, from this very early period may be dated the
forming of a habit which proved often a source of great trial to

himself and of deep regret to his friends in after years --that,

namely, of his acting as the bearer of messages of reproof or

displeasure from Mrs. Smith to other persons. But for the
peculiarities of the Eesident Tutorship at this critical period,
he might have escaped entirely such a misuse of his readiness
to fulfil injunctions which he could scarcely hope to carry out
with dignity or advantage.

  In less than two   years from    the  time  sotfudheisntms,"arrrieasgpeecctoinmg,
                     by "several        the
plaints were made                   of

indeed, a very trifling matter in itself, but which led. ultimately

to the withdrawment of two of the Body. In the same year, a

large Sub-Committee of the two Societies was engaged to

examine the state of the Institution, in so far as related to the

conduct of five or six of the senior Students.. The allegations

were such as could not be passed over, and the result was the

removal     of  the young  men ; but in the      prosecution of the
inquiry,        Committee  felt constrained to  refer to " unpleasant
           the

rumours having gone abroad respecting certain domestic

                     In these several cases it is, however, observ

able, that the minutes speak in warm terms of admiration of

the Christian temper and conduct of the Classical Tutor. And

in the last case of the kind which occurred, which was at the

close of 1807, when the circumstances were such as to induce

Mr. Pye Smith to resign, somewhat suddenly, his office as

Eesident at the College, a general meeting of the Committee
desired their Treasurer to " express to Mr. Smith, in the most

respectful terms, their acceptance of his resignation, and that,

feeling the     due  value of his  laDbiovuinrsit,ythTeuytotrru."st  he will continue
to execute      the  functions of                                     And as though

this were not sufficient as an expression of their esteem and
confidence, it was resolved at the same meeting-- " That the

sincere thanks of the Society be given to Mr. Smith for his

zeal, ability, and persevering faithfulness, in discharging the

arduous. duties of his

Touching thus briefly on incidents spread over several years,

but which have a common relation to this chapter, the following

particulars will not be out of place. In 1807 he was induced --
96  HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                                   [l801.

of course with the full concurrence of Mrs. Smith -- to invest a

sum of money in the purchase of some freehold property in
Yorkshire ; which was done, partly under an impression of the
insecurity of the public funds (rather a prevailing apprehension

    with a                     pviaerwenttos'the greater  benefit of
    of the                                    death.      happened
Itat that period), and partly

their children in the event

however, that owing to a variety of complicated circumstances,
an expenditure was called for during several years, by which

the resources of the family at Homerton were lessened ; and
this so wrought upon the mind of Mrs. Smith as to prove to

the end of her life an occasion of great additional discomfort

to herself and her husband. Long after the time when any

pecuniary pressure was either felt or feared, and even when

property was being accumulated, it seemed impossible to dimin

ish, much less to dispel, the effect of the disturbed action of
her judgment in 1807. Confidence, or rather confidingness

in the husband, which would have been his richest earthly
treasure, and which he would have repaid to the joy and glad

ness of a heart that could have trusted and loved him as it

ought, was allowed to be shattered, and for no adequate reason

whatever ; and from that date onwards the change proved as
unavoidably, perhaps almost as heavily, oppressive to herself

as to him. In such a relation, for one party to be the occasion
of suffering to the other is sure to involve both as victims : if

one is wounded or distressed, neither can be happy.

To prevent mistake, exaggeration, and rumour from pro
nouncing a verdict on this peculiar case, it is right to declare
in the most explicit manner, that the cause of the calamity
must not be sought in the personal habits, but in the mental
disposition of Mrs. Smith.
sustain irreparable injury by    The temper and       conduct may
                               an excessive yielding   to one set of
impressions, which may be correct in a measure, and even
useful in some of their forms, but which, if not sufficiently
leavened by other and higher and more benign principles, may
work as disastrously as though they had been sinful in their
nature and origin : and yet, because such impressions are not
absolutely wrong, they are at times cherished and even de
fended, as though, like unmixed excellences and virtues, no
harm could ever arise from allowing them to have a sort of
uncontrolled domination. How often is the conscience en-
JET. 27.]              HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                                   97

listed on the side of our defects, and greater pertinacity shown
in maintaining a temper that ought to be suppressed or modi

fied, than in cultivating the graces which should ever adorn the
Christian life ! Let us suppose, for example, an " habitual
apprehensiveness -- a  toforeeabrotdhilnygthoifngesv"il----tao
--an undue regard                                               suspicion     of others
                                                                exist in     connexion

with a low power of thought and with a character void of

energy, there will then be in all probability, a settled depres

sion of spirits ;--the factitious woes being too many, too mightjr,
for the sufferer to strive against. But where --as in this in
stance --the mind has sufficient force to deal with the creatures

of the imagination, as though they had a real life -- where there

is sagacity to devise, and a determination to use one expedient

after another to obviate or perhaps rectify evils which have
their origin, for the most part if not entirely, in fear and sur
mise --where, in
                   a  word,  ththoeugahtttesnotifonth, einhseteaartd,"  of   being turned
to the purifying                                                         is  wholly given
                  of  the "
to direct and impel the suggestions which issue from it--who

can calculate the breadth and length and depth of the trials

which will follow ? Here then, we have the secret of the

domestic infelicities in the midst of which Dr. Smith had to

pursue his way for nearly thirty years ; so that all through that
portion of his life up to the close of his first marriage, his free

bearing as a man, and the healthful development of his fine
natural and Christian character, were ever more or less subject

to restraint, and not unfrequently requirements and claims

were laid upon him of a deeply humiliating kind.

    Such then, having been his position and the nature of his
difficulties, it is proper in the next place to enumerate some of
those more obvious direct results, by which his course of con
duct was often rendered as embarrassing to himself, as it was
hard to be understood by others. Here the prominence must be
given to the fact that as soon as his official and public duties

were over, he had to keep himself in a state of very great isola
tion, and as it were solitude ; like one excluded or cut off from
society. This was urged on the score of economy ; but there
were also motives arising from the temper of his companion,
and from the claims to which the husband would be expected
to attend, which could not fail to operate in favour of the re

cluse life he had to lead. The Students suffered from this cause

                                                                                               H
9M  HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                               [l801.

for very many years ; for as there had been a collision with
them, they in particular would be exceedingly unwelcome

visitors at the Tutor's house. His heart was indeed open to
them in the truest and most generous manner, but he could not
make this clear by those acts of social kindness in which none
ever felt higher delight than he. No one who knew him in

later life, when his great deafness proved such a bar to con
versation, can for a moment question how his early interest in his

pupils would have found expression under his own roof, if indeed

he had been sufficiently master there :-- or say only sufficiently

at home himself-- to give them a welcome. His disposition and

manner were scarcely less incompatible with the requirements
of his domestic position, in so far as concerned his friends.

For the kindness and warmth of his greeting were apt to awaken
expectations which were almost sure to be disappointed :--he

could scarcely see, much less entertain them at his house, and
therefore intercourse either left off abruptly, no one but himself
knowing why; or he had to apologise for not carrying it
further. Yet the crooked could not be made straight ; nor the
enigmatical clear. But he was ever ready meekly to bear all

the blame.

   .The same calamity reached to his correspondence, which he

had to keep within very narrow limits and at times to carry on
by a circuitous channel : the expense being one of the things
complained of, and the avoiding of visits supplying another

motive. In this way there grew around him a degree of re
serve --of retiredness into himself --the roots of which, indeed,

were probably natural to his style of character, but which might

have been largely counteracted had he not been in such a re

markable manner shut out from a wider cultivation of the

social affections than his own recluse mode of life could foster.

Not being able to secure that interchange of thought and feel
ing which thrives best by the domestic hearth and table,-- his

communications, both viva voce and epistolary, became from

that time and remained to the last, to a most surprising extent
free from those personal incidents which serve to enhance the

attractiveness, and probably the value of biography.

    The Eeader will be prepared to learn that the same system
of restraint was brought to bear on the
neficence. Cautions and charges against an  walhleogleedsu' bimjepcrtuodfenbet'

use of money were repeated so often, that at times perhaps his
JET. 27.]             HIS FLRST MARRIAGE.                                                         99

conscience --innocent in reality --gave back some vague, faint

echoes of the sound. But the efforts which he was constantly
making --often to the sacrifice of much precious time--not only

to overcome the hinderances placed in his own way, but also to

remove every plea or pretext in which an habitual apprehensive -

ness, an undue regard to earthly things, sought shelter and

even authority, were such as would prove him to have been one

of the most public spirited, benevolent men of his age : one

who really gave largely in proportion to his opportunity, but

who in doing so had to strive against objections, almost un

precedented for number and subtilty. 0, how deeply instructive

aand touching is      to go over documents which remain to
                         a

                          it,

                                                   a

                                                                                               :
show that from year to year he was using his ample knowledge,
and his high Christian principles of duty and gratitude --

arranging figures-- citing examples --quoting texts --urging ex
hortations, prayers, entreaties, pathetic warnings --to effect,
                                                                                                  is
possible, the relaxation of hand which he seemed to be aware
                                                                                                        a if
had too firm hold upon his own--to get the pressure relieved
  little, and not for his own sake only --and yet, doing all this

in vain. Admirable traits of character, rarely perhaps called

for among Christians at large, and not suspected even in him,

are to be found in abundance in these recesses. How often

must he have consented to be misunderstood, to expose himself

again and again to misrepresentations which must have cut him

to the heart--to put his nature into sad disguise --to wear
                          a
                                      a
veil himself  if     could only be made large enough to conceal

                 it

another also. The mind feels sort of relief in contemplating

the spectacle on the one side, by looking at the wonderful un

selfishness brought out on the other. When the contest over,

the victor's prowess  is  judged of by the extent of his achieve

ments as compared with the difficulties which had to be over

come.         ;

   But further his means and opportunities for study were far
from being his own as they might have been during the time of
his first marriage. When the hours of public duty were at an
end, he could not at all be said to be master of the portion that

remained. Free as he was from the interruption of visitors, he
was free mainly for the sake of claims which were urged as
being of greater importance than his literary pursuits. This
fact comes out with singular force and in a manner which has
no parallel elsewhere, in the preface to the first volume of the

                                                                  h2
100  HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                      [l801.

first edition of the Scrip. Tes., which was published in 1818.
The whole passage may be quoted for its autobiographical pur
port and significance.

   " The indulgent Eeader will forgive a few lines of a personal
character, which the long delay of the publication of this volume

seems to lay the author under the unwelcome obligation of
adding. The design of the treatise was conceived, and its plan
formed, before the publication of Mr. Belsham's Calm Inquiry.
When that work appeared, the writer was urged to draw up a

reply to it. It appeared however, to him, that such a reply

might be best combined with the execution of his previous
design. He does not repent the having acceded to the de
mands of his friends, but he does indeed regret that he per
mitted any intimation of the intention to go abroad : for the
unexpected and apparently unreasonable delay of the work has

not only been unspeakably vexatious to his own feelings, but
may have contributed to prejudice the cause.* The delay,
he must be allowed to protest, has arisen from no perception of

insuperable difficulties, from no failure of conviction as to the

truth of his argument, or its importance to the cause of pure

religion, and from no disinclination to the labour of research

and reflection : but it has been occasioned solely by the in

felicity of his circumstances. Had he been able to bestow upon

this work as many months of unbroken time as have elapsed of

years since it was begun, it would long ago have been com

pleted. But far different has been his condition. To the
ordinary duties of a pastor, performed he too well knows with
much imperfection ; to those of the theological tutorship in the

Academy at Homerton; and to the endless avocations which

are the unavoidable lot of a dissenting minister in or near the
metropolis, unless he can resolve to shut his heart and to

refuse his share of time and toil to the strongest demands of

public beneficence and Christian duty :--to these, it has been

his lot to have, in addition, a large measure of disabilities and
hinderances from private duties and afflictions. These have
consumed the fragments of time, and have kept the capacity
of exertion constantly filled. These have produced such dis
appointments of hope, such destruction of hours, such weariness
and discouragement of mind, as, notwithstanding the conviction

   * The work appears to have been announced  fully six years before even the
first volume was published. --Ed.
JET. 27.]          HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                101

of truth and the obligations of promise, have often induced liim
to throw aside his work for many weeks and months, and have
scarcely allowed any other than short and unfavourable pit

tances of time for pursuing it. When the will to labour has

been most vigorous, the necessary time has been above the

writer's reach ; and too often, when the opportunity has been

presented, he was  labouring  under the  incapacity of dejection
and reluctance."

   The Eeader will observe that Dr. Smith is not here speaking
of the heavy blow which fell upon him in the unexpected death
of a beloved son : for though the same preface contains a

passage of great beauty and pathos on that event, the Author is

exact in marking the distinction between the obstacles which
impeded for years the preparation of the first volume of the
Scrip. Tes., and the sudden calamity which smote his, dwelling
just at the moment when that work was issuing from the press.

Here, then, we have an example of an eager, rapid, laborious,

successful Student, ever liable to checks and delays ; not indeed

from the world, nor from the infirmities of his own nature ;

but within the sanctuary of his home ; and from a -quarter from

which both by nearness of relationship and the bond of a
common profession of Christianity, he might have expected

encouragement and aid. But thus it was ordered by a Higher
Power, and God's servant bowed to the discipline in the manner

and with the results, which are next to be detailed.

   No one who knew him will for a moment question, that Dr.
Pye Smith was in the highest degree susceptible to kindness

and affection; while in the feeling and methods best adapted
to a prompt and full return for whatever amount of generosity
or confidence was bestowed upon him, few could be more

richly endowed than he was, both by nature and by the graces
as well as the principles of the Gospel. His enlightened sense

of justice, nor less his emotions of gratitude, never could allow
him willingly to remain a debtor to any for personal favours :--
he was always more ready to give than to receive, and there

fore ever ready to give more than he received ; and with this

was combined-- as might be expected -- a delicate sensibility to
wrongs and to all acts of unkindness or oppression : nor did he

want power or courage to reprove and denounce in- pungent

words, conduct which appeared inconsistent with the law of
102                  HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                                                                                                                                                  [l801.

equity and love. Who was ever better qualified than he to

reciprocate in the highest measure all the benefits which could

arise from the happiest conjugal union :--or who indeed was
more keenly attempered to feel, and--if he had thought proper --

to resent any deviations from the duty, respect, and tenderness

to which as a husband he was entitled ? As therefore his trials

did not arise from his own waywardness of temper, so their

continuance must not be attributed to mere weakness on his

part, as though if he had had more courage he might have

secured relief.

   During the earlier years, there was perhaps no distinct per
ception of the progress of encroachment, much less any appre
hension of what it grew to be later. To one so confiding in

such a quarter, and ever ready to give credit for the kindest

intentions, the calamity would come on unawares: and while

this was the case, like the meshes of an invisible net, fold after
fold would be developed, until the difficulty of escape would
present itself to his sensitive heart as a most grave reality. In

the meanwhile, he was growing rapidly into a position of no
inconsiderable importance. Not only were the newly realized
ties of a parent beginning to take their strong hold of his
nature ; but he was becoming eminently a public man. His
profession as a Christian was equally modest and decided-- he
          Pastor of
was the   under his  ma iCnhisutrrcyh--rhaeisewdasbtyhehisTuzteoarl,,  and constantly
thriving                                                               the Theological

Tutor of young men training to be Pastors of Churches-- he
had several times used the printing press for defending and
diffusing the great foundation truths of Christianity.-- All
selfishness apart then, and because it was so, this structure was
far too large, far too important, for a wise
                                              and good man to                                                                                                                             put
it in any peril by resorting to strong        expedients, with                                                                                                                            the
chance of relieving himself of one kind of personal suffering.

If the Eeader wiU now recall what was said about the little
puionsafderuat wdcoeahfpdicthahhitsiimoMrnertl.iogtPiotoyrueyhsiiSstem--xcipthaheesreimwenaiilncdl eeb--tehoaesfroiamscineirdwgciauhrpmayte,srthsaeaunvprcepsenrsifsrieonwdmhthiticetohs
                                                                                                                                                                                          early
                                                                                                                                                                                          want

                                                                                                                                                                                            had
                                                                                                                                                                                          learn
that at the time of his marriage he adopted a method, not un
common among      good men as supplementary to                             diary.:--that
is, he drew up a  solemn engagement to which,                           a  in the sight
                                                                       as
.ET. 27.]                     HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.     103

of God and by His grace, he resolved in the strongest terms

to adhere in that intimate relationship on which he had then
just entered. His signature and that of his bride are attached.
A full practical compliance with the spirit and requirements of

this document, would imply a very rare approach to perfection
of conduct in conjugal life, or would speedily produce that

result : for it leaves scarcely any duty, or remedy for oversight
in duty, unsuggested, and unenforced.--But although this is
the last engagement of the kind, found in his handwriting --

the last probably, because he became convinced of the great

undesirableness of a plan which to his daily experience for
years had failed of its object--his own conduct was with the

most conscientious exactness regulated by the terms, and even
carried out in the spirit of that remarkable paper. The

lamentable but egregious failure of one party to this volun
tary obligation, might have been thought to exonerate the

other. Not so, however, could he think. Yet the failure of

one party, was the direct occasion of throwing upon the other
an immensely accumulated burden :--just as though a weight
which two persons had solemnly pledged themselves to sustain

had not only been wholly removed by the one to the other, but

in the act of removing        had acquired an aggravated amount
                              it,
of pressure (now to be borne by one only,) greatly beyond theis

whole sum which the two had agreed to bear in common.is

And indeed, in all the intimate relations of social life, few

things can be more obvious as matters of fact or more sug

gestive of important lessons, both concerning the Divine
government and human responsibility and duty, than this --
that mere inattention on the one side-- to say nothing of direct

disobedience to Divine laws-- sure to augment and that

greatly, the complexity and difficulty of obedience on the
                              studious to keep the right path,
other. Every person who

makes that path plainer, smoother, easier, as well as more

pleasant to every one who has either to accompany or follow

him. How few are competent to go alone, when even the
companions of then- journey have evidently mistaken and lost

their way  !
   Here however, prominent trait of Dr. Smith's character
                           a
comes into view. The covenant in question as well as the
marriage vows made in public, had to his vivid apprehension
and purpose sanction far higher than that of mere human
           a                                       a
104              HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.         [l801.

contract. To his mmd and with the utmost concurrence of

his will, The Invisible One was present ; and that not simply

as a witness but as the Supreme contracting party from whom

the human parties were to draw their motives and their power

to keep their mutual engagements. Hence as he thought, the

failure of one of the latter could never exonerate the other :

for though their pledges were of common obligation as between

themselves, yet as before God each was bound by his own vow,

even though the other should fail. Whatever therefore were

his thoughts in later years respecting the slender knowledge

he had of the lady prior to his marriage --if he ever regretted

the step as one which he had taken with too much haste --we

are not at liberty to entertain a doubt that he always regarded

it as a most sacred duty to maintain inviolate a union volun

tarily formed, and which he had surrounded with sanctions

beyond any laid down by law ;--sanctions which would never

cease to have a force on his own conscience and conduct,

amply sufficient to render his course of action plain to him

self, how perplexing soever, or even objectionable it might at
times be in the estimation of others. Hence he persevered

to the very last, in exercising the same patience and forbear

ance under his own trials and sufferings ; and not less in
the most generous and self-sacrificing attempts to place his
companion in the fairest light before the world :--although
his efforts to* do this were frequently made at a personal cost

that entitles him to be numbered among heroes.

   To suppose that mere natural feeling, or simply prudential
considerations could have produced such rare magnanimity
for so long a time, is in the highest degree unlikely. His
position was in no important sense dependent on his wife ; for
his varied services to the Christian Church met with a recom
pense more than equal to his wants. After, therefore, setting
aside motives which are not of the highest kind, though they
are far from  being unworthy  of attention,
ciple which   deserves to be  regarded as    there is but one prin
                                             the great sustaining,
regulatmg, and impelling power through this whole period--
namely, his   piety. But
                           real piety  must  have failed, unless also
it had been    eminent.   He would     have  to secure grace almost

above the   measure of his crushing difficulties; for to seek
merely in   the  ordinary sense of the word, would have left him--
just where       leaves many others-- baffled and broken-spirited.
             it
&T. ST.]             HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                                       105

His methods and the fervour of his intercessions before God
cannot, indeed, be placed upon record ; for he has left no

account nor any memorials of his devout exercises. But in

truth, they are not needed. The causes may be clearly traced
in their consequences. In the subdued and pensive expres
      of his countenance --in
sion                           his  mhiesekmaannndeur--nreinpinhinisg            temper
      the uniform devoutness    of                                             constant
--in
use of ejaculatory prayer--and in the fervour and unction of
his public supplications --are revealed the unfailing fountains
of his support. During those years he was as one who walked

so closely with God, that of him in a measure, as of his
Divine Lord in the highest sense, it might be truly said " the
world knew him not." Can it be doubted that he came in time

to view his trials as motives, and in that sense as aids, to

attainments in the Christian life which a weaker kind of disci

pline, suited to feebler natures, could not have enabled him to

achieve ? His humility would for ever keep him from the
thought --which we however, may warrantably think for him --

that the rare severity of the discipline betokened a combination

of Christian excellences or at least a power of realizing them,
equally rare. No ordinary man-- only here and there per
haps, an eminently Christian man -- could be trusted to stay

for so many years in that deep valley of humiliation to which

he grew inured, and in which, mostly out of sight, or coming

into view at times only to be misapprehended, he was enabled

to acquire elements of character of singular lustre and beauty.

Few indeed would covet his probation ; but to be competent

for and to gain from as he undeniably did, to be great
a it,

                         8,
                                 9,

                            it

                                   if

                                                                                      a

                                                                    is

                                                             if
                                                                                                                  a
in Divine sense. His choicest pearls were fetched up from

those depths.

But besides this rare advantage to himself of which before

long he would become cognizant, and which would therefore
react beneficially on his purpose and plans to maintain

"patient continuance in             he would also enter tho

roughly into the admirable principles laid down by the Apostle
                     10). Thus, Christ's strength might but
Paul (2 Cor. xii.
be perfected by his  servant's sufferings--that is, more of

that strength might be developed in himself, and then come
      ctloear"egrlolirgyhtinbetfroibreulaottihoenr."s -- hAenhdadwhroeawllyas
into                                                                            Divine motive
even                                                                           more ready or

more able than he to put his personal feelings to almost any
106     HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                    [l801.

kind of martyrdom, not simply as a test of his own submission
and meekness, but also as an evidence of the abounding grace
of his Divine Lord ? This, indeed, supplies the true key to

his conduct here; nor less on many other occasions, which
were either misunderstood or not understood at all at the
time. Very much that was thought to arise out of weak points
of character really sprang from an indomitable purpose to bear
reproach with the lowliness and fortitude of a Christian,
rather than assert his claims in the fashion of a common

man.

From an early period, the children could not be unac

quainted with what had to be endured : nor with the amount

of suffering which fell to the lot of their father : and as they

also had their share, companionship in trouble tended greatly to
heighten their sense of his worth. While they were mere chil

dren, familiar only with domestic scenes, and neither able to

hear of nor appreciate the success which was attending his

efforts to promote learning and piety in the world, they could

only think or feel according to the very perplexing and

unfavourable set of circumstances which came under their

daily notice. It was not therefore without emotions of sur

prise --at times perhaps, of indignant surprise --that on the
growth of their power and means of observation they began to

perceive the singularly wide contrast between the public verdict

on their father's character and claims, and the private, maternal

one, which had been often laid down in words and confirmed

by actions, as though it could not be reversed, and was in
truth never to be questioned. Occasionally --as might be

expected-- the warm and less disciplined feelings of son or
daughter, would glow with a desire to put a stop to the trial ;
but the father in such cases sought to encourage them by
language and example, to bear patiently that which he had
borne   so long. Nor did he plead in vain.
of the   discipline-- aggravated as it was by  Their own share
                                                the far heavier
portion which fell upon him-- was submitted to for his sake,
and in compliance with his deeply affectionate wishes :-- when
perhaps, had they been left quite at liberty to yield to that
sort of virtuous resentment, which rose on his behalf even
more than on their own, there might have been some relief for
which all parties would have rejoiced. Yet in the retrospect
JET. 27.]  HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.  107

of that period they cannot but be thankful that the rule accord

ing to which their Father had judged it right to walk for

many years, was not set aside by their means. He had no
doubt long felt that the hand of God, which was singularly
bountiful towards him in respect of health, income, dutiful
children, efficiency of intellectual labour, and public and pas
toral usefulness, was laid upon him in that one particular form,
for the wise and holy purposes of his higher Christian training.

It was, therefore, impossible for him to be in any way a party

to methods which were out of harmony with what had grown
to be the principles and habits of his life : and in this respect

he showed the true martyr-spirit; for he not only bore his
sufferings patiently and courageously, but he seemed reluctant
to have them put away merely with a design to make his own
course smoother than he believed it to have been made by

a Higher Power. --Was he really in error in this ?--In such a
case and with such a man, it was right to leave him to be " a law

unto himself."

   A time however arrived, when some of the more tender

plants of the household were found unable to bear the effects

of a climate to which by long care and pains the parent stock

had got inured. As soon as this was evident he had them
taken to a more favoured situation, although by doing this he

was seriously lessening his own comfort, and making the
winter around himself more bleak and desolate. But his high
Christian principle and that delicate attention to the welfare

of others, which he carried faithfully into all the relations of

life, would not allow him to consult his own ease at the

expense of his children's. Thus the very same circumstances
which brought out so strikingly his rare unselfishness as a

husband, served to show in the same clear light, his gene

rosity and tenderness as a parent. Bather than the children
should suffer from their position, although they were his

richest earthly solace, he was willing for their sakes to

dwell alone himself. The domestic virtues usually flourish in
the greatest vigour and beauty amidst the smiles and sunshine
of domestic life --nourished in fact by that which they nourish

--like tropical plants in a tropical soil, or as trees in close

and loving proximity, helping to draw one another up. But
in one most important point, the case now before the Eeader

was distinctly the reverse of this ; the domestic virtues, if they
108                   HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                                                                                                    [l801.

grew at all, could only do so by some hidden power of their own,

which must not only be equal to secure their development with
out external aid, but to the seemingly hopeless task of growing
in a climate altogether uncongenial and even blighting, --just as

though it were possible in some rare instance, to secure in the

icy cold of Spitzbergen the perfection of a plant which had
been known hitherto to ripen its fruits only in India or Japan.

Yet--as we have seen --these virtues continued steadily to un

fold themselves, and as new circumstances called them out as

it were in new forms, it was ever more and more apparent, that

the stock from which they grew had not even been injured,

much less destroyed, by years of exposure to direct and indirect
influences, the most unfavourable imaginable for any such pro
ducts. Fidelity to a great principle and the high character of
a good man, forbid the idea of any cause, motive, or power

being adequate to such an effect, except that which is found

briefly and glowingly depicted in the Latin essay delivered by
him at Eotherham only a little more than a year before the

time, when the occasion for testing the truth of eloquent words
by a corresponding spirit and practice may be said to have
commenced. And as looking back over the whole course of

humiliating services and trials, with all that he had to bear,

and with the way in which he bore it : comparing what he
suffered and did, and what he became, yea, and in conse
     a
                                                                         a

                                                                                                                                          :

                                                                                         is,
quence mainly of the plans which he pursued -- comparing
       with any similar set    of circumstances, not met
these                         supply at once key to his                                                                                        in the
same   way, --his own words
and    test of his worth --"       quanto sublimior sinceri                                                                                  conduct
                                                                                                                                              Christi
sectatoris virtus, qui injuriis omnibusque malis lacessitus,

fortiter audax omnia perpeti, casus iniquissimos invicto amore
et mansuetudine sustinet! Hie patientia
decus et tutamen regni divini."                                                sanctorum.                                                    Hie

The state of things above described, must be contemplated
in relation to   Dr.  Smith's public usefulness. Independently of
the influence   upon  the spirits, and therefore upon the systematic

teprdrooidtsiueoccneudotifoitnnhetohfeSchpriaisps.sliateTgreeasr.qy,--uoutnedderkftranokomiwnngsth,t--heatphrfeeafacwcteatsoutoocfhteitnnhgeclyaflilreinsdt
if

    it

                                   it

                                            is

                                                                            a
away from his studies, even for reasons the most trivial. Now
       be certain that the lost time would have been applied to
JET. 27.]  HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.  109

higher purposes had the very inferior demands never occurred,

no doubt can exist of the injury which the Church of Christ
and the world have sustained from the interruptions which he
had to encounter. But the question is one which cannot be
settled without looking beyond the facts just mentioned. The
comparative solitude in which his house was kept for nearly

five-and-twenty years, had-- as we have seen--a surprising

effect in restraining both his social intercourse and his cor
respondence :--which, had they been as much within his

reach in his early as they were in his later years, might

have left even less space than his actual circumstances

had afforded for works of enduring value. Those home
exigences which took him away from higher occupations,
would before very long acquire a kind of settled form ;

their limits would be fixed, their outline comparatively de
finite : and then they could be met, perhaps in some re
spects abridged, without quite the same loss of time or per

plexity of feeling as at first. But, on the other hand as
his experience did at length fully show, easy accessibleness to
the class of extraneous claims,--the reception of visitors and
the writing of Letters --opened demands upon his leisure to
which he could assign no bounds. To such a man and in his
position the ratio of increase, even when he approached the

sixtieth year of his age, was most embarrassingly rapid : what
it might have been at thirty and before the calamity of his
deafness came in the way, it is not easy to conjecture :-- but

certainly his labours for the future would not have been free
-- not even perhaps so free --from the impediments of the

passing hour, had his domestic trial never occurred. He
might have become too public a man at much too early
a date : he might have served the present but with far less

of benefit to coming generations. Moreover, in the training
of one whose whole sum of usefulness is derived only in part
from his intellectual attainments, and in part also, -- and that
the most important both in quality and amount-- from acquisi
tions secured as it we're in the furnace of affliction, it was of
immense advantage to leave the process of culture and ripen

ing to go on according to one uniform plan, extending over
many years, and to keep this as much as possible undisturbed
by any such encroachments on his attention as perplexed him
at a subsequent period. Had he passed at once from the
110 HIS FIRST MARRIAGE. [l801.

seclusion of Eotherham into circumstances in all respects
favourable to the expansion of his generous impulses, the
                         a public career as that open to him at
strong current of  such  proved-- not indeed too much for his
Homerton, might    have
principles, but-- unfavourable to the formation of that high
order of Christian character on which the value of his labours
largely depends. Nor is it at all improbable that in after
years, when he had to devise expedients to lessen if possible
the expenditure of time and thought upon ' extraneous

he would now and then recur to the earlier state

of things as one which on the whole had been far more
favourable to his higher interests and exertions than any other.

And we who can look at both, and compare their results, may

with no small amount of evidence concur in the verdict.

All those productions of his pen on which his celebrity as

an author is based, and the value of which will carry down his

name as an honourable one in the annals of the Church as

long probably as our language shall be in use ; all with a
single exception, were given to the world within the period

of his first marriage. The Letters to Belsham--the Scrip. Tes.
in a first and second edition --the Four Discourses on the Sacri
fice and Priesthood of Jesus Christ --the full yet concise Answer
to an infidel pamphlet, called Manifesto of the Christian Evi
dence Society--besides several of the most valuable of his
single sermons -- and numerous articles in the Eclectic Eeview
--were all published before the time of what some would call

his restricted usefulness came to a close. And even the excep

tion above referred to is more so in form than in reality. For

though the Scripture and Geology did not appear until 1839,

the basis had been laid and to a large extent the details

of each of the separate lines of argument by which that work
is distinguished had been examined with great care, long

before he was called to deliver that series of the Congrega

tional Lecture. His Syllabus of Theology -- his numerous

courses of manuscript Lectures on Church History, Natural
and Moral Science, the Evidences of Christianity, the Exe
gesis of the New Testament, and Pastoral Duties, were all

not merely commenced but carried towards completion within
the first thirty years of his residence at Homerton.

   Viewing therefore the whole subject from this point, so far
is it from being certain that he would have done much more
JET. 27.]             HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.  Ill

had his early years been free from the serious difficulties with
which they were known to be impeded, we should perhaps

come nearer the truth were we to say that with his temperament

and in his circumstances, he would have done less. As soon as

ever he was at liberty to follow his own course, the number and
variety of his pursuits and his readiness to meet all sorts of

applications, seemed unfriendly to that concentration of mind
and time upon a few great topics which in the earlier period

resulted in the production of the works above named. And if the

Source of his early difficulties cannot be entitled to credit for

the good which was really accomplished, there is the more open,

clearer space to see the operation of a Divine hand. That In

finite Being, who is wonderful in counsel and excellent in work

ing was pleased to overrule the chief calamity of His servant's

life not simply to promote his piety and devotedness as a

Christian, but to give him an extent and permanency of useful

ness which rarely fall to the lot of any one man. And these
fruits to the world, as well as those which belonged to himself
personally, were all matured and for the most part gathered and
garnered up, while to a human eye the season was most un-

genial: --so easy is it for God to disappoint our fears, to exceed
our hopes, and to raise a monument to His own glory on a

foundation which appears least of all suited to the purpose.

That very much of the realized benefit is to be traced to the
spirit in which the trial was met is obvious. The difficulties

were not exasperated to himself by any chafing or violence of

his own temper. As early as possible and as thoroughly also,

he brought his mind into submissiveness to all the exigences

of his position. And by devoutly recognising and imploring
the aid of the Infinite Euler, he even grew into something like

harmony with his circumstances. Hence, because he did not

as it were stipulate for a certain amount of freedom from suf

fering, or for a certain kind of openness of space for action, as a

condition of devotedness to all duty, God was pleased to confer

upon him a capacity for service,  and a measure of success in
using it,incomparablybeyondwhat   anyone--including himself --

could have expected.    And this also  gave additional emphasis
and intensity to the  great motto of
grace of God which was with me."       his life --" Not I, but the
112                 HIS FIRST MARRIAGE.                                                                 [l801.

   At length, November 23, 1832, the union which was formed
in August, 1801, came to a close. To some who loved him with
filial respect and tenderness, the long-continued pressure on his
feelings was at that time becoming painfully evident in the
effects produced upon his frame : but the corrosion--as might
have been expected --sunk deeper, and wore out the vital
powers earliest in the party with whom it had originated. It
then soon became obvious that a restraint upon the full de

velopment of character, had been removed from the survivor :
not indeed that there was any unseemly elation of spirit or

manner, much less any verbal allusions by which the world

could be informed of a pleasing change having lately occurred
at Homerton. No : it was impossible for so sincere a man, so
                                                    to grow loquacious
fine a nature,  tshoirtdyevyoeuatrs'a  Christian,   with all its duties                                 and
                                       pilgrimage,                                                      and
vulgar. His
sorrows, had been a genuine life on his part. He could not

                                       as though he had mask to lay
therefore act at the end of:

             ?

                           !

                                    it it,

                                                       a

                                                                                                                      :

                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                                                 !

                                                                                 it
aside and equally beautiful was to see, that he had no mask
to put on. He stood out with simple dignity and majesty, as

one who was sensible that Infinite Grace had enabled him to

adhere to the terms of an engagement which had involved him

in an almost incredible number and variety of humiliating
trials --and that now, the probation was ended Incom

parable man for the greatness of his sufferings, the greatness

of his patience, the greatness of his victory -- and --may not
be added --for the greatness of his example.

His true form and stature began to appear almost as soon as

the restrictions under which he had been so long placed were

set aside for ever. His time was seen to be far more at his
command --or rather, at the command of those who knew and
loved him,--his house grew to be an open one, home for him
           ;

                                a it

                                                                              aa
                                                                                                     a
self and his children and quite accessible to strangers ;-- he

could go out and visit Friends, near or more remote from his

dwelling,  because   he felt he could   be gladdened  by their visits
in return           books began to     come in with     speed which
           --then

perhaps exceeded his  power to master their contents at                                                                                             the
                      benevolent spirit, freed from the                                                                                             sad
time;--then too his

entanglements by which                 had been held in and disfigured,
sought to
indulgence  make up for long period                 of bondage by larger
            in the luxury of doing good             than might have been
JET. 27.]                  HIS CHILDREN.                                 113

expected from his means. But by far the best of all the graces

which now became visible, from which indeed his other ex

cellencies drew their vitality and nutriment, was this, --that by

some hidden virtue his heart had retained its susceptibility of
generous and tender emotion entirely unimpaired. So that,

comparing the actual development of character and feeling in
the last twenty years of his life, with what might have been

feared   as the result of  the former thirty,   in howwotrrtuheieasn,"d  full a
sense   might it be said                                                 in the
                           of him, as of the "  three
Book of Daniel, " upon his body the fire had no power, nor was

ashaahmdaeitrheroesafmshoeinsll--hoefbaetdchaesuifsniergeed"p,aosnnseoerdliwkoenerehthimehis:"S--goanramnodefnftGos rodpc"hreanchigasededly,bentehoner

ever with him in the furnace.

   Four sons and two -daughters were born to Dr. and Mrs.
Smith : three of whom still survive ;--

   Mary Euth, married to Searle James, son of the late Thomas
Nash, Esq., of Foulmire, Cambridgeshire :--

   Ebenezer ; in practice as a Surgeon in London, is married
to Mary Anne, daughter of the late John Foulger, Esq., of
Walthamstow :--and

   John William ; a Solicitor at Sheffield, who married Caroline
Phoebe, daughter of the late Edward Baines, Esq., M.P., of

Leeds.

   In deference to the advice of some of Dr. Smith's oldest

friends, as a mark of their filial veneration for the memory of
gcshuoiclldhd,reaynePaa,arstehsnoatcn, iaamtnioudncwhs iatfihnnedtihmgeoplhrdoe,p"sestihooenfsstor"namsnsohmraevitettoinbgbeeentdoeisntihdreeudicretdohwatnno
assume the double surname of Pye Smith in lieu of that of

Smith.

   In Easter Term, 1851, Mr. John William, on account of his

professional character, obtained the sanction of the Courts of

Law and Equity at Westminster for this change ; and from that
date his name has been entered accordingly on the Court Bolls.
                      CHAPTEE VIII.

COLLECTS SPECIMENS OF MINERALS-- SERMON ON THE PROSPERITY OF A

     CHRISTIAN CHURCH --SERMON ON THE PERMISSION OF SIN --OPENING
     OF COLLEGE HALL FOR PREACHING--FORMATION OF A CHURCH THERE
      -- ADVANTAGES OF THIS TO THE TUTOR: TO THE COLLEGE: TO THE
     CHURCH, IN HAVING THE TUTOR FOR PASTOR --CONSTITUTION OF
     THE CHURCH -- CHURCH COVENANT -- HIS ORDINATION -- CONFESSION

       OF FAITH.

Besuming the narrative at the point where it was discontinued

at the close of Chapter VI., it is gratifying to observe that the
Committee of the College entered very readily into the plans
of their Tutor, for in less than three months from the time

when he began his duties, they voted a sum of money to com
plete the philosophical apparatus under his direction. In an
other particular also, they complied with his suggestion--they
placed the Junior students--who for some time previously were
educated at a distance from the Academy --under the care of the

Seniors, that the whole number might be within the reach of his

influence. In July of this year, a correspondent of his own, the
Eev. James Kay, who had been his fellow-student at Eotherham,

and   who   hwisasretqhueenstr"eshiedihnagd  at Kendal, writes to  let him know
that                                          been endeavouring    to obtain spe
      " at

cimens of all the  minerals found in that    part of the country;
and that "above                              road to London. A
                   100" were then on the
....sending you a box of Derbyshire

expect to send some more soon."
Letter from his father in the following month says --" We intend

a collection, and  as it was                 minerals    early     to        and we
strong proof of                                This was                begin such
                   his zeal
                              made at his own cost, it affords a
            for some
            deliver.          at that period to qualify himself
thoroughly            of those courses of lectures
engaged to            The Eeader therefore must                    which he had
                                                                   suppose that
JET. 28.]  SERMON ON THE PROSPERITY OF A CHURCH.                  115

Mr. Pye Smith was now employed          regularly with   his      several
                                      the morning of    every      day to
classes --devoting the chief part of

teaching the mathematics, and to lectures on some branch of

Natural or Moral Philosophy : while the afternoon was applied

to Classical and Hebrew lectures. But how he arranged his

duties, or what length of time was given to each and to the

whole, cannot now be ascertained. The probability however

is, that from four to five hours a day were spent with the students

during the first few years of his official career.

   Excepting the inaugural address at Homerton, which though
printed was confined within a narrow circle of readers, the first
of his published works after he became a Tutor was a Discourse

on the Prosperity of a Christian Church, preached on the even
ing preceding the ordination of the Bev. Thomas Craig, at

Booking, which took place October 12, 1802. A few passages

nmeavyerbefaqdueo. ted"  for their  truth and beauty ; qualities  which can
                                    that vigorous Christian who   well com
                         Observe

prehends, who deeply feels, who steadily believes the whole coun

sel of God. Watch the prudence, the patience, the tenderness,
the exemplary vigilance of his character at home. Witness the

simplicity and the fervour of his devotion, while he offers on

his domestic altar the morning and evening sacrifice of praise
and prayer. He walks before his household in the unconscious

dignity of purity and love. The law of kindness is on his lips,

and his family can witness that he has been with Jesus. See

his conduct in the world as allied to the various parts of civil

society. He recollects himself to be a stranger and a pilgrim

on the earth, and that he has received, not the spirit of the
world, but the Spirit which is of God." Speaking of Church
order, he says, " value the sacred munition ! Never permit

the enemy to tread it down, or to persuade you that it is of no
importance. Let the Eedeemer's ordinances be administered

and improved with a strict and holy regard to the Scriptures,

the edicts of His authority. Let the key of admission, and the
acts of discipline, be faithfully regulated by the same revealed

wisdom. Bequire what Christ requires, and forbid what He

forbids." . . . . " It is a perversion of all the designs of

Church fellowship, for brethren of the same holy community,

children of the same family, to be strangers to each other, never
or very seldom to hold sweet converse together on the things of

                                                          i3
116                        PRINTED SERMON                                              [l803.

God. In the Apostolic churches we read that 'all that believed
       together,'             ' they                                                   soul.'
were   not to be    and that  what    swigenreal'obfleosnseinghseawrtoualnddreosnuelt  from
                   described
It is

the conscientious performance of this duty, and the cultivation

of habits of respect without distance, and of intimacy without

grossness and familiarity. It would have the most immediate

tendency to encourage and maintain all the blessings of personal

godliness, of tranquil peace, of firm union, and holy love. It
would prevent suspicions and evil surmisings ; it would antici

pate or correct misunderstandings; it would disarm slander and

disappoint envy ; it would weaken the strength of temptation ;

it would pour new streams of spiritual life and vigour into our
souls; it would soothe many sorrows, and wipe away many tears:

in a word, it would most eminently conduce to enrich a Christian

pCrhousrpcehritwyitahndallpethaece.s"ubstantial blessings of unity and concord,

   In 1803, Dr. Daniel Fisher resigned his office as Theological

Tutor at Homerton, and the Eev. James Knight was appointed
in his stead. But as there was no re-arrangement of, the re
spective duties of the Divinity and Classical Tutors on this
occasion, Mr. Pye Smith's time was as fully occupied as

before.

Of the two or three and twenty separate sermons published
by Dr. Smith, eleven were delivered at the Monthly Lecture of
which mention has been already made in the account trf
Homerton College. The first of the number was preached this
year, on a subject which had been assigned to a minister, who
was prevented by illness from discharging the duty, and whose
place the young Tutor had been requested to supply. This
will explain his   position, in
difficult perhaps  in the whole       undertaking a topic    the most
                                      range of theological  science :--
The Divine glory displayed in
known that questions which            the  permission   of sin. It is well
                                      are  anterior to
                                                        all human history^
and   therefore    to all   human   experience, and on which Bevela-'
tion               light   beyond  giving the particulars of our crea
tion  sheds no
      in a state   of innocence, the subsequent forfeiture of that

state, and   the Divinely  appointed remedy,     do not admit of being
discussed    in a manner                          general satisfaction.
                            which will secure    this attempt, though
It will not  accordingly   excite surprise that
JETi. 29.]   ON THE PERMISSION OF SIN.                                                    117

very carefully and     most   reverently made,                           brought into   prom
                        good   and thoughtful                           men believed
inence -- as several                                                                   -- diffi

culties of a graver kind than even those it was designed to
obviate. With many persons such a subject would have been
perfectly safe--safe, that is, for the preacher's reputation and
repose --for by avoiding the perplexing, and in truth, the in

scrutable points, by assuming the fact of the existence of sin,

and then going on at once to show how the Divine glory is dis
played in the economy of Bedemption, there could not have
been any occasion whatever for complaint or controversy. But

in this instance, the natural inclination of the preacher's mind,

his own training under Dr. Edward Williams, the importance

of his station as a Tutor, and probably the connection between

the Monthly Lecture and the College, concurred to urge his in
quiries forward from the known to the unknown, that if possible

he might lessen the greatness of the mystery. Not, indeed,

that he avows sentiments new in theology : for in the body of

the discourse, and still more in the Notes which were added

with a view to anticipate objections, he shows the harmony of

his sentiments with those held by some of the most honoured
names in ancient and modern theological literature.

  His first inquiry relates to what sin is: which "in its ab
stract or formal nature "--is said to be--" a privation of that

perfection,  croear tumreor;a"lp.g6o.odnWeshse,n      which       ought to be   in     an ac
countable                                              actual     sin comes to         spoken
                                                                                be
of, then it is remarked that " certainly it is not all a mere pri

vation:-- As an act merely, it is the exertion of natural powers,
powers which constitute the distinguished excellence of the

rational agent, which God has created, and which He con

stantly sustains even by an actual concurrent agency, or else

they could never be exerted. . . . The other part, then, of

an act of sin is that which constitutes its sinfulness. It is a

direction of natural power out of the line of eternal rectitude :

it is an employment of natural power hi a manner not con

lfaowrmoafbtlheetoDitvhiantepgeorfveecrtnmruelent:."  it is   a   want  of conformity to the
                                                             10,        The next step is to
                                                       pp.         11.

"inquire in what sense sin is an object of the Divine permis
sion." p. 15. God is said to be in no sense, " either immediately

or remotely, either    by direct consequence                            or by the  most   dis
tant implication, the  efficient cause, origin, or                      author of  sin."  He

is " the acknowledged and adorable Author of everything that
118                                    PRINTED SERMON                    [1808.

thishaesnwoatorraekmasloonagnf dthtpheoeLsiontiurvdem. beeIxtristioesnfcape.posriivtia.vteio.nb,ei.anngsBa.busteInstcineis,isannodotetfeaocmnt.eonIogtf

the creatures which the Almighty Maker has formed. Absurd,

therefore, and   timhaptotshseibHleo, lyasGwodellcaansbeawthfuellAyubthlaosrphoef msinou."sp, pis.
the supposition
16, 17. " I. The sole and proper origination of sin is from the

necessary condition and circumstances             of created and       finite ex
istence, when destituteof a sovereign                          p. 19.
                                                                       "II. The

acknowledged fact, that God did not interfere to prevent the

oPcucruerreJnucseticoef."sipn.,   was  an exercise not of sovereignty,   but of
                                 23 .  And the argument is, that as men  on the

one hand had no right to expect an act of sovereignty on their

behalf, nor on the other to complain of being dealt with ac
cording to the principles of strict justice, if sin under such cir

cumstances arose, God could not in any sense be considered
its Author ;--and this, though sin is deemed inevitable on such

conditions, and the penalty and consequences of sin are not

only inevitable also, but just and equitable. It is especially due
to the preacher to insert a note which he added to the above

I Ipassage in his sermon. " After having reflected on this theory

with aU the attention am able to employ, feel it my duty to
Iprofess an increasing conviction of its truth and importance in

moral philosophy and sound divinity. But am equally bound
to acknowledge my apprehension, partly from the awful and
Idifficult nature of the subject itself, and principally from the

unskilful and inadequate manner in which am painfully con
scious it is here treated, that many difficulties may be raised

Iagainst the theory here maintained, and those such as have

no hope of being able completely to answer." p. 73.

   He was fully alive to the pernicious, because perverted use
which had been made of his method of accounting for the origin
of evil by men who derived, or pretended to derive from it an
excuse, and even a license for sinning. By too many the theory
would be welcomed, not so much if at all because it was as some
might think philosophically true, but simply because it operated
on the conscience like an opiate. Cautions and admonitions of
the most quickening kind are freely introduced, to prevent or
denounce any sueh abuse of the principles which he advocated.
Yet in multitudes of instances,        warnings
beyond that of rendering the           intellect       will not have  any power
                                                       subtle in the
                                                                      art of de-
JET. 29.]            ON THE PERMISSION. OF SIN.          119

vising palliatives for any course of conduct which the inclina

tions and passions recommend. It may not be unworthy of

consideration whether, seeing that the Scriptures give no kind
of aid towards settling the metaphysical bearings of the subject,
their silence should not be regarded as an evidence that the
question is really beyond solution on such grounds, and that no
important practical purpose can be served by attempting to settle
it at all. The appeal which is made in this sermon, and indeed

in many treatises on the same great mystery, to the words of the
Apostle: --"Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against

God ? "--may always be urged with the utmost propriety and force,

provided it is kept in the same relation to such discussions

which it holds in the Divine word. If, however, instead of
being regarded as a barrier thrown across the very threshold, --
for that seems to be its place and design in Eom. ix. 20,--it is

carried to a point more or less remote from the commencement

of a particular theory, and is there to be set up to stay further

progress, or to secure acquiescence in that already made, the
probability is, that more frequently than not it will be found

quite inadequate to effect either of these purposes : and then--

to use a nautical term-- headway having been obtained, it may

be no easy thing to restrain or even guide the course of inquiry
according to any safe rule for such complex questions :-- as the
darkness thickens, not a few are apt to grow more and more

desperate.

The latter part of the sermon is inductive : the object being
to show how "in several distinguishing and eminent respects,
                         displayed by the
the glory  of God    is  26. Here there             permission, or rather the oc
currence   of sin."  p.                             is an abundance of admirable

passages: -- "Never was the distance of God and creatures

marked so strongly. Never could the absolute independence,

all-sufficiency, and indefectibility of the Most High shine

so ineffably bright, as when in contrast with the weakness and

dependence, the mutability and defection of the creature. Is it

credible that intelligent creatures could have duly known them

ptshe. elv2ye9s-,neo"vreBhryavknenootfweclntoutwhnheteairrtapdcrteiopnpegenrtdherenatndkeefexincisttitebhnielciteyscoianfltetrhinoesficcrbaeelailnytugr,ei,sh?as"do

as to prevent the occurrence of sin. God has established a

SYSTEM     OaFccMouOnRtAabLleLEaGgISeLnAtsT,I"ONp.  AND  GOVERNMENT in a WOrld of
free and                                            33.
                                                         "By permitting the occur-
120              ON THE PERMISSION OF SIN.             [l80i.

rence of moral evil, God has provided an occasion for the exer
                                          for the display of all the supereminent
cise of  inoffinBiteedemmeprctyio,na."nd   How this has been done, is shown
glories
through several pages :--
  I"But"-- says the preacher--"remembering one important

design of these Monthly Lectures, cannot conclude without
addressing my brethren who are students for the Christian

ministry. --My dear friends, you have undertaken to oppose the
dreadful ravages of sin. You have taken the solemn step of en
listing yourselves under the banners of the Captain of salvation,
in the warfare of heaven against that terrible foe. You are to

vanquish its power, to detect its devices, and to labour as the

instruments of Divine mercy in plucking its wretched captives
as brands from the burning. With what armour are you fur

nished ? What means will you employ ? Be assured that no

weapon will be successful but the Doctrine of the Cross.

Your sentimental ingenuity, your polished compositions, your

talents, your learning, your eloquence, will effect nothing. Those

arrows will not make the enemy flee. He will count your darts
as stubble, and laugh at the glittering of your spear. Unless
you lay all these things at the Eedeemer's feet, unless' you ac

quire and employ them in the lowest subserviency to the supreme

honours of His cross, unless you count them all but loss for the
excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus your Lord, --they will

prove worse than nothing ; they will only serve to seal up you
and your hearers in deeper delusions, the fatal symptoms of

eternal death. O then, resolve to know nothing as the grand

subject of your ministry, save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. . . .

But, my dear brethren, seriously look to yourselves. How

can you preach a Saviour if you know Him not ? How can you
recommend Him to others, if He is not precious to your own

souls ? How can you hope for success in the warfare against

sin, if you are its partizans and vassals ? Cultivate, assiduously

cherish, the living power of personal religion ; or else you will

be the most miserable of men. May these solemn truths sink
           your                                     "
deep into        hearts  and              my  own
                                                   !

After the publication of the Sermon, the Author received

several Letters from eminent Nonconformist ministers of the

day : some approving, and others complaining of the first part,

while one or two expressed their inability or reluctance to go

into the consideration of the subject. Among the writers were
MT. 30.]              FORMATION OF A CHURCH.                 121

Dr. Wilhams, Dr. Bogue, Dr. Byland, and the Eev. Andrew

Fuller. It is not unworthy of notice, that this Sermon stands

alone among Dr. Smith's published works for having anything
of a metaphysical character ; and even here that quality does
not largely prevail. His mind appears to have been disin

clined to follow out subtile trains of analysis and reasoning.

In November, 1802, Mr. Phillips, of Eotherham, wrote to

Mr. Pye Smith, to urge the necessity of his taking steps with

a view to the pastoral office, and advised him in particular -- if

no other method presented -- to form the students and the

senior members of his own family into a Church, over which

he might be ordained. But it was not until September of the

next year that any movement appears to have been made

in conformity with his friend's suggestion. He then addressed
a Letter to the King's Head Society, requesting their per
mission to open the Hall of the Academy for public worship
on the Lord's day ; which was at once complied with. Thus
that condition which he included among the terms of his
accepting the invitation to Homerton --that as their Tutor
he should not be precluded from entertaining the question
of a pastoral charge at any future time--was now being acted
upon. For although this first application referred to the
use of the Hall for preaching only, yet in the event of the
success of his ministry --of which his friends could not feel
a doubt-- means would then be adopted to proceed a step

further. In January, 1804, he wrote again to the King's
Head Society, to inform them, that "a wish had been ex

pressed by several persons who statedly attended on his
preaching at Homerton, that they might be formed into a
                                                        to meet for the present
Church    under  his   care  Aacsadtheemiry.p"astAors,   soon as the business
in the           of   the
          Hall
assumed this shape, which was not consistent with earlier

decisions of the Constituents of the College, by which they
had hitherto restrained their Eesident Tutor from such an
office, it was thought desirable to call a Special General
          to consider the subject.                           a resolution
Meeting   Mr. Smith's accepting      The result was          the pastoral
                                     and exercising
--"that
charge over a Church consisting of persons collected together
                                     isTuctoomr.p" atibBlye
at Homerton       by his ministry,                           with a due ex
ercise of his    office as Eesident                          the words--" of
122                 OF ADVANTAGE TO THE TUTOR.                     [l804.

                                                                             ministry"
persons collected together at Homerton by his
--the Committee plainly intimated, that the question was
not involved in those difficulties which would have attached to
it, had the Church which desired the Tutor for their Pastor
                           the College; or in
                              large and flourishing
been at a distance   from  aa                                the vicinity,
    had been at the  time                             a       body. Nor
it                                                      if,
was this            superfluous caution on their part. For while,
        if

                 a
on the one hand, they were justly solicitous to avoid giving
their sanction to their Tutor's attempting new class of duties,
                  remote in their sphere or of wide extent, would
which
trench upon the claims of an Institution of which they were

the guardians; they were also too sincerely attached to the
principles of the Congregational polity, to encourage any one

to become the Pastor of Christian Church unless he had

fair prospect of being able, consistently with existing ob
aa
        aligations, to meet the requirements of the Pastoral relation.
   -- Such was the origin of the Congregational Church which

few years later assembled for Christian worship at the

Old Gravel Pit Meeting House, and which continues to
assemble there to the present day -- society consisting of
                            a

not few persons eminent for their social worth, for their

great intelligence, for their liberal support of every good

cause and for their enlightened, scriptural piety.

Neither the Committee nor their Tutor could have foreseen
at the time what they were doing for the future -- future
still going on--when they cautiously, and not perhaps with   a
                                                                a
out some misgivings, opened room in comparatively small
house for Divine worship. Viewing this in regard to Mr. Pye
                            a
                                                a

Smith, not only brought him into connection with field
           it

of usefulness such as he had never entered upon before, and

thus called into exercise talents and dispositions which for
his own benefit, the lasting- benefit of multitudes, and above

all for the Divine glory, required scope of this kind; but

the increasing experience thus obtained of the pastoral life
in all its relations, may fairly be deemed the crowning attri
bute, without which his other high qualifications for the
important post of Theological Tutor could scarcely have
been pronounced complete. Instruction
in value, in proportion as  it                         sure to increase

                                 is
                                                   is
                            informed and animated by
careful self-discipline acquired in the practice of the rules
JET. 30.]  OF ADVANTAGE TO THE COLLEGE.            123

which the Teacher lays down. Whatever belonged to the
pulpit, in the different methods of presenting Scripture truth
to the congregation, and the public devotions of the house

of prayer--to the constitution, order, and government of a
Christian Church-1-- to pastoral visiting--or to the social in
tercourse of a minister with his people -- all these severally,
and from year to year with that variety which was sure to

arise in his own circle of actual duty, would come before

the students in a richer, riper, mellower form than if books

only had supplied the materials of the College lectures. And

the benefit would be greatly enhanced by the fact, that his

first feelings in connection with the realities of the office,

were in all their freshness and vigour at the very time when
he was beginning to expound its theoretical principles to the
students. How plainly may the Divine interposition be seen

in this whole arrangement ! The very caution shown by the
Committee is a proof that they could not descry at that

early day the benefits which were to accrue to the Institution

guarded by their vigilance, when they consented to allow
the latest of their Tutors, and the longest continued also,
to undertake a'pastoral charge. Nor is a Divine interposition

the less obvious on his part; for at that time there was
no prospect of his exchanging the classical department for

theology ; without which his experience as a Pastor must have
been far less advantageous to the College.

   The decision of the Committee operated favourably in other
respects. To say nothing of that strong because tender and
loving link between the College and the Church, found in

the man to whose heart both seemed alike dear, the early

members of the latter would retain to the end of life recol
lections and impressions of the most sacred kind, which had
been kindled and nurtured within the College walls :--the nar

rowness of the space tending to concentrate a more intense
thoughtfulness upon like point made luminous and warm
also by the use of lens. And this thoughtfulness was ever
finding expression in liberal contributions and in earnest
prayers, on behalf of the College. Nor can escape notice,
that as the neighbourhood in which the latter was placed,

was the same as that in which the Church members lived,
the Academic family could scarcely fail to derive some im-
           a
             it,
                         a

                                               it
124         ADVANTAGES TO THE CHURCH                    [l804.

  portant advantages from this source. Theoretically, indeed, it

  may be assumed that young men preparing for the Christian
  ministry ought to be safely independent of all that class of
 influences to which reference is here made. But as a question

 of fact --which has really to be considered -- if it is found true

  that the best of principles are at one age or in one set of
  circumstances subjected to a heavier strain than at another,

  topical appliances at such times may not only be of important

 service in obviating evil at the moment of greatest danger,
 but also in adding to the power of resisting evil when principle
 is the only safeguard. Expedients to prevent contagion from

 taking effect may secure far more than immunity from present

 disease :--they may send the person forward with a stock
 of health which will render him proof, so to speak, against
 future infection. And this is eminently true both in a physical
 and moral sense, where the young are concerned;.' Even in

 cases where this local influence was not formally thought, of
by any particular member of the academic family,, it was
scarcely possible, except from some strange- forgetfulness, or
from presumption which betokened moral weakness rather

than strength, that it should really be without . weight on
the conduct ; especially when it is remembered that for several
years the church and congregation met for worship in the

house where the students lived.

Without presuming to touch the general question, respect
ing the fitness of committing to one man a plurality of offices,
there are peculiarities in this case, both as it regards the Pastor
and his People, which favour the conclusion that the
of the arrangement were not confined to any one party.  benefits
                                                        Pastoral
visitation was the chief thing which was likely to suffer from
aneicttnhienuaoestdrutslhysoctentfhlhyfaeiemasfismransoirdwssmabsonytaoutdlflhoald--inftsghyhsrheoboiasourvttaCneohcndooecslmrblhoeaespgfyeioanen-crfgaoa:lgdmtetbihuivlpeutcieytltaalyyuciemnsaveostsoe.mefrnwetaihhrlAhlreibecesfyhrslyeoptochiemcukitcsah,netneigvwiwnebgocmeerurneoeil·andtfamtissoheoitnincenbs,ogrvtnihiodaselnitucdveiteeweiinedanaisgfn*s,¦
elsewhere.     On the other hand, the Church had the advantage
            learning of the Tutor. So far as time allowed and
of all the  was suitable, his large accumulations were placed as

the matter
JET. 80.] OF HAVING THE TUTOR FOR THEIR PASTOR.             125

freely before his people as before his pupils. The same frank
ness, the same noble generosity in using his stores, marked
each of the departments of what he seemed to regard as but one
field of labour. That intimate knowledge of the sacred writings,
that eininent skill in textual criticism, and that devout spirit of

exposition, which he cultivated in the first place chiefly with a
view to the duties of his theological class, came out in living
power for the use of his congregation also. The Tutor alone

mi;*, t have been satisfied with criticism, or the Pastor al ne

with fervour of feeling ; but when College and Church had
their Instructor in Mr. Pye Smith, it seemed as though he

could not confine criticism to the one, and save the feeling ex

clusively for the other : hence by a rare and most valuable com

bination, the Tutor and Pastor were seldom found apart either
in the class room or the pulpit. Totus in illis --might have

been his motto ; for his lectures were devout, while his sermons

were rich in valuable knowledge. To all who were inclined to
appreciate a full, scriptural style of preaching, where the facts,
doctrines, and duties of the Divine Word might be expected to

find a place according to their relative proportions, the ministry

at the Gravel Pit Meeting House was very attractive : and it
became so in a larger degree, in consequence of the labours

of the Pastor as a Tutor of the College.

   In other respects the union of the two offices was to the ad

vantage of the Church. By imparting to some of the members,
and by nourishing in others, a feeling of special interest in the

training of young men for the sacred work, much was done to
promote the growth of enlightened piety and zeal among them

selves. The closer the sympathy between the mature and the
young Christian --the deeper the solicitude
                                             which   an organised
Church feels respecting the welfare of the   rising
                                                     ministry --so

much the better will it be for the elder of the two as well as for
the younger. For on the one hand, age will impart caution
    :

             if,
                     a
and steadiness to youth, youth will give to age in return a

degree of energy and freshness which its own lack of vitality
cannot supply --just as tree covered with the hoar of years

    seen filled with its friuts in their season because has not
is                                     is

                                            a

                                                        it
tried to live on apart from the small and tender fibres which
are ever being added to its roots. It        sign of life as well

as an aid to when they who have survived the growing age,it,
are able to receive nourishment from their proximity to younger
and more vigorous natures.
126                           CHURCH COVENANT.                                         [l804.

   The way having thus been prepared for the formation of a
Congregational Church at Homerton, no time was lost in com

pleting the arrangements. On the 6th of March, 1804, seven
persons, six of whom had formed a part of the congregation

during the preceding three or four months, met ; and on the
ground of their confidence in each other's faith and piety, they

agreed to unite in Christian Fellowship. John Pye Smith's

name is found among the seven, his occupying the third place

in the order; and as the minutes are in his own hand, the

Eeader has an opportunity of observing the meekness and pro

priety which seemed to characterise him on every occasion ; for

not being at this moment in office, he is careful not to assume

the pre-eminence. As soon as the Church was constituted by
this voluntary union of Christians, the next step was to choose
one to take the oversight of them in the Lord : and as their
thoughts had been directed to one of their own number for
this work, that one withdrew, and the rest agreed to invite him
to be their Pastor. The invitation was given, and having been
accepted, Mr. Pye Smith's Pastoral Eelation dates from that
time.

   Among  tothtehepr"ocCeheudricnhgsCoovf etnhaantt"smmaullstconmotpabney,     the place
assigned                                                                    overlooked.

This was a document prepared by Mr. Smith; it was read
publicly, "all standing up in token of explicit acceptance."

Some passages will not be without interest to the Eeader, nor
are they without significance       in reference
                                                      to the. Author of the
document :--

hommdoboepe""onedmusxtRWaereonkfenslfceoh,oewatuwthmhanehfenecrooidksnsbmieagnsemgafnocdetaarhroemlrliemfnecdaseferpeoHproeaeofofrnfeoeldatyusehnsvnredaecoLndelSodeuorvsndnoeuStnrboamlJvjareeoieasslcuytruntiernisiofisggenuoCsnbwthlestonrGocdivsroeitptibd.hnoe,oewdatfehnwtretdoshileflwlto,ehresFaihsmanp,tdreShoaroeffnilteoerdss,rm,sbttwnhyht'heerCoathoalutievdegaevhnadle.lanoffnoctweheutcn,er-
Z ?W"^ ^the                          Thr6e Divine Persons ^°m TM adore as
Evveer?TMBlessed*
                                    Eternal and Unchangeable Godhead. We
*?" "^ ^**an^wl re^ HTrrmtym  One

TTM^^atfcJSNew TPSZV% ' ^       "·           and ="* of His <*"»* ·

                           PerfeCt
i2SiT^Xi*TT" - ^ ^ '^CWLu ed^acTorT

SSZ^^ tthe/nr^Ssincere purpose to
                                    TMTM°lef &°Urmfathithe>scarinpdturaess*o*TMf thge  Old and
                                    A* *
                                                                                       Solute
                                                           °f JeSUS
                   watch           i ?f His  ^TMcdh>
                                                       TM declare our mutual
                           t0*1**"****
                           over and encourage each    His Word appoints, our
                                                      other in all the duties of
JET. 30.]  CHURCH COVENANT.    127

gospel fellowship, and our resolution to cherish the holy influence of un
feigned and tender love, and that we will bear each other on our hearts in
our approaches to the throne of grace.

   " We profess ourselves bound by every obligation to honour God in our
families and before the world, by worshipping Him with our households
every morning and evening, by dispensing Scriptural instruction to our

children and servants, by our authority and influence, and by the holy con
sistency of a good conversation in Christ. --We gratefully admire the con
descension of Jesus in His appointment of the ordinance of Baptism for
believers and their infant seed: and we acknowledge the children whom
God has given or may give to any of us,' as one -with us in a peculiar

covenant relation, and as specially entitled to our united prayers, our

affectionate care, and every encouragement in our power to lead them
in the good ways of the Lord. We also bless the love and wisdom of our

Great Redeemer, for His institution of that ordinance by which His death
as the atonement for our souls is showed forth : and we consider those

alone as entitled to partake in that sacred ordinance, who make a serious
profession of faith in Christ and act in correspondence with that holy

profession.

   " This Solemn Covenant we make with the Lord our God, and with each
Other, not in our own strength, but in a humble reliance on the power and

grace of Christ, applied according to our constant necessities by the Holy

Spirit. To this grace we look for strength to perform every duty, and for
humiliation, repentance, and pardon in every instance of failure."

The document received the signature of each of the seven

persons present at the formation of the Church ; and then in

succession, the signature of the members in after years, down

to June, 1849. Long before the close, the Pastor's heart had

the joy of finding in the honourable series, the name of every

one of his four children who lived to be of mature age.

Parental counsels, example, and prayers were in this respect

crowned with God's blessing.

   Viewed as a composition, it will be observed that while the

Covenant is quite explicit on the prominent truths .of Eevela-

tion --the Trinity --the work of Christ--- and the Grace of the
Holy Spirit --it does not enter into the peculiarities of the
Calvinistic system; not however because the latter were in

compatible with the Pastor;s belief, but simply because he did

not wish to shut up his Church within narrower limits than
appeared requisite for scriptural purity of communion. An

evident absence of a dogmatic  characterizes the doc

trinal passages ; and in harmony with this, is the omission

of every attempt to explain  the articles which the subscribing
parties agreed to profess.   Equally clear is the large propor-
128 HIS ORDINATION.                                                               [l804.

tion of practical matter as compared with the doctrinal ;
serving to show that the principal design was to render the

Covenant subservient to the purpose of regulating and matur

ing the Christian life, rather than to furnish an elaborately
prepared creed which might occasion controversies in the

Church, or prevent its free growth from without. In all
these respects it discovers the fine spirit and sagacity of the

new Pastor, which was not the less remarkable, inasmuch as

at that early day a considerable degree of strictness in these

matters of form very generally prevailed. Yet, on the other
hand, although it is well known that the practice of using

such documents has rapidly declined in the Congregational
Churches during the last few years, -- and even the princi

ple has been in many cases repudiated,-- it may be well to

state  the    fact, simply as a  fact, that in Dr. Smith's pastor
ship,          Covenant was for  many years read on the admission
       " the

of new members to the Church almost invariably-- but as

those admissions became more frequent, it was only read occa
           perhaps   three or four times a year :-- it never fell out
sionally,   Letter  from Henry Butt, Esq., one of the Deacons of
of use."

the Church at the Gravel Pit Meeting House : dated Clapton,

February 16, 1852.

   The next step in the history of the newly-formed society
was the public ordination of Mr. Pye Smith to the pastoral
office. This took place on Thursday, April 11, 1804 ; and as
the Hall of the Academy was not nearly large enough to
accommodate the ministers and members of other Churches

who were expected to attend on such an occasion, the Meeting
House in New Broad Street, London, was kindly offered for
the service.

   Among      twheell-eknngoawgenmepnhtrsasoe--f thheelddaay   the Confession of  faith
--to use a                                                    prominent place.
                                                                                  This
was drawn up by the person to be ordained, and was then read
m public, in the form of answers to a series of questions put
to him by one of the officiating Pastors. His creea, some
ttwmaioocoicnnrotkaihsu,letniseattrrsm,e,oetfathanhehlodtihdstosohurpisegitclhhisgpeiuinonirnuptscorsoosundehbsussistectaqeoanudrnteyldyn,;t-apholibylaslseneasomrrvsfoeinwdttivhheeeicbsnhytsefawortmihreneergebueCucnaoopginfmroogenreirmneaggbtithlayeea-
JET. 80.]  HIS ORDINATION.  129

has not been maintained. In stepping out of private life, and

in thus seeking to be received into a fellowship of Pastors and
Churches, the Pastor-elect of that day was not only willing, but
commendably anxious to give that amount of publicity to his
personal sentiments and feelings which might fairly be deemed
commensurate --yet not more than commensurate --with the
new and enlarged relationships into which he was entering.

Nor can there be a doubt, that the frankness manifested on the

one side, secured on the other a response of devout and

affectionate sympathy, and a general cordiality of welcome,

scarcely to be anticipated, at least by new men whose real

position may be said to be as yet in the future, if while ex

pecting the confidence of others they display a close reserve
themselves. Of all Churches, none should be more thoroughly

united than the Congregational : for if they have few or none

of those mechanical bandages by which a rigid uniformity
of outline is made visible in some communities --their life,

their free action, should be the greater ; and as they are one
in spirit and principle, their tendency to the truest and

closest union should be spontaneous and strong. In like

manner, no ministers ought to excel those of the Con
gregational Body, in all that distinguishes the trustfulness

of one mind in another. The very independence, which is
their glory, seems to lose its charm whenever it is made

a plea for isolation. Because they can if they think proper

speak out of the fulness of the heart-- no man forbidding or
constraining them--taciturnity, shyness, reserve, should in
their case be all but impossible. Accordingly, at ordination

services, --if with less of technicality of detail than was at
one time common --if the creed were not so expanded in the
letter, nor the experience so circumstantially related--if with

less of the license of liberty, there were more of that pro
found love of freedom which would prompt the Pastor-elect

to open his heart generously to his Fathers and Brethren

in the ministry, a singularly vivifying influence would come
down upon them ; of which he would reap the benefit in sym
pathy and prayers, in wise counsels, in a cordial spirit of wel
come, and in the kindest encouragement, which might tend to

hold him up in honour, usefulness, and comfort to the latest
hour of his life.

   The following was Mr. Pye Smith's confession of faith at

                                                                                               K
130                  CONFESSION OF FAITH,        [l804.

his ordination, which is here copied at length from his own
manuscript.

" So far, Bev. Sir, from being reluctant to comply with your
request, or from deeming it any infraction of the right of
Iconscience, rejoice to have this very solemn opportunity of
Iavowing those sentiments which  firmly believe to be the
Ieternal truth of God.  decline availing myself of Scripture

Ilanguage, because ambiguity and error might be disingenuously
concealed under it.  have endeavoured to be concise, but

Imust beg leave to be explicit.                  believe to be the
   " The universe of matter and finite mind
Iwork of a glorious First Cause, a Pure Spirit, possessing
in an infinite degree all possible perfections.  consider the

structure and operations of this universe as amply sufficient

to enable all creatures possessed of ordinary understanding,

to infer a complete scheme of moral obligations, if they have a

proper disposition of heart. But, with regard to the human

race, such is our wicked and utterly inexcusable perversion of

our voluntary and active powers, that not an instance could

ever be adduced, of one among the apostate children of men
whose native disposition was good enough to make a right

use of those bright intimations of Himself which God has

so abundantly bestowed.

   " These being the circumstances of men, it has pleased God

in his infinite and unmerited benevolence, to grant a super

natural Bevelation of all religious truth necessary or useful for

man to know. This Bevelation is attested to be real and
Divine by a grand body of evidence, so various, clear, and full,

that none can reject it who have the means of knowledge,

except from    the interested   motives of reigning lusts, the in
fatuation of  enmity to' God
                               and all goodness. --This Bevelation

is contained in the Sacred Books which form the Old and New

Testament, and which were composed by their respective

writers under such a complete and plenary inspiration of

heaven as was perfectly adapted and adequate to the design of

Ieach part. The genuine text of these Holy Writings, ascer

tained by strict and sound criticism, receive as a full, pure,
unmixed declaration of Divine Truth, and as the unerring
standard of religious sentiment and duty.

   "Taught by these infallible oracles, and disclaiming all

submission to the authorities, explications, and evasions of
JET. 80.]              AT HIS ORDINATION.             131

Imen and sects, profess my firm belief in the true, proper, and
everlasting Deity of
glorious Father ;--in  the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
the Son, the Word           Gtroude;,--praonpder
                       the                         and everlasting Deity of
                                                  in the true, proper and
                       of
Ieverlasting Deity of the Eternal and Holy Spirit.
                                                      believe
.that these scriptural terms are designedly expressive of a real

plurality of subsistence in the one Godhead, a Trinity of Per
sons in the perfect Unity of Essence. The knowledge of this
truth, in all its infinite comprehension, can be possessed only
by the Infinite mind, the Triune Jehovah himself. But in my
apprehensions, it is a doctrine by no means antecedently in

credible to the soundest dictates of reason, and is most satis

factorily revealed in the oracles of God.
   " This Infinitely Glorious and Excellent Being, the Per

fection of all natural and moral good, in His sovereign benevo

lence has determined to diffuse His communicable fulness,

by the creation of a material universe and a system of finite
intelligence ; and by an almighty, wise and holy constitution

of natural and moral government. The rule of God's moral

government is a Law which makes only the demand of perfect

love and obedience to Him who is infinitely deserving of it ;

a law which is righteous, holy and glorious; a law whose
obligation on every accountable creature is for ever unalien

able and supreme. The violation of this law is sin; which

Iwhether viewed in single acts, or as an habitual state of the

mind, most firmly believe to be entirely voluntary and wilful
on the part of the sinner, and to be in its own nature a crime

infinitely wicked, base and hateful, and most justly deserving
eve"rGlaosdtingcrpeautneidshmtheent.first man in a state of complete, yet

necessarily dependent integrity, and by a constitution most
gracious and wise, appointed him the covenant head of all his

posterity. Being treated on the ground of absolute justice,

and righteously left to himself, he voluntarily departed from
his original rectitude, and brought himself with all who

descend from him in the ordinary course of nature, into a

state of sin, and a consequent train of misery, interminable

except by a sovereign interposition of Infinite Power and Love.
Such an interposition the Ever -Blessed God, the Father, Son,

and Holy Spirit, has been pleased to make, by another con

stitution usually called the Covenant of Grace. In this Cove-

                                                  k2
132  CONFESSION OF FAITH,  [l804.

nant the Three Adorable Persons in the Godhead sustain
distinct offices, in harmonious co-operation and united glory.
To the Father peculiarly belongs the exercise of the rights of
Deity, as Sovereign, Lawgiver, Judge and Vindicator of recti

tude. The Son constituted the Second Covenant Head of
mankind, but with an especial respect to the objects of a
personal and sovereign election, takes upon Himself the rela

tion and responsibility of man, and becomes a subject of the
Divine government, the servant and messenger of the- Father,
the Mediator between God and man. To the Holy Spirit the

charge is especially assigned of rendering efficient the whole
work of saving mercy, by the personal application of its
blessings to the souls of men.

   " At the time which Divine wisdom saw to be most fit, the
Eternal Son of God, in correspondence with the federal rela

tion that He had assumed, actually united himself to, the

human nature, in the man Jesus. He was born in a mira
culous manner, pure from any taint of original and actual
sin. He gave the fullest evidences of His Divine character

and mission. In his lowest humiliation the rays of His

Eternal Majesty shone from beneath the fleshly tabernacle.

In His representative and federal character, He rendered

to the precepts and to the just sanction of the holy law those
honours which only Deity could render. His obedience and
His sufferings possess the value of Divine and Infinite
dignity : so that in Him there is an infinite superabundance
of justifying righteousness and atoning merit, in triumphant

counteraction to the awful ravages of sin. Exalted from His
humiliation to the delegated exercise of universal dominion,
He reigns as the ever-glorious Prophet, Priest and King of
His Church. He directs and accomplishes all the purposes
and provisions of the everlasting covenant; and when He
shall have completed them, He will consummate His media
torial reign, by determining as an Omniscient and Bightequs
Judge, the characters and the everlasting state of men and

angels.

   " On this unchangeable foundation, the true and proper
Godhead of the Lord Jesus Christ and the consequent infinite
value of His mediation, all the blessings of this constitution
of grace are to be freely offered, as the gift of sovereign love,
to every child of man without exception : and it is the indis-
2ET. 30.]               AT · HIS ORDINATION.                     133

pensable duty of all who have an opportunity of hearing this
call from heaven, to believe these glad tidings, to repent,

to renounce from the heart and for ever all their sins, and

to give themselves entirely to the Lord Jesus as His faithful
subjects and servants. --Yet, notwithstanding the amplitude
and the sincerity of this most free and gracious call, so deep-

rooted and desperate is the base wickedness of men, that we

universally refuse to listen to the voice of heavenly authority

and love. -- Though there is no obstacle whatever in the way,

except such as is created by the inexcusable badness of our
own hearts, we still reject and trample upon the blood and the

grace of Jesus; and many of our rebellious race have the

audacious impiety of adding to their unbelief the blasphemous
aggravation of imputing it to the pure and holy God !

   " He to whom all things are naked and open, from eternity

foreknew all this hardened wickedness of men : but still He

resolved that amazing grace should triumph. In forming

therefore the mighty scheme of natural and moral necessity,
by which the universal system of positive being is indissolubly

connected with Jehovah's sovereign will, --the Father chose
in Christ an innumerable multitude of vile, guilty, and hell-

deserving mortals ; and ordained them to holiness and eternal

life. He gave them to the Mediator, as the especial objects of

His redeeming love. -- In the successive periods of time, the
Holy. Spirit executes upon them His own gracious part in the

economy of salvation. He communicates a spiritual discovery

of the glory and beauty of God and His truth. He gives a
right disposition of heart that they may be properly affected

with that discovery. He effectually convinces them of the in
finite vileness of sin, and the glorious fitness and equity of

God's eternal vengeance against it. He leads them, humbled

and self-despairing, to behold, love and accept the Lord Jesus

Christ, with all His inestimable blessings, as He is freely
offered in the gospel. He makes them partakers of a Divine

nature, by communicating a measure of His own holiness.
He carries on this work of spiritual renovation in all its parts

and exercises, subduing sin, exalting the Saviour, and forming

for the heavenly state, --till He infallibly conducts to that im
mortal glory all His elect, redeemed and sanctified people.'--

Most earnestly   do we  maintain the indispensable    necessity  of
all holiness in  heart  and life ;--and that the sad   distance  of
134  CONFESSION OF FAITH,                               []804.

believers from perfect purity is at once their inexcusable

Iwickedness and their sincere lamentation.
   " believe in the Holy Catholic Church, consisting of all the
sanctified on earth and in heaven, vitally united to Christ their

IHead and Lord, and with Him forming one glorious body.
also acknowledge the scriptural institution of Congregational
Churches, during the militant state of a part of the Eedeemer's
followers --and the divine appointment of a gospel ministry for

their instruction and government. Such Societies have the

promise of their Saviour's abiding presence, while they remain

faithful to His truth and His laws. They have an unalienable

right in the name of Christ, to exercise godly discipline, and to

choose their own Pastors and Deacons. Their pastors thus

legally chosen and scripturally ordained, are authorised and

bound by every principle of love and loyalty to Jesus their

Sovereign, to labour in the word and doctrine, to use faithfully

the keys of government, and to administer to proper subjects

the seals of the gospel-covenant. -- These Divinely instituted

seals are Baptism and the Lord's Supper. Baptism is the

washing with water into the name of the Ever-Blessed and

Holy Trinity, and is the rite of initiation into the visible king
dom of Christ, entitling its proper subjects to all Church-privi

leges suitable to their capacity. It is to be administered to

those who make an honourable avowal of faith in Christ, and to

their infant seed ; but to none besides, till they credibly profess
subjection to the gospel. The Lord's Supper is the partaking

of bread and wine, as a commemoration of that great atoning
sacrifice which Jesus presented when He made His soul- an

offering for sin. To this holy feast none ought to be admitted

except those who give satisfactory evidence of saving knowledge,
faith, and love to the Eedeemer: but it is the happiness and
duty of all such to remember their Lord in this affecting ob
Iser"vancbee,liewviethinfretqhueendciyv,inepuanpcptuoainlittmy eannt dofhocliyvidl emvaogtiiostnr.acy, in
the duties of conscientious subjection and loyalty, and in that
of unresisting patience when called to suffer any consequences
Iof declining to obey sinful commands  though enforced
                                                        by right
ful authority.
" believe in the existence and agency of angelic spirits, both
holy and apostate; in the conscious and active state of human
souls after death ; and in the resurrection by the power of God
JET. 30.]                AT HIS ORDINATION.                     135

Iof a refined and immortalised body from the germ of that which

is sown in corruption. -- beheve that apostate spirits, and all

who die out of Christ among men, will meet with no more than

their righteous and equitable desert in the punishment of exclu

Ision from God and the infliction of just vengeance to an ever

lasting duration.--And believe in the everlasting life of per
fect blessedness, as the free gift of the Father through our Lord

Jesus Christ, to elect angels upheld by grace ; and to elect men

redeemed and called and preserved by the same riches of grace,
out of all kindreds, tribes and nations under heaven. -- Thus

will the mystery of God be developed and finished ; and thus

will the eternal state of angels and men be finally determined

by the Lord the Messiah, at His glorious appearing as the
Omniscient and Infallible Judge of the world.

   " With an habitual regard to that awful day, and under an

Iawakening sense of my accountableness to that Holy Judge --
desire to preach these great doctrines, in their evidence, connec

tions, and practical improvements, as the Truth which is accord

ing"  to Godliness, the  Glorious Gospel of the  Blessed  God.
      Amen. Even so                          "
                         come  Lord  Jesus
                                            !

Comparing the " confession " with the Church Covenant, the

brevity of the latter will appear more striking than when viewed

Ifsimply by itself. There was great wisdom as well as a becoming
modesty in this.         other persons were to subscribe to a creed
of his compiling, he was careful-- as we have seen --not to load

it with articles, or to give it for the use of people generally

technical or metaphysical expressions fitted only for the schools.

But when called to speak publicly for himself, then it became

him to indulge in greater fulness and nicety of language : and

as he was known to stand in an important relation to an Insti

tution for training young men for the Christian ministry, he
might be fairly allowed to expound his sentiments concerning
Christian doctrine at a length not called for merely by the cir
cumstances of his ordination over a particular Church :--a con
sideration rendered in a high degree probable by the fact, that

the length of the answer which has been given is more than five

times greater than that of the other three put together, as though

he purposely abbreviated the latter, in order to leave ample time
and space for the former, to which the greatest importance would

be attached.
106             CONFESSION OF FAITH.  [1804.

  In reviewing  the whole, it is  obvious that what he did on this
                                  at in the light acquired from a
occasion must   not be looked
knowledge of his productions at a much later period of his life.
The true point of observation is that which regards him as now
for the first time, and therefore prior to all experience, entering
on the responsibilities of the pastoral office. He had been a
Tutor for more than three years, and his position was rapidly
growing in firmness and power; yet with that simplicity which
is one of the characteristics of true greatness, he was as far from
pomp or pedantry at his ordination, as the meekest of his pupils
could have been on going fresh from the College to take the
oversight of a people in the Lord. Whatever might have
been thought or felt by the ministers and members of Churches
who were present, it must have been a touching sight to the

true-hearted of his students to see him answering a series of

questions in a public assembly with such humility and piety.

The force of such gentleness could not fail to be felt. And as

there was no lavish reference to the Divine Fountain whence
he drew his principles and his spirit, the result might remind
a spectator of the golden tinge on the tips of clouds, to be
seen often when the sun itself--the source of light --is below

the horizon.

  It may be proper to mention that although he now began

his regular ministry as a settled Pastor, his services in the
pulpit had been in such great request, that from the date of his

coming to Homerton up to the opening of the College Hall
for worship, he had preached at various places in London and

the country more than two hundred and twenty times. It

was not therefore from any want of ministerial work on the

Lord's day that he was anxious to secure a congregation of

his own; but rather to gratify an earnest desire for the pastoral

office which he had cherished for many years ; and which --as
the Beader will have observed --was not allayed, either by the

flattering invitations he received to become a Tutor, or by an
actual and a very acceptable discharge of the important duties

of that function. Studious and literary as he eminently was, it is

no less obvious that he was eminently zealous and laborious;
and on this account his qualifications were of a higher kind, and

had far more of adaptation to their real purpose --the training
of young men for the Christian ministry --than if he had been

content to confine his efforts to the lecture room of the College.
JET. 30.]   AT HIS ORDINATION.                          137

Yet his early and ardent feelings of attachment to the pastoral
relation might not have been sustained in full vigour for the
benefit of his Theological Class, had not the accomplishment

of his wishes by his own ordination tended first to mature his

endowments as a Tutor, and then to perpetuate their vitality to
the end of his public life. Nor can we over-estimate the

advantages which his piety and activity would derive from his

new class of duties. From this source, his Christian affections
and their appropriate expression in words and deeds, drew no

small part of the rich variety and fulness which were ever more

and more unfolded in the progress of his earthly but heaven

ward pilgrimage as a disciple of Christ. To be a Pastor of a

Church, suggested motives of great power, and furnished

means of remarkable adaptation to one of his temperament,

for that constant growth in grace for which he was distin
Ifguished.
            the inner man gave shape and direction to the

conduct, it was like healthful exercise which does not exhaust
but invigorates :--his ordination to a public work of the highest

responsibility proved an abundant blessing to himself.
CHAPTEE IX.

LETTERS TO BELSHAM --THEIR OCCASION AND SCOPE --THEIR STYLE-
      LETTER FROM HIS AUNT, MRS. PTE-- ORIGIN OF ECLECTIC REVIEW --
      AUTOBIOGRAPHY --BECOMES THEOLOGICAL TUTOR --DEATH OF AN IN

     FANT--REV. ABRAHAM BOOTH.

The work entitled, Letters to the Rev. Thomas Belsham on

some Important Subjects of Theological Discussion, was first
published in August, 1804. That edition, a copy of which the

compiler of this narrative has never seen, appears to have been

exhausted in about nine or ten months, when a second edition

was issued in May, 1805.

Not only was this the first of Mr. Pye Smith's productions

which carried his name far beyond the limits of hie own circle

of connections ; but there can be no doubt that it was the

earliest visible link in the chain of circumstances which led to

the greatest and most valuable of his labours. Brief as the

' Letters ' are, they abundantly show how well he was pre
pared even at that period with the principles, the arguments,

the learning, the calmness, the equity, and all the other
qualifications for thoroughly discussing one of the most im

portant, and the most widely-related of all theological ques
                                           expectations--which
tions. Nor could the work fail to excite
                                           strength being given
time so happily realized --that space and

he would not be wanting in purpose of heart to use them to
the utmost, in prosecuting the inquiry. One remarkable ex
ample of clear insight into the then future of his life, is worthy
of being mentioned ; and the more because it came from the
other side of the Atlantic, where no knowledge beyond that
supplied by the ' Letters ' themselves could afford a clue to
his progress. In a communication from Dr. Williams to his
former pupil, dated Harrowgate,    April 6, 1806 ; a passage occurs
                                   of which contains a conjecture
as a postscript --the last clause
.7ET. 30.]      LETTERS TO BELSHAM.    139

obtained from a single, and as it might be thought narrow
point of view ; and yet it was admirably verified through a

Ilong course of years of ever-expanding usefuhiess :-- " have
received lately a Letter from Dr. Green, of Philadelphia (to
Iwhom had
I think it but  sent a copy of your    Letters to Belsham) and
                right that you should  have the following part of

it : ' Smith's Letters to Belsham are indeed excellent, and

I Ithere is a talk of reprinting them in this country. think

have never seen the Calvinistic doctrines asserted and illus

trated in so small a compass, with as much ability and clearness

as is done by your young friend. There are a few blemishes

in the style which however have no effect on the general merit

of the work; and in my opinion he is more charitable to

Dr. Priestley, and more civil to Belsham, than there was any
call for. But if he has erred here, it is certainly on the safer
Ifside than the opposite.
                             Mr. Smith's life be spared, the
Icause of genuine religion will, prognosticate, find in him one
of its ablest advocates.' "

   The occasion of the ' Letters ' may be briefly stated. For
seventy or eighty years prior to the time when they were
published, the Old Gravel Pit Meeting House had had a
succession of ministers of Arian or Socinian sentiments. After
a pastorate there of more than twenty years, Dr. Bichard Price
died in 1791. He was followed by Dr. Joseph Priestley, who

remained in the office until 1794 : and then on his removal to

America in that year, the Eev. Thomas Belsham occupied the
post up to 1805, when he left for the Unitarian Chapel in
Essex Street, in the Strand, of which he continued minister

until near the close of his life, in 1829. Now as Dr. Priestley
and Mr. Belsham held the same sentiments, and had been
personal friends as well as connected with the same congrega

tion, there were several motives to induce the latter to take
public notice of the death of his celebrated predecessor, as
soon as that event was known in this country. Dr. Priestley

died February 6, 1804, and in the following April, Mr. Belsham

delivered a discourse on the occasion, which was afterwards
printed, and a copy sent by the author to Mr. Pye Smith.
The ' Letters ' arose out of the contents of this Discourse.

   The vicinity of the two congregations--the one at the Old
Gravel Pit Meeting House, and the other in the Hall of the
140    LETTERS TO BELSHAM.                 [l804.

Academy --the exigencies of the new and small society, as con

trasted with a body which at that time was numerous and

inflaential --his office as a Tutor in a College from which more

than one student had been removed for holding sentiments not
in harmony with those which the Institution maintained- --
above all, the clear and strong convictions of his own judgment
and heart on the points at issue between Mr. Belsham and
himself-- compelled Mr. Pye Smith to enter the field of contro

versy on this occasion. Other motives also had their weight,
as may be learned from the ' Letters ' themselves. Foremost
among these was one which arose from the exaggerated de
scription which the Author of the Discourse had given of what

he called Calvinism. This was deemed unfair, unjust, and, in
substance, untrue -- a caricature, and not a likeness. To correct
the injurious tendency of such a representation --to put the
doctrines of the Bible in a fairer light before the world, both

for the glory of their Divine Bevealer and the good of mankind
-- appeared an imperative duty. Scarcely less important was
it to examine the commendations which were bestowed on Dr.

Priestley in the Discourse of his friend ; for indiscriminate
eulogy is apt to produce confidence which may lead astray
rather than guide in a safe path. The eminent talents and the
great uprightness of character which distinguished the de
ceased philosopher are, indeed, freely acknowledged ; but when
he was set forth as a paragon of learning, on whose decisions
implicit reliance might be placed, then it became necessary, to
subject his claims to careful examination ; and the result is, on

evidence which cannot fairly be set aside, that as a critical
guide in controverted theological questions, Dr. Priestley is not
an authority.

Before coming to the style in which the 'Letters' are
written, there is a passage in the Advertisement to the second
edition which ought not to be left unnoticed. In some Re-.
marks published by Mr. Belsham on the appearance of the
first edition, Mr. Pye Smith's attention was directed to a part
of his animadversions in which he had evidently mistaken the
design of the sermon recently preached at the Gravel Pit
Meeting House. On learning the fact, he thus alludes to it :--
  He   had egregiously misapprehended Mr.
^in a  passage of his sermon animadverted  Belsham's meaning
                                           upon in the eighth
ET. 80.]  THEIR SPIRIT AND STYLE.                                  141

Letter. The whole of that animadversion, which was of a

nature totally unconnected with any other argument, is now
expunged ; and the author gratefully acknowledges his obliga

tion to his opponent for the correction of that error." --Any
thing more frank and manly than this in such a case cannot

be imagined. There is no attempt to evade the difficulty; no
fencing with ambiguous words ; no sparing of the right term to
mark, not an opponent's oversight, but his own. He had
egrcgioudg misapprehended Mr. Belsham's meaning, and he

has the courage to say so. He entirely omits the passage in
which the error had occurred ; and he " gratefully acknow
ledges his obligation to his opponent for the correction of that

         -- si sic omnes!

   The work, as will be supposed, is written throughout in a
spirit akin to the above admission. Indeed the observation

made by Dr. Green, of Philadelphia, has been in substance

repeated by many --that Dr. Pye Smith was inclined to be

too mild, too courteous in his controversial writings, of which
defeot, as they think, these ' Letters ' to Belsham supply many

examples. And there can be no doubt that some remarkably
popular methods of advocating truth, owe a large portion of
their influence and celebrity-- over and above what is due to
the pure force of argument and evidence --to the pungent and

even sarcastic phrases used by their respective authors. Some
theological leaders in almost every department into' which
Christendom is divided, have employed then- prowess in wield

ing terms of such cutting or crushing import, that few have

had the courage, to say nothing of the power, to stand before
them; --very much in the way in which elephants were used

in Indian armies, sometimes to tread down the jungle, and at

others to spread confusion and dismay throughout the oppos

ing host. In other cases where the style has been less vehe

ment and denunciatory, there has been a tone and an air of

triumph clearly notifying to  the reader   on  w'Lheicthtesridse'  he was to
look for victory. But the                 the                      could not
                              author of

indulge in either of these methods of conducting controversy.

So far indeed was he from anything of this kind, that he could

not stand by either to exult himself, or to wait for the applause

of others to reach him, on the discomfiture of any opponent.

His simply modest, his almost abashed looks at times hi imme-
142               LETTERS TO BELSHAM.                                         [1804.

diate connection with a thoroughly decisive argument, might
hvaavnequleisdheadcapsauratlyb:--y-sbtuatndtehristowimoualgdinebethaqtuihtee  was a mortified,
                                                                              a mistake; for

these were the indications of his success :--serving to remind
one of a noble-hearted General who had courage for everything
excepting the sight of the havoc of that field on which he had

won his laurels.

   On a calm review of the style of the ' Letters,' no one can
now desire the absence of that quality by which they are pre
eminently distinguished. The arguments, to which the im
portance solely belongs, appear in stronger relief from the
unobtrusiveness of the setting in which they are placed: and
the judgment of the Eeader is likely to be prepossessed in
favour of the Author's views, when he sees how completely he
dispenses with all demands upon the feelings and passions in
aid of his design. Yet this command of himself was infinitely
remote from any indifference to the great questions in debate.

It was neither a real nor an affected coolness. The depth of

his piety forbade either the one or the other. He felt intensely
the truth of his sentiments, for they were to him not opinions
or beliefs merely, but the sole elements of his spiritual life;

and because this was the case, his great desire was to commend

them to others with as little of the alloy of human infirmity as

possible. He had no party purposes to answer. In such a

spirit, moreover, should a necessity arise for carrying the con

troversy further, he would not be embarrassed at the outset
by any injurious effect on his own temper hitherto ; nor would
his course be impeded by a set of secondary complaints lodged
against him on the other side. The way would thus be clear

of all extraneous difficulties --an important consideration where
truth and religion are concerned. Equally plain is that

an opponent should contemplate rejoinder, he would have to
address himself solely to the reasoning which had been ad
duced from which, indeed,, there would be no means of
escaping by outlets which heat of feeling and vituperation
might have opened. Both parties would be kept to the point.
Truth would be sought by its own light, and found on the
strength of its own evidence while model for controversial
writing would be furnished, to the credit of the Author, and
worthy of imitation by the Church.
                  a
                                                   it,

                                                       if

     ;

                  ;

                                a
jET. SO.] UTILITY OF THE QUOTATIONS THEY CONTAIN.                                              148

   Notwithstanding their comparative brevity, the ' Letters '

are marked by clear traces of the writer's determination to go
to original sources for the facts on which he builds his infer

ences and appeals. His power, and therefore his success --
and as a further consequence his sohd reputation --lay much

in the possession and vigilant culture' of this habit. And as

his keen appreciation of truth had often been shocked by ex

amples of seriously misleading errors, of egregious blunders,

and even of seemingly wilful departures from accuracy of

statement -- all of which might have been avoided if care had
been used to consult and cite the proper authorities --he was

not only anxious to pursue an opposite course, but to make it

evident that he did this by the abundance of his quotations.

We are so constituted, that any man who can thus go back into
the past, and live there long enough to become well acquainted

with its productions, its life, will be sure to meet with a place

of usefulness and therefore of influence in the present, pro

vided he has the sagacity to direct his acquisitions to a wise

purpose. Hence, in Mr. Pye Smith's case, with a competency

of knowledge seldom at fault, and with the strictest integrity

in using how rarely had he to retreat from ground which he
         '
had once deliberately taken in the field of controversy Be
           it it,           aa
cause he was careful even to fastidiousness in laying in his a

treasures, he could not avoid being intelligently conscientious                             !
Ifin applying them aright.
                            his literary credit was high and

commanding, the great pains which he bestowed to ensure the

sterhng worth of his accumulations, must ever claim the chief

regard of all who would emulate his example.

   The number of illustrative passages from classical authors

which have no direct bearing on the topics discussed, impart,

   has been alleged, somewhat of pedantic air to the work
it

     a
as whole. This may be correct in point of criticism, and

therefore          should not be used as precedent. But the case

wears another aspect. Many of the thoughts contained in the

'  Letters were either suggested by, or reminded the writer

of similar thoughts which he had met with in his classical

reading. To avoid therefore the assumption of originality,

or rather perhaps to sustain this early production of his pen

by authorities which few would call in question--thus shelter
ing his diffidence behind great names --he quotes to larger

extent than he otherwise would have done. Besides, as this
144                    LETTER FROM HIS AUNT, MRS. PYE.                          [l804.

was his first appearance before the world in a controversy
                                                    the right interpretation of the
worhigerinealsotexmtuocfhScdreippetnudreed---tohne  passages quoted and their trans

lation, would serve as vouchers of both his mental and moral

qualifications for the service in which he had ventured to

engage. The very fact of the classical passages being out of
the range of the questions in dispute could not fail the more
fully to accredit the writer when he gets upon debateable
ground, and were therefore of no small benefit in furthering

his main design. To have taken such a theme out of the
common-places of theological controversy --to have raised it
entirely above the ordinary sermonizing style--to have sur

rounded it with a glowing interest, while, notwithstanding, it
has none of the vulgarity of mere party feeling -- and .to have

done this at a time when such a method was new and un
trodden-- was to secure something for himself on the score of

ability, but inconceivably more for the subject to which that

ability had been applied.

tioAnmoofntgheth'eLecottnegrsra,'tuhleatiwoonusldwhniocht  he received on the   publica
                                                           a little value some  remarks

addressed to him by his Great Aunt, Mrs. Pye. After referring

to a conversation between Dr. Williams and                 herself^ respecting
                                                            were also pleased
the work, she says :--" Now, my dear sir; we

with the spirit with which you have written these Letters. > Be

humble and thankful, that the Lord has enabled you to stand-

up so nobly in the defence of the great truths of the Gospel.

The Lord bless you, and fit you more and more for your great

Iwork. The Lord has done great things for you, and hope he
will continue His goodness to you to the end of life." In a
                       "dear and honoured"
reply    to  this      the very kind manner in              Lady, Mr. Pye       Smith';
writes                                                     which you express     your
        --"  For

Ifself concerning the Letters lately published, accept my sincere
thanks.                it please the Lord to own the humble effort for
allestablishing and promoting His cause,
                                                           the honour will be due
                        and nothing belongs to me
tgoratHitiumdsee.l"f,  Mrs. Pye was at this date about     but humiliation and
                                                           seventy-five years of
age: and it may not be unworthy of a brief record that, so far as
the means of information extend, this venerable Lady was the
first to use a name dear to her for her husband's sake, in the

accurately distinctive manner which has long since become
JET. 31.]  ORIGIN OF THE ECLECTIC REVIEW.  145

general, to designate one whose paternal name was among the
most common, and in that respect the least significant in our
country. Her Letter begins " My dear Mr. Pye Smith." The

writer died April 10, 1809.

   Between the appearing of the first and second editions of the
Letters to Belsham, the Eclectic Review was started ; of which,
as it was to be issued monthly, the first number came out in
January, 1805. Whether Mr. Pye Smith took an active part

in the preliminary arrangements, cannot perhaps now be as
certained : the probability is that he did, both from his posi

tion and learning, and also from his being among the earliest

contributors to the work. For some years after the com
mencement of the Review, it was conducted on a principle of

compromise, which involved the maintenance of neutrality both

on the points of difference between Churchmen and Dissenters,
and on those also which separated the Wesleyan Body from
other Nonconformists holding Calvinistic sentiments. From
the very decided cast of Mr. Pye Smith's convictions on each

of the subjects thus placed under an interdict, if he prepared

articles for the Eclectic he would have to confine himself to
works which did not touch either upon Ecclesiastical Polity or
the controverted doctrines. And accordingly we find that while
this compact lasted, his attention as a Eeviewer was directed
chiefly to Philology and Natural Philosophy, with an article
occasionally on Biography.

The earliest of his contributions was a review of the Life of
Gilbert Wakefield, inserted in the Eclectic for January and

February. And as the Life had been written by its own sub

ject, an opportunity was afforded for some introductory remarks
on the interest attaching to autobiographical memoirs. These
remarks are not a little singular as contrasted with the deep

silence    cwlohseichofthheisEoewvineweemrinmeanitnlytaiinnsetdrurcetsivpeectliifneg. --him" Istelcfadnnoowtn,
to the

we conceive, reasonably be doubted that the first rank in utility,
though not perhaps in splendour of biographical writings,
belongs to the commentaries which individuals distinguished
for talents, piety or remarkable fortunes, have given to their
contemporaries or bequeathed to posterity, of their own affairs
and the times in which they lived. An upright mind will be
146           AUTOBIOGRAPHY.                    [1805.

more severe toward itself, more impartial in the representation
of errors and faults, and more diffident in the assertion of
meritorious actions, than either partizans or opponents, how

ever cautious the former, or candid the latter may be. The
records of inspiration, in a great measure, come under this
description. Who is not charmed with the generous and open

Ifsimplicity, which stands a supreme and unrivalled character
in the histories of prophets and evangelists ?  the lives and

confessions even of such enemies to our Divine religion as
Herbert, Eousseau, &c, had not employed their own pens,

the confederate cause of Christianity and true learning would
have lost no little advantage. What benefits might not have
been derived from biographies of Bacon, Newton, Leibnitz,

Watts, or Lowth, written by themselves ? We should have

been taught how to study, to write, and to live. We should

have learned how to estimate those minute and generally
neglected circumstances, which possess an importance superior

to many brilliant events ; as they generally control the will,

and form     the character, excite   and    conduct the energies of
talent, and  modify the effect of   direct
                                             influence." --Eclec. Rev.

1805, p. 49.

How much might he have told us of himself in regard

to all the particulars here mentioned ! What an example of

studies carried on, and of large and accurate attainments made,

in the face of a constant pressure of difficulty ! What were

his methods ? And how did he gain and strengthen that

christian character, which was far more rare and illustrious

than his learning? Surely there was much in these things

and in their manifold relations, which might have been made

known with propriety and benefit. His qualifications for telling
the story of his life were these -- great exactness of self-observ
ation--a spirit of penetrating analysis into motives-- severity

rather than undue leniency in dealing with the evidence of
consciousness -- a memory always to be trusted for facts --a

heart keenly alive to every incident which in the retrospeet of
the past might serve to awaken penitence or gratitude --and
a style clear, strong, unsparing, ever more ready to be used in

portraying his own defects than those of others. On the

other side, there would be an intense detestation of all those
devices of an unscrupulous egotism, which cares not for self-

exposure if it can but attract notice. He would not, he could
JET. 81.]            ECLECTIC REVIEW.                        1'47

not have written for display in any shape or sense. In

deed the great probability is, that a sensitive apprehension

lest he should be betrayed into this, was the secret of his
Ifstrict reserve respecting himself.
                                         the thought of preparing

memorials of his life ever occurred to him, it only arose

to be unceremoniously dismissed by his vigilance; like a

phantom which could have no power over him even for an in

stant, unless it chanced to trouble him in his dreams. Hence

on his retirement to Guildford, when the close of all his

public services left him at liberty to provide occupation ac

cording to his own taste, he is known to have thought of

beginning a course of classical reading : but either from the

temper of his mind, or from a settled purpose, he never took
up the idea of becoming his own biographer ;--nay, scarcely

could hints be obtained from him having any intimate relation

to his past life. In the absence therefore of the advantages

which might have been secured from such a work from such a

pen, it may not perhaps be difficult to profit from the example

of his unobtrusive, expressive silence.

Another article prepared by Mr. Pye Smith for the first

volume of the Eclectic, was a review of a work entitled, The
Economy of Nature Explained and Illustrated on the Principles
of Modern Philosophy : by G. Gregory, D.D. This was popular
in its day, but it has long since been left behind by the great

progress which has been made in every branch of science to

which it refers. And the review is chiefly interesting as serv
ing to show the writer's diligence and care in keeping his know

ledge up to the level of the current discoveries. Mineralogy

and Geology were evident favourites. On the latter he quotes
a passage from Dr. Gregory upon the vegetable origin of coal,

"on  account of the  oinfterietsstintghenorayt.u"re  of its  subject, and
     apparent truth                                  These
the                                                           were links

in a chain, the end of which was far from being at that time

visible.

   The articles contributed by him thus far, are distinguished
by directness of application to the work examined, and by his
usual courteousness of language. He neither supersedes the
Author by Essays of his own, nor uses him as a kind of pack-

horse to carry a burden imposed upon him by another. He is

but a Eeviewer. Yet he is discriminating and faithful; and this

                                        l2
148        BECOMES THEOLOGICAL TUTOR.                [l80S,

is for the reader's sake, not for the writer's.      If he acts as a

guide, it is in the public service.

After having filled the office of Theological Tutor at Homer

ton for two years, the Bev. James Knight, whose health was not
such as to allow him to remain, resigned at Midsummer, 1805.

Before this change took place, and while it was in prospect,

there is reason to beheve that communications had been made

to Mr. Pye Smith respecting his undertaking the vacant chair.

He would,  however,   be thought  by some    of the  constituents to$
young for  the post:  while the   zeal with  which   he had avowed

certain sentiments --as in the Sermon on the Permission of
Sin-- not approved by others, would furnish another ground for

delay. And as these early friends of the Institution were at
that time wholly unacquainted with his qualifications for the office
which became more and more apparent as years went on. they

acted wisely as well as conscientiously in not hastening the ap
pointment. Nor had those who were in favour of the change

any occasion to urge their views prematurely ; for the difficulty
of finding a suitable person was so great, that the duties de
volved upon him by a kind of necessity months before he was
invited to undertake them in the regular way.

Scarcely any doubt could exist respecting his own wishes,
provided his qualifications for the Divinity Chair met the ap-^
proval of the constituents. He had been employed for five
years in the routine of the classical department,
ficient number of pupils nor their time largely       with not a suf:
                                                     enough devoted

to classical studies, to afford scope for that constant enterprise
and progress on his part, which his temperament and the rate
of his  acquisitions made   almost essential to his personal com
fort.-                     were becoming somewhat burdensome
        His other duties

from the   great demands which they     made upon his time and
strength;  and yet the variety was too  vast and too complicated

to allow of little more than an arrangement of outlines, which
the Tutor could scarcely fill up to his own satisfaction/or in a
way to ensure the hearty interest of the Students. On the other
hand, his theological predilections were remarkably strong-- r
his own creed was of a very decided cast-- his love and aptitude
for scholastic forms very  fully  developed-- his experience of the
pastoral relation served    also  to awaken a desire for a more

direct mental and moral contact with those who were training
JET. 31.]        BECOMES THEOLOGICAL TUTOR.                 149

to be Pastors than could be secured while he held the Classical
Chair -- and even his preparations for the pulpit would be facili
tated by the functions of the new office. Under these consider
ations no surprise can be felt, that he was ready to leave a path
which was rapidly losing the power to fix and repay his atten
tion, for one that would be quite new, and which was known to

be of inexhaustible fertility to a mind like his.

On the re-assembling of the College at the close of the vaca

tion in September, no Divinity Tutor having been appointed in

Mr.  Knight's  pplraocvei,sioMnra.llPyy."e  Smith was requested to discharge
     duties "
the                                          In the following December, the

Secretary reported at the General Meeting of the Society, that

the care of the  Students had rested solely with Mr. Smith, who
                 every department with the assistance of Mr. A.
had " supplied
Bishop, one of the senior students." Things went on in this

way up to May 27, 1806, when a Committee which had been
deputed to provide for the vacancy reported--that they had
found great difficulties in fulfilling that trust --and that at length

it had occuri'ed to them to suggest the retention of the office by
Mr. Smith, and the appointment of a new Classical Tutor.
When this was proposed to him, he replied -- " That though he

thought it Very desirable that the Divinity Chair should be
filled by a person more advanced in life, yet if his constituents

judged him to be sufficiently qualified for the office, and wished

                 ; it,

                                    it
                                             it

                                                        it
him to undertake he should consider as his duty to comply

with their wishes, and would fulfil the duties of to the best of
his abilities^" The Eeport then proceeds to recommend Mr. Pye

Smith to be the Theological Tutor, and the Eev. Thomas Hill

to be the Classical and the Special General Meeting having
adopted this recommendation, Mr. Smith's formal appointment

to the honourable post which he filled so long, and with such

great distinction and benefit, dates from this time.
   To Dr. Williams in particular must have been just cause

for satisfaction and thankfulness, that the young man whom he

had recommended to Homerton in 1800, had by his conscien

tious diligence secured endowments which fitted him in 1805

to enter upon an office, which the venerable Tutor would re

gard as perhaps of the highest dignity in the Christian Church
and then as further result, that a second application came to
Eotherham, which was met by Mr. Hill's being invited to the
           a

                                                                                                                                       :
150              DEATH OF AN INFANT.                           [1806.

Classical department upon Mr. Pye Smith's taking the Divinity
Chair. Thus the College in Yorkshire supplied Tutors for the
older, and in some respects the more prominent one in the
vicinity of London. By such Divine Providential arrange
ments, a freer circulation is secured for the intelligence, piety,
and affection of the whole Christian Brotherhood. No man
then lives merely to himself, nor even to the party interests in
which his lot may be at one time cast: but the collective
Church can be enriched in any of its departments by the
talents of any of its members. -- Thus may it be on a constantly

enlarging scale, and without end !

   Early in 1806, the first death occurred in Mr. Pye Smith's
family at Homerton. The circumstances will be given in his
own words, transcribed from his Book of Family Memorials.
Having recorded the birth and baptism of his third child, he
then adds :--" This dear infant, whose name was John Baptist,

was spared to us but a short season. He had been always very
weakly, but in his eighth month he seemed to be acquiring vigour
of constitution, and our hopes of his established strength were

excited. At this time it pleased the Lord to cut short his

small number of days. About the 17th of January, 1806,
he began to give signs of indisposition, which on the 21st

appeared to be decisive symptoms of spasmodic croup. Not

withstanding our being favoured with the best medical aid, and

some appearance of recovery in the last week of his illness, this

distressing disorder finally brought down his delicate and

suffering frame into the ruins of mortality. He placidly and
sweetly departed on February the tenth, at half after five in

the morning. --Our dear child was thus early taken into the
bosom of our Covenant Eedeemer, the tender Shepherd who

gathers the lambs in His arms, and who            has declared, ' of such
is the kingdom of heaven.' His mortal             remains, the temporary
triumph of the last enemy, were interred in the burying ground
of St. Thomas's Square, Hackney, in the faith of a glorious
              inantdhethleikeLnifees.s"
resurrection                             of  his  blessed  Saviour, who is the
Eesurrection

  In   a letter  to Dr. Williams,             dated Homerton,   Feb. 24, the
        is thus   referred to--"             The obligations   of my dear
event

partner and myself, for the very affectionate and sympathizing
notice you have taken of our late solemn visitation, are great,-
JET. 32.]          REV. ABRAHAM BOOTH.                                                      151

Iand trust are felt by us. Our affliction was attempered with

                   it,
so much to alleviate and our hope from the covenant of our

God  is    so animating, that we have reason to view all as
          a                                                                     it

signally cup of mercy.          that may lead us to greater
                                O

                                          it

                                                                      !
personal and relative devotedness to God "

The same Letter contains reference to the death of the
                                a

Eev. Abraham    DBeonoothm, inaantieomn.inen"tlMyr.deBvoouotthanedntuesreefdul  minister
of the Baptist                                                                  into the

everlasting rest on Monday evening, the 20th January. Not

withstanding our difference in some sentiments,                          would ever
           I
                   I

                                       a

                                          I
                                                    I
cherish the most affectionate memory of him.                             how do

lament that no more seized opportunity and sacrificed other

engagements, to enjoy his most edifying and heavenly conver

sation. In one of our last interviews, he discoursed on death,

and his own death, with holy solemnity and deep humility,

the most impressive ever witnessed. His conversation was

never without the sweetest savour of Christ and holiness. His

heart appeared to be always filled with the most just, pure,

reverential, and transforming sense of the Divine character.
As friend he was faithful, steady, and affectionate. What
reason have to regret that was no more constantly anxious
to improve to the best purposes, the truly affectionate regard
with which he honoured me."
a

 I
                  I

     the true and deep sympathy of minds raised by their piety

above the ordinary level How pure the light, how holy the
                        !

love, how complete the union and the joy, in proportion as the
                                                                                            " unto
disciples of  the  One Lord      approach nearer                         Canhdrinseta."rer
the measure
               of  the stature  of the fulness of
CHAPTEB X.

TRACT ON THE LORD'S SUPPER--PASTORAL LETTER-- CHURCH BOOK-
      DEFENCE OF OUT-OF-DOORS PREACHING -- ECLECTIC REVIEW : DR.

       PRIESTLEY'S NOTES ON THE SCRIPTURES : DR. PRIESTLEY'S MEMOIRS
      -- DECIDED PIETY ESSENTIAL TO THE DISCOVERY OF SCRIPTURE

      TRUTH -- GOOD'S LUCRETIUS--HOMER-- DEATH OF A STUDENT -- BRIEF
      MEMOIR-- PIETY THE GREAT ATTRACTION TO THE TUTOR-- ADVICE TO
       A YOUNG MINISTER -- ECLECTIC REVIEW : PORSON : DUNBAR'S EDITION
      OF HERODOTUS -- MILL HILL GRAMMAR SCHOOL -- DIPLOMA FROM

       YALE COLLEGE-- HIS YORKSHIRE PROPERTY.

Notwithstanding the new claims which arose out of his
becoming the Theological Tutor, Mr. Pye Smith found time
to publish during this year a pamphlet, the design of which
will appear from the title :-- " A concise statement of the Evi*        '
dence for the obligation of Christian Churches to celebrate
the Lord's Supper every Lord's Day : with the Testimony of
                           in favour of the
Eminent Christian Divines  Great Advantages  Divine AuthDourtiyty.";
Perpetual Obligation, and                       of that

The following positions are laid down, and supported by a
brief citation of texts and authorities :--" I. All persons to
whom the Gospel comes, are under indispensable obligations

to comply with the whole revealed will of God. II. The
New Testament furnishes a rule of perfect sufficiency for the

constitution, discipline, and ordinances of Christian Churches.

III. This rule is principally comprised in the injunctions

delivered by the Apostles to the churches which they founded,
and in the Scripturally recorded practice of those churches.

IV. It was the instituted practice of the apostolic churches to

observe the ordinance of the Lord's Supper, as a part of the
stated and regular service of every Lord's Day.
MT. 33.]  TRACT ON THE LORD'S SUPPER.                           153

Testimonies in favour of the weekly observance are then

quoted ; beginning with the well-known passage from the

Letter of Pliny to the Emperor Trajan. This is followed by a
passage from the First Apology of Justin Martyr, which as

being less known and from its very explicit bearing on the

subject may merit the Eeader's attention :  the date of the
                                            services that we
Apology is a.d. 154. " . . In all the

offer, we bless the Maker of all things, through His Son Jesus
Christ and the Holy Spirit : and on the day called Sunday,

a meeting is attended by all (the members of the Church)
whether they live in towns or in the country. There the

memorials of the Apostles and the writings of the Prophets

are read, as long as the time permits. The reader then giving

over, the presiding minister preaches a discourse, for our ad
monition and exhortation to practise the excellent things that

we have heard. Then we all rise up and offer our prayers.

When we have ended prayer, bread, wine, and water are
brought forth ; the minister utters prayers and thanksgivings,
according to his ability, and the people testify their joyful

consent by saying, Amen. The eucharistic elements are then

distributed, and partaken of by each one ; and to those who

are not present, they are sent by the deacons. Those members

who are able and so disposed then give according to their
choice. The money collected is put into the minister's hands,

who distributes it to orphans and widows, to the sick and

necessitous, and  tpoooprr.i"sonTeros  and strangers ; so that  he is truly
a steward to the                       these early authorities   are added

the names of eminent modern Divines who deemed the weekly
celebration of the Supper to have been the primitive Scriptural
practice* Among these are Calvin --Dr. Ames --Dr. Thomas
Goodwin --Dr. Owen -- Eichard Baxter --Dr. Watts --Dr. Dod
dridge--President Edwards -- Dr. John Erskine --Archibald
Maclean --Dr. Mason.

   The    observance of the Lord's     thSeup"pCeornceivseeryStaLtoermde'snt."Da--y
-- thus   forcibly recommended in

was introduced by the Author into his own Church at Hom

erton ; but at what exact date does not appear ; the probability
however is, that it was somewhat prior to the time when the
Tract was published. The practice was kept up for many
years, yet scarcely at any period with the concurrence of all

the members; and as time went on the number who joined
154                             PASTORAL LETTER.                            [1806.

with the Pastor in the weekly celebration became less and less,
until it was laid aside altogether. His own convictions of
Christian duty remained unchanged to the last, for when he was
at Guildford, no longer able to attend public worship, it was
perceived to be quite a solace to his heart to commemorate
the death of Christ every Lord's Day in the retirement of his

dwelling.

   The first pastoral    Letter which has been met          w18it0h6,,"realantdeswatso
                         dated " Homerton, May 19,
this quesion. It is

written to one of the members who did not at the time agree
with the Pastor's views :--

I" Influenced, trust, by a sincere desire to be the instrument of leading
Imen into the whole truth as it is in Jesus, and the practice of all
things whatsoever He hath commanded,            earnestly request your serious
attention to the contents of the accompanying pamphlet. The necessity of

duty obliges me to confess my most solemn and deliberate conviction, that
while you continue in the voluntary omission ofthe Lord's Supper on every
Christian Sabbath, so long you are violating the Divine Rule for the
                                                            the guilt
sanctification of  that  holy   day, and  are   living  in             of disobedience  to
Christ as your           and.   Saviour.
                   King

  I" The distressing feelings of this conviction have long and painfully

pressed upon my mind, nor can rest satisfied any longer without com
Imunicating them to you.
   " have adopted the present method as the most eligible on various
accounts. In this pamphlet is not only a short statement of that evidence
which has been powerful enough to preponderate against my own previous
sentiments, habits, and wishes, and to compel me to a line of practice the

Idifficulties and trials of which could not but dread ; but it will also be per
Iceived that the duty for which am pleading has been fully admitted, in
its evidence, importance, and obligation, by many of the brightest lumi
Inaries in the Christian Church.
                                          could have much increased the number
Iof such venerable testimonies ; but this cloud of witnesses, hope, will be
Isufficient to attest and enforce the authority of God. To that authority
  do hereby solemnly and affectionately invite, beseech, and charge you to
yield implicit obedience ; remembering that for the fidelity of this appeal to
your conscience, and for the manner in which you may receive we shall
                                                                       it,

shortly answer to Him whose throne for ever and ever, and the sceptre ofO is
wgrhe"oasTtehdakatiynygaodmuormonfagitthhoasnerdigpwhrthaocstciwceepoturmel.daynontothtashtvaaetndHwieimn mtthaoeyrweniigosdnt obmoevfeaornutdnhdeamuitn.h' otrhitayt
                   is
                       a
                             '

fullof men, but in the power of God; and that as you have received CHRIST
Jesus the Lord, so you may walk in Him, in              a   obedience to every

part of His revealed will, the earnest prayer of
                                is

           " Your affectionate servant in the work of Christ,
                                                            " John P. Smith."

It will be remembered that the Church Covenant contained
MT. 38.]             CHURCH BOOK.  155

no reference to the frequency with which the Lord's Supper

should be observed. Whether the Pastor's mind was at the
Ifdate of that paper made up respecthig the point, cannot
now be ascertained.  it was, he was careful not to lay

down a law on a matter of form, which might have prevented

many excellent persons from joining the church, with whom

on other grounds his agreement was complete. But for one

of his strong convictions in regard to duty, and with his well-

known love of order in all his pastoral relations, a silence still

more remarkable is found in the entire absence of any refer
ence to this question in the Church Book kept most carefully
by his own hand. To account for this it may be presumed

that not being able, perhaps not judging it proper, to make

the weekly celebration a term of communion, he most wisely
declined introducing into the Book any minutes on a subject

on which the Pastor and the members had either come fo

no decision, or not to one that was unanimous. Thus he
avoided the danger to union and progress, which might have

arisen out of a record of disagreement, and also the discomfort
which his fine Christian feelings would have had to encounter

whenever the sad page met his eye. Such incidents as these,

which have their foundation in a character formed into sym
metry by the operation of all the Christian graces, are rich in

instruction for others ; while the man himself becomes the
more attractive as an example, on account of that seclusion

from the world within which his wise and holy course was

going on.

In the summer of this year, he appears to have made an

attempt to convey religious instruction to a number of very
poor and very ignorant persons living not far from his resi

dence, by preaching to them out of doors, and by distributing
Tracts : -- examples of personal zeal and courage particularly

worthy of notice at that early date, when it was evidently an

uncommon thing ; and in his own immediate neighbourhood,

where unpopularity or the charge of unfashionableness might

be the     pf what would be called his indiscretion, or his

singularity. The Vicar of the Parish having heard of his

conduct, sent him a Letter ; which, with Mr. Pye Smith's

answer, will now be given.

  I" Sir,-- think it due to you to acquaint you, that the irre-
156 LETTER TO THE VICAR OF THE PARISH,           [l806.

Igularity into which, am informed, you have fallen for a few
Sunday evenings past, is contrary to the laws of the country,
Iwhich,      am persuaded it must be no less your desire to
Iobserve, than that of every good subject to enforce.
                                                       am

willing to believe that you will not suspect me of a wish to
interfere with the conscientious and legal discharge of what
you may feel to be your     duty; and that therefore you will
receive this intimation in  the friendly spirit in which it is

intended.                   I" am, Sir, &c. &c.

" Vicarage House, Saturday, 12 July, 1806."

                            Ryde, Isle of Wight, July 22, 1806.
" Bev. Sir,--In consequence of having been some time

from home, your favour of the 12th inst. did not reach me
Itill
Iby,
      last   evening.         readily beheve, and feel myself obliged
      ' the  friendly
                       spirit in which it was intended ;' and am

happy to have an opportunity of offering to your candid con
I Isideration a frank exposition of the motive and principles on

which have acted. My sentiments, and hope my habits
also, are totally adverse to intemperate measures even in the
support of truth, or to disrespectful treatment of any of my

fellow-creatures, especially of those who are invested ' with the

sacred character, however widely my views of religion's truth

ma"y   differ from theirs.  unexpected  opportunity led me to wit

      An unsought and
Iness the deplorable condition of the poor who inhabit some
crowded hovels in my neighbourhood.     found their exterior

wretchedness even exceeded by their ignorance and profligacy.

Some of them are unable, and the majority of them are un

willing under various pretexts, to attend at any place of public
worship. To see so many immortal and accountable ' beings

destitute of the means of religious instruction cannot but excite

Christian compassion, whether their being so destitute arise

Ifrom their misfortune or their criminal neglect. From this

sole motive, have twice ventured, not without some appre
hensions of personal hazard, to go to their own doors, and

plainly lay before them the rudiments of Christian faith and
Ipractice.
             have also distributed among them many small
Itracts, which hoped might be useful to teach them repent
ance and salvation, and the right performance of their duty to
MT. 32.] IN DEFENCE OF OUT-OF-DOORS PREACHING.            157

IGod and man. --It is the former of these, apprehend, which
as ' an irregularity ;'                wcohuicnhtryy.'ou
' contrary to the laws
you (disapprove                                           kindly
                                                           trust,
Iadmonish me is
                                 and

                               of the

sir, that you will not deem it impertinent or unseasonable for

Ime to offer a remark on both these opinions. Indeed, think
it is due to myself as a matter of just defence.
   " The regularity or irregularity of any act, can only be

Idetermined by its comparison with some rule. As a Christian
and a minister of the gospel,  acknowledge no rule of duty

but the immortal axiom of an illustrious divine of your church,
* The Bible, the Bible alone, is the religion of Protestants.'

Bringing my conduct, in the instance referred to, to this un

Iquestionable rule of authority, and after the utmost impar

tiality of comparison, must confess that it appears to me
strictly regular. The commission and the injunctions of our

Blessed Saviour to His ministers are the most unlimited con

ceivable, as to the place and seasons of their services : and the

example of our Lord and His Apostles, who frequently preached
in the open air, even though they were not excluded from the

Temple and the Synagogues, most decidedly sanction the

imitation of them when circumstances render it expedient.
   " An implicit and punctilious observance of all the laws of

our country, (except where the supreme law of God leads me to

withhold compliance and patiently to endure the consequences)

Iis a duty which sedulously teach and conscientiously prac
Itise. But, with sincere respect and deference to you, have
strong doubts whether the practice alluded to be in reality

Icontrary to the laws of the realm. In this place have no

opportunity of referring to authorities, and for this inability

Iyour candour will make allowance in reading what may
Iobserve. But am entirely mistaken, if preaching out of

doors is a violation of the common, the statute, or the
ecclesiastical law of England. -- That no principle of our ad

mirable system of Common Law, nor any decree of the Canon

Law, is hostile to this practice, seems fairly to be inferred
from the fact, that during the period of seventy years from the
sera of the Beformation, numerous instances occur of Bishops

and other dignitaries of your communion preaching in open

Iplaces, and even in a most frequented part of London. --Nor

am aware that any statute exists prohibiting the conduct in

question. The Conventicle Act and the Eiot Act seem to
158                   ECLECTIC review:                              [1806.

approach the nearest to such a prohibition. To apply the

latter would be a ludicrous violence of construction : not to

say, that the time legally allowed for dispersion would enable

the minister, who might be officiating, peaceably to continue

and conclude his service without danger. The Conventicle

Act, and the Act of the 1st William and Mary which was

designed to enervate it on certain conditions, respect (I think,

but submitting to correction) assemblies for religious worship

Iin buildings only.
   " Upon the whole, conceive, that though worshipping out
of doors be a case not expressly provided for by the protection
of the Toleration laws, it is not contrary to the law. Perhaps

Iupon the ground of that ancient and reputable custom which
                  it                           argument
have mentioned,       waopuplrdovbesearit.a"n            that  the  Common
                 and
Law recognizes

   The copy, in Mr. Pye Smith's handwriting, ends thus
abruptly. He appears to have been in error, in confining the
operation of the Conventicle Act to assemblies for religious

worship in buildings only. Of this he was apprised in cour

teous terms by his clerical neighbour, the Vicar of Hackney ;

and there the correspondence closed.

His contributions to the Eclectic Review during this year of ·
new claims on his time must not be overlooked. These were

numerous enough to occupy a place in seven of the monthly
numbers ; and amounted in the whole to about fifty-four pages.

The works which came under his critical examination were--
Dr. Priestley's Notes on the Scriptures-- -Dr. Priestley's Memoirs-

John Mason Good's Translation                  of Lucretius --Valpy's Greek
Grammar --and Neilson's Greek                  Exercises. Much might be

quoted from these articles which would repay the attention of
the Scholar, and the Christian minister ; but space can only be
afforded for a few passages which are either of general and
constant value, or are illustrative of the personal taste, cultiva
tion, and convictions of the Author.

   Socinian and other writers often attempt to impugn the
authority of much that is found in the New Testament, by

ascribing it to circumstances which were local or temporary ;

so as to imply that phraseology, arguments, and appeals which
had a suitableness and a use in Apostolic times, have long since
s.t. 32.] priestley's notes on the scriptures.                                                        159

lost their force. Against this principle or theory, the Eeviewer

thus, puts in his plea :--" While, in order to elucidate the

language of the Sacred Books, we admit the propriety of pay

ing an adequate attention to the opinions, whether true or
erroneous, current at the period when they were written ; we
enter our earnest protest against the custom unhappily pre

valent, of considering such interpretations as giving the ex
clusive, or even the principal design of the inspired writers.
This has been the darling aim of many modern interpreters ;

and it is not difficult to perceive that their ultimate view is no

other than to represent the Word of truth and salvation as a

collection of obsolete records, furnishing some good moral
precepts ; but as to fa,cts and doctrines, intelligible and interest
ing only to the man of learned leisure and critical curiosity.
On the contrary, it was the merciful intention of God, in
giving these Holy Writings to the world, to teach the

whole doctrine of Christ to all the sons of men. The cordial

reception of this doctrine is enjoined, under denunciation of the

most awful penalties, on all to whom the word of this salvation

is sent. It is an impious contradiction to this benevolent pur

pose, and an insult to the Scriptures, to treat them as little

mofomreatnhkainnda, naobbssocluurteelyreufuntianttieornesotifngrecoopnindiioten,s.a"n--d Etcoletch.e  bulk
                                                                                                      Rev.,

1806, p. 107.

   " Another principle of interpretation, which Dr. P., in com

mon with other Socinian writers, applies to the New Testa

ment, is the supposition that the language of the sacred writers
is so beclouded with extravagant metaphors, obscure allusions,

and harsh idioms, that its genuine meaning lies at a very re
mote distance from its apparent signification. We are warranted

in drawing the conclusion to this extent, by observing the

uniform manner of cutting many troublesome knots, which is

adopted in the volumes before us. We readily admit that -the
Scriptures are written in a style and idiom peculiar to the

country, religion, and habits of the writers, and that a correct

acquaintance with Jewish literature is a qualification necessary
to an interpreter of the Sacred Books. But we are persuaded

that the farthest extent to which this principle can be fairly

carried, is entirely consistent with the clearness and perspicuity,

which should characterise a book intended to be the guide of

faith and morals to all the children of men, in every age,
160                  eclectic review :                                                         [isofl.

country, and condition. According to the notions of Dr. P.
and his adherents, no book can be less qualified for answeruig

its avowed purposes than the New Testament ; no book more

unfit to be entrusted to the understandings of the general mass

of mankind ; no book more likely to be misapprehended in the

most egregious manner. The works of Homer and Herodotus

are distinguished by peculiarities of idiom and dialect, in a

degree little -- if at all--inferior to those which occur in the

Apostolic writings. But will any unprejudiced man assert, that

close translations of Homer and Herodotus are not intelligible

for all the great purposes of history to persons in modern times,

who    know   naontthiqinugityotfheGirrecstiaundy?a"n--d lIbo.nipc.  learning,            and  who
never   made                                                         207.

The Memoirs of Dr. Priestley above mentioned were written

by himself; and therefore were contemplated with deeper in

terest by the Eeviewer. The article is referred to here for

the sake of a passage, in which Mr. Pye Smith gave strong
expression to his sentiments respecting a question of the
greatest importance to Theological Institutions. Dr. Priestley

received his education for the ministry under Dr. Caleb Ash-

worth, Dr. Doddridge's successor : and in that part of his

Memoirs which relates to his life while a student, he dwells

with evident complacency, not perhaps free from a tinge of

satire, on the sort of balance of opinions maintained in the

Academy by the extraordinary fact, that the Classical Tutor

held and advocated doctrines the reverse of those taught by

his Theological Coadjutor ! A wretched state of things cer

tainly, whether we look at the design of the Institution ; if
indeed it could                             have any design ;--at the in
fluence of the   Tthuetnorbse;--soarid  to
progress of the                         at  the  timhaer,m" osnayy,s  sincerity, and
                 students. " In             my
                                                                      Dr. Priestley,
"the Academy was in a state peculiarly favourable to the
serious  pursuit of
divided  upon all    truth, as the Students were about equally
                     the articles of theological orthodoxy and
heresy; in consequence of which all these topics were the
subjects of continual discussion. Our Tutors also were of
different opinions ; Dr. Ashworth taking the orthodox side
of every question, and Mr. Clark, the
heresy, though always with the greatest                              smubo-dteustotyr.,"  that of
                                                                                            Upon
this passage the Eeviewer thus animadverts :-- " Truth, and
j<:t. 32.]  dr. Priestley's memoirs.                                       161

religious truth above all, loves the light. It has nothing
to fear but every advantage to expect, from free inquiry, if

the inquiry be indeed Free. But such a state of things
as is described in the passage just quoted, may be called any
                                            free inquiry, or ' favourable
tsheirniogusmpourersujiutstolfytrtuhtahn.'   We speak from Experience.     to the
                                                                             Such

disputations as took place at Daventry have  a tendency dia
metrically opposite to the 'serious pursuit  of truth.' The

spirit of party, the ambition of superiority, the ostentation

of talent, the arts of evasion, the disgrace of defeat, the in

solence of conquest, the laugh of the seorner, and the sneer

of folly and pride, are the rank weeds of this rotten bed. In

such a polluted soil, and amidst its mephitic exhalations, no

Holy Disposition can possibly flourish : but by none except
holy dispositions will the knowledge of Divine Truth be even

desired ; much less will its beauty be discerned, or its pursuit

be seriously instituted. This is an axiom which should ever

stand first and highest in the elements of sacred erudition.

Its neglect is fatal. Its practical possession will lead to the

heaven from whence it descended. ' The Scriptures ever assume
it as a postulatum summi juris ; and Eeason must become a

prostitute to Guilt, before she can be brought to doubt its
reality or its importance.". --lb. p. 986..

Throughout his whole career, none ever had a higher con

viction of the magnitude and wide bearings of these principles

than Dr. Pye Smith. He was not, therefore, now merely

uttering important truths from behind the screen supplied-

by his office as a Eeviewer, but he spoke to the utmost
ceivable extent a cords. Hence the just and emphatic .appeal

made in the passage to the state of the heart and of the

affections, as giving from the very cutset that fatal bias to
the judgment through the medium of the inclination and

passions which, unless a moral change supewened, would

ensure a victory on the side of error. Hence, too, that saga

cious and generous concern which the Tutor ever manifested,.
to effect the triumph of truth in theory and on the field of

argument, by securing its triumph as a renewing and sancti
fying principle in the moral nature. And this wise and
Scriptural course he always kept in sight, in the professor's

chair, in the pulpit, and through the medium of the press.

Indeed it seems to have been inseparable from him, and

                                             M
162            good's TRANSLATION OF LUCRETIUS.   [1807.

that not so much on the score of propriety and usefulness,

as from the true instincts of his own spiritual life. And

the wonder is, that any person can expect to discover what

a Bevelation from God really contains, except as he becomes

in character and conduct what that Bevelation requires him to
Ifbe. --" any man will do His will, he
                                          shspaellakknoofwmyosef lft.h"e
Idoctrine whether it be of God, or whether

   The  following passages    from his review of   Good's Trans
lation  of Lucretius, axe                         the business of
                            characteristic. " In

translation, there is a wide distinction between works purely

addressed to the understanding, and those which are designed

to engage the passions and excite the imagination. The former

may with nearly unimpaired advantage be rendered into any

language that is possessed of sufficient terms, and is sus
ceptible of perspicuity and precision. The case is far different

with compositions of the latter order. In poetry the con

ceptions form only one essential part; the port and habit

constitute another. The first may be translated, but the latter

can at best be only imitated : and for any version fully to
represent those essential characteristics of its original, the

translator obviously should possess a degree of poetical

genius and versatility of talent, even superior to the original

author. How arduous, next perhaps to impossibility; . must
be the attempt to produce a, worthy version of those great
               works of antiquity which are --in the truest sense
and exalted
               Wondrous indeed must be that translation, which,
-- originals.

faithful and spirited as it may be, does not deprive them of

their characteristic peculiarities; as the most careful trans
portation of some tropical plants from their native habitation
to more rugged regions, though by skill and diligence they
may be preserved in life, yet deprives them of their fragrance,

beauty, and fruitfulness. Hence professed imitations may be
frequently considered as conveying a more just idea of the
character and peculiar merit of the best Greek and Eoman
Poets, than any direct translations. " The mere reader of Pope
or Cowper, pre-eminent as their very different excellences are,
forms a less perfect conception of what Homer is, than the
man who, with true taste and enthusiasm, derives his ideas by
analogy from the  study of Paradise Lost.
Pope and Boileau  may be taken as a better        The satire* I' of
                                                  specimen of the
JET. 33.]  DEATH OF A STUDENT.                         163

Horatian manner, than any avowed version of the delicate and
tghoeodAuhguumsotaunreda,ge.y"e--t lbp.oipn.te6d04c.astigation of folly and vice in

   Speaking of Classical Studies and Biblical Literature, he
says: --*' The pursuits are not inconsistent with each other,

as has been frequently and honourably demonstrated ; and
we hope will; be still further shewn by increasing attestations.

To the ministers of the gospel especially, and to students for
the sacred office, we earnestly recommend the ardour for pre
eminence in ( the acquisition of solid classical attainments, in
order to consecrate them to the service of the Divine Ee

deemer. Their understanding, their taste, their dignity, and
their usefuhiess, will hence derive inexpressible accessions.

What Horace has so justly said on the subserviency of cul
tivation to genius, may with equal justice be accommodated in

this case ;

                                         * Alterius sic
           Altera poscit opem res, et conjurat amice.'"

                                                                lb. p. 696.

Touching as the narrative now does upon Classical ques

tions, the following note, written by Mr. Pye Smith in pencil

on the fly leaf at the end of his copy of the Iliad, may find
a place here :--
                                                       must
  I"Having attentively read over this immortal poem,-
venture to say, that in simplicity, tenderness, and majesty
it stands far above any rival among human productions ; but

that in all those qualities, it falls inexpressibly short of the
writings of Moses and Isaiah, and the discourses of the Lord
"IJesus.
        think there is a striking resemblance  in the genius and
style of Homer and of Moses."

   At the beginning of the year 1807, the Church Book con
tains the following entry :-- " January 5, a little before ten
in the evening, our dear and greatly valued brother, Mr.
George Hall, Junior, departed to his eternal rest. He was
not quite nineteen years old. During the short course of his
Christian life, he was a bright example of a truly Christ
like and heavenly temper and conduct." This young man

at the date of his death, had been about two years a member
                                                                                          m2
164                                     BRIEF MEMOIR                  [l807.

of the Church under Mr. Pye Smith's care, and also a Student
at the College somewhat longer. Thus a twofold tie existed

between the parties.

   But in this instance there were bonds incomparably stronger
than these outward and formal ones ; the evidence of which is
supplied in a Brief Memoir which the Tutor prepared, as
an introduction of about twenty pages to a selection of more
tylohovauennogffimfrteyatnirf--erommtheenMtc, hre.aarHrancaetlselt'rsisdtpeicavspoetoriosf.nhaisl Thphaieebtiytes--a--rhlywisotrduaeldienpiantghtruamoctfilittthhyee,
sympathies of his Pastor at an unusual number of important
points. "He laid a good foundation in Latin and Greek

letters at a respectable Grammar School : . but disadvantage-
ously to his progress in Classical learning, he was removed

in his fourteenth year, in order that he might embrace a

favourable opportunity of beginning a course of medical

studies. In this new situation, his ardent thirst for know

ledge was remarkably evinced. He acquired in the three

years thus occupied, a knowledge of chemistry, physiology,

and the theory of medicine, so          comprehensive    and  inadcucsutrrayte.",
as to be a distinguished proof          of his talents  and

Speaking of a later period, when religion had set up its

authority, we are told --that "it penetrated his whole soul,

it elevated and sanctified his whole character, and it furnished

instruction and  holy    excitement to all who had the happiness
to know him."             later still, when Mr. Hall was a Student
                 "AInnd  this situation his character and deport
at Homerton, --

ment were in the fullest accordance with the hopes enter

tained of him. Unremitting diligence in study, a remark

able preference of solitude, a most sweet and humble modesty,
kind and amiable manners, deep and unaffected devotion, and

exemplary self-government, were his distinguishing character

istics. His tutors and fellow-students are. witnesses, and God
also, how holily, and righteously, and unblameably he behaved

himself among them. With a melancholy pleasure they
achnedrisimh ittahteionm."e--mo"ryNoof
                                        his exalted  claims to their  affection
                                        impertinent  attempts were    made to

penetrate his sacred privacies; but there is abundant evi
dence that he spent a very large proportion of his time in
secret prayer. He well knew, and he practically exemplified
the fact, that delight and frequency in that grand duty of the
JET. 33.]          OF MR. GEORGE HALL.                                    165

Christian are at once the means and the indication of all holy
proficiency. During his residence in the Academy, he has

been heard at the dead of night, when he supposed that

no observation could reach him, to be most ardently pour

ing out his soul to God. Nor was it possible for him to

conceal the appropriated hours, or the sanctified influence

of his devotional exercises.

  "In the month of November, 1806, the disease, which had

been retarded but never eradicated, returned with symptoms of

incurable strength and rapid progress. During his few remain

ing days of weakness and languishing, Mr. Hall was a most in
structive example of the power of pure and humble godliness.

As in his whole previous course of rehgion he ever appeared

at the greatest distance from all irrational enthusiasm, so in

his last days the flame of holiness burned in him most brightly,

as the noble exercise of sanctified reason. To ecstacies and

raptures he made no pretensions, and he never spoke of his ap

proaching great change but in a deeply solemn manner. He

always manifested the most awful impressions of the infinite
importance of Death and the Eternal World, while he

anticipated   his  uenvdidisemntalyyedaphpoproea."ching  change  with placid
cheerfulness
              and

The selection from Mr. Hall's papers shows his thoughtful

ness and piety and a clearness of style, which promised much
for his usefulness and even celebrity had life been prolonged.

The. last among them is further remarkable for having antici

pated a great social movement, which took place several years

after his time, when what is called the Temperance Cause
Itbegan                             b"evOenragteh,e"
 to                       is                             impropriety of
wine,or                                                  and evinces the
           be advocated.                                                  using
                                                                          inde
           spirits, as an ordinary
pendent opinion of a young man who had at one time been a
diligent student of the human frame, and then subsequently

had devoted himself to the Christian ministry. The paper
closes thus:--"At last these stimulants can produce no action;

of course, the weaker ones cannot, whose benign and lasting
influence has been dispensed with and usurped. Thus the

unenviable Bacchanalian dies prematurely, a victim to his

senses so delusive when uhgoverned by reason: a victim to

inattention to the loud and, repeated admonitions of that

faithful monitor, Nature; whose laws, the bitter experience

of thousands has proved, are never broken with impunity,
l&Q PIETY THE GREAT ATTRACTION TO THE TUTOR. [l80T.

and of whose laws many have found the faithfulness in a good
old age, and a peaceful descent to that resting place whither we
are all hastening, the grave. Can words then express the
folly of using wine as a beverage, or of. those who slaughter
their children with this dreadful liquor, ere their lips can tell
them to desist, and who plant among their earliest ideas the
belief, that this liquor is as needful, useful, and innocent as
the bread they eat."

Besides the interest which attaches to the Brief Memoir
of Mr. Hall considered in its relation to him, it is of use here

as serving to show the order of mind which most strongly
engaged the attention and respect of his Pastor and Tutor.

The qualities by which the former was distinguished were,

with a remarkable degree of similarity, found also in the

character and even habits of the latter. Here was a young

man fond of retirement, early trained in classical learning,

and then diligent in treasuring up the facts and principles of

science, and with a temper and deportment every way admir

able. Yet even these powerful claims on the sympathies of

the elder of the two would not have secured their object, if the

piety of the younger had not been seen as it were overtopping

and crowning all his other excellences. No eminence in Classi

cal learning, no scientific attainments, no general decorum of

behaviour, can meet the high behests of the Christian minis
try, if real, earnest, deep piety were wanting : and this the
Tutor not only knew as a fact, but felt and revered as a great

first principle. Cases would occur where the piety was finely
developed in the temper and life of a young man, but where
perhaps there was not either the aptitude or even the desire

for knowledge, which the Tutor always rejoiced to witness;

but the  rtehsepec"tCharnisdt-alifkfeect"ionstuwdehnicth,  he was sure to manifest
towards
                                                           never left any room for
doubt as to what he deemed the highest objects of value. It

was singularly instructive, often deeply admonitory and quick
                                 sympathies of such a
ening,  to see and  to feel the  to his own ;--seeking     Tutor going
                    piety akin                             this in that
out in  quest of a

circle which formed his Theological Class ; and when it was
found, what efforts did he make still more to draw forth, and
improve the quality of the very thing of which he was in
search! Few of the number could avoid observing that
JET. 33.]              ECLECTIC REVIEW.                               lb 7

neither his learning nor their studies, were allowed for one

moment to hold the chief place in his estimation and culture ;
but that this was reserved exclusively for Divine Claims --in
him and in them to be held supreme over all others.

The .following passages from Letters to one who had re

cently left the Academy, and who was not settled in a pastoral

charge, will accord fully with the above suggestions.
   " My Dear Freend, --My unfeigned wish and prayer is that

you may be truly holy, useful, happy, and humble. Christian

Ihumility, indeed, is the grand secret for the acquisition and
sweetest enjoyment of all real good.           rejoice in every

pleasing circumstance of your prospects ; but it will be your

wisdom to expect the rising of some clouds. However, the

meekness of wisdom, a conscientious following of the lowly

Immanuel, a readiness for the self-denying cross, will carry
IuLsordth."rougAhndeveinry                      strength
           possible difficulty, in the         Under all  of our
                                                           these
           a subsequent Letter :--"

circumstances, what can      advise  ? Does    itthnoornt s,s' eeinm   as if
the Lord were ' hedging   up your    way with
                                                                      order

Ito try your love and willingness to serve Him in a hard

and rugged path ? -- do, indeed, see very great objections
to your settlement at       . Yet they are objections arising

from difficulties, and difficulties should never deter us from

duty. God often tries His people by calling them to very

hard and self-denying services, that they may feel at once
their own weakness, and the rich provision of all-sufficiency
in Christ."

    Compared with the former year, Mr. Pye Smith's contribu

tions to the Eclectic in 1807 were brief. They embrace a work
on Natural Philosophy, by Margaret Bryan : and the Biblio
graphical Dictionary and Miscellany by the late Dr. Adam
Clarke. To these must be added an article in the number
for March on an edition of Herodotus, in 7 vols. --printed
at the Edinburgh University press under the superintendence
of Professor Dunbar. As Professor Porson had edited the

Clio, and then had left the work to be carried on by other
hands, the Eeviewer took occasion to express an opinion,

which, indeed, he would at times repeat to his students, and

which was shared in by most persons who had heard of the
168         ORIGIN OF MILL HILL GRAMMAR SCHOOL.                                 [l807.

pre-eminent abilities of the great Cambridge scholar :-- " From

the superlative talents of Professor Porson, and from the

obligations which he owes to his friends and admirers for

all the deference with which they have treated him, we cannot

but wish that he had employed himself, with the energy and

resolution of which he is so capable, in an actual revision

and restitution of the text of the great Father of History.

It is deplorable that his amazing erudition and fertile genius

should exist for so little benefit to the literary world, and

honour to himself. What are the Letters to Gibbon, and

the four   tragedies of Euripides,  in  the  long  course of twenty
years ?"

The following passage will be at once recognised as

eminently   characteristic by all   who knew much of Dr. Pye
            The Latin translation    of Lorenzo Valla, as revised
Smith ;--"

by Gronovius, is printed at the foot of each page. Mr.
Dunbar in his sensible preface, justly laments his having
been compelled thus to subserve the commands of the book

seller, and the laziness of school-boys. We do not know

how the case is in Scotland, but we think that an intelligent
bookseller ought to have reflected, that by Greek scholars in
England and Germany the obtrusion of the Latin version
will be deemed a blot and a deformity to the beautiful pages
of this edition. The same price, we doubt not, would have

been cheerfully paid, had this encumbrance been banished,
even if the lines had been doubly or trebly leaded to fill
up the page ; or if the laziness of the tyro must be compli
mented, though to his own ultimate
translation printed separately ?"       injury,    why  was                not  the

The Protestant Dissenters' Grammar School, at Mill Hill,
near Hendon, Middlesex, owes its formation in no small
degree to the zeal of Mr. Pye Smith. With him the idea
is understood to have originated, of an Institution intended
to secure   a first-rate Classical and Mathematical
together   with the  omfostht edilpiguepnilts:--attaenntiiodneatowhthiceh  education,
           training                                                        moral and
religious
                                                                            has been
subsequently copied and
similar establishments in  carried  out by    the  settmg up of
                           various  parts of  the  country. The
Institution, which was founded in 1807, was based on the
catholic principle, of including among its patrons and friends,
MT. 33.]  DIPLOMA FROM YALE COLLEGE.  169

good men of various Nonconformist denominations, who agreed
in the principal doctrines of Christianity. The late Eev.
Joseph Hughes, Dr. Waugh, Dr. Winter, and a number of
gentlemen whose names will occur in a subsequent page, took
an active part in setting forward this important design. But

to none was the School indebted for a warmer interest, or for

more untiring services of almost every kind, than to the

Homerton Tutor. Besides his readiness to aid in every case

of emergency, when difficulties occurred in the management,

when new Tutors were required, or when in later years a
Chaplain was appointed, his attendance at the quarterly ex
amination of the scholars was kept up with an assiduity and
perseverance, which must often have put to a severe test even

his indomitable energy. The whole of one day and a part of
two others, was consumed- by this labour of love : and as the

distance from Homerton to Mill Hill amounted to ten miles,
it was at times with great personal toil, and perhaps some risk

in the earlier years, that the journey to and fro was accom
plished. Yet, as by the constancy of his attendance he could
secure an accurate knowledge of the diligence and progress of
the pupils from quarter to quarter, no ordinary impediment
was allowed to keep him away.--And of this Institution in all
its relations, as well as in regard to several other enterprises

which he undertook in comparatively early life, he continued a

stanch friend and a most active supporter, down to the very

time when his strength finally failed. For his measure of
service, the regularity and duration of it must ever be deemed
 extraordinary. An energy, which at the outset might look like
 the effect of a sudden impulse, would be sustained for years
 and years at so high an elevation as to prove it to be solely the
 result of conscientious principle. Duty animated by ardent
 feeling--the one supplying the rule and the other the life
 of his conduct-- is the secret of his long course of strenuous
 labour in so many forms of public usefulness.

   During this year Mr. Pye Smith received the first of the

many honorary distinctions conferred upon him. A diploma of

Doctor of Divinity was presented to him by Yale College, New-

haven, Connecticut. It bears date, Sept. 10, 1807, and has the

signature of Timothy Dwight, who was at that time President

of the College. The Letters to Belsham secured for their Author
170              HIS YORKSHIRE PROPERTY.  [1807.

this mark of respect from one of the oldest of the American
foundations for the advancement of piety and learning.

   Mention was made in a former chapter of the purchase of
some freehold property in Yorkshire, which took place this

year. -The great delay which occurred in completing the
arrangements, and the subsequent expenditure of money in
repairs and alterations --together with the consequent per?
plexity and complaints which arose -- brought out traits of cha

racter of an altogether uncommon kind. It so happened that

Dr. Pye Smith's father had entered with great warmth,; of
feeling into the son's plans: and as the property lay in the
neighbourhood of Sheffield, the elder Mr. Smith undertook

the management. The Letters which Dr. Smith had to write

on these complicated affairs, between September, 1807, and

the middle of 1810, reveal the following facts :--a very large

consumption of time, very great mental anxiety, and a most

exact method of keeping a record of all pecuniary transactions ;

involving an extent of labour in this business alone which few
men could have endured as he did : and yet in what a variety

of other duties, public and private, was he constantly occupied

during these corroding years ! Next, there would be the re

spect, the kindness, the affection, which he ever maintained

towards his father, though he was feeling deeply the con

sequences of plans and projects which had originated at
Sheffield. To this would be added --not simply the gene

rosity, but the delicacy and tenderness which he expressed

respecting the claims or interests of his tenants, as compared
Ifwith his own.
                 he felt, as well he might, that he had fallen

suddenly into a sea of difficulties of the most appalling kind,

his character and conduct were equal to the emergency ; for
he was enabled by Infinite Grace to struggle through without

any appearance of harshness or severity towards others, and

with scarcely a ruffle on his own Christian temper. Or if
he thought, as perhaps he occasionally did, that he had been

too precipitate, too eager, to embrace the prospect of worldly

advantage which offered, he would have in his deep contritionit,
a motive for patience under the discipline, and even for pro
found acquiescence in as the just and merciful interposition

of Infinite Wisdom and Love. Early in the trial, and there

fore before he was deeply immersed in perplexity and toil, he
JET. 33.]       HIS YORKSHIRE PROPERTY.                        171

wrote thus to his father :--" But how much reason have we to

Iguard lest our minds become earthly, from the effect of these

thoughts and attentions ! Indeed find it very difficidt to

Ikeep my own heart from imbibing a carnal and worldly

tincture while am thinking, planning, and writing, about
                that our hearts may be kept pure, humble,
these matters.                                              "

           and  universally  obedient to  the  Lord Jesus  !   And
"Ispiritual^
again somewhat later: -- now especially find the need of

more spirituality, watchfulness, and prayer, lest these worldly

cares corrode and destroy the vitals of religion. How miser

able it would be to gain the whole world and lose our own
        "
souls
       !
                       CHAPTEE XI.

RESIGNS RESIDENT TUTORSHIP-- SELF-EXAMINATION AND HOLY WATCHFUL

      NESS --HIS TUTORIAL DUTIES--DEAFNESS --ADVICE TO A YOUNG MINIS
      TER--ECLECTIC REVIEW: MIDDLETON ON THE GREEK ARTICLE --
      LETTER FROM DR. MIDDLETON--IMPROVED VERSION OF THE NEW
      TESTAMENT -- VARIOUS READINGS -- ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE FOUR

      GOSPELS --BUTLER'S EDITION OF STANLEY'S jESCHYLUS-- LETTER FROM
      DR. BUTLER --HIS NUMEROUS ENGAGEMENTS --ECLECTIC "REVIEW.

  Although from the date of Dr. Pye Smith's settlement at

Homerton, no period had been more to his personal satisfac

tion and comfort than that which immediately followed the
vacation of 1807, yet in December of that year he addressed a
                                                   " signifying his
Letter to the Treasurer      of  the Institution,    On the 29th a
desire to resign the office  of  Eesident Tutor."

General Meeting of the Society was held, when the Letter was

read, on which    the   resolution was passed   which    has been
already noticed        That the Treasurer be   desired  to express
                 :--"

to Mr. Smith in the most respectful terms their acceptance
of his * resignation of his situation of Eesident Tutor of the

Academy ; and that feeling the due value of his labours, they
Ttruutsot r."he will continue to execute the functions of Divinity

  If this most unexpected change fell as a heavy trial at

the moment when it occurred, it was not long before he found
in the greater retirement and perhaps quietude of a separate
residence, a relief from some cares and claims upon his time
which he would highly prize. His sincere friends, whether
personal or in relation to his office, would also rejoice at the

change : the one for his own sake as a man, and the other
because thenceforward his intercourse with the Students and
2ET. 34.]  SELF-EXAMINATION AND HOLY WATCHFULNESS. 173

his influence on their characters, would not be put to any
peril by circumstances in no way properly connected with

his work as a Theological Tutor. A paper, which appears

to have been written in reference to some of the personal

difficulties which Dr. Smith had to encounter at this trying

season, will show his conscientious and most sensitive self-
scrutiny ; and the means which he used to bring his feelings

Iand his conduct into conformity with the authority of Christ :--

"Have duly considered my sad defects of that meekness,

Iwhich is very often and forcibly enjoined hi the New Testa

ment ? Am sufficiently impressed with a sense of its neces
sity ? Does not the Scripture plainly teach that without

  cannot hope to be in state of salvation --In what does

Christian meekness consist, but in constant disposition to
I

                                             a
                                                                   a

                                                                                                                      ?¦

                                                                                                    it,

bear slights and personal affronts with submissive patience,

with benevolent pity for the authors of them, with generous

forgiveness, and without any emotions of anger, resentment,

or unkindness towards them?             The choice  '         heabrte,f'olrieke                  me.
Either to be what profess, meek         and lowly in                                             my
           :I         '                                   a is

                              II
Blessed Lord or to be otherwise, and so have my portion
Ifwith hypocrites and unbelievers.'
Jesus, shall 'find rest to my soul.'    be thus follower of

I                                       shall not be disturbed,
   II
        Iagitated, and filled with alarming fears and apprehensions                              ;:

   shall not be moved to anxiety, grief, or resentment, by
the unjust or unkind treatment of relations and friends

for deeply feel that  deserve infinitely worse. On the
                    I

                                     a
contrary, shall endeavour, by conduct regulated according
to the New Testament precepts and the example of my Lord

and Master, to merit respect and love from men, and leave                                        it
to the Lord whether have or not."
              I

                         it

In February, 1808, Dr. Smith took possession of house
                                                                a

in the neighbourhood, and Mr. Hill, who had the Classical

department, went to reside at, the Academy. Just to show

the esteem in which the retiring Tutor was held, Student
writing to him in August, 1808, says --" have always acknow
II
     I

         I
                                           .
                                                   .
                            I
                                                                                              a
ledged, and shall have reason to say with my dying breath,

that you are the most devoted and exemplary Christian that
                      All the improvement and knowledge
ever knew. .
which possess, owe to your exertions."

The duties of the Theological Tutor having been so honour-
174                          HIS TUTORIAL DUTIES.                                                  [l808.

ably* mentioned by the Constituents of the Institution, and

that at a time when he requested to withdraw from his place as

resident ; it may now be proper to give an account of what these

were, as far as the existing materials supply the necessary in

formation. A brief extract from a Letter of his own, addressed

this year to one of the Treasurers, will be a suitable introduc
tion. " The Lectures given by Dr. Fisher and Mr. Knight

were solely on Divinity and Ecclesiastical History, and the

longest time ever employed in them did not exceed four hours

and a half in any one week. In addition to those subjects, my

engagements include an extensive course of Lectures on Science

and General Literature, and the care of the highest Greek and

Hebrew Classes.  a  The      duasiulya.l"  time which  my Lectures occupyis
three hours and     half                               this time employed ?--
                                           --How was
The basis of Dr. Smith's strictly Theological course was fur

nished by a quarto volume, prepared by himself, and called his

Syllabus of Divinity ; and of which every Student was expected

to write out a copy by the time he entered the theological
class.* Two purposes were answered simultaneously by the

manuscript volume : to the Tutor it was the text book of a

series of expanded Lectures on the topics which it contained ;
taking them in their order, and pursuing them at a length

according to their respective degrees of importance in a scheme
of systematic divinity. This course extended over three or four
years. To the Student, the Syllabus was also a text book,
supplying him with topics and references to appropriate

Authors ; and these he was expected to use in preparing
written compositions of his own, which it formed an important
part of his duty to submit to the examination of the Tutor.
Dr. Smith and the Student were alone on these occasions;

when the former would take the Student's manuscript and
      it,
read
                                                  ;

                                                                         it
                                                                                               is
      making any remarks or emendations with the tongue
or pen as he went along the latter hearing and seeing in the
meanwhile. No restraint was put upon these communications.
Not merely the truth or error of the sentiments of the' young
man, not merely the defects of his style, but his handwriting,

his punctuation, everything in fact which seemed to require or be
eapable of alteration for the better, would be pointed- out in the

* This work, in the more complete form to which        was carried in later
years, and under the title   of First Lines
published :-- edited by the  Rev. "William    of Christian Theology,                               about to be
                                             Farrer, LL.B.-- Ed.
JET. 34.]          HIS TUTORIAL DUTIES.                           175

most affectionate spirit that can be conceived. Nor would
the weightiest of all claims, those, namely, of personal piety,

fail to be enforced by suitable cautions or commendations.
The Students were not always required to begin where the
Syllabus began ; but having obtained permission, they were at
liberty to take up some particular book into which the work

was divided : nor were they expected to go on with the same
portions at the same time, either among themselves or with

the Tutor. Thus there were fewer inducements to plagiarism,

and greater independence of thought was secured. Although

this plan necessarily drew largely on the time of Dr. Smith,

yet it gave to each particular Student very many of the ad

vantages of private instruction. The culture of each one's

mind, and heart was, to this extent at least, carried on by means

which seemed specially designed for his benefit ; to individualize

in this dehcate manner, afforded a tolerably sure guarantee of

success. And as there was nothing whatever in the Tutor

which could be called stereotyped, his personal intercourse with

every member of his class was admirably adapted to elicit the

largest amount of good, which could be secured in conformity

with the mental and moral character of each.

Ecclesiastical History came next in the order of duties.

Four manuscript volumes remain to attest the Tutor's dili

gence in this department. These as well as the Syllabus of

Divinity, and other courses of Lectures, were compiled gra

dually as they were needed ; but in the early years of his

office, besides the business of the class-room there would be

a, demand upon his time in preparation, which would not be

called for to the same extent in later years. His routine

of duty also included regular courses of Lectures on Biblical

Antiquities and Criticism, on Polemical Divinity, and the

Exegesis of the New Testament. To these must be added
Lectures on Mental and Moral Philosophy --Bhetoric --various
branches of Natural Science -- all of which he was anxious. to

keep before the attention of his class to the utmost limit of
Ittime and ability.                                               book of " Sub
                   andalsToheaspepse,a" rsthfarot mfrohmis  note
jects iof Sermons                                           the   commencement

of his labours as a Theological Tutor, Dr. Smith began a

practice which he continued to the close of his office :--

that of appointing the Students in rotation to deliver a dis

course before himself and the class as a pulpit exercise.
176               ADVICE TO A YOUNG MINISTER.  [l808.

   With such demands on the " three hours and a half daily,"

and with the allied preparation, had he not had extraordinary
attainments and an extraordinary power and facility of vigor
ous apphcation, he never could have met the claims of his
position at that time at the College, his duties as a Pastor, his

services as a Eeviewer; to say nothing of the manifold and
most embarrassing cares which lay wholly out of the reach
of the public eye, and which not only eat their way into what
might be called his leisure, but into his very heart also.

   For nearly the whole of his public life --as was but too well
known among his numerous Friends--Dr. Smith was afflicted
with deafness, which increased so much that at length it was

only with great difficulty he could be made to receive com

munications by the ear. The earliest references to this trial
are found in Letters to his father in April and June this year.

In the latter of the two, when he was anticipating a visit

to Sheffield during the College vacation, he speaks of the
necessity of declining engagements to preach :-- " Not only
is it necessary for me to relax as much as possible on common

Iaccounts, but have within these twelve days had an attack
I Iof fever, from which have but just recovered ; and am

under Mr. Astley Cooper's treatment for my ear." Thus
briefly, and as it were incidentally, does he pass over what
was personal to himself.

Having been applied to by a young minister respecting the
Questions usual at Ordination Services, he wrote in reply :--
I" My Dear Brother, -- quite accord
                                               you in disliking
Ithe egotism
Ilieve.' But
     and tiresomeness of constantly reiterating ' be
     the form of an Essay is not, think, adapted

to the occasion. The Confession should resemble a declara
tion of important facts : its composition should be grave, un

adorned, precise, condensed so that every word should be
weighty : and the spirit which it manifests in every sentence,
Ishould be a happy junction of firm conviction, and deep and
modest humility.  presume also you would do well to have,

either at the opening or the close of your confession, a very

serious declaration that these are your sentiments on de
liberate, free, and patient inquiry and frequent prayer. But

avoid the appearance of seeming to think yourself fixed and
.ET. 34.]  ECLECTIC REVD3W.              177

infallible. Stedfast adherence to truth   is perfectly consistent
                                         word --but of our own
with modest diffidence --not of God's

   When Dr. Middleton's work, On the Doctrine of the Greek
Article, appeared in 1808, it was put into Dr. Pye Smith's

hands to be reviewed for the Eclectic. The papers came out

in three successive numbers of that journal, and amounted

in the whole to thirty pages. In conformity with the principle

of selecting passages, by way of illustrating the personal or
literary characteristics of the Eeviewer, the following will not

be devoid of interest.

   "After having studied this elaborate and comprehensive

volume with an attention which few publications deserve, we

venture to assure the lover of classical and sacred philology

that it will not delude his expectation. It is modest in pre

tension, but in execution it displays extensive and well-

employed erudition, an acute and discriminating judgment,
and a talent of reasoning, patient, cautious, comprehensive

and conclusive."--Eclec. Rev. 1808, p. 674.
   " The Student who is desirous of imbibing the pure streams

of Grecian learning, secure from the deterioration of sub

sequent ages, cannot be too earnestly exhorted to the assidu

ous study of the oldest writers in the Ionic dialect, and above
all of Homer. We have often lamented that in the universal
plan of teaching in our schools, the common Greek, which
was generally used by authors after the fall of Grecian liberty
and the decline of Grecian genius, but which at no time was

vernacular, is taught as if it were the pure idiom ; and youth

are led implicitly to beheve that the Ionic and Attic were pro

vincial deflexions from a common standard. It would be

happy if the assumption of this gross and pernicious error

were precluded by the use of an Ionic Grammar and Lexicon

for initiation in Greek learning : and if some of our Burneys

and Porsons would furnish the means for this improvement,

the condescension would not degrade them."--lb. p. 675.
   Having given a very full outline, of the principles of the

work in their relation to Classical Greek, the Eeviewer pro

ceeds :--" We have now completed our view of the leading

principles of Mr. Middleton's system : but for the fuller
elucidation of these principles, for the admirable strain of
178  MIDDLETON ON THE GREEK ARTICLE.                                                                       [l808.

reasoning on their common basis, their respective applica
tion, and their mutual consistency, and for the fruits of

extensive erudition which adorn the whole, we must refer

to the work itself. In our estimation, that scholar will have

little reason to felicitate himself on his parsimony or his

                                                                                         and to peruse
     a

                                            it,

                                                                                    ;

                                                              it
indolence, who neglects to obtain                                                                       atten

tively. The examples are in general selected from the ample

collections of Mr. M. Occasionally we have substituted others,

partly from motive of convenience, and partly for the sake of
giving additional light and confirmation to the rules. We

have not satisfied ourselves, without diligently reading and

comparing them in their respective connexions and to assist
the reader in the same exercise, we have imitated Mr. M.
in the particularity of our references, though we have seldom

copied his notation.

  " It would be an arrogant pretension to affirm, that we have

put Mr. M.'s doctrines to the test of an application to all the

facts in the use of the article, throughout the vast extent of
Grecian learning. Much remains to be done before either an

advocate or an opponent can occupy this high ground. Thou

sands of examples must be compared many readings must be
weighed again in the balance of impartial and vigorous criti
     ;
                                                                                      ;
cism and scholars must imitate Mr. M.'s patience in amassing
materials, his judgment and skill in examining them, and his

candour and caution in forming the deductions from the
scrutiny. Concerning the result of an universal investigation

thus instituted and perfected, we have no anxiety either for the

fate of the system or the honours of its Author.
m"igIhntyoudreaodw,' nwe
                          subsecive moments of conference with the
                           have endeavoured to carry the recollection
'
                                 '
                                                             '

                                                                                                   a
and comparison of Mr. M.'s observations through moderately

extensive course of reading in the Ionic, and the old and new
Attic writers. Though these observations have been less

numerous than we could wish, they have been of various nature,

and in their issue very satisfactory to our own minds. Examples

have occurred which appeared at first sight to militate against

the system but the increasing habit of accurate attention has
     ;

                                                               it

                                                                                                        ;
convinced us that they were really in accordance with                                                      while

to an amount beyond expectation, we have noted the recurrence

oft"heThmeosStdeecocniddedPcaortnfiromf ahtiiosnselaobfothraetreulews.o"r--k lcbo.npspis.t7s78o,f,7t7h9e.
£IT. 84.]  LETTER FROM DR. MTDDLETON.                                        179

application of the Doctrine, established and elucidated in the
first, to the most valuable of all purposes, the Illustration of
the New Testament. The intelligent public will not need to

be instructed that Scholia,  Mm.a,*nyonof   which are  large Disserta
tions, by a critic like Dr.                more than   seven hundred

passages of the Christian oracles, must be a treasure of singular
worth."-- lb. p. 869.

The following Letter from the learned Author of the work
thus ably analysed and examined will be read with interest :--
" Dr. Middleton begs leave to present
Eclectic Eeviewer of the ' Doctrine of     his  cGormeepklimAerntitcslet,'o  the
                                           the                               and

to express a deep sense of obligation to the very learned, though
unknown Critic. To thank him, whose duty requires him to

act with strict impartiality, for a favourable decision--however
grateful it may be to the object of that decision --is injurious

to him who has given it : yet, in the present case, there are

circumstances which admit and demand acknowledgment. Dr.

M. has to acknowledge something more valuable than vague

and general commendation : he has to rejoice that his work has

fallen into the hands of a real scholar, of one who is more than

competent to corroborate its principles if true, and to expose
their weakness if false : he has to thank the Eeviewer for his

patience in developing a Theory, which perhaps is not im

mediately apprehended, and for the pains which he has taken

to elucidate it to others who possess not the same perseverance.

And from the extended examination of his Essay in the re

spectable Journal in which it has first appeared, he ventures to

hope that he shall obtain more than superficial notice from

other Critics, whose prejudices may be hostile to the truths

which Dr. M. has endeavoured to support.
      " Tansor, Northamptonshire,
             " 10 August, 1808."

   In the year 1809, Dr. Pye Smith was still more largely em

ployed in preparing articles for the Eclectic. The first was a
review of the so-called Improved Version of the New Testament,
issued by the Unitarian party. To the examination of this
volume he evidently devoted the most patient thought, not
sparing time or labour to effect in a satisfactory manner the

   * Just before the publication of this third part of the review in the Eclectic,
the Mr. Middleton of the former parts had received his diploma of D.D. --Ed.

                                                                                                      N2
180             ECLECTIC REVIEW:                                  [1809.

great object of reviewing it at all ; which was to secure for him

self, and to be able to show to others, an accurate and a well-

compacted estimate of its true character and claims. The re

view occupies in the whole about forty-five pages of rather

close print.

To propitiate and perhaps also to admonish a class of

persons in the Christian Church, far more numerous when

the article was written than at the present day, the Eeviewer,

as one who could discern the signs of the times, thus writes :--
" The friends of that religious system which we regard as

founded in the perfect attributes and government of God,

and as delivered by his inspired messengers, have been too

inattentive to some of the means of educing and confirming

its doctrines. Occupied, certainly to much better purpose^ in

banedarinpgratchteicaflruihtsolinoefsfsa,i"tht,htehye  works of evangelical benevolence
                                                       have not sufficiently adverted, to

the necessity of Critical Philology, an object of great, though

of subordinate importance for the students and advocates

of Divine truth : the objects are by no means incompatible,

and attention to one neither requires nor justifies neglect of

the other. Of this neglect, however, a very different class
of men addicted to study or speculation, and adversaries of

sentiments which we deem scripturally pure, have carefully

availed themselves ; and have employed their more abundant

leisure in acquiring, and partially applying, the great resources
of scriptural criticism. Hence the cause of error has often
enjoyed a triumph to which it had no legitimate, claim; and

that of revealed truth has been unconsciously betrayed by
incompetent or injudicious defenders. We trust that the

augmented efforts of its opponents will urgently stimulate
its friends. The result of accurate research and impartial

conclusion, furnished by competent learning judiciously em
ployed, and accompanied by candour and integrity of spirit,
cannot but be highly favourable to the advancement pf scrip
tural knowledge. To accomplish this desirable purpose, let

them candidly    acknowledge     and                   cordially  imitate ,-^above all,
let them scorn  to depreciate                          laudable   researches of those
                               --the

in whom they are compelled to behold so much that demands
condemnation or regret. It was one of the resolutions of

the admirable President Edwards, thankfully to accept of
.ET. 35.] IMPROVED VERSION OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.              181

light or instruction   from any quarter,    though   it were  from
a child or an enemy."                       pp. 24,
                       --Eclec. Rev. 1809,           25.

Having given a short account of ,the Authorised Version,

the Eeviewer proceeds to examine the following questions.
" Were the Hebrew and Greek languages, considered merely

as languages, as well understood by the learned in 1607 as

they are now in 1809 ?--Was the peculiar phraseology of the

scriptural writers, especially in application to the New Testa

ment, properly known and attended to, as it has been in more
recent times ? -- Were the means and opportunities which King

James's Translators actually possessed, employed in the best

and fairest manner for the improvement and perfection of
their great work ? --Did the translators use a becoming care
and precision in the selection of English words and phrases ;

so that their terms should originally, and still, notwithstanding

the lapse of two centuries, suggest the most proper and faithful
idea of the original ? "-- To these inquiries an answer is given

in the negative, sustained in each case by illustrations and
proofs : yet, as might be supposed from the impartial and
benevolent spirit of the critic, in a style as remote as possible

from what might be called slashing or condemnatory. He
adds -- " We do not wish to see our common version, now

become venerable by age and prescription, superseded by

another entirely neiv ; every desirable purpose would be satis
factorily attained by a. faithful and well-conducted Revision."

The next step enters briefly on the history of the Greek

Text, which by the then recent completion of Griesbach's

edition of the New Testament, the Eeviewer at that time
believed to be " exhibited in a state so nearly approaching
to its original and native form, as to exclude all probable

expectation   olaf banoyurms:a"t--eriaal  improvement from future collations
and critical
                                          judgment which has been in the

main confirmed by subsequent inquiries in the same hue.

And as the Improved version professed to follow Griesbach's

text, in this respect the ground was common to the Eeviewer

and the work which he had undertaken to examine. Here,

however, an important, indeed the most important part of his

duty began :--" our Eeaders "--he says -- " may fairly expect

us to point out the most signal instances in which this Text
182  ECLECTIC REVIEW :  [l809.

adopts readings different from those of the Eeceived Text ; and

affecting, or supposed to affect, the sense and meaning of im

portant passages. A small number of those instances possess

a theological importance, as they bear some relation to the
great controversy concerning the Person of Christ. This cir
cumstance, through a lamentable defect of judgment and

candour on both sides of that question, has led to some

unhappy results. (1.) It has induced some injudicious de

fenders of the truth, by pertinaciously contending for readings
demonstrably spurious, to violate the indisputable rules of
moral evidence, or to make erroneous assertions as to par

ticular facts of that evidence ; and thus to bring dishonour up

on the sacred cause which they have so unworthily maintained.

(2.) The adversaries, therefore, of the great doctrine of the
Eedeemer's Deity have boldly drawn the inference, that its
assertors have no other foundation for this grand article of
their faith than corruptions of the Scriptural Text. We

earnestly hope, for the sake both of the truth itself, and of
its misguided opposers, that the time is fast approaching
when none but sound evidence shall be produced in behalf
of a just cause : and when there will be no chance of evils
again arising like those which we have here deplored."-^
lb. p. 237.

   This is followed by five pages, each divided into four
columns, arranged to show all the most important variations
in the several books of the New Testament, the Apocalypse
excepted. The first column contains the passages as given

in King James's version; --the second, the Eeceived Text;--
the third, Griesbach's Text; -- and the fourth, the passages

as in the Improved Version. The labour expended upon
these pages at a time when such comparative views were
not to be had simply by copying, must have been very great :
yet it was in this way that the Author was accustomed to
work out results for his own satisfaction, no less than for

the benefit of others ;--the pains bestowed giving him a kind

of property in his acquisitions which scarcely any lapse of
years could impair.

   To obviate the surprise which a large class of Bible-Beaders
would be apt to feel at the number of variations from the

Eeceived Text, the Eeviewer first explains the several probable
.ET. 35.]  VARIOUS READINGS.  183

 sources of error in the existing manuscripts of the New Testa
 ment, giving as he goes along appropriate examples ; he then
 enters on a careful examination of the three passages around
 which the highest controversial interest has accumulated --
 Acts xx. 28. 1 Tim. iii. 16. and 1 John v. 7, 8. His judgment
 appears to have been made up in regard to each of the three

 at that early day, precisely as he was known to state his views
 in print or speaking to the end of his life : and the latest
 critical editions of the Greek Testament by Lachmann and

 Tischendorf are in favour of his decision. The Eeader will

 be pleased with his closing remarks on this branch of the
 subject :--" We have thought it right to enter thus minutely
 into the literary history of these texts, both from that regard,

 to truth which is our first duty to the public, and because

 we beheve that many good men have felt considerable anxiety
 on account of the exploded readings. Such anxiety is to
 the last degree unnecessary. Surely those excellent persons

will reflect that Truth --Divine Truth --can never suffer from

honest investigation ; and that no injury can be inflicted upon
it by its bitterest enemies, comparable to the adduction of

unsound arguments by its professed friends. In the great

and general benefits which accrue to Scriptural Truth from
these investigations, all the component parts of that truth

must respectively participate, and in an eminent degree that
capital one of the Deity of Christ. Its adversaries have indeed
affected to raise a triumph on the result of the discussions

connected with the three texts ; but with how much right,
let the impartial judge. The first passage is rescued from
countenancing the antiscriptural sentiment of passible Deity,
the error of those ancient heretics whom Athanasius so zeal
ously refuted. Of the second, though the reading is changed,
the sense remains the same. And with regard to the last,

they are, in our esteem, the best advocates of the Trinitarian
doctrine, who join in exploding such a gross interpolation, and
in protesting against its being still permitted to occupy a place
in the common copies of the New Testament. The proofs of
our Lord's true and proper Godhead remain unshaken ; de
duced from the prophetic descriptions of the Messiah's Person

in the Old Testament,--from the ascription to him of the

Epithets, the Attributes, the Works, and the Homage, which
are peculiar to the Deity, --and from those numerous and
184                 ECLECTIC REVIEW :                  [l809.

important relations which He is affirmed in Scripture to sus

tain toward His Holy and Universal Church and toward each

of its true members. This last head of argument, in par

ticular, derives some accessions from the purifying fire of just

criticism, through  which the  Text of the  Christian  Scriptures
                    p. 249.
has passed." --lb.

The concluding part of the article is occupied by an exami

nation of the manner in which the Improved Version is exe

cuted : but as the topics of permanent interest are taken- up
in the Eeviewer's great work, the Scripture Testimony to the

Messiah, any reference to them here would be impertinent. , *

   His next contribution was a review of a work, coming also
from the Unitarian party, entitled Illustrations of the Four
Gospels : by John Jones. In the following passage there is an
approach to raillery altogether unusual in Dr. Smith, yet
admirably befitting the occasion :--" Mr. Jones has raised a
huge and terrific spectre out of the supposed incunabula^' (A

Gnosticism ; and he finds or fancies a train of perpetual allu

sions to the malice and cunning of this monster, not only in
the writings of John and Paul^ut in almost every paragraph
and period of the other three Gospels. From our Author's

assertions, comments, and conjectures, it would seem a fair

inference, that the victory over Jewish obstinacy, the dissipation
of heathen darkness, and the illumination of the world with the
light of Eedeeming mercy, were not the most arduous labour
of Jesus and His Apostles ; but they had at every turn the far
more ponderous task of confronting the audacious' malice, and
refuting the blasphemous impieties of Dositheus and Simon
Magus, with their tremendous troop of about eight and twenty

more of John the Baptist's apostate disciples. Mr. J. has the

Gnosiphobia in so dire a degree, that he exhibits an example--
at once humbling and instructive-- of the amicable concord that
often subsists between extreme credulity and a disdainful reso
lution to disbelieve where there are rational grounds of evidence.
He perpetually relies for the basis of important reasonings, on
the palpable romance of the Recognitions, and the other forgeries
under the name of Clement of Eome ; while he considers the
Deity of the Messiah, the expiation of the sins of men by His
death, and the gracious influences of His Spirit, as the very
MT. 35.]  DR. BUTLER'S STANLEY'S JESCHYLUS.           185

weakness of prejudice, and scarcely worthy of being refuted by

             --lb. p. 725.

   That amidst all his Theological investigations he was still
keeping up his intimacy with the pursuits -of science, is shown
by the fact, that in the October number of the Eclectic an
article of his appeared on Murray's Chemistry, a^work in

4 vols. 8vo.

   In the next month, his fertile pen and singularly varied

powers contributed a review of the first volume of Stanley's

Mschylus, ' edited by the late Dr. Samuel Butler, for many
years Head Master of Shrewsbury School, but who died Bishop
of Lichfield and Coventry in December 1839. The learning
which the Eeviewer brought to his task, the great animation

which he showed in the numerous critical questions discussed
by Dr. Butler, his clear and hearty appreciation of the merits

of the work, with his modest reference to what he deemed
defects, could not fail to engage the attention of the person

who of all others would be most alive to such an article. As
soon, therefore, as the learned Editor of the iEschylus had

ascertained who wrote the review,  he addressed  the  following

Letter to the " Bev. Dr. Smith."

                                               "Shrewsbury, May 24, 1810.
   " Bey. Sir. --From the pamphlet* which accompanies this
note, you, will learn my sentiments respecting the Eclectic
Beview of the first volume of my iEschylus. Mr. Lunn has
just gratified me by giving me an opportunity of conveying

Ithem to you ; and as understand from him that your time is
I Imuch occupied, shall no longer trespass on it than while

subscribe myself, with much respect,

                              "Your obliged and o"bSe.diBenuttsleerrv.a"nt,

, Dr. Pye Smith's contributions to the Eclectic this year
exceeded eighty pages; and these not written in the Essay
style where the pen becomes fluent with the force of the
Author's own thoughts, but they are such as bear ample marks
of that diligent reading of the works which came under his
notice, and of that weighing of evidence, by which his labours

      * The pamphlet has not been found among Dr. Smith's papers.-^-ED.
186  HIS NUMEROUS ENGAGEMENTS.  [l809.

 as a critic were to secure the approval of his own conscience,

 and to lay a just claim to the confidence of the public. It is

 further observable that the most important of the works thus

 carefully examined, were not only such as it became him to
 study in virtue of his position as a Theological Tutor, but
 they belonged in a peculiar manner to the series of means
 by which he was being disciplined and equipped for one of the
 great achievements of his life. While, however, he was active

 and persevering in this direction, he was going on regularly
 with his official duties, devoting three hours and a half daily
 to the students, besides the time required for preparation. To

 these engagements must be added all those which arose out of

 his Pastoral relation, such as preparing for two services among

 his people every Lord's-day--occasional services in the week--
--visits to the sick --and, as appears from a book in which he
kept an account of his sermons, preaching at some other
 chapel in the evening upwards of half the number of Sab

baths in the year. The amount of writing which he also had
upon his hands concerning his private affairs was really extra
ordinary ; and this not of the easy, expeditious sort, belong
ing simply to friendly intercourse, or to the ordinary routine
of business ; but of an extremely entangled kind, where from
the variety of interests involved it was impossible to avoid
deep anxiety of mind, which --in expressing itself in long and
frequent Letters --must have taxed his powers far beyond what
he might have been thought able to bear without risk to
his reason or even to his life. Nor was he in the mean while
exempt from that class of smaller cares which appertained to

his domestic circumstances. Yet he bore up with true Chris
tian manhood in the face of all difficulties and all duties. Nor
is he ever found uttering one single complaint which has him

self for its object. A really feeble cry never escapes him. No

moan is heard coming from that spirit during this period of
intense toil and anguish ; deeply environed, as he surely was
then, with the most harassing trials. --But he had the Divine
Eefuge. To this he would betake himself with all that energy
of imploring earnestness for which he was remarkable, and
with a simplicity and singleness of purpose that might not
indeed secure the external relief on which some minds would
have been set, but which did secure the patience, the fortitude
JET. 35.J  ECLECTIC REVIEW.  187

that made him equal to the emergency --and in this respect

a gainer by the discipline.

   In passing from 1809, two years will elapse before Dr. Pye

Smith's contributions to the Eclectic Review can again be
ascertained with certainty. Hitherto the information, on

which indeed the fullest reliance may be placed, has been
supphed by a communication which the Eeviewer himself
made to his father at Sheffield, in reply to his urgent re

quest on the subject. With this motive to overcome his

silence respecting his literary labours, the Son, rather than

the Author, felt it his duty to comply. But when an appeal
could no longer reach him from such a quarter, there is then

no further trace to be met with in his Letters or papers of his
productions as a Critic. After an interval of two years (1810,
1811,) during which he was no doubt as actively employed
in the work as before, but of which no definite intelligence can

be obtained ; Mr. Josiah Conder, for many years the able

Editor of the Eclectic, becomes our guide in pointing out,
as he has most kindly done, the articles in that Journal
contributed from year to year by the subject of this memoir.
                     CHAPTEE XII.

WEEK EVENING LECTURES ON THE EVIDENCES OF RELIGION --SERMON ON
      THE DEATH OF THE REV. 1. BARBER-- SERMON ON THE APOSTOLIC
      MINISTRY --ILLNESS OF HIS FATHER --LETTER TO HIS MOTHER-- LAST
      LETTER TO HIS FATHER --LETTER TO HIS WIDOWED MOTHER-- OLD
      GRAVEL-PIT MEETING HOUSE --SECURED FOR HIS CONGREGATION --
      ARRANGEMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORSHIP --COURSE OF SERMONS-- SER
      MON ON THE " ADORATION OF CHRIST "--ANTI-P^DOBAPTIST MEMBERS
      --ECLECTIC REVIEW: HALES'S ANALYSIS OF CHRONOLOGY --LETTER
      TO REV. WM. WALFORD --ON THE INTERMEDIATE STATE -- COLLEGE
      DIFFICULTIES -- EXCULPATORY LETTER -- COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY --
      "VINDICL3E ACADEMIC2E"-- LETTER OF REV. ROBERT HALL--BENEFI
      CIAL RESULTS --SERMON ON THE SACRIFICE OF CHRIST--REV. WM.

        WALFORD BECOMES CLASSICAL TUTOR AT HOMERTON.

From the beginning of February to the end of April, 1810,
Dr. Pye   Sthme itEhviwdeasnceensgaogfedBevineadleedlivBereinliggioan.""
tures on                                                                  Course   of Lec
                                                                             This
                                                                                   was an

extra service, a labour of love, intended for the benefit of the
congregation under his pastoral care, to which the Monday

evening in every week was devoted.

   Two of his published sermons were preached in the early
part of this year. One in February on the death of the, Eev.
Joseph Barber : the other in April on The Apostolic Ministry,

Compared with the Pretensions of Spurious Religion and False
Philosophy. The latter, extending to sixty pages, is replete

with the fruits of his learning, piety, and zeal. A single

passage, in which he graphically depicts the false philosophy
of Greece, will repay attention as illustrating the Authors

full command of the subject :--the text of the discourse is

1 Cor. ii. 6, 7, 8.
JET. 36.] ,     ILLNESS. OF HIS FATHER.                                              189

" The Greeks, especially in those states in which literature flourished

most, were an ingenious, inqiiisitive, penetrating and volatile people.
Philosophical studies had been with them a favourite object of attention
from an early period of their history. From Egypt and the East they had
imported many truths and many errors, variously blended and disguised.
These, with their characteristic liveliness of fancy and passion for subtile

disquisition, they had augmented, transposed, and modified ; till their

speculations assumed the form of defined systems, whose respective ad

herents following some distinguished leader formed the great philosophic
sects. Besides the accurate and physical sciences, which some of them

deemed too humble pursuits, they disserted on the deity and all inferior
beings, on the origin and essences of mundane things, on substances and

forms, on matter and intelligence, on primary atoms and eternal ideas,

on life, death, immortality, and mutations of existence, on the virtues and

vices, on the chief good and deceptive appearances of it ; and on an end
less variety of the most intricate questions in ontology and ethics. In the
better days of Greece, illustrious men were not wanting who brought philo

sophy from the clouds to dwell with mortals, and to assist them in the use
ful practice of life. But those days were past. The prevalent taste was

now for a vain and deceitful kind of philosophy, ostentatious in profession,

destitute of practical utility, and set off with the paint and tinsel of a

fallacious rhetoric. The avowed objects of its professors were, not so much

truth and goodness, as victory and fame : and there are instances of their
pretending to prove unanswerably either side of any argument, or both
in succession. This misnamed wisdom was so much in vogue at Corinth,

that it became proverbial to call pompous and inane discourses, Corinthian
words. This is the sophistry which the apostle denounces as a foe to

the simplicity  saonledmpnulyritaybjuorfest.h"e  Gospel,  and  which  in  the  text  and  its
connection, he

Domestic circumstances made it necessary for Dr. Smith to
remain at home during at least the early part of the College
vacation in 1810 ; it is not however known whether it was his

intention to do so for the whole of it, as he had done the year

before. This deprivation of his company for a few weeks at
Sheffield occurring a second year, was a source of great regret to

his parents ; more especially as his father wished him to see

the state of the property which he had purchased in that
neighbourhood in 1807. To lessen the disappointment of Mr.
Smith, senior, and to gratify the fond feelings of Grandparents,
                                                 daughter should pay them a
it was  resolved that Dr. Smith's
                                                 wrote thus :-- " We send our
visit.  In a Letter of June 20, he
dear little girl in answer to your kind invitation, committing

her to the protection of the Most High, and the assured care

of our dear parents. Please to write to say that she is arrived,
how she has borne the journey, &c, by Saturday's post. May
190                 ILLNESS OF HIS FATHER.                          [l810.

Iour Heavenly Father preserve and bless her, and bring her
back to us in the enjoyment of every mercy !                   hope she will

be dutiful and well-behaved, so that her Grandparents may
have pleasure in her." Owing to some mistake in the arrange

ments, the daughter could not go by the coach that day ; and as

the Letter had not been previously despatched, an account of

the disappointment was added, and it was sent on by post the
next. The Grandfather thus replied :-- " Some might be ready

to suggest that our dear child's not coming last night was a

matter of little consequence ; but we did not find it so. What

ever may be thought of what many would call our weakness,

the truth is we found it a very great trial. We have no doubt

but it was   odridsepreendsabtiyonI.n"finite  Wisdom,  and we hope  to get

good by the

Intimations had reached the family at Homerton, that at that

time Sheffield had lost many of its inhabitants, especially
among the young, by an epidemic fever. But the vagueness of

these reports, added to the great care which they well knew

their daughter would receive from all her relations in that

town, induced the parents to keep to their original purpose.

Accordingly on the 29th of June, Dr. Smith wrote to say, that

they had some hope of sending her the next week. The next

day, however, Mr. Bobert Leader, Dr. Smith's brother-in-law,

wrote to apprise him that Mr. Smith, senior, had been seized

on the Thursday with fever of so alarming a kind as to excite
much apprehension for his safety. Thus that singular delay
of the daughter's visit, which nobody could account for at the

moment, which was felt most keenly by the grandfather, and
in her child's measure by the granddaughter also-- may be said
to have been fully explained when this Letter came to hand.
The house at Sheffield could not now welcome, nor with safety
receive the little stranger ; and in the town itself, the prevailing
malady might have taken hold upon the new comer with a

severity which many of the residents escaped. Even the
loving grandfather was quite beyond the reach of any real joy
from such a source. His greetings would have been marked,
at one instant perhaps with the distressing excitement of a
feverish brain, at
                    the next  with the        listless apathy  of a state  of
collapse; --both    equally   mournful           to witness,    and for
                                                                            a

wonder or a fear to the child. Here, then, by a signal inter
position of the Divine Goodness, not by a happy conjuncture
;ET. 36.]             LETTER TO HIS FATHER.                        191

of accidents, a great mercy really lay wrapped up in circum
stances which were at the time trying to all concerned : and
this mercy came so closely in connection with what was very
soon to follow, as to prove a source of relief and thankfulness

amidst bereavement and tears.

  Dr. Smith wrote at once in reply to Mr. Leader's Letter :--
" My very dear and honoured Mother, --We do indeed truly

and deeply sympathise with you and my beloved relatives in
If Ithis unexpected and heavy affliction.    could view my duty
Ias coinciding with my earnest desire and inclination,

should set   out by this evening's     mdiaffilic:ulbtyu.t"  my    situation is
really that  of extreme and painful                                 fact, owing
                                                             --In

to Mrs. Pye Smith's expected confinement, it was quite im

practicable for her husband to leave home for the length of

time which a journey to Sheffield and back would have taken

in that day of slow travelling. He could only express his deep
Sympathy by Letter and offer fervent prayer. July 5th he wrote
again to his mother, and also to his father thus :--
" My very dear and honoured Father,
I" In the hope that this may find you in the earthly house
of our dying tabernacle,  am anxious to have the painful

Ipleasure of holding this imperfect intercourse with one whom
    so dearly love. None can fully enter into my feelings.
How dark and heart-rending the providence which forbids,

I---insuperably forbids -- my flying to you ! But the Lord,

doubt not, is with my dear Father; and better than a thou

sand sons, and all the tenderness of human affections. Accept

Ithe most tender and affectionate love of your distressed and
may truly say overwhelmed children. O that you may be
most graciously and divinely supported by the God of all
             that the joy of His presence may be your perpetual
grace !

consolation ! And, if it be His most condescending and mer

ciful good pleasure,      that he may restore you to us, that we
may again praise Him in the land of the living ! But if he
reject our earnest prayer in this respect --for you, my dear
Father, it is far better. We constantly endeavour to meet
you at the throne of grace :--hereafter we trust to meet

before  yotuhres/'throne  of holiness  and  glory !          Amen, amen.

Ever
192            LETTER TO HIS MOTHER.         [l810.

   The tidings from Sheffield, after fluctuating a little, grew all
at once most sad, so that without his being aware of it at the

time, the next Letter was written on the day when his father

died :--              " Homerton, July 9, 1810.

   " My very dear and honoured Mother,
" Unsearchable as are the ways of the Lord, they are as
suredly all right and holy. The short-sighted and imperfect
views of flesh and sense might lead us to repine under the

most cutting and heart-rending reverse which our hopes have

this day experienced. But we are believers in the Lord
Jesus. He lives : and the immortal life of His people is
Iflaid up with His. Blessed be His name, we are not left to
sorrow as those who have no hope.            by this time, my
Beloved Father has passed the important hour --we have

reason to mourn on our own account, not on his. Heavy

indeed is the loss and grief, and to me it is heavy beyond all
I Ithat can express.
                      not only participate in the feelings
Iof filial love and gratitude, but am sensible that those
feelings are exceedingly increased by the circumstance of my

being fixed at such a distance from my ever-honoured parents :

Iand now that at this solemn and interesting season, should be

prevented by the indissoluble ties of duty and Divine Provi

dence from attending on my dear Father--0, this distresses

I Ime beyond measure. But also ought not to repine. am
Iwell satisfied that am obeying the voice of duty. It is the
Ihand of the Lord that hath done this ; and under His mighty

hand must humble myself.
"O my much loved Mother, may you experience in the

richest manner, the all-powerful, gracious, and consoling
presence of Him who is the Father of the fatherless and the
                                              who is light and
Protector  of  the widow, the Living    God
               are indeed His obedient  and  submissive children
love. If   we
--who can separate us from His love ? Can tribulation -- or
distress-- or death ? Can the sudden and overwhelming dis
appointment of our fond hopes ? Can the weight of sorrow
redoubled ? No. No. In all these things we are more than

conquerors through Him that hath loved us ! These things,

even these, shall work together for our good !

   "And if it please the Holy and Eighteous Sovereign to

bring us into that great trial which now we scarcely dare hope
MT. 36.]  LETTER TO HIS WIDOWED MOTHER.                                                      193

to escape, let us not be unmindful of the alleviating circum

stances which the mercy of the Lord has bestowed. My dear

IFather has been permitted to see his children either taken,
   trust, to rest in Jesus, or comfortably and happily settled.
His activity and usefulness have not been cut short, as in

many instances in which the children of God have been

called to many months and years of languishing and incapacity

before their dissolution. My dear Parent has continued to
                                                          ( --and with indelible grati
Iconfer  blessings on his    children                     and on the cause of Christ,
         feel peculiarly
tude                         on me, --
          it,
                is

                                 a

                        I
                                                         )
to the last. It but little time, and we shall all follow                                            ;

and only the Lord knows in what order of succession. You,

my dear Mother, and we shall, trust, reap the benefit of my

revered   Fatehteerr'nsityp.r"ayers  and  counsels          through our course                      of
life and  to

  The following was written July 13, after he had heard of his
father's death --

   " My very dear and honoured Mother,
      " had ventured to cherish some fond hopes from the
I
                          :

degree of comparative ease which my late beloved Father
enjoyed on Sabbath day, and because we had no Letter on

Wednesday. My feelings, not my judgment, excited them.
Yesterday (Thursday) at near two o'clock, our painful suspense

was terminated by my dear brother Leader's Letter. Notwith

standing our minds were so prepared for this last stroke,
                             a

                                                   I
                                                                                              it
proved unspeakably heavy. The day which had begun in awful
anxiety, became day of bitter and overwhelming grief indeed.
My peculiar circumstances of constant, and may very justly

say excruciating alarm, of conflicting fear and hope, of such

distance from the interesting place, of perfect inability to leave
home, --give an edge to my sorrow most cutting indeed.
                                                               it I                          am

satisfied that was the clear necessity of duty that prohibited
me -- endeavour to calm my feelings by considering that
;                                                                                                   is

 I

       it
             it

                                       ;

                   I
                      I
the Lord who hath laid this trial upon me, and that have no I
doubt of unknown purposes of mercy being answered by --
                                                                                             it

                                                                                                 :

but still fills my days and nights with bitter mourning. We

cannot doubt that my dear Father sleeps in Jesus, safe a"nd
blessed, and will appear with Him in triumph but feel for
                                                            I
                                                                                    :
                                                                       I

                                                                                          o
you, my dear Mother and am afraid feel too selfishly for
my own great loss. You will, trust, be most graciously sup-
194           OLD GRAVEL PIT MEETING HOUSE.                      [l811.

ported and comforted. The Father of mercies and God of all

consolation be ever with you ! "

   At the close of August, when Mrs. Pye Smith's recovery
would allow the Doctor to leave home without any great

anxiety, he went to Sheffield, where he remained a few weeks

to comfort his beloved mother, and also to assist with her

other children in arranging his father's affairs, so as to relieve
her mind as much as possible concerning the future.

Dr. Smith's services in the Hall of the Academy had been

followed with such a blessing in the increase of the Church

and Congregation, that towards the close of 1810 it became a
matter of necessity to provide a larger place of worship for their
use. The attention of a Committee appointed for this business,

was directed to a Chapel hi the vicinity which was then unoccu

pied: -- this was the somewhat celebrated Old Gravel Pit

Meeting House, which was built in 1716. It originally

belonged to the Presbyterians; but the probability is that

almost from its commencement there was a tendency in the

Congregation towards a low style of doctrinal sentiments, which

went on increasing through different shades of Arianism, until

it reached the Socinianism of Priestley and Belsham. The

Eev. Eobert Aspland, who was the minister at this "date, was

probably less exclusively controversial, less dry as a preacher

than his immediate predecessors, so that his popularity led to
the carrying out of a plan for building a new chapel in what
would perhaps be considered a more eligible situation. In this

way, therefore, the old Presbyterian, and in the end Socinian

Meeting House, became accessible to the Congregational Church
of Evangelical sentiments, which had been formed about seven

years    before in  the Hall of Homerton College.         among  other
    At'  a Church
                    Meeting held Nov. 6, the following

resolutions were passed, evidently with a view to new arrange

manednthsiscoPnesoepqluee:n--t "uTphonatthaecweritdaeinr  sphere opening to the Pastor

                                                          number of pews in the body

of the Meeting, at the discretion of the Committee, be appro

priated to the accommodation, of the servants of the families
                    Congregation :--That the
belonging to  the                                         wofhotlheeopf otohre."galTlehrey
be reserved   for   the free accommodation

first of these provisions might have been intended to lessen the

sense of distance between the several classes of worshippers, or
JET. 37.]           OPENING SERVICES.              195

to encourage the attendance and- attention of all upon the

worship. It was also a mark of wisdom and kindness, to

provide for the servants in a way which would not encroach
upon the space set apart for the poor. The Pastor's heart
could not be satisfied with a scanty or a precarious arrangement

for the comfort of the latter. What he desired was, to meet
their wishes as well as their wants ; and the plan adopted did

this by at once securing for them ample room, while it spared
them the pain they might have felt had they been thrust in

among persons who did not belong to their class.

   The arrangements having been completed, the church and
congregation assembled for worship for the first time in what

was to them a new place on the Lord's-day, March 10, 1811.

The opening services were conducted by the Eev. John Clay
ton, senior, the Bev. George Collison, and Dr. Winter. From
this date, Dr. Smith had two regular services on the Sabbath,
and two on week days --a Prayer Meeting on the Monday
evening, and a Leeture on Wednesday. The Chapel having
had for very many years no inconsiderable notoriety as one of

the chief sources of Socinian teaching in our country, the new
Pastor, as his Sermon Book shows, devoted himself most ear

nestly to the work of proclaiming in the same place, those

evangelical doctrines which were inestimably dear to his own

heart, and on which he rested all his hopes of being, made

a blessing to others. Here again new motives and new

opportunities arose for investigating with all possible care

the questions whieh he had already repeatedly examined.

Scarcely any man could have equalled him in the number

and force of the inducements, which led him at one time

or another into all the recesses of the Socinian controversy ;

and very many of these sprang out of circumstances quite

independent of his volition or arrangement.
   Having--for example -- at this period begun a course of

Lectures    on the    Wednesday evening on     subjects such as
                    Use of .Scripture History
these : --  " The                              " -- " Crime, and
Punishment of the Builders of Babel "-- " Origin, Extent,
and Consequences of Idolatry "--he received " a respectful
Letter from an unknown writer, calling upon him to vindi

cate himself and his fellow-worshippers from the charge often

adduced against them, of what has been denominated ' Chris-

                                               o2
196   ANTIP.EDOBAPTIST MEMBERS                      [l811.

tian Idolatry !' "--This appeal was met by his first preaching

and then publishing a discourse entitled -- The Adoration of
our Lord Jesus Christ Vindicated from the Charge of Idolatry.

In the conspicuous post which he now occupied as a Pastor

as well as a Tutor, he was ever ready to act as one who
was set for the defence of the Gospel ; as one, moreover, with

whom the interest, the- arguments, and the evidences on the

great theme of our Lord's Divinity, were seldom allowed to
suffer from want of use.

A short time before the removal from the Academy to the

Chapel took place, two persons who had been members of an

Antipsedobaptist Church desired to unite -with the one under

Dr. Smith's care. This being the first case of the kind, which

had arisen during his pastorship, the Church Book contains a

series of resolutions which claim a wider notice, both as show
ing the fine spirit of the writer towards all the parties con

cerned, and also as supplying an example which may be

imitated with advantage in the like circumstances :-- " That

the difference of sentiment between us and Mr. and Mrs.
      , as to the right of the infant seed of God's people to

the ordinances of church-membership and baptism, (though

the affirmative of that question is considered by us as a scrip

tural doctrine and an important privilege, yet) cannot on
sohd and scriptural grounds, be made a bar to the communion
of saints. ---That while on our own part we exercise this duty
of Christian forbearance, we confidently rely on a correspond
ing disposition in Mr. and Mrs.
                                 , and that they will

candidly avoid the introduction of discussions on the ques
tion of baptism as what, under these circumstances, could
not contribute to Godly edifying and holy love. -- That with
this exposition of our mutual views, we cordially give the
right hand of Christian fellowship to Mr. and Mrs.
                                                               -,

and receive them as a brother and sister in the Lord, that
they and we may walk together in the observance of the or
dinances, duties, and privileges which belong to the Churches

of Jesus Christ.-- Finally, that- if the sentiments of Mr. and
Mrs.  on the subject of Baptism continue the same as

they now are, and if at any future period they should have
a comfortable prospect of union with an Antipeedobaptist

Church, and should be desirous of availing themselves of  it,
JET. 37.]  HALES'S ANALYSIS OF CHRONOLOGY.      197

we now profess our cordial readiness to assist them in the

attainment of that object by such dismission    raenqduirree.c"om
mendation as the circumstances of the case may

   In 1812, Dr. Smith contributed an article to the Eclectic

 Review on Dr. William Hales's New Analysis of Chronology.

 The paper contains the following remarkable pre-intimation of

 the Eeriewer's sentiments, as they were given to the world in a

more expanded form nearly thirty years later :--" Many modern

 geologists are daily confirming themselves and others in in
 fidelity, from the unfounded assumption .that the Mosaic cos

 mogony is contradicted by indubitable facts and discoveries in
 mineralogical science. We are sorry to say that when this
 objection was adverted to in the admirable lectures read by an
illustrious Professor at the Eoyal Institution last year, the
 answer which was produced was of that flimsy kind which
 could satisfy no man, and must have left the objection to
operate with more mischievous force. The false assumption

rests on the idea, that according to the Scriptures, the antiquity

 of the created universe does not much exceed six or seven

thousand years. From long and attentive consideration, we

are convinced that neither the Book of Genesis nor any other
part bf the Bible authorises any such conclusion. Certainly

the Bible teaches, that the formation of man, and of the pre
sent species of organised beings which people our planet, took

place at the late date referred to : and this fact is verified by
the traditional testimony of all nations, by the recent origin of
the arts and improvement of life, and by all the literary monu
ments of mankind. But this by no means justifies the in

ference, that the earth as a terrene body had not previously
existed for a period of duration not to be assigned. The
magnificent exordium of the Hebrew prophet and inspired

teacher, is a simple declaration of the fact--that the whole de

pendent universe did, at some period or other in the retrospect

of countless ages, derive its existence, form and properties,
from the Infinite and All-Perfect Intelligence which we call

God. --Moses then takes up the planet which was to be the

theatre of those great measures of Jehovah's moral government,
the history of which it was his immediate object to record : and
the very terms in which he describes it carry to our conviction
the intimation of a pre-existent state, and a dissolution from
198 LETTER TO REV. WILLIAM WALFORD.                                       [l812,

that state into a dark, chaotic, decompounded               --Ec. Rev.
1812, p. 301.

   The following Letter was addressed to the Eev. William
Walford, subsequently Dr. Smith's colleague at Homertoaii but
at that time pastor of a Congregational Church at Yarmouth,

                                                          " Homerton, Sep. 11, 1812..

  I" Dear Sir, -- am much concerned at the appearance of treating your
ILetter with neglect. Having been from home six weeks, am now, indeed,
taking the first opportunity of giving the best answer in my power to your

Iinquiry, though fear it will not be very serviceable to you. The know
Iledge have of Arabic literature is extremely little; and the perpetual
Ioccupation in which am kept by other duties and engagements seems to

forbid the hope of any future progress. -- Chappelow's Elements are little
more than extracts and abridgments of Erpenius, whose grammar was

several times printed in Holland, in small- 4to., but Schultens's edition is the
Ibest.  think they are about equally serviceable ; but of the two, if both
Icould not be had, prefer Erpenius. The rules and observations are more
perspicuous than in Chappelow, but the latter excels in the disposition of
Ithe Conjugations. To Erpenius there is an excellent appendage of Adages
and Fables, which form good and easy lessons.    have Richardson's

Grammar lately republished. One may get some good from it ; but it is not
adapted to the uses of the Biblical student, being composed for the use of

Icommercial and military men in India.
   " Castell's Lexicon think very inadequate and discouraging ; from the
nature of its plan and the disagreeable clumsiness of the Polyglott type.

Golius's leaves scarcely anything to desire, but it is scarcely attainable.
IWillmett's, 4to. 1784, is a most excellent and satisfactory work.
                                                                          have
I Iboth, but in my small experience, think have never had necessary
occasion to turn from it to Golius. There is in it a troublesome oversight,
in that the initial letters of many grammatical terms and connecting words

are used, to reduce the space, as borrowed from Golius, but the table of ex
plication is not given, at least it is wanting in my copy. These abbrevia

tions are so numerous and many of them so peculiar, that the task of con
Ijecturing them is often very unsatisfactory. But upon the whole, if could
I I Inot have both,think     prefer
               should  even          Willmett    to Golius  &hcim" self.
                                              "  am, &c.

    Two circumstances occurred during this year which led to a
great deal of discussion among the members of Dr. Smith's
Church, in the Committee and among the Constituents of the

Academy, and more or less in the Nonconformist community

at large. All the personalities of the controversy were" long
ago set at rest for ever ; nor would it be possible, even were it

worth while to attempt, to revive an interest in the questions
then so warmly contested. The motives which induce any
JET. 38.]              DIFFICULTIES AND DOUBTS.  199

reference to the subject are --fidelity to the facts of the actual
life of Dr. Smith--a desire not to overlook any of his publica
tions--and the introduction of a Letter which brings out some
admirable traits of character not to be met with elsewhere in

his correspondence.

   In the progress of the Lord's day morning exposition of the
Scriptures --the epistles to the Corinthians being the books --the
Pastor had arrived at 2 Cor. v. 1 -- 4 ; and as this came in the
regular course, he did not go out of his way to introduce, nor

could he conscientiously turn aside to avoid the passage. Now
just at that period, notwithstanding his earher convictions, his
mind was unsettled respecting the state of the human spirit
during the interval of its separation from the body. The
Scriptural evidence was not to his apprehension sufficiently

clear to enable him to decide either one way or another--that

is, whether for the conscious or the unconscious condition of

the disembodied spirit. In this dilemma, with a frankness, a

simplicity of purpose, which showed his fidelity to his sense of

duty, he clearly and calmly avowed the difficulties which
impeded his progress, and which, as he felt at the moment, the

conflicting testimony of Bevelation did not allow him either to

overcome for himself, or to conceal from others.

On the Monday he received a Letter apprising him of the

strong feelings that had been excited, and which would probably

increase, by the position in which he had left the subject of

inquiry the day before. The following week the Doctor went
with his family to Hastings. While there, free from his

numerous claims at Homerton, he resumed and steadily prose

cuted his examination of the question in all its bearings, that

he might if possible remove his own doubts and his people's

misgivings, by attaining to as much of certainty as could

perhaps be hoped for in the case. Writing from Hastings to

Ione of the earliest and steadiest of his friends--William Alers

Hankey, Esq.--he says -- " thank you for the friendly anxiety
which you again manifest on this subject. Happy is the mind

that rests in a 'full  of Scriptural satisfaction on this
I Ipoint !
           am painfully harassed with the apprehension that

may subdue my judgment to an acquiescence with my incli

Ination and wish, rather than to the obedience of faith. The

fear of this, think, operates in a manner more powerful than
200   ON THE INTERMEDIATE STATE.                       ['812.

could readily be conceived by one inexperienced with such a
I Itrial. It seems to drive me back into the tempest again, when
had hoped to be nearly in the port.   have had some similar

seasons of distress on great points of Christian doctrine, but
never so long continued, nor so equally balanced as in the
I Ipresent instance.                       can depend upon the
      bless God, that if
Istrongest dictate of my own consciousness, have no dlfficulty

      authority of His Word : my only difficulty is
      His word does declare.-- Long have I, how

      ! yet fervently implored divine light on this
Iin bowing to the

to ascertain what
inadequately, alas
point: and since writing the preceding sentence, have spent
some time in revising my materials from the Scriptures and
repeated entreaty to be "guided aright. For some moments my

Isatisfaction increases, and have said with some grateful affec
Itions, ' Lord, believe ; help me against my           Then
Iagain, the clouds return, and dread being under a delusion, or
Ia transient impression. Yet do feel a growing hope that the
Iviews which have been this day contemplating, especially
from Luke xxiii. 43, 46 ; 2 Cor. v.; Heb. xii. 23 ; will abide and

grow

The hope thus expressed with such exquisite self-scrutiny

and diffidence was realized. On     the first Lord's   day morning
after his return home, the results  of his six weeks'  examination

and prayer were given to his Congregation. He took the same

passage as before for his text, and presented the evidence in

favour of the prevailing belief among Christians in a light at
once satisfactory to himself and to his people.

It is worthy of notice how in this as well as in other instances,
Dr. Smith's inquiries forty years ago took a direction in sub

stance and even in form, closely resembling those of some
celebrated persons in much later days. A very learned Prelate

of the Episcopal Church, whose writings are distinguished for

their variety, their usefulness, and  Pthaestiror,t"ranaspsmaraelnl tvoslutymlee,

published when he was " A Country

entitled A View of the Scripture Revelations concerning a Future
State.* Three of the Lectures in this work are headed  respect

ively --"General Considerations on the Intermediate    State:"

--" The Intermediate State one of Consciousness:" --" Argu-

      * Loud. Fellowes : fifth ed. 1842.
ET. 38.]     A RECENT WORK ON THE SUBJECT.                          201

ments for an Intermediate State of Sleep." --The learned Author,

with a plainness which is eminently characteristic of him, lays
down without the slightest reserve that which he deems the Scrip
tural evidence on both sides : and so far is he from affirming

or denying either side with certainty, that he considers the

question to be among those about which certainty is at present

unattainable, and therefore among those which we cannot
include with articles of faith, a definite reception of which is

essential to salvation. The popularity of the Work shows that

it has not been neglected; and the absence of any effectual

refutation of its positions further shows how differently the
whole subject is viewed now from what it was at an earlier

date. In truth, while persons are to be found who carry their

inquiries into such questions, and who arrive at a result not in

harmony with the popular belief, very many will feel that a
debt of obligation is due to any competent investigator who,

without shrinking from the trouble or the obloquy of going in
the same track, is prepared to make known to the world and to

evince by sound argument, that no vital truth of Christianity -

is endangered ; no, nor so much as disturbed, by a difference of
belief on this particular point. Nor will important practical in

ferences be wanting on either side where the teaching of Scrip

ture is not felt to be sufficiently explicit to settle all doubts. In
this case, for example, if the final judgment with all its conse

quences should be, as to the spirit's own consciousness, instan

taneously near to the moment of our departure from the body,
then-- as Archbishop Whately suggests -- purgatory becomes as
impossible in fact as it is unscriptural in theory ; and the ever

lasting future of every accountable being follows, without the
slightest sensible delay, upon the close of his present course.

   Perhaps one of the chief sources of difficulty to many persons
in looking at the whole question, has arisen from a sort of

vague apprehension, that they will be conscious of their being
in a state of unconsciousness. Yet however the subject itself

may be determined, precisely the same assurance ought to be

cherished ofthe wisdom of the Divine arrangement, precisely the

same hope,   consolation  inantdhejoyL,orind.'the   grace and love  of God
              who ' die                            The absence or   the in
towards all

tervention, the length or the brevity of an interval of repose
prior to the resurrection, cannot be said either to disturb

the fact, or really to shorten the duration of the immortal day
202               on the intermediate state.                           [i8ia.

whieh is approaching. Hence, that faith which confidently

embraces the reality of the future blessedness of the righteous,

ought with equal confidence to rise above every fear concerning

the existence and the characteristics of the Intermediate State.

Not indeed to think as reverentially, as devoutly, as thankfully
and affectionately of the Divine perfections and dealings, in
whatsoever way this question is supposed to be left by Bevela

tion, arises from unbelief. The settlement of the point on

either side, should not be suffered to interfere for a moment

with our profoundest conviction of the revealed result : for in
both cases alike, there is the same sure ground of unlimited trust

for the redeemed and sanctified; and the same "certain fearful
looking for of judgment and of fiery indignation which shall
devour the adversaries." Who then can complain or what can

reason or piety suggest to the contrary, should it be found

to be true that the whole human race must be allowed to com

plete its course before the several members enter upon the

Ifwondrous activities of their future being ? the chrysalis state

of butterflies and moths, as compared with their subsequent

winged and perfected forms, be supposed to supply a good and

beautiful illustration of the change which will take place from

the corruptible,  mortal body to the    one which will be              raised   in
' incorruption '                       the chrysalis state             itself,  in
                  and 'glory'; --even

which the faculties of the insect appear to be wholly dormant
for a season, may afford no inapt analogy of the condition of

man between death and the resurrection. And just as the
chrysalis state in the mere insect,--instead of being the anni
hilation or extinction of its existence -- is the sure and im
mediate precursor to the highest degree of life of which it is
capable ; so it may be with man --his powers and sensibilities
may be in a state of profound repose for a time, and yet that
repose be an inevitable link of connection between the earliest,
humblest stage of his being and the expanded, glorious, life

which is to follow. We say not that this will be the case ;
but simply that if it should be, faith may rest with as much
complacency in the wisdom and benevolence of this part of the
Divine economy, as it is understood to do in regard to the
general or
at the last  sdiamyu. --ltaTnheoeusEeraedsuerrrewctiilol nexocfusthee  bodies of mankind
                                                                       a digression which
may in a measure show, that if in this instance Dr. Smith was
JET. 38.]  .  COLLEGE DIFFICULTIES.                                        203

a little too much in advance of his own age to be fully under

              he the more thoroughly prepared the way for
astood by

               :the next.

           it,

                               :

                        a it

                                     a
                                                    a
                                                        ;a

                                                                           a
                                                                                a

                                                                        A
Shortly after the commencement of the Academic session in

September, the complaints which had been spread abroad re

specting the sermon on the Intermediate State acquired new

vigour, in consequence of the sudden withdrawment of one of
the Students after only few weeks' residence at Homerton.

Judging from appearances close at hand, very strong feeling
was just then setting in against the Theological Tutor.

casual observer might have thought that the current was wholly
in one direction but was not so in reality. Above the layer

of clouds nearest the earth, and therefore most within sight,

might be descried by careful eye patches at higher elevation,
which were evidently holding on in course of their own, quite
irrespective of that popular breeze which was just then acting
rather vehemently on their neighbours lower down.

   The grounds of complaint were all of one class. They did

not touch with the weight of feather any part of the moral

character or conduct of Dr. Smith there he was even above

suspicion nor did they call in question the excellency of his

Christian temper, or the constancy of his Christian efforts
as Pastor or Tutor. For all the higher and all the milder

virtues of the gospel of Jesus Christ, he was an eminent

advocate and pattern. Yet these complaints were such as
could not be left unnoticed, unexamined, unchecked, un-

refuted. The honour and power of his office in the College

and in the Christian Church, were as precious in his sight as

his personal credit, and far more precious than his personal
Ifcomfort.
              others therefore would not bring on an inquiry,

some because they could not for fear of defeat, and some
a
                                                                        a

                                                                  it
because they had too much confidence in the man to deem this

requisite, he himself would call for it. But as these complaints
came to him for the most part indirectly --mere rumours of

what others had been saying of him --and as some of his

personal friends had imbibed unfavourable impressions, he was

under necessity of writing to them for the particulars. One
of the Letters written for that purpose has been generously
sent for use in this Memoir. For the facts which contains,
204                       EXCULPATORY LETTER.                                        [l819.

the motives it discloses, the explicit disclaimer of the charges
brought against the writer, and for the fine Christian temper
breathing through the whole-- at once tender and courageous --

it cannot fail to be read with deep interest.

  " My dear Sir,-- It was not till within these very few days

Ithat have been told of your having expressed, strongly and
Iextensively, apprehensions, or even a belief, that had fallen

wholly or partially into some alarming errors. Surely, my
heart has said,-- surely Mr.                              would not do this without full

proof, without personal inquiry ; yea, had the mournful state

ment proved in fact true, without efforts to recover the unhappy

Iwanderer. Could he in whose friendship have confided and
Ifelt myself happy, he whom have always so respected and
loved -- could he lend his aid to give currency and effect to

Imisconceptions and misrepresentations, the existence of which,

in any circles of wise and good men, can hardly bring myself

If I Ito credit ?
   " what have heard be correct, am wounded in the house

of my friends, and condemned without investigation. It
                                                                                     it
indeed, an unwelcome office to become self- vindicator. My
daily prayer is, to walk penitently before God, and humbly                                      is,
                          :

                                                                                  a

                                                       I
before man and so far from palliating any, desire ever to

confess and abhor every aberration of the understanding or the
heart, of the tips or the life. But, on the other hand, would

not merely be mean pusillanimity widely remote from Chris
                I
                               a
                                it
                                        I
tian humility, but would be falsehood and wickedness, and

treason to the best of causes, were to permit gross untruths,
(though judge not the motives of their origination and diffu

sion) which vitally affect my Christian and official character, to
                                                          protest.
remain          wimthyourteccoorndtraodnicthioignh.a' nd      say theI'My witness in is
heaven          ;I        '                                            truth in Christ
                       :                                                                      ;
                               I'
IGhlioest,n' o--t       my conscience also bearing witness in the Holy
                        have passed through painful conflicts of mind with

respect to matters of faith, but with grateful acknowledgment

of mercy,       I         can say that for many years,                               have enjoyed

ianng'  almost            uninterrupted full   assurance of the understand
          upon            the great points of
                                               the Trinity in the Perfect
Unity of the Godhead the true Deity, atonement, righteous
                          ;
                                                        ;

                                                               ;
ness, and supremacy of the Eedeemer the true Deity, and
saving work of the Holy Spirit the riches, freeness, and
JET. 38.]            EXCULPATORY LETTER.       205

sovereignty of infinite grace ; the perpetuity of the Divine

law, and the holy efficacy of the Gospel; the resurrection
of the dead ; and eternal judgment :--in the full, fair, un
ambiguous sense of those terms as understood by judicious

ICalvinists. For the evidence of this solemn profession,
appeal to my private and public conversation, preaching,

and prayers ; in the bosom of domestic intercourse, or in

Ithat of friendship ;in the academy, in the  apnudlpitb,urannisdh,'fromin
                     management, ' varnish
the press. Artful
the things of God,     have always abhorred. My tongue

has freely spoken what my heart and conscience believes

and feels. On two points which, on either side, did not

Iseem to me to affect any of the great truths above men
tioned,    long laboured under extreme embarrassment, not

in submitting to the testimony of God in His Word, but

Iin ascertaining what that testimony really is. And here
readily admit the charge of indiscretion, as it respects my
fellow-creatures, in the disclosure of my difficulties :-- but

I Ishould be just to myself, were not to say that into this
I Ievil have been led, humbly trust by a dread of guilt
before God, the guilt of mental reserves and equivocations.

  I" It is not true that knowingly administer poison to the
Iminds of my pupils. It is not true that lay before them truth

and error, argument and sophistry, indifferent as to the im

pression on themselves or the result to others, or careless of
Itthe depraved tendencies of the human heart.
                                               is not true that
I do not earnestly press the evidences of the truths of God,
according to my own convictions, in their grandeur and im

portance, in their harmony and dependence, and in their

Iessential connection with holiness of character, and all prospects

of usefulness in the ministry. It is not true that countenance
Ithe preaching of a mutilated gospel and a Saviour shorn of his

beams. It is not true that deal out nostrums and trifles, and

visionary speculations, to fill the mind in lieu of the sound and
life-giving doctrines of faith and godliness. --My plans of
theological tuition are ever open to the welcome inspection of

Ifriend or foe. With my execution of them, am, indeed, never
Isatisfied : but the plans themselves, if am not grievously
Imistaken, will be found in full accordance with what have

Ihere declared.
   " beseech you, my dear sir, to take any method you please,
206  committee of inqulry.                      [i8is.

Ior can suggest to me, of satisfying yourself.  ask not for an

Iatom of indulgence. Apart be all friendships and partialities,
when the cause of Christ is concerned.  ask only for the

award of unbending justice. Let my feehngs, character, and
interests be at once sacrificed, if the sacrifice be due to Him who

Iis over all, God blessed for ever." And then in a subsequent

Letter--" humbly conceive that no man in this world of im
perfection and mistake, is entitled to bring accusations against

another, (accusations which must principally depend upon testi

mony,) and then refuse to hear the accused. This is the rule

of common law and natural justice ; how much more of Christian
equity !"

   Early in 1813 a Committee of Inquiry having been appointed,
the whole subject was gone into at Dr. Smith's earnest request;

beginning with the sermon respecting the Intermediate State,

and then taking up the various rumours affecting the soundness
and stability of his theological sentiments in general. Nothing

could exceed the openness and manliness of his avowals. No
point was left unnoticed, unexplored, unexplained, however

much it might seem to be for a moment unfavourable to his
personal interests. Indeed, the latter were wholly merged in
his enlightened zeal for the truth of the Gospel, and for the

prosperity and efficiency of the College. --The Committee, in

cluding the Treasurers, consisted of eleven persons, nine of

whom agreed in a Eeport, from which there were two dissen

tients. --A single clause may be quoted : --" Viewing Dr. Smith

in the light in which his literary productions have placed him,
your Committee regard him generally as an able and zealous

advocate of the essential truths of Bevelation ; and particularly
as a powerful yet candid opponent of that class of errors which
is directed against the doctrine of the Trinity, as a fundamental
principle of Christianity. --Viewing him as a minister, they
beheve the public voice is in unison with their own, in assigning
to him a distinguished place among those who are regarded as

decidedly maintaining   the sentiments usually known by the
                       character so acquired and so long sup
term Calvinistic. --A

ported, your Committee consider as affording this Society, and
the denomination of Christians to which it is attached, a well-

established basis for their surest confidence."
.ET. 89.]  VINDICLE ACADEMICE.  207

  It could scarcely be expected that in a case like this, the

decision of the Committee-- nearly unanimous as it was --would

be quietly acquiesced in by the two dissentients, and by those
who thought with them out of doors. Hence they who differed

from the majority expressed their opinions through the medium

of the press. By way of rejoinder Dr. Smith published three

pamphlets in quick succession, bearing the title of Vindicice

Aeademicce, and reaching in the whole to about 160 pages.

Two or three passages eminently and indeed beautifully personal,
claim insertion in an account of the Writer's life.--"My reli
I Igious sentiments
           have ever carried, and hope that ever

shall carry, written as it were upon my forehead. To friend or

stranger, to an archbishop or to a babe, who may ever seriously

I Iask me a question upon my faith, trust shall ever be happy
Ito return a serious and explicit answer. . . . Perhaps have
Icarried my notion of the duty of openness, and the evil of re

serve, to an excess. --But to this side still would incline, rather

than to its opposite of concealments and reservations. . .

If in relation to some of the most difficult questions that can

Ioccupy the attention of the human mind, have paused, and
Ipaused long, before could venture to draw a positive con
Iclusion; --if have declined to confound the gradations of

moral evidence in one undistinguishing and headstrong pre

Itence of confidence ;--if so long as hesitation existed have not

refused to own it, when a just occasion demanded the acknow
ledgment ;--this will not greatly surprise nor deeply offend the

man of sense or the thinking Christian.
   " The duty of my situation is not only to present important

sentiments, in the light of those evidences which have satisfied

my own mind ; but to afford all the assistance which study and

experience may enable me to furnish, for acquiring a practical

habitude in those methods of investigation, which the Author

Iof truth has appointed for its sanctified attainment. ' sit in a
circle of pious young men, inquiring after sacred knowledge,

and anxious to grow in its acquisition. My object is, not to

pour my own sentiments into them, solicitous for nothing but

their yielding recipiency ; --but to enable them to see with
their own eyes, and judge with their own understandings ;

to show them how they may for themselves unveil the lustre
of Heavenly Truth, discover her genuine evidences, and
208                      LETTER OF REV. ROBERT HALL.                                                       [l813.

detect the adverse errors. It is my earnest desire and prayer

and endeavour that my pupils may go forth into the service

of the churches, not hke men of the tenth century, but able
to appear with advantage as defenders of the Gospel in this
day of spreading knowledge and universal discussion. Not
overlooking the different habits of mind, the diversities of
comprehension, the possible combining of undesigned asso

ciations, the corrupt tendencies of the fallen heart, and what

Iever else goes to constitute the modus recipientis ;--not,

trust, negligent of these important considerations --it is my

endeavour to direct the mind into what may seem the most

profitable line of action for the talents of each individual,

to encourage proper inquiries, to communicate (so far as the

length of our course permits) a comprehensive and exact view

of the Christian Doctrines, to enable my youthful brethren

to deduce theological truth from the pure fountains of inspi

ration, to arm them against the errors of the age, and to

inculcate the high necessity of a humble heart, holy character,

and fervent prayer, in order to the attainment, the preserva
Iftion, and the enjoyment of ' the truth as it is in Jesus.'
                                                                                                              He
with whom is ' the residue of the Spirit ' shall graciously

Ihonour me with continued and increased success in this high
aim,      shall be amply            oepnpcoousriatigoends,."  and more than compensated
for a     few trials and
                                                              -- Vin. Academ. first part :
pp. 6, 7, 8.*

   The resolutions adopted by the Committee of Inquiry, with
Dr. Pye Smith's defence of himself from the press, appear

fully to have answered the purpose for which they were given
to the public. Letters of congratulation reached him from

many quarters, and among others from the late Eev. Eobert

Hall, who says :-- " Permit me to embrace this opportunity

   * In   the last  of   the three  pAacmadpehmleitcsal,"putbhleishfoeldlowbyingDrp. aSsmsaigthe  on this  occasion,
                          Vindicia                                                                occurs,
entitled  " Sequel   to                                                                                    in which

he avows    his  "dWeciidthed    sentiments on a point of     practice eliciting very general
discussion  :--                regard to novel-reading,       my opinion has been often and

strongly expressed, that the indiscriminate or the frequent indulgence of it is
most   baneful to the    literary taste   and to the best principles of the heart
has a  tendency very     injurious to    the proper feelings, the holy occupations,                        ;  and
                                                                                                              and
the solid consolations of a real Christian. Yet there are works of fiction whose
character is pure, and their tendency useful ; of which no judicious Christian
bweoualdstrdaisnagpeprr.o"v--e,ppa.nd14t,o1w5.hich no man of cultivated understanding ought to
JET. 89.]  BENEFICIAL RESULTS.  209

of expressing my satisfaction at the triumphant vindication
of yourself from charges which tended deeply to affect your

respectability and usefulness as the Head of an Academical

Institution. It must give pleasure to all the friends of piety,

learning, and talent, to find the possessor of these in so high a
dopepgoreneensttsa.n" d upon the ground you occupy with respect to your

    Several advantages arose out of the circumstances above
 detailed. Occasion was given to dispel vague surmises and
rumours, which had for some time before gained currency
respecting the unfixed or the unsound theological sentiments
of the principal Tutor of the College. The explicit statement
of his views bn all the prominent truths of Christianity, not
only reassured his friends, but convinced some who might be
hoping that opposition would drive him into their ranks, how
widely and indeed unalterably he and they were separated
unless a change took place from their side to his. Consti
tuents and supporters would also learn how vigilant and faith

ful, yet withal how temperate and wise, the Committee of
management had proved in the hour of trial ; and patronage
and support would flow in with renewed vigour. Candidates

for admission to the Academy, with their respective Pastors

and friends, would more clearly than ever see what was
the style of sentiment, what the purity of motive, what the
devout and earnest temper of mind which distinguished the
Theological Tutor ; and would thence be led to judge of
the qualifications most likely to find favour at the door and
in the interior of the College. Accordingly there is abundant

evidence to show, that the efforts which were called forth to

surmount the difficulties which had unexpectedly arisen, did
give an impulse to the Institution, the salutary effect of which
was felt for many years afterwards throughout the whole extent
of its interests. Ultimately, therefore, no one had any occasion
to regret the circumstances which had occurred ; and least of
all would the upright and self-denying Tutor regret them.

   Neither the time consumed, nor the thought or anxiety
bestowed on these perplexities, produced any cessation in
Dr. Smith's ordinary duties. He was still in the full dis
charge of all the claims which arose from his Church and
210     SERMON ON THE SACRIFICE OF CHRIST.                                        [1818.

from the College. Indeed, such was his power to do much

within narrow and as some might think crippling limits, that

he prepared and published a valuable charge delivered at the

ordination of the Eev. James Tait, at Maldon, this year : and
also the most elaborate of his printed discourses; that On
the Sacrifice of Christ, which was upwards of sixty pages in
length, besides nearly thirty pages of closely-printed notes.

Dr. Magee's Work on Atonement and Sacrifice had appeared

in a second edition in 1809,                which the Homerton Tutor read
                           its publication  " with much interest and general
aatcqthueiesticmeencoe;f"    but when he    was requested to preach on the

same subject, he did not recur to Dr. Magee's book until he

had nearly completed the Notes to his own sermon. He thus

avoided any tendency to imitation on the one hand, as well as

an anxious solicitude to keep clear of it on the other. That his

mind should not be in trammels, was equally desirable for him
self, and for the freedom, life, unity and vigour of his production.

When however he had written the Discourse and most of the

Notes,  he then sagaciously    anticipated  rarethaedrinagn"  invidious part
of the    Critic's office, by   "carefully                     Dr. Magee's

Work, comparing it as      he went along with his   own,      and giving
                            under the four heads              Coincident
the result to the public                    : "--  of--"
Topics : "--" Apparent Differences                 " Topics in Dr.
not adverted to, or but slightly, in         the                                  Magee,
in the Discourse not included in                   MDaigsceoeu'srspela: n"--." "  Topics
                                            Dr.
                                                                                  In the

wide field of human labour he was never impeded, never felt

embarrassed in any way, by either a mean or a morbid sensi

tiveness respecting the nearness of his own path of inquiry at
any time to that which another had been pursuing. However

great the throng of literary travellers, he could hold on his

own course as merchants do who are engaged in the same

line, crowd the same exchange, and yet rejoice in each other's

success ; a noble sympathy with true worth and excellence of

every kind being one of his characteristic qualities. The
subject also to which he gave his attention, could scarcely fail
to come in for a large share of the benefit likely to arise from
his method of investigation : for he was an independent witness

for the truth, because he ever made it manifest that he was an
independent investigator of its evidence, authority, and claims ;

not indeed a solitary labourer, but in the fullest sense a free
one.-- The sermon to which these remarks apply, was the foun-
JET. 39.] REV. W. WALFORD CLASSICAL TUTOR AT HOMERTON. 211

dation of one of the most valuable of his later works, The Four
Discourses on the Sacrifice and Priesthood of Jesus Christ.

   Prior to the College vacation this year, Dr. Smith's coadjutor,

the Eev. Thomas Hill, was obliged to go into the country on

account of his health, which for several years had been in a

declining state ; and during the vacation he died. Towards

the end of the year, the minutes of the Committee record--
that the " unwearied diligence and application " of the Theo
logical Tutor had sustained for five months " the whole burden
of tuition." In this emergency, as well as in others both before
and at a later period, Dr. Smith had the energy, the inclination,

the capacity, to discharge the duties of the classical department
in addition to his own. To serve the Institution was to serve --
                                          ainndatnruotehelerarcnoinnnge,'ctwiohnic--h
if we may appropriate    his own words
                         of Christianity
' the confederate cause

ever lay near his heart. Nor could any man enter more
thoroughly into the spirit and power of the voluntary principle,

which was to him as a spring of well-doing, whose elasticity

never failed, until indeed the hour came when nature itself

could work no longer; and then the will yielded only to

necessity.

   After some time had been spent in inquiring for a successor
to Mr. Hill, the attention of the Committee was directed to the

Eev. William Walford, who accepted an invitation to the
Classical Chair, and entered upon residence at Homerton " in
the last week of the year 1813."*

   * See Mr. Walford's Autobiography Edited (with a Continuation) by the
Rev. John Stoughton. Lond. Jackson and Walford : 1851.

                                          P2
CHAPTEE XIII.

DISCOURSE AT DR. H. F. BURDER'S ORDINATION -- "REGIUM DONUM"--
      LATIN GRAMMAR AND SYNOPTIC TABLES --SERMON: "REASONS OF
      PROTESTANTISM "--ECLECTIC REVIEW ; PORSON'S ADVERSARIA-- CONTI
      NENTAL TOUR -- ECLECTIC REVIEW: IIORSLEY'S PSALMS-- LETTER TO A
      BEREAVED MOTHER -- SERMON ON THE DEATH OF THE PRINCESS

        CHARLOTTE.

In the early part of the year 1814, Dr. Smith delivered the

Introductory Discourse at the ordination of his friend and

neighbour, the Eev. (now Dr.) Henry Foster Burder, as
Pastor over the Church assembling at St. Thomas's Square,
Hackney. This was subsequently published with the other

discourses on the occasion. As expressing his views on the
principal object of the service of the day, he says, -- " Ordina

tion is an act which appears to me to be the scriptural right,
and a part of the official duty of other pastors ; either those

of the same church, if there be a plurality of elders in
it
    it

            it,

                  a
                                          a

                      I

                                                                                       a
                                                                                          ; by it,
or those of neighbouring congregations who, upon the prin

ciple of the communion of churches, are invited by any
Christian Society, to assist in the settlement of its chosen
pastor. This act of ordination
                                conceive to be scripturally
performed when, after suitable and satisfactory knowledge of

the candidate, the assembled elders,  constituting what the
                                      the chosen brother
apostle calls Presbytery, separate    We are far, however,
prayer with the laying on of hands.

from supposing that the act of ordination, or this mode of

performing communicates to the ordained person any quali
fications, natural or spiritual, which he had not before, or
that confers upon him a mysterious and indelible character

or that invests him with any inexplicable kind of sanctity.
Nor on the other hand, do we practise the laying on of
hands in ordination, as respectful conformity to primi-
JET. 40.]  REGIUM DONUM.  213

tive and general custom. But we use this practice, because

we regard it as sanctioned and virtually enjoined by the word
and law of Christ; this is to us a sufficient warrant; this
is all the authority we desire."

   In a Letter to his brother-in-law, Mr. Leader, dated Homer

ton, Oct. 29, 1814, the earliest reference is met with to an
office which the writer retained to his death, although not

without great and pressing difficulties : --" Providence has put
into my hands the opportunity of being serviceable to some
of my poorer brethren hi the ministry, by my having been

appointed one of the distributors of the Parliamentary Grant,

formerly called the Eegium Donum. -- The objects of the

distribution are Dissenting Ministers of sterling piety, worth,

and usefulness ; and who are obliged, notwithstanding real

Iand becoming prudence and frugahty, to bear the pressure of

pecuniary difficulties. As fear it is impracticable to extend
the donation to all who come under this description, it is the
duty of the distributors to search out those who are most fit."

  It can scarcely answer any good purpose to trace in this

narrative the different perplexed and warmly controverted
passages in Dr. Smith's later years, which arose out of his
firm retention of his post as a Distributor of the Regium

Donum. A few remarks may perhaps be quite enough for

any interest which the general Eeader is likely to feel in

the subject.

   His appointment, it will be observed, occurred at a time
when the sentiments of the Congregational and Antipsedo-
baptist Communities, on the question of the unscriptural

nature of all such grants, had not by any means attained
either the wide or the firm hold which prevailed at a sub

sequent period. It was not therefore with the light of later

years, that he accepted an office which very many of his
ministerial brethren and of his personal friends came at
length to disapprove. --From the outset, as his Letter above
quoted shows, he considered that Providence had put into

his hands an opportunity of bemg serviceable to many of
his poorer brethren in the ministry. Having-- as may be
assumed -- satisfied himself according to the then existing
evidence and state of public opinion that he could with

a clear conscience undertake the trust, his well-assured sense
214                                 REGIUM DONUM.         [l8U.

of his vigorous determination to discharge the duties to the

very best of his ability, added to the strongly benevolent
feelings of his heart, constrained him to regard his appoint

ment as an expression of the Divine benignity in making
him an Almoner beyond the compass of his own means for

doing good, and therefore as demanding not simply his con
currence but his devout gratitude.

When once engaged in the work, the applications which

were constantly reaching him for aid acted with great force on
all his sympathies as a man, a Christian, and a minister; so ·

that long before the time came for the principles of his conduct

in this relation to be subjected first to inquiry, and then to the
disapproval of very many of his brethren, the full current of

his own feelings, especially when urged on by his previous

efforts for the beneficiaries who were on his list, did not allow

him to turn out of the course which he had taken. In pro

portion as the evidence, which had satisfied his judgment in

the first instance when he accepted the office, was looked at in
later years under the circumstances just mentioned, it is not
                  that-- to                  words -- he
surprising                    use   his own               should continue to
ovitehwersh;i"s  " situation    as  that of   a Trustee    for the benefit of
                                             could not,
                 and that therefore he                    as he further inti

mates, deem it proper to resign              though he might not know
a
                    a

                                a
                                                  a

                                                                                              :

                                                     it,
                                                                              a

                                                                                                                         a
the motives, nor in every respect approve the plan of such

bestowments.

    Yet he warmly contended for the right of the Sovereign to

make during his lifetime, and to charge in perpetuity, what he
(Dr. Smith) regarded as the private income of the Crown with

   grant for such purpose as that to which the Regium Donum
was applied. This indeed was the ground on which he rested
his main defence, nor could doubt be entertained of the sin
cerity of his convictions on this point. But, in truth, the
distinction between the private and the public property of
Sovereign, who comes into the possession of both solely in
virtue of his regal position, did not commend itself very widely
to the approval of the objectors and even had the distinction
been more generally acknowledged, the question would still
press with great weight, whether the actual possessor of the
throne had right to alienate in perpetuity portion of those
so-called private revenues which may be supposed to have been
added to the dignity, with the express or implied design of
.ET. 40.]  REGIUM DONUM.                                                                                       215

enabling the reigning monarch  tgoivgerra,t"ifyinhiswhpartivsoaetevertastweasy,                                and
especially to be a "cheerful                                                                                   his

inclination or benevolence might suggest. Without dwelling
upon the important fact that if this ' right ' were once admitted

scarcely any limit, either in direction or degree, could be put

upon its exercise, it is abundantly clear that to alienate revenue

was to abridge the resources of his successors ; and therefore a
perpetual charge upon any fund -- whether private or public --

would be wholly wanting in the life and grace by which streams

of bounty flowing from the Crown must ever be distinguished,

if they are really to show the heart of the Sovereign for the

time being towards any class of his subjects.

   Dr. Smith and his co-distributors could appeal to an important
fact--that the Regium Donum in England had been kept singu

larly exempt from all suspicion of having been used for political

or party purposes. In proportion to the multitude of the

beneficiaries, £1600 a-year was happily too small an amount

ever to be thought of as a bribe ; hence it was constantly

applied without ever exposing the men who disbursed, or those

who received it (in sums not exceeding £5--in any one year),

to any imputation which was inconsistent with their proper

independence as citizens. -- The difficulty was felt to press
rather in another form. The reception of the grant, trifling
as it was, seemed to violate a great Scriptural principle. Nor

could those who held that principle in what, as they believed,
was its pristine purity, contend for it as they deemed it right to

do, so long as some of their own Body were willing to distribute
and others to receive the Eoyal gift. -- Hence arose numerous
Letters and appeals to Dr. Smith: --hence also resolutions

adopted by the Congregational Union, not only in reference
to the grant generally, but to his particular share in perpetu

ating as well by the sanction of his high name and character
it,

     it

                                                                            a

                                                                                                            ;
as by his pen.
   He was, however, unable to comply with the urgent but in

every sense respectful wishes and requests of his brethren.
Nor must be omitted in justice to his whole conduct, that

while he was receiving the Eesolutions of the General Body

against the Grant, besides many private communications; --

numerous Letters were reaching him on the other side some
from correspondents not directly interested, and still larger
number from beneficiaries, whose pathos and appeals were
216  REGIUM DONUM.  [1814.

animated and enforced by a detail of the calamities which would

befall the writers and their families were his aid withdrawn.
Hence, while not the slightest doubt can exist of his readiness

to sacrifice his personal feelings had they alone been concerned,

he was really compelled, for the sake of numerous and needy
clients who were not in circums,tances to dispense with his
pleadings as their Counsel, to adhere to a trust which very
many years before had been, as he believed, put into his hands
by Providence solely for the good of others. For this reason,
as already intimated, he did not relinquish his share of either

the duty or the obloquy, as one of the Distributors of the
Regium Donum, until his failing strength laid him aside from
that and all such duties.

  It is not unworthy of notice in this place, that the year

following his death the Parliamentary Grant, of which he had
long been, in some important respects, the chief advocate among
the Nonconformists, was omitted from the public estimates, and
has therefore ceased as well to supply ground of accusation
against those who maintain in common what is called the
voluntary principle, or to be any longer an occasion of differ

ence among themselves.

   Eeviewing the whole of the circumstances, the care, labour,
cost, and trouble, in which Dr. Pye Smith was involved from
year to year in consequence of his generous discharge of the
duties of this trust, can scarcely be imagined by any one who
has only public documents to guide him. The latter are not
few, were all the Letters to be collected from newspapers and

magazines, with the separate pamphlets which he wrote, in de
fence of his principles or in vindication of his conduct as a
Distributor : yet how would these be far outnumbered by his
private correspondence, with applicants and recipients or with
other parties, in relation to the Bounty. For although he could
not be satisfied until he had taken great pains to ascertain the
qualification, moral and pecuniary, of those who applied to him,
his considerate respect for the feelings of beneficiaries strove to
keep their names as long as possible concealed, and thus it
might happen that some person would perhaps be in the receipt
of £4 or £6 for a year or two or even more ; when at length a
Letter would be sent to apprise the Distributor at Homerton of
the real, or it might turn out to be no more than the surmised
.ET. 40.]              REGIUM DONUM.                       217

unworthiness of that recipient; and then Dr. Smith would

have to begin a correspondence with probably three or four

persons, no one of whom he knew, no one of whom, perchance,

he had even heard of before, in order if possible to find a just

and safe course for himself in these new perplexities. Nor

must it be left without mention, that while the Letters of

many whom he zealously served were such as could not fail to
fill his heart with joy and praise, that God had been pleased

thus to enable him to be the means of sending some relief

to pious and useful though very needy ministers :--there were

also Letters which breathed another spirit, the writers of
which thought they had as good a claim as any to be put

upon his list, or if they were already there to be kept on

it from year to year, because, forsooth, the Bounty only came
through his hands, and was in fact a Parliamentary Grant, which

must be distributed among certain men having a certain office,

answering, as they assumed or asserted, exactly to their con

dition and character.

Scarcely can it be necessary to add, that no remuneration

ever reached him for any of    his services in this wide    field
of duty. They were from first  to last labours of love. "  Inas

much as ye did it unto one of the least of these my brethren,
ye did it unto me." This was the spring which supplied

these streams, and which kept them flowing up to the very

edge of that winter into which the icy cold of death, congeals

the human frame. The nearest approach which Dr. Smith

ever perhaps made in earher years towards relinquishing his

office as a distributor, was in the autumn of 1835. He was

then but barely beginning to recover from a long and danger

ous illness; his friends were justly solicitous for his safety;
and apparently at their instigation he did acknowledge the
necessity of " drawing himself as soon as possible within the
circle of his own proper and immediate duties." He adds
in a Letter to one of his sons :--" The trouble of the Parlia

Imentary Grant, and which no other could relieve me of, is not

inconsiderable. Yet will not resign this trust immediately,

but take some more time for consideration. The fact of my
resignation would seriously injure many good and laborious
Iministers. Am at liberty without a stronger demand of
I Inecessity to desert

must talk further
                       their  interests ?  Beally   stuhbijnekct."not.But
                       with   my friends   on this
218         REGIUM DONUM.                                                                    [l814.

the ' subject ' was either never formally discussed, or not with
any other result than that of his steadily pursuing the same
course for fifteen years longer.

Another point deserves to be recorded. None of the con

troversies  which arose between Dr.   Pye Smith   and any                                    toruf shti,s"
brethren,   respecting his tenacious  adherence  to this "

as directly opposed to their avowed principles and wishes in

regard to the alleged inconsistency of such an office with his

high position as a Protestant Dissenter, ever produced any
real alienation between the parties. They never doubted the

sincerity of his convictions, or the purity of his motives and

conduct : and though they were surprised and occasionally

grieved, by his refusing to comply with their repeated appeals

to relinquish his share in what they deemed a virtual denial

of the New Testament law for maintaining Christianity inde

pendent of all payments from the State, they held him in the

highest honour not merely as a Christian, but as one who

understood and carried out his and their common principles
in a spirit and on a scale which commanded the warmest

respect of the whole denomination. At times, indeed, when

the discussion grew more than usually warm, some piece of

artillery which seemed to have been charged with heavier

metal than could ever have been seriously intended for him,

would go off when he happened to be in the way. No sooner,

however, was it seen that he had received no real damage from

the hasty explosion, than all parties appeared as though they
would vie with one another in expressing their veneration for

his worth. Here therefore, as well as in other instances, out

of his conflicts he gathered his laurels ; and where the blame had

been at one moment too severe, commendations and praises
flowed in upon him almost the next. In some cases where a
conviction prevailed quite contrary to his on this subject--the
igmropwultshesp--robaabkliyndofoyf ofuilniaglerretshpoeuctghatsndanevdenurgteenddeornnebssy
                                                                                             warmer
                                                                                             for the
supposed weakness, in this single particular, of one who was

venerable for his virtues no less than for his years, would

mark at once the great worth of the man, and the fine feeling
which even in a moment of excitement induced the objector
to his conduct to use language, which not unfrequently con
tained on the whole more of praise than of blame.
JET. 40.]  LATIN GRAMMAR AND SYNOPTIC TABLES.  219

   In conclusion ; no one probably can now regret Dr. Pye
Smith's firmness in standing by the principle on which the
Regium Donum was thought by him to be based. For none

have really suffered by the conflict of opinion, occasioned in a
great measure by his tenacity in that particular. And the

victory achieved, say on the right side, has been rendered
the more conspicuous, and as it may be hoped, the more

salutary and lasting, in consequence of its having been secured
in opposition to the well-known views of a man who in all

other respects had not only the highest confidence of the body
to which he belonged, but whose weight beyond it was pro
bably greater than that of any other single member who can
be thought of.

   Although Dr. Smith had now been Theological Tutor nearly
ten years, his zeal for the promotion of classical learning con
tinued unabating. To facilitate the progress of his students,
and to encourage and assist others, he prepared at this time a

Latin Grammar, which in 1816 went into a second edition; and
which, as a valuable introduction to the language and to larger

Grammars, would probably have long retained its place in the
book market had not the publishers fallen into difficulties. He
also prepared three large, very carefully arranged Synoptic
Tables ; one, containing the Declensions and Conjugations ;-- a
second, the Syntax ; -- and the third, the Prosody of the Latin
tongue. For many years afterwards these Tables might be
seen on the walls of the Studies at Homerton ; for the Tutor
took care to present copies of them to young men newly admitted
to the College, to be readily referred to in their classical reading
in order to ensure accuracy.

   A passage or two from the preface to the second edition of
the Grammar, may still be read with advantage :--

  I" would earnestly caution him [the pupil] against the use of Latin

books with English translations. Offering a temporary and deceitful ease,
they preoccupy the learner's judgment, prevent his exertion, and defraud
him of his object. The attainments made by their aid are generally un
substantial and evanescent ' as the morning cloud and the early dew.'--The
old custom is highly to be commended, of directing classical studies, for
a considerable time, almost exclusively in the channel of the best poets.
This practice greatly contributes to the formation of a correct and elegant
taste, and to arouse and nourish what may exist of native genius ; it trains
the imagination to a proper activity and tenderness, and it gives strength and
220        " REASONS OF PROTESTANTISM."                                                        [l815.

promptitude to the powers of the understanding. It has also another ad
vantage of the first importance to the reputation of a scholar : it is the

surest method, and almost the only one, of acquiring an habitual and un-
doubting correctness of pronunciation. Neither will the pupil find any
       lhoismt saeslftototheViurlgteirlioranodbjeHcot raocf er,eadtiinllg   prose works, from
time                                                                       he has established  having con
fined                                                                                          a thorough

intimacy with their language and manner. He will then readily and easily
form an acquaintance with prose authors, he will have a clearer perception

of the characters of the two kinds of composition, and he will more pro
fitably discriminate the appropriate excellencies of each."

Speaking of the works to be used hi acquiring a thorough

knowledge of the language, he is careful not to conclude his

Ifpreface without directing attention to the highest of all interests.

" to the prosecution of this course of study, the leisure hours

Iwere devoted which most young men can command on the six

days of the week, can scarcely doubt that an useful and grati

fying measure of attainment would be made in three or four
years : and then it might be hoped that warmer zeal, aided by

...satisfactory experience, would prompt the lover of these fair
regions of literature, to urge a similar career in the Greek

language.             On that path the lover of knowledge and

virtue will not only be charmed by the attractions of Ionic

sweetness and Attic elegance ; but he will hear the dictates of

Eternal Wisdom, in humble simplicity of words, yet with

celestial majesty of  sentiment from  Teachers                             winhsopmiretdh.e"   Son  of
God commissioned,
                      and the Spirit  of Truth

In May, 1815, Dr. Smith preached at the Monthly Association

a discourse entitled The Reasons of the Protestant Religion.
This was afterwards published, with a dedication to the Marquis

of Lansdowne. It would not be easy to find within the same
space elsewhere an array of such well-selected facts, or of such
clear and powerful arguments against popery and in support of
Protestantism. And although the Author employed strong and
pungent words to denounce gross errors in sentiment, and
outrages upon human liberty, with which he deemed the papacy
chargeable, it must not be forgotten that he was ever a firm
          of the civil and political rights
advocate                                                                   of the Eoman Catholic
subjects  of the British Crown. --Among
                                                                           the latest, if it was not
the last of his public services, he revised and prepared an edition

of this discourse, which bears on  the title-page                          "thEenldaartgeedof  the
year when he died. This second      edition was                                                and
JET. 41.]  ECLECTIC REVIEW.                                                221

adapted to the Popish Aggression of 1850, with some Eemark-
able Disclosures of Eomanist Policy in the Age of the Ee-
formation."*

His contributions to the Eclectic Eeview during 1815, appear

to have been confined to two     paritiPcrleosfesosfoar  widely different  class :
--'the first, on the Adversaria                          Porson, a work    which
was published at Cambridge in 1812, under the joint editorship
of Professor Monk and the present Bishop of London :--the

second, on the Persecution of the Protestants in the South of

France.

The Eeader must not be surprised at the dissimilitude which

appears to separate one of these productions from the other ;
nor must he ascribe the two to the same pen on the principle

on which Eeviewing is sometimes done in the gross, the Author's

table having to be cleared quite irrespective of the variety which

may fill it. Dr. Smith evidently used a right of selection, con

ceded to him by the Editor; so that the breadth, diversity, and

direction of his own mental and moral tastes are to be learned
from the articles which he wrote for the Eeview. Through

life it was one of the most conspicuous features of his character
--to indulge the widest range of vision in his power. Although

books, especially the most solid, and among these all that

related to Biblical and Classical learning, secured his chief

attention, and often afforded him the most exquisite mental

gratification of which he was susceptible : yet at the same time,

scarcely any man could enter more warmly than he into all that
related to the liberties, civil and religious, of every portion of

human society whether at home or abroad. The very extent
of his reading operated in harmony with the higher sympathies

of his nature in producing this result. Not simply did books
suggest principles and examples, by the application- or infringe

ment of which the best interests of mankind might be advanced

or retarded : but by supplying him with innumerable facts, of

which his memory was most tenacious, it was as though he had

feelers out in almost every direction whereby his heart was

constrained to respond, with joy or sorrow as the case might

be, to occurrences widely remote from his personal sphere of

action, and which if they came at all to the knowledge of people

           * Lond. Jackson and Walford.
222  ECLECTIC review:                                      [1816.

Ifgenerally, would only stir the most evanescent emotion.         it
were possible for a man's actual, personal life --his conscious
ness --to be both expanded and quickened, in proportion to his

literary knowledge, the result could scarcely differ from that
which seemed often to be realized by Dr. Pye Smith. That
which he knew of the past was brought to bear in such a manner

upon the events of the present day, that the latter had a vivid

ness, first, to his own apprehension, and then in his verbal or

written sentiments and appeals, which could only be fully
accounted for by calling in the aid of the former : just as the
moon in our hemisphere becomes conspicuous, in consequence

of the intensity of the rays which fall upon it from a body which

at the time is actually out of our sight.

From some of the introductory remarks in his article on

the Adversaria, the Eeviewer's moral and literary qualifica

tions as a critic may be appreciated :--" He must have a mind

very destitute of information, or very singularly constructed,

who does not take a strong interest in the reliques which

time has spared of the literature of antiquity. It would be

difficult, perhaps impossible, to find an individual capable

of reading them with readiness in their native form who,

after the utmost care to exclude prejudice and exaggeration,
does not regard the principal of them as the most precious

gems of human genius. But those productions have descended

to modern times more or less disfigured by literal and verbal

alterations, producing obscurity, inappropriateness, and often

complete departure from the sense of the author. . . . The
skill of applying all existing means for the removal of these
defacements, and for restoring the original purity of a work, is
the Art of Verbal Criticism : an art sometimes unduly exalted
by too sanguine admirers,
                            but more frequently insulted   by
ignorant flippancy. It was  held in honour at the revival  of

letters, and continued to be honoured for two centuries fol
lowing. Then came the day of Perrault and his disciples

in France, and of the wits and witlings of King William and

Queen Anne's reigns ; whose furious endeavour seemed for a

time triumphant, to sweep away all whom they denominated

word-catchers, with the utmost virulence and folly and false
hood of ridicule. But the storm spent itself; and none of the
oaks of the forest were uprooted by it. The name of Bentley
JET. 41.]  porson's adversaria.                      223

rose and still rises to higher and higher admiration. The

country of Gataker and Stanley produced a Dawes, a Taylor,
a Markland, and a Tyrrwhitt ; and finally a Porson, whose

critical felicity at least equalled that of his most distinguished
precursors, --happy, had his moral worth borne a similar rela

tion to the temperance and purity with which the greater

number of them were adorned.
   " The qualities and attainments which are necessary for

respectability and success in these disquisitions are of no
mean order. Profound and exquisite skill in language ; a

judgment at once sedate and quick ; an intimate acquaintance

with the laws of the mind, and the varied phenomena of

thought, passion, and association; an accurate knowledge of
ancient history, politics, arts, and manners ;--these are some of

the prcecognita disciplinarum essential to the character of a real

critic on the literary remains of antiquity. . . . It is only

by legitimate criticism that the genuine text of the Sacred
Writings has been ascertained, and guarded from the rust

of superstitious ignorance on the one hand, and on the other

from the rashness of innovation and hypothesis. To acquire

the solid principles of this art, and to be well practised in their
just and satisfactory exercise, the profane classics furnish the

most advantageous means : and when those principles are thus

acquired, with sound and temperate intelligence, the serious

and   accomplished scholar  will apply them for the  dSecmripontustrrea."
tion  and preservation of   purity in the text of

-- Ec. Rev. 1815, pp. 355--357.

   Although for the months of July and August annually Dr.
Smith was entirely free from any duties as a Tutor, he had

gone on from year to year without availing himself of the

opportunity thus afforded for obtaining rest or recruited
energy by any lengthened absence from Homerton. During
sixteen years, sometimes one vacation, and sometimes two were

allowed to pass, without any change of scene whatever. Occa

sionally however, duty and filial affection called him away to

Sheffield for a few weeks ; and in rarer instances he went to
the sea-side. His motives for this uniform, and as might be
thought almost monotonously wearying round of labour were
various: the claims of his pastoral office knew of no remission;

his domestic cares and ties were always in force : and then
224                      CONTINENTAL TOUR.     [l816.

the extent  to which his time was absorbed by    the College
during the  Academical Sessions, made the two  months' sus

pension from those duties exceedingly precious for his private

studies, and the preparation of works for the press. Nor is it

proper to omit, that his generous disposition and his constant

solicitude for the welfare of his family, did not allow him

at this period to secure the costly indulgence of extensive

excursions or of long absences from home merely for his

own gratification.

   But in the summer of 1816, he was pressed in the kindest
manner to join a party of his immediate friends, in a tour which

they contemplated making in France, Switzerland, and Italy.

The late William Hale, Esq., for many years one of the Deacons

wgoefonrdttlhseem--a"nChthu"ertcowhhwohalotesetohfespthiGerirtaevanenjodl yPlmibietenrtaMlweitaeyst"in--ogwtionHguo.s"ueseD,Tr.hweSamspiatthrht'yes

consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Hale, their two daughters, and their
son ; -Dr. Smith, and Monsieur Mejanel, " an agreeable, in

telligent, and pious native of France, the son of a protestant

minister, and  himself   ognoeveorfntmheenpta."stoTrhseotfouMroncotamumbaennc, edtillJudley
prived by the  restored

15; and was extended to September 13 -- pursuing the follow
ing route -- Calais-- Eheims -- Chalons-sur-Marne -- Troyes --
Dijon -- Gex --Geneva--excursions in that neighbourhood --
across the Alps into Italy -- Lago Maggiore --Arona--Milan--
Vercelli-- Turin --Eivoli--Mont Cenis --Lans-le-Bourg. Then

on re-entering France, they proceeded by way of Lyons --
Macon --Autun--Paris -- Calais --home
part in Mr. Hale's ' English Landau.'  : travelling for the most

                                       For the entertainment

and instruction of his family and friends, Dr. Smith kept
a journal of the tour; and the manuscript, which is bound

in two volumes, contains nearly three hundred pages, closely
yet very clearly written. But as the route has been very ex

tensively traversed during the last thirty-five years ; as many
tourists have given the public an account of what they saw and
thought and felt as they passed along the line above laid down ;

as moreover, the Hand Books for Travellers on the Continent

have of late years furnished very ample and trustworthy details,

historical, topical, picturesque, or descriptive, respecting the

places visited by the Homerton party in 1816, --the Eeader

can scarcely feel a desire to have any large portion of Dr.
MT. 42.]  CONTINENTAL TOUR.  225

Smith's journal of that early date placed before him in the
present narrative. There is, however, one point on which these
volumes give by far the fullest light which can be obtained
respecting their Author's powers of observation when beyond
the limits of his study, and the contents of libraries. While
travelling, he appears to have kept his eye open, as though it
were quite a practised one, for all the incidents of the journey.
The features, clothing, and dwellings of the peasantry; the
style of husbandry; the cattle and implements used ; the posi

tion, size, beauty, and buildings of Towns and Cities ; the
magnificence and sublimity of the Alps ; the luxuriance of
Italy--besides all those suggestions coming up from his know
ledge of civil and ecclesiastical history, and his studies in
science --all are so well introduced in the memorials of his
tour, as to excite no little surprise at the seemingly long slum
ber in which his faculties as a student of the outer world had

been locked up, while from year to year he was maintaining an
intercourse with books as though they only had the power to

engage his attention. Yet probably the interest which he now

manifested in what was daily passing before him, was not

wholly the result of a strong natural love for such scenes and
subjects ;--it was in a measure the dictate of what he considered
the present duty, with which he earnestly sought to comply : so

that shut out from his usual course of improvement, he strove

most assiduously to turn every new incident to a good account.

Nor was this at all uncommon. Indeed, because he was con

scientiously averse from allowing either his progress in know
ledge or his personal comfort to depend on the agreement

between his natural inclination and the accidents of the pass

ing hour, scarcely any one could excel him in the facility and
success with which he would seize upon almost any set of
circumstances, and as it were compel them to do him service.

   The following are incidents, and expressions of personal
feeling, which seem entitled to a place in a life of Dr. Smith. --
When, for example, the travellers were at Eheims on the
Sunday, the question arose how they were to pass the day

Iin a city where, as they learned, there was no Protestant

church :--" advised "-- says the writer of the Journal --" that

besides performing divine worship in our hotel according to
our own views of duty, we should in some part of the day

                                                                                                                                        Q
226              CONTINENTAL TOUR.                                            [l818.

go to the magnificent church which was close to our windows.
The principal part of the forenoon, therefore, we spent alone.
Our amiable and pious fellow-traveller, M. Mejanel, performed

a religious service in French. Another service followed in
Enghsh. After this, we went to the
                                                                    Among other

reasons for going to the latter, was one which few besides Dr.
Smith would perhaps have thought of, and fewer still would
have made the occasion of an improved rendering of a passage

of Scripture, by which its import is shown more clearly to the
English reader than in the Authorised Version: "reflecting

            Apostle when at Athens (Acts xvii.                       23), 'went
            attentively surveyed their religious                     usages,'
                                                                    on what he
           &c. -- In some of his closing remarks
also thatthe
     and
Ithrough&c.

advised,"

Iwitnessed, he writes,-- " cannot wonder that Popery engages

so deeply and retains so firmly, the affections of a weak, an

uninstructed, or a carnal mind. It possesses the strongest

instruments for engaging the passions, fascinating the under

standing, and enchaining the reason of mankind. It pleases

the gay, it terrifies the licentious, it awes the vulgar, and
it affords a solemn and engaging gratification to the piously

disposed. It does indeed appear to me to be a system out of

whose tenacious  agnrdasmp ignhottyhipnogwecranofdeGloivde."r  its  votaries  but the
exceeding great

   At Chatillon. -- " Some of the family discovered our social worship,
and spoke of it to M. Mejanel as a matter which had given them both
surprise and pleasure to a high degree. This is not the only instance
in which similar observations have come to our knowledge. Can we

wonder that the better sort of Roman Catholics in France regard Pro
testants as a class of persons systematically impious, when almost all the

Protestants whom they have had the opportunity of observing, manifest
a total contempt for every form or semblance of religion ?--Before we left
St. Martin the rain ceased, and most of the afternoon and evening was
fair. Our route was interesting and impressive beyond all power of verbal
description. We quitted the banks of the Arve, and winded along the
sides of the mountains which rise, at a, declivity approaching the per
pendicular, from its rocky bed. Sometimes we could hear its waters roar
when we could not see them; in other situations, we could look down

a descent, vast, grand, and often terrific ; and through the projecting pines
and ash-trees, we could catch interrupted glances of the torrent as it

foamed and roared too far below for me, at least, to hear. In almost every
direction snowtopped mountains seemed to shut us in, and to forbid for
ever our escape. On our right the gigantic Mont Blanc raised his white
and ample bosom to our view
clouds as they rolled across."  ;  and  his  awful  summit          towered   above the
JET. 42.]  CONTINENTAL TOUR.                        227

   At Geneva. -- " John Calvin was its great benefactor as a statesman and

Ipolitician, not less than as a theologian and reformer. His name is still

held in the highest reverence ; and more than once had the pleasure
of hearing him spoken of as the Father of the Republic. . . . Through

the kind introduction of Dr. Berger, the eminent mineralogist, Professor
Jurine favoured us with the sight of some part of his Cabinet of Natural

History. It is of the highest beauty and in superb preservation. Geology

is the Professor's favourite study, and in the finest specimens of minerals,
he is extremely rich." The University Library was visited, and several

of its rarest works are described.

" Geneva stands in need of a reformation and a reformer

scarcely less than she did in the sixteenth century. . . .

The introduction of a suitable minister, if such could be

found, who would act on an independent plan, appears the

more practicable measure. But he must be a man of rare

qualities. He should unite the theological accuracy, the saga

city, and the firmness of Calvin, with the sweetness of Flavel,

and the fervour of Whitfield. He should be a Swiss, or a
Frenchman, a scholar, and an orator. He should be prepared

to meet and to suffer, every kind of opposition ; and he should

have all the meekness of wisdom not to arouse unnecessary

opposition. He should be a man who has the command of a

ready and powerful pen, as well as of an eloquent tongue. He

should be a man indefatigable in labour, humble in spirit,

mighty in the Scriptures, and eminently a man of prayer.

that such a servant of Christ were raised up.       that the

Christians of Great Britain may be honoured as the instruments
Iof obtaining and encouraging such a man ! "
                                                    have con
  " All the resident foreign Protestants with whom

versed on these subjects; seem to have in their minds an invet

erate association of the arrangements of the magistrate with

the exercise of rehgion. The education of ministers, their
qualifications, their appointment to their charge, their right of

continuing in their office, the hours and other seasons of public

worship, the manner of conducting that worship, and the pecu

niary funds for its support,--are all matters of direction and

legislation, directly or indirectly, on the part of the civil gov

ernment. . . . Beligious liberty exists only in pretence.

Hence, there are no private prayer-meetings, there are no

voluntary associations of ministers and congregations for their

mutual quickening and improvement. --Having endeavoured to

lay aside all prejudice and prepossession, still my conviction is
228  CONTINENTAL TOUR.                                                                     [l816.

strong, that the Political Establishments of Religion on the Con
tinent have been the great cause of the decay of holiness and zeal
among the Protestants. That the same cause has not produced

similar effects in England, we owe, under the unspeakable

bciebnDleiegsnccoitenynstdoainnf cgoyutrhoeGf otAhdle,psPtoutortihwteaarndlassboaItnuadrlsyN:ao--nndc"osWnueffoferermxinpigessctste.a"dndtoingvainin

a grand view into the celebrated country before us, similar to

that which we had enjoyed in the descent from the Jura. But
no such point of view presented itself. Our path became
gradually more and more approaching to a level. In a situa

tion recluse and romantic, we passed a chapel and two or three

stone-built cottages, sheltered with high and thick trees which
I Iformed a delicious shade, --And we

ation kindled within me. ' am
                               were in Italy-.                                    My imagin
                                        Italy                                   exclaimed in
                               in                                            '
                                                                          !

silence to myself, again and again :--' Italy, the country where

.Eneas landed, the seat of mighty Eome, the native soil of
Scipio and Csesar, of Cicero and Virgil; -- the land where Paul

preached, and where he finished his glorious course by the testi

mony of his blood ; the country, alas ! where the mistress of

habolodms inhaetriothnrsonheasofftoyrrasnonymaanndyimapgoesstufirxee.'d"  her   seat, and   still
                                                                                           " We
                                                                           At   Arona :--

visited the colossal statue of St. Charles Borromeo, the Archr
                               It. . .
bishop of Milan and Cardinal.                                             is a fine figure, of

hollow bronze, representing the Saint in a preaching attitude,

with a Bible under his arm. Too significantly, alas ! the Bible

is shut. The countenance has a noble expression of mildness,
benevolence, and serious earnestness."
" Monday, August 19. --We commenced our journey towards
France, across the Alps, by Mont Cenis."
                                                                                August

21.--The country about Montmaillant exhibits every form of
grandeur and beauty. The mighty Alps, from which the

nearer mountains seem to sink and abase themselves : those

lower and nearer mountains themselves are in a wondrous

and engaging variety of forms ; some presenting bare preci
pices of rock, others covered with mountain verdure ; some

naked, others clothed two-thirds up their sides with forests,

the forms and tints of whose foliage wore every variety of rich
ness and beauty : the cultivated plains watered
which is here a large and wide river."                                          by the Isere,

The party remained about a week in Paris :--" Jardins du
JET. 42.]                  PRINTED SERMON.                                    229

IBoi. --While our party were going to the Menagerie, intro

duced myself to the Intendant of this great establishment, the
celebrated Abb6 Haiiy. This venerable philosopher received

me with, not politeness merely, but with an urbanity and even

I Ikindness which ought ever to remember with gratitude.
impute this most to his amiable disposition, but in part to my

knowing Mr. Allen, Mr. William Phillips, and Dr. Olinthus

Gregory. He took me into his study, and showed me his

most precious specimens of mineralogy, one of which he par

ticularly pointed out as having been presented to him by Mr.
IAllen.
           there also saw his admirable instruments for the
Imeasuring of the angles and sides of crystals.
                                                                      regretted the
Inecessity under which was of so speedily taking leave of this

no less interesting than celebrated man. He is of small

stature, thin make, fair    complexion,   raotfhearges."harpThfeeatAurbebse,  and
apparently more than       seventy years                                      was

born in 1743, so that Dr. Smith was correct in his estimate of

his age in 1816. The Mr. Allen above-mentioned is, no doubt,

the late William Allen, of Plough Court, Lombard Street, who

was a member of the Society of Friends, and who attained
great eminence in pharmaceutical and practical chemistry, and
eminence no less great as a philanthropist. He died Decem

ber 30, 1843.

   "Friday, September 13. --We were brought home in the
enjoyment of great mercies to ourselves and our dear families.

May we, and those whom we have had the happiness to find in

safety and comfort, ever feel these additional obligations to our

DrviNE Preserver, who holdeth our souls in life, and hath not

suffered our feet to be moved."

Placing together Dr. Smith's labours for the press during

the year 1816, mention must first be made of a sermon

preached   in . February,  before thePoo' rS,'ociety               for Promoting
Beligious   Knowledge      among the                          and  "published by

desire of  the  tEhieghStoHcioentyo.u"rabTlehethseubLjoercdt  Mayor   and the other
                                                              of the  discourse is,
members    of

The Guilt of Neglecting the Knowledge of Christ.

   To the Eclectic Eeview he contributed five articles during
the year; the most important of which were on Bishop
Horsley's Translation of the Psalms, and Dr. Maltby's edition
230  horsley's PSALMS.                                                         [1817.

of Morell's Greek Thesaurus. His animadversions on Dr.

Priestley's formidable antagonist are exceedingly strong and

pointed :--" Man is a paradox ; but some of the species furnish

examples of this trite saying more than ordinarily striking and

instructive. In this peculiar class of men, none will hesitate
to assign an eminent station to Bishop Horsley. His Her
culean talents found their balance in an equal weight of pride,

self-confidence, and defiance. Among the numerous streams
which diverge from the Fountain of all knowledge, he selected

the widest and the deepest --the great rivers of the intellectual
domain ; and of these, spurning all consideration of their mag

nitude, their difficulty, or their remoteness from each other, he
did not taste only, but he drank largely and deeply. He was a
theologian, (which, alas ! cannot be affirmed of every mitred

head,) a mathematician, a philosopher, a philologist, a critic,
a lawyer, and a statesman ; and in each of these characters he

courted all kinds of competition, he shrank from no man's
rivalship, and he " never relinquished a claim which he had

once advanced.

   " But we have now to do with this distinguished person in

his proper province as a Divine and a Scripture critic. Here,

sthhooeusghfrionmthheisvefreyett,e' mhpeleneovf etrhediDveesittye,d  he never  ' put off the
                                                                     himself   of his lofty

character. Stern, bold, clear, and brilliant, often eloquent,
sometimes argumentative, always original --he was too often

led by*his disdain of what is common into hazardous specula

tions and hasty conclusions, and not infrequently into con

fident assertions of dubious and paradoxical points. It is but

too plain that under the influence --perhaps unconscious--of
his hierarchical prejudices, he has a perpetual propensity to fill
up the chasms of proof with the perishable material of human
authority. He seems to have always taken it as an axiom--at

least, a position which no man but himself was entitled to

question--that weak evidence could be helped out by ecclesi
astical decision, and that the strongest was defective if it

wanted that corroboration. It is a painful feeling, but it is

what the serious Christian cannot escape in contemplating the
character, and reading the divinity works of Bishop Horsley,
that spiritual and practical Christianity was a less object in his

esteem than the pomp and majesty of a secularized religion,
lifting, as Mr. Burke said, 'its. mitred front in courts and par-
JET. 43.]  LETTER TO A BEREAVED MOTHER.  231

liaments ;' and that the Gospel of Jesus was more an arena for
the display of polemical eye and nerve than a provision of rest

to the weary soul, a source of pardon and holiness to the con

trite heart. We read him with interest ever new ; we look up

with wonder to his colossal genius ;--we always admire, and we

often   apinptrooveou; rbustouwl,h' enandwethheavesencltoimseedntthierrebsoisotkibly' theocciruorsn
enters
Ifwhich melted into tears the Benevolent Eedeemer--' thou
hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which
belong to thy peace !' "--Eclec. Rev. 1816, vol. i. pp. 20, 21.

Such a passage as this is of no little value in a life of Dr.

Smith ; for it shows most strikingly how his general tone and

style in treating questions of public or personal controversy in

which he was at any time involved, arose from no want of
power or facility to use even the very keenest words ; but that

his remarkable mildness and gentleness resulted from the
extent to which temper and language were held in subjection
by the Spirit of Christ which was in him.

   The summing up of the article on the Psalms has been, for
the most part, supported by the verdict of later times :-- " The
work, considered generally, though affirmed to have been left
ready for publication by the deceased prelate, seems to carry

marks of haste and .rashness, as well of a subserviency to
hypothesis. Its effect, we apprehend, will not be to raise the
Bishop's character as a critic. But we are glad, upon the

whole, that it is pubhshed. In judicious hands it may be
turned to useful purposes, but it will not be a safe guide for
the unlearned." --lb. p. 32.

   In July, 1817, he wrote thus to a bereaved mother :--

   " It cannot be a subject of surprise that you feel your great loss more

acutely from day to day. Your now glorified daughter when in her earthly
sphere, filled up so large a space in the compass of parental and domestic,
of literary and religious feeling, that the extent of the privation could not
be discovered at once. Every morning and evening must be unfolding new
circumstances connected with our dear friend translated from us, by bonds
of association so strong that they cannot be duly appreciated except by
those who feel them. But we earnestly entreat you never to overlook the
unspeakable weight of those considerations which ought to fill you with
gratitude and joy. Your beloved daughter is only as a favoured guest sent
for before the rest, and very soon to be followed by those of her friends
who through faith and patience are seeking to inherit the promises. Let
us entreat you to turn the eye of your mind to these topics ; and above fell,
232  DEATH OF THE PRINCESS CHARLOTTE.  [l817.

to the grace and love and glory of the Lord Jesus, who was the real spring
of all that was so lovely and excellent in our dear friend whom you must
feel it an inexpressible honour to have called your child. She was a
stream, He is the source ; and He deserves, as He requires, the heart of
unrivalled affection."

When, later in the year, the Princess Charlotte was suddenly

snatched away from the fond expectations which the nation at

large had indulged, in the event of her being permitted to ascend

the throne, Dr. Smith, in common with many ministers of all

denominations, sought to improve the event in a sermon at the

Gravel Pit Chapel. The discourse was afterwards published,

and went into a third edition. Looking back upon the numer

ous lamentations and forebodings for the future which were

elicited in almost every quarter by that event in our national

history, and comparing them with the manifold advantages

which, for several years have come and are still coming to us,
in consequence of a bereavement by which God in his prov

idence opened the way for Victoria to ascend the throne and
for Prince Albert to be her consort,--it behoves us to learn

how incompetent we are to anticipate with anything like cer
tainty, either in private or public concerns, the sequel of dis

pensations which, at the moment of their occurrence, are
                              of trials. -- " Therefore judge
submitted to as the heaviest
nothing before the time."
                  CHAPTEB XIV.

DEATH OF HIS SON, PHILIP HENRY -- LETTER TO MR. AND MRS. LEADER ;

TO MR. WALFORD; WRITTEN ADDRESS TO HIS CONGREGATION; AND
                                                 TESTIMONY,'
PASSAGE   IN THE  PREFACE  TO  ' THE  SCRIPTURE                                THAT
                                                                           ON

EVENT-- SEVERITY OF THE BEREAVEMENT-- LETTERS TO HIS CHIL

DREN --THE FATHER, AS HE APPEARED TO HIS CHILDREN -- FIRST

VOLUME OF THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY TO THE MESSIAH--HIS SER

MON BOOKS --TUTORIAL DUTIES -- COUNSELS AND CAUTIONS TO THE

STUDENTS -- HIMSELF AN EXAMPLE OF HIS OWN RULES-- HIS MAN

NER AS A TUTOR.

Up to the date at which this narrative has arrived, Dr.

Smith had been called to suffer several bereavements in his
family and friendly circles. An infant child was removed in
1806; in 1810 his father died; in 1814 a sister. Death had

also entered the Academy ; at one time taking away a beloved
pupil ; at another, the wife of a valued colleague ; at another,

that colleague himself: and similar trials to his feelings had

arisen in other quarters. But in July, 1818, a stroke of a most

unexpected kind came nearer, and sank deeper than any before.

His eldest son, then a little more than fourteen years of age,

who was at home from school for the holidays, was seized with

an illness which in four days proved fatal. In so short a space,

the vigour of health, and the elasticity and joyousness of youth

came to the coffin and the grave. Only the father can tell his

tale of woe. He thus wrote to Sheffield :

                             I" Homerton, July 9, 1818.

  " My dear Brother and Sister, --A heart-rending task must
          what a stroke has the Lord laid upon me and my
perform.

dear fellow- sufferers! My Philip Henry is snatched from us.

He in whom his beloved Mamma and sister and myself felt
234                   LETTER TO MR. LEADER.          [l818.

such a pecuhar delight, -- who from his birth has been more
than ordinarily the object of our affections and hopes, --is torn

Iaway by a sudden stroke. On Saturday forenoon he com
plained of sickness.  thought it was a trivial thing, and alas !

treated it accordingly. On Sabbath morning we sent for Mr.

Toulmin. But he perceived nothing alarming till Monday

morning, when he found symptoms of inflammation on the

peritoneum            Every thing was done that human

art could do; but, it has been in vain! Yesterday morn
ing he expired in his mamma's arms, at nine o'clock.--

Engaging boy ! At the very age when importance was every
day attaching to him more and more,--just turned fourteen ;

and when our trembling solicitude was looking forwards to the

fruit of all the anxieties and cares which have been expended

upon him ; he is withdrawn, so unexpectedly, so painfully.
\But, righteous art Thou, O
    " On Monday he desired   Lord !

Ihim : when asked which,     me  tsoaidr,ea'dThfreomfiftthye-firPssta.'lmsHitso
                             he
Isorrowing mother and suggested, as we thought he was able
to receive them, the portions of scripture and hymns most

suitable for him.

I Isomething to me.'
                      Yesterday morning he said, 'Papa, say
                      replied, ' What must   say, my dear ?'
IThe answer he gave pointed to Scripture or hymns ; cannot
recollect which. Some time after he said, ' Papa, will you read
       the hymn which begins, Death --what a solemn
me
all.'    Frequently saw his soul seemed engaged,
to                                                    word
                                                     doubt
I Ito
not, in prayer and committing himself to the Divine Ee
deemer. But the pains which he endured, and which evi

dently he suppressed with pecuhar fortitude, the languor

which oppressed him, and the melancholy succession of bleed

ing, medicines, warm-bath, &c. which took up so great a

part of the time,--were great hinderances to expression from

him. But his attention, patience, endurance, sweetness, and
silent lifting up his spirit (I trust) to heaven, were very
Iobservable. By my being very busy on Saturday, and preach
ing three times on the Lord's-day,   had, to my extreme

sorrow, little intercourse with him till the alarm of danger
was given early on Monday morning. His dear and attentive

mother was almost constantly with him, and from Monday
morning day and night doing everything for him, with only

a very short intermission. Divine grace greatly supported
JET. 44.]        LETTER TO MR. WALFORD.                               235

Iher at the last moment, which               did not witness ; but O,

our sorrow is unspeakably great. You, my dear brother and

sister, have had experience of such circumstances : but how

severe must be this stroke, from the dear child's age and

all other circumstances ?-- The Lord gave, and the Lord hath

taken away.  to be enabled from the heart to say, Blessed

be the name of the Lord ! 0, my dear brother and sister,

pofrfaeyrefdorfours.youW."e need your prayers, and our poor prayers are

On the 13th of July, he wrote to apprise his colleague Mr.

Walford, who was then at Yarmouth, of the event. Without
copying the information which in substance has just been

Igiven, some passages will show more fully the Father's feel
ings on the occasion : -- " My dear brother,  have heavy

tidings to inform you of. My heart is broken. My dear

child, who was clasped to the hearts of both his parents by
peculiar circumstances of endearment, --my Philip Henry,--
is no more on earth." -- " what a destruction of enjoyment

and anticipations ! He was beginning to put away childish
things. He was beginning, with attainments in some things
Ifar above what have ever made, to be my instructive com
Ipanion.
             had conceived plans, and we had actually com
Imenced them, of association in some useful studies ; and
had looked to this vacation as the most pleasant of any that
we had known. --But all is blasted ! ' God hath brought me
Iinto darkness.
                  am the man that hath seen affliction by the
Irod of his wrath.'
                       am sure we shall have your pity and
Iyour prayers :
I I Iis heavier than
             but       grohoapneingit.'  is   not wrong to say, ' My   stroke
             my                              Yet ought not, and
                                                                      rtriugshtt.'
do not complain against God.                   ' His judgments are

may some glorious good to my remaining children and to
other young persons, be brought by Sovereign Grace out of
this deep distress !"

   The deeply-afflicted parent could not forget his pastoral
charge ; yet as his feehngs would not allow him for some
time to dwell upon his bereavement in the pulpit, he pre

pared an address which was read among his people. A copy

of this, not in Dr. Smith's writing, has been kindly lent by
Mr. Samuel Gould Underhill, one of the senior deacons of

the Church at the Gravel Pit; and from it the following
236   ADDRESS TO HIS CHURCH AND CONGREGATION.                         [l818.

passages are borrowed : --" It is my duty and my earnest

desire to use means, that the best improvement may be made

to my pastoral children and young friends, of that over

whelming dispensation of God's holy providence which has

Ifilled me and my house with inexpressible sorrow. But fear
Ithat it will be a long time before can exercise such fortitude
as will make it discreet for me to refer directly to this event in

Iany public service. In this mode therefore desire to com
Imunicate some sentiments : though feel that the weight of

Imy calamity and the weakness of my mind render me inca

pable of doing it as could wish. The hand of the Lord has
Ismitten me, and the stroke lies heavy upon me : but it is
not too severe.               desire publicly to glorify His holy name,

and with my whole heart to say, ' He hath done all things

well yea, in the best manner. There is not a point in the

Imultiplied sharpness of this visitation, though it pierces to

the very core of my heart, which do not fully believe and
unreservedly declare to be in the most perfect accordance with

the righteousness, the wisdom, and the grace of God. Many

I Iof His people have sustained similar, and even heavier afflic

tions : and who am that should expect to enjoy an exempt
Iion ?--Dreadful as this shock has been to the feehngs of
bnaetutrhea, nkfuflerfvoerntilty." pray not merely to submit to  it,  but to

   Then, further on, he dwells upon the character and attain

ments of his son, and of his blighted hopes as parent. --" He
                                 a
                                     a
was now beginning to step into the place of friend and com
panion. He had not, indeed, put away all childish things, nor

all childish faults; but indications of solid judgment, and
                              a

other encouraging grounds of parental anticipation, were not
wanting. His disposition was sincere, honest, and generous.

He never took pains to show himself to advantage. He cheer
fully bore others to be preferred before him. He received
reproof with submission, and encouragement without being
lifted up by it. His attainments had laid broad and deep
foundation for future excellence. But, O, what frustration of
                                 a
                                       a

hope  here                  viewed the time as not very distant when he
      is

                           !

             I

would reward all the cares of instruction, and would be my

pleasant associate in useful studies. In some important

branches of knowledge his attainments far exceeded mine.
Already we had begun some plans of study,%in which he would
JET. 44.]      PASSAGE IN THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.    237

have been not only a learner, but my profitable companion,
help, and guide. But now all these 'purposes are broken
off,' and, as to the present state, are for ever destroyed. God

Isaw it right that it should be thus ; and though immersed in
distress and darkness,          know that it is right, and desire to
adore and bless His holy dominion."

A brief but most touching reference to the event occurs in

the preface to the first volume of the first edition of the

Scripture Testimony, which, after a long delay, came out at a
later period of the year in which Philip Henry died : -- " But
                                                      press "--so writes
scarcely has   he sent     the  last  sheets to the
the Christian    sufferer       when                  feelings are swal
                           --"         all his other

lowed up in one keen distress. He had a son, the joy of his

heart, and the object of many a delightful though trembling
anticipation. When those anticipations were beginning to be
realized; when he was just stepping into the place of an asso

ciate and a friend ; when his character and attainments were

opening to prospects of exquisite gratification ; in the very
fulness of life, health, and vigour ; it has pleased the All-Wise
and Eighteous Sovereign to take him from the arms of his

agonized parents by a sudden and overwhelming stroke.
   " ' Non sum ambitiosus in malis, nee augere lacrymarum

caussas volo : utinamque esset ratio minuendi ! Sed dissimu-

lare qui possum, quid illi gratise in vultu, quid jucunditatis in

sermone, quos ingenii igniculos, quam praestantiam placidse

mentis ostenderit ? -- Tuosne ego, mese spes inanes, labentes
oculos, tuum fugientem spiritum vidi? Tuum corpus fri-

gidum, exsangue complexus, animam recipere,.auramque com-

munem haurire amplius potui ? ' *
   " But though the bereaved and sorrowing writer can so

justly borrow these lamentations, he cherishes a hope which

that illustrious mourner never knew. To the- Eeader who is

not a father an apology may be due for obtruding the mention

of domestic woe; but should he not approve, he will view as at

least a pardonable weakness the wish to preserve a painful yet

precious

While the warmest manifestations of sympathy and kind-

               * Quintilian Inst. Lib. vi. Procem.
238 SEVERITY of the BEREAVEMENT. [l818.

ness were shown to the Pastor and his family by his affec

tionate congregation, and while Letters of condolence reached

him in great numbers from his brethren in the ministry and

other friends, the pecuhar circumstances in which he was placed

gave a character to the bereavement not easily to be conceived.

Besides the varied endowments which the child who was taken

away had, or, rather, was then beginning to cultivate with ad

vantage and pleasure, and which, from the well-known mental

and moral habits of Dr. Smith, would be pre-eminently prized

by him both as a man and as a parent, the singularly isolated
position in which the Father had to pass his domestic life

imparted to such a Son, in the very bosom of his family, a

preciousness which no words can describe. Here there were

ties to bind heart to heart far stronger than those of mere

affinity in blood. Hence the constant reference -- deeply
touching from its true import -- to the benefits which the

father was not only anticipating but beginning to realize,

from one who was to be "his pleasant associate in useful
studies." Not,
                  pfeoruhnadpast,iown itfhoorutfutmuraenyexdceiflfliecnucletie"s    had   the
" broad and deep                                                                  been   laid

in that child's long course of school education. The faith and
patience of the husband had often had to struggle with the

surmises to which he would have to listen ; he could scarcely
venture to hope all that the fond parental heart is wont to

hope in such cases, lest indeed there should be some falling.

off in the result, to which his attention would be sure to be

directed. But now the solid evidence of success was at hand.
The school course had been pursued with exemplary diligence

and credit, and the child stood approved, and honoured, and

greatly beloved   in the domeysoticuthc,"ircle.    And this was his own
son -- "the dear  and sweet  as                  he would often say, in

memory of his worth and the love he bore him.

Who can wonder in his circumstances, he felt inclined to
            is
lean upon his Philip Henry, in one way or another beyonda if,

what was at that time practicable in the case of the youngerit
            It not necessary to suppose that the continuance
childrena?
of such support --had God mercifully spared this son --would

have proved to the disadvantage of single member of thea
family much less ought to be assumed that he was removed,
in order to correct misplaced degree of confidence which the:

father was disposed at that period to indulge. Surer ground
^ET. 44.]  SEVERITY OF THE BEREAVEMENT.  239

may perhaps be taken ; namely, that the Divine purpose
required the putting aside of every hinderance which would be

likely to interfere with the development of Dr. Smith's char

acter according to the conditions which had been in force for

many years already. No earthly prop was to be allowed to

stand in the way of his almost exclusive habit hitherto of
resting upon God. His principles as a Christian were to be

matured and perfected, on the only foundation which could
have supported them in such vigour for the last sixteen years

of his life. And that he discerned this to be the case, and
entered cordially into the spirit of the dispensation, appears to

be evinced by the fact that when, several years later, his other

children were, --from their age, their attainments, and their love
and admiration for their father, --able to afford succour and

solace to his feelings, he would scarcely allow himself to par
take of the gratification to the extent to which he seemed pre

pared for it in the case of Philip Henry, lest his doing so
should make it necessary, as he might fear, for some fresh
stroke of mortality to fall upon his dwelling.

   The keen sensibility which he expressed respecting the piety
of the child was quite characteristic of his fidelity and con
scientiousness as a Christian. Though afflicted and sorrowing
in the most acute manner, he could not, for the sake of any tem

porary relief to his own feelings, give a broader basis to his
hopes respecting his son's salvation than the simple narrative
of the facts appeared to justify. But was not this the highest
form of human benevolence ? For by striving to keep the
Divine standard of truth, duty and character where it ought to

be kept, there would arise an increased earnestness of appeal

to all who attended on his ministry, and a warmer solicitude
for the full life of religion among the Students of the College.

None could expect opiates from the man who when he seemed

so greatly to need them himself -- if indeed they could have

done him any good --utterly eschewed their use. --And yet

there were such hopes gathering around the dying boy, that
every one can look upon the scene with a higher satisfaction
than the sensitive feelings of the father would permit him in
that moment of anguish to indulge. To him the pang^ of

separation was of a pungency which scarcely anything could

assuage except such an amount, or rather kind of evidence, as
would have turned the dying chamber into a scene of tri-
240  LETTERS TO HIS CHILDREN.                                   [l818.

umphant preparation for heaven. But in later years, no doubt,
he found cause for thankfulness and a sort of subdued joy, in
the heavenward incidents of Philip Henry's brief earthly

career.

Before quitting the family circle, the following Letters to his
children may be introduced, although in point of date they do

not belong to this part of the narrative :--
   " My very dear child, --To-morrow the 15th of June you will
Ithave completed your 15th year.  may seem puerile to notice

the coincidence of figures : but if the thought that such a co

Iincidence can never happen to you again, be subservient to

serious reflection, shall not regret having mentioned it.--In
Ia few more hours it will be fifteen years since your dear

Mamma and received you as the gift of God your Creator, a
child of immortality committed to us to be trained up for His

happy service, glory, and enjoyment. It is true that our

attempts have been feeble and imperfect ; but they have been

zealous and sincere. You are witness that we have endeavoured

Ito lead you to the experimental and blessed knowledge of God

in Christ : and think it may be literally said that not :a day
have we omitted to pray for you, and to implore the greatest of

mercies on your behalf. But, alas ! we cannot command or

insure the happy result ; that lies, under the efficacy of Divine
Grace, with your own conscience and solemn resolution. Now,

therefore, is the time when every moment calls you more

earnestly still, to devote yourself to the Lord Jesus. To what

a momentous period are you arrived ! You are come to that

Ifage in which the character is formed and usually decided for
time and eternity.  at this time you can neglect the calls of

the Saviour's mercy, and be insensible to His unspeakable and

inestimable love, the probability acquires a most alarming and
dreadful growth that you will continue to do so, and will in

crease in hardness, disbelief, and impiety.                     what a terrific

thought ! May Eternal Mercy avert
from being realised in you! -- let
     .                                                           my dear,, dear child,
                                                             !  be your fervent and

                                                 it it,
assiduous prayer and constant desire that your heart may, be

engaged with the Saviour's glories, and your tempers and life

sanctified to His service
   . . " The fifteen years since we first embraced you with

an affection more tender and joyous than you can easily con-
JET. 44.]            LETTERS TO HIS CHILDREN.                                                     241

ceive, seem now but a mere span of duration ; so fresh is the

recollection, and so short appears the interval.                                                  what a poor

parenthesis is time, cut out of eternity ! Yet this little period,
I--how momentous has it been ! And what will be the next
fifteen years !      beseech you to prize highly and cultivate

diligently your present advantages for making useful acquisi

tions of human knowledge and accomplishments : but let salva

tion, Christ, and eternity engage your most intense regard.                                       ; it,
   " This Letter is shorter than my affection would make

did not time press hard upon me. But make up its brevity

and imperfection by your own solemn reflection, your Bible,

and prayer. Especially read Eccl. xii. John iii. and xv.
                                                                       a
Bom. iii. Heb.       and the epistle of Jude. Our best love
           ;                                                                      ;
rests upon you. Our earnest prayers are poured out for you.                                    !
                  tp a
Grace, mercy, and peace be with you for ever
                                          '¦ Your ever affectionate father."i.
                             it
                                      is
                                          a is
" My very dear boys, -- It now considerable time since

we heard from you. But we hope you are well, as indeed we

have heard that you are from your kind and worthy Principal.

Think what mercy     that you are so, when so many

of your schoolfellows have been ill. Master Bankin gone
                                                                                                  is
home- apprehended to be in decline, and the visitation of
                                                                                                            a
death has now come so near to you. These are loud and

solemn calls         you to be deeply thankful for the continu
ance of health and life, --and earnestly sohcitous that you

may answer the great end of life, which your admirable and

comprehensive Catechism has taught you is, to glorify God                '
and to enjoy Him for ever.' Imagination cannot conceive

greater, more honourable, or more happy design than this

is. It involves all possible blessings, all possible happiness,

all that can constitute serenity, joy and usefulness in life,

victory over death, and the highest glory of your nature in the

awful world of spirits; the world of eternity. The way to

accomplish this blessed design                                         fully revealed to you in
                   I
                                                        is

                                                                      '
the gospel of our Lord and Eedeemer. Therefore, my be

lGovoesdpels.o' ns,   solemnly charge you, Eepent and believe that
                     yield your hearts entirely to the Adorable Ee
deemer as your Prophet, Priest, and King. Then you will

be happy, and you will supremely gladden the hearts of your

parents.
242  FIRST volume of THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY                      [1818.

" May you make the God of all grace your portion ; and

may He confer His richest mercies upon       yyoouurs! ." Adieu,  and

believe me, my dear boys, ever and tenderly

   The following picture of the father by one of his children,
cannot probably find a more appropriate position than here :--

" It was in every-day life, in. the ordinary routine of common

self-denial, that all his lovely characteristics were apparent.

To reside with him, were to be convinced of the innocence,

the meekness, the sanctity, the intrepidity of his whole being.

In a thousand ways that cannot be described, his self-deprecia

tion, acts of constant self-denial without letting them appear
to be such, his exceeding kindness and thoughtfulness for

others, his deep piety, were in our eyes to be equalled by
no other person. His charity towards all men, his singleness
of heart and purity of motive seemed almost angelic. Peni
tential apphcation to the Eedeemer rendered daily efficacious,
and a total surrender to God's authority as paramount and
supreme, were exemplified in him till Duty became his nature :
and as to his sorrows, the world might perhaps have envied

them, if they could have known their value to him."

  It has been already intimated that the first volume of Dr.

Pye Smith's largest work -- The Scripture Testimony to the
Messiah--was published in 1818. Besides the passages which

have been quoted from the Preface in an earlier page, there

are others which deserve some attention here, for their relation

to the causes in which the work originated, and for their bear
ing on some points of difference between the first edition and
all subsequent ones. -- On the title page of the first, the Scrip

ture Testimony is said to "include a careful examination ofthe

Eev. Thomas   sBaemlsehasmub'sjecCt.a"lm  Inquiry, and of other Unitarian
works on the                              This is not repeated in any later

edition ; for when the second appeared in 1829, and still more

in the third and fourth, the work had less of a directly contro

versial style, and was more exclusively devoted to an elucida

tion of the evidence   of Divine Bevelation on the great   subject
                       however, is mentioned in the first  edition
of inquiry. --A fact,

which the Author deemed it right to reprint in all the sub
sequent ones :-- namely ; that " the design of the treatise was
conceived, and its plan formed, before the publication of Mr.
JET. 44.]  TO THE MESSIAH.  243

Belsham's Calm Inquiry into the Scripture Doctrine concerning
the Person of Christ." This also is added, that " when that
work appeared, the writer was urged to draw up a reply to it
but he thought " that such a reply might be best combined
with the execution of his previous intention."

   Now as the Calm Inquiry was published in 1811, prior to
that date Dr. Smith was contemplating the preparation of the
work, the first volume of which he gave to the world in 1818 ;
nay, more, the design was conceived and even the plan was

formed, before Mr. Belsham's treatise came out. Since there

fore at that early period, there could have been no desire
to controvert the production of the Unitarian Author, to
this fact may be ascribed the singular advantage, of having

Dr. Smith's work in the form of an examination of the
Scripture testimony on the subject, rather than in that of
a particular controversy with Mr. Belsham. The region
which is thus traversed is higher and more serene than it
might have been in the other case ; and the results are in
conceivably more important and satisfying. Yet the appear

ance of the Unitarian treatise at such a time was exceedingly
opportune for the more complete accomplishment of Dr.
Smith's original purpose. The strong points on that side
of the controversy were urged afresh, and with all the dialecti

cal skill and cleverness which Mr. Belsham could command.
His name, and his position in the leading Unitarian Chapel

in London, where learning, wealth, and rank were accustomed

at that time to congregate, added not a little to the authority
of this matured production of his practised pen. As also he
had been formerly Theological Tutor at Daventry Academy,
and in Dr. Smith's early days at Homerton was the minister

at the Gravel Pit Meeting House, greater weight would be

likely to attach to the responsibility which the Author of the
Scripture Testimony would feel in regard not only to the
question in general, but to the method of treating it which the
Calm Inquiry in particular had pursued.

    Hence, while the latter supplied important hints, or opened
some lines of investigation which might not otherwise have
been thought of at the moment, or added a new stimulus

to motives which urged the Author to probe every question
to the uttermost of his power, --it was happily not allowed
to thrust aside the plan -on which he had originally deter-

                                                                                            R2
244  FIRST VOLUME OF THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.  [l819

mined. Such a change might have confined his attention

for the most part if not entirely to the track , baid down by

Mr. Belsham, and thus have given to his own work a local

and temporary interest, instead of the wide and enduring
value it now possesses. Even in the first edition,' the array
of evidence was maintained in as , unbroken a form as though

no opposing suggestions had to be encountered ; and yet the

latter were as fairly and as completely met, each one in its
order, as though the book had been written chiefly,' or even

solely with that design. It is also quite open to observation,

that on this plan the Author was at liberty to refer to other
opponents of Evangelical doctrine as well as Mr. Belsham ;

indeed, it could not be fairly deemed inconsistent with his

avowed object, to notice in his progress any attack upon the

truth which it was his purpose to vindicate and establish.

And if the subsequent editions do not contain some of the

controversial matter, which from the freshness of certain

Unitarian productions at the time when the first was pub

lished is to be found therein, yet the original arrangement has

been most closely adhered to, as being in comparison with

every other the best for the argument, and the most complete

and satisfactory for the Eeader's use.

  A trait of character not unworthy of regard is found in the

fact, that the two deeply interesting passages relating to the

Author's own difficulties and trials, which have already been

transcribed from the preface to the first edition, were never

allowed to appear in any later one. As soon as ever the occa

sions had passed away which had constrained these references

to himself, Dr. Smith withdrew the passages, notwithstanding
their beauty and pathos as descriptive of his feehngs, and even

their appropriateness as bearing directly on circumstances
which might be said to have an historical value in connection

with the work itself. Speaking of the first volume, in a Letter

Iwhich he  wrote to Dr. Wardlaw      at the beginning of 1818, he
            can scarcely find half  ianhnajdhooytuo;r""aasondwadyainttooteneacmres,p,"lwoyhitphupwtohanes
says :--- "
it." But   if in this instance he

permitted  before long to "reap

true instincts of a generous and grateful heart, he removed all

traces of the discouragements under which he had commenced
Itand long pursued his course.
                                    was a great thing to be able
JET. 45.]         HIS SERMON BOOKS.  245

-- as he ever seems to have been -- to take up at the very

earliest opportunity notes of gladness and praise.

 I"With the year 1819," says the Pastor ofthe Church at the

Gravel Pit, " begin this second book of Entries of Sermons.
The preceding one has served through eighteen years. O how

Iimprobable it is that shall fill this ! Perhaps a very small
Ipart of it is all that shall occupy. Gracious Eedeemer ! may

its contents be associated with more of holy energy and merci
ful success in Thy work than the last has been ! " -- These

Sermon Books contain, in chronological order, an account of

Dr. Smith's preaching engagements, whether at his own place
or elsewhere. First, comes the date ; next, the part of the day

of the particular service; then the subject of the discourse;

and, finally, the text. His sermons to his own people were

very generally textual, as distinct from the topical method ;

yet he evidently sought to deduce from the text a subject,

around which might be gathered a rich variety of scriptural
Ifillustrations.
                  a stranger preached at the Gravel Pit Chapel,

his name was inserted hi the middle column of the book ; or if

Dr. Smith preached elsewhere, the name of the place then

occupied that column ; and as a single line generally sufficed

for one entry, a great deal of information of a kind often
required by the Pastor, was contained in a small space.

   The year 1819 'appears to have passed without any publica

tion bearing Dr. Smith's name ; nor did he contribute anything
to the Eclectic Beview which it is of importance to notice.
His recent heavy bereavement, the completion of the first
volume of the Scripture Testimony, and his being engaged in
preparing the second, will account for this seeming quiescence
of his active pen.

   In such a comparatively rare scarcity of materials of a

public land, it may not be out of place to visit the interior of
the College, where the regularity and devotedness of the Theo
logical Tutor never failed to be an object of interest to the
Students. Although at this date no change had occurred in
the number and variety of his duties in that department--
though he still taught all the divinity, all the mental and moral
philosophy, and even all the science, comprehended in the
·>46                   TUTORIAL DUTIES.                                        [l819.

limited provisions of that early day --the time which he spent

with the several  classes  was not what                    it had   been  dainily,f"ormer
years, Instead             "three hours
                  of the                                   and a   half                two

hours or two hours and a half for five days a week, was the
amount of his personal attendance at the College. The altera

tion had arisen in part from the demands made upon him as an

Author, in meeting which he was now seen to be serving his
generation with great efficiency and success ; but it had grown
gradually out of another and a more imperative cause ;-- the
Students found it quite impracticable to turn to a really good
account that large attendance upon Lectures which was at one
period expected. Mr. Walford's just and valuable claims as

the Classical Tutor could not be slighted ; yet they must have

been, if sufficient private study had not been given to prepare

for them. Some also of the most important of the duties of

Dr. Smith's department were likely to suffer, either in his

attention to them in class, or in the Student's out of                 ;

attempting to do more than the inexorable narrowness of time                    a
and human strength allowed. Hence, to shorten the space
                                                                                     it,
passed in the Lecture room was seen to be required for the                                  by

sake of those for whose benefit the Lectures were given. To

secure, therefore, the great object which ever lay nearest his

heart --the real and lasting improvement of the young men
under his care --the Doctor consented to require smaller
portion of their time than at first.

The following hints and suggestions, prepared by Dr. Smith

for the Chairman at one of the yearly examinations at the
College, may serve to illustrate his spirit and maxims, in rela

tion to the moral responsibilities of his office and in con
nexion with this paper may be mentioned, that the Theo
logical Tutor drew up from year to year the Questions on theit

several subjects of his numerous courses of lectures in which
t"hseoleSmtudneEntxshoorftahtisiocnl"asscawmeere
                                                    to be  publicly examined.     The
                                                  at the   close of this part  of the

business of the clay.

   " Respectfully requested that the Chairman, in his solemn Exhortationi.
to the Students, would introduce the following topics.-- To maintain with
conscientious fidelity and care the spirit of vital, humble, tender-hearted
piety. Every student has been admitted to the advantages of this Semi
nary, upon the fullest profession of heart-devotedness to the Lord Jesus.
JET. 45.]  CAUTIONS AND COUNSELS.                            247

This was the primary ground of a compact between him and his supporters.

If he subsequently depart from the condition on his part, he has violated
the compact, and is no longer the object on the faith of being which he was
received to the patronage of the Institution. -- ii. Cherish to the utmost the
love of prayer ;-- secret, -- and social. --iii. Cultivate constant amiableness of
Iftemper and suavity of

Junior Students. --iv.
supposes a deviation
           manners towards each other. Especially Senior to
           Maintain brotherly love.--
           from Christian propriety in    any one perceives  proir
                                        another, he should
vately remonstrate, and labour to convince and reelaim.--Avoid harsh re
marks upon each other's prayers, or other religious performances. --v. Re

deem and improve time. Love solitude in your study. Spend very little
time in ordinary conversation. Strictly avoid all light, frivolous, and un-
edifying conversation., --vi. Never practise debating upon religious doctrines.
-- Conversation upon controversies is undoubtedly proper, provided it be

conducted with sincerity of spirit, unaffected seriousness, and a devotional

frame of heart : but if with levity and jocoseness, petulance, arguing for
victory, supporting what you do not believe, treating divine truths as topics
of mere intellectual exercise, such conversations are pregnant with evil

and danger. --vii. Avoid all unsuitable reading: such as would fill the

mind with thoughts and expressions/impure, profane, licentious, or infidel.
--Your time, memory, and imagination are not your own. They are con
secrated to God. You are not at liberty to alienate them in any degree. --

viii. Strictly observe all the Laws. The late revision has been with anxious

care to secure and advance the real well-being of the Establishment, and of

every particular member of it. The idea that any of the Laws are merely
principles, hints, or general rules, is altogether erroneous. --ix. Remember
that you should be exemplary as Church Members, even in your pro

tempore connection. Else you are not likely to become good Pastors. Be
constant at the Church Meetings and the Lord's Table: nothing but a
strong necessity can justify your absence. Though it is proper that you

should hear the best models of preaching in different evangelical com
munions, yet this liberty should be discreetly used. Too much variety will

vitiate the taste and perplex the judgment. Attend, at least once on the

Lord's-day, where you are in communion.-- x. In any case of difficulty as
to sentiment, matters of practice, disagreement with a fellow-student, or
worldly business which may befall you,-- seek the advice and aid of your

Tutors."

   It will be observed almost at a glance, that the foregoing

topics are of a moral and religious kind, with scarcely a refer
ence, much less any direct appeal to literary pursuits and
acquisitions.-- Could the stimulus have been applied more

appropriately than to the heart and conscience ;--could a

wiser, or a more salutary method have been introduced in
such a connection? For all the great purposes of the Chris
tian life, and therefore for all those of the Christian ministry,

the lifting up, the purifying, the ennobling of the moral part
of our nature, is the one thing needful. Let it be supposed
248  HIS MANNER AS A TUTOR.                              [1819.

that the propensities and passions are kept under strict con
trol, that the temper, conduct, and habits are such as a vigorous

Christianity sanctions or creates --what freedom will there
then be for the healthful action of the intellect --what pure
and lofty motives to diligence -- what well-directed efforts to
acquire every kind of really valuable knowledge ;--above all,
or in combination with and as the climax of all, what fervour,
persistency and acceptance in prayer for the Divine aid and

blessing, apart from which success is either unattainable, or

there will be a mass of materials accumulated without enough
of the true leaven to make them wholesome and salutary. And

here it can scarcely be too widely known among Ministers,
or Students for the ministry, or among the younger members
of Christian Churches who are in quest of examples of
eminent learning in alliance with eminent usefulness -- that
to Dr. Pye Smith was largely given the grace to walk by

his own rules, as they are now submitted to the scrutiny

and consideration of others.

A still nearer view of the position, deportment, and duties

of the Tutor may be presented. For by far the larger portion

of his official life, he went on without any of the outward
symbols of official dignity. He had no gown --no chair or
desk of state --nothing beyond a place on a level with his

pupils, excepting that he sat at the head of a table, on each
side of which and therefore with one of his " young brethren "

at each elbow, the ten, twelve, or fourteen Students were

seated. The social and friendly aspect of the group ; their

close proximity to their Tutor ; and his pre-eminently mild

and affectionate looks and words, seemed often to draw out
feelings towards him such as a highly endowed parent secures

from children who can venerate his worth. Occasional digress

ions from the particular lecture of the day, would lead to the

discussion of topics not exactly included in any part of the
College course. But these were not without their utility, then
and afterwards. In some cases they met doubts, or removed
difficulties, or supplied valuable materials for future
--and while they elicited his exquisite tact, urbanity,  thought ;
                                                         and gen

tlemanly and Christian bearing, they incidentally revealed the

apparently inexhaustible variety, as well as the order and

readiness of his mental stores. No attempt was ever made
JET. 40.]            HIS MANNER AS A TUTOR.        249

to silence any  one  ex cathedra. No partialities   or prejudices
were allowed     to                                none existed.
                     come into view--probably

These digressions and discussions were of eminent service
as -braining exercises. They fully brought out the very spirit

of rule vi. in the paper already copied. Young men who were
to mix with society, and who were to be qualified in more than

one respect for the defence of the highest principles, could

here go through at least a most profitable novitiate in dia

lectics ; and that with one who was in every way fitted to
be their guide and model. High honour, an exact regard

to truth, a fair and full statement of difficulties, a diligent
and pains-taking effort to overcome them --with no attempt
at evasion, or the use of mere authority --no asperity of
manner, no sarcasm, no raillery -- a perfect command of temper
and language, --these were the moral accompaniments of that

full and ready mind which generously opened its treasures

for the examination and benefit of the comparatively few

pupils who surrounded Dr. Pye Smith at Homerton College.

   Eeference has been made to a provision which he sedulously
kept up for the education of the Students as preachers ; in
virtue of which every one of the theological class in rotation

had to occupy the Hall pulpit. The plan was this--the Tutor

gave to each a subject of discourse, weeks or perhaps months

before his turn to preach arrived; and in the meanwhile, the
young man's reading and thinking and preparation were sup
posed to bear more or less upon the duty which he would
by-and-by have to discharge. When the day came--Friday
was the usual day--the class assembled with their Tutor at

the head: the student whose turn it was then entered the
pulpit ; the service began with singing, (the hymns being
generally given out by the Doctor;) prayer was then offered
by the preacher ; then a second hymn ; then the sermon ; a

third hymn, and a concluding prayer. In a word, there were

all the parts, and in their usual order, of a regular service on
Lord's-days among the Nonconformist body to which the Col

lege belonged.  Now besides the  Stoupdpeonrtt'usnitqyualtifhicuastioanfsf*ordfeodr
to improve and   judge of every

conducting the several parts of pubhc worship, the casting
of the whole into this set form gave a weight and a sacredness

to the exercise which added much to its value.
250  HIS MANNER AS A TUTOR.                                                                []819.

    At the close of the service, the preacher for the day having
 resumed his place among his brethren, the Doctor would then
 review the duties in which he had been engaged ; malang
 occasional remarks on the prayers --their length, topics, style,

 manner, and method of utterance ; but the chief attention was
 directed to the sermon --to the suitableness or otherwise of the
 text to the given subject--the textual divisions --the distri
 bution of the matter--the kind of apphcation, and the space
 allotted to it--the length of the several parts and of the whole.
 Questions relating to doctrine --the use and meaning of Scrip
 ture passages --the style of language, whether pompous or
 plain, involved or concise, obscure or clear--tone of voice --
 method of delivery --posture and action-- all secured thought

 and commentary from the watchful President at the head of

 the table according to what he deemed the requirements of
the occasion. As this process took place before the whole
 class, every member could profit in turn by the remarks
bestowed upon every other as well as upon himself : nor was

the Doctor the only critic at these times ; for with a view

to increase the benefit to the Students by quickening their
interest in the engagements of the day, they also were at

liberty, and were not unfrequently invited, to offer their re
marks ; -- his spirit and manner being an admirable guarantee

for the propriety of theirs. It should also be observed, that

by the Tutor's well-known and most valuable habit of judging
of each one's efforts --not by any artificial standard of excel
lence made and provided for all persons and cases alike, but
--by the qualities found in each respectively, the criticism was
for the most part just and generous to the preacher of the
day, and was of a wider significance and value to the rest
than might otherwise have been attained.

   At the period to which these observations apply, Dr. Smith's
deafness was not nearly so great as it afterwards became ; for
he was not then disqualified by that infirmity from entering
pretty largely into the above particulars. Yet at times when
he could not be sure that he had caught the exact words of the
preacher, he would appeal to the other members of the class,
or to the preacher himself for the needed information. Or

    as occasionally happened, he was pursuing line of animad
version on mistaken because defectively heard sentence
or sentiment, the readiness, the gratitude, the grace, with which
if,

                      a
                                                                a

                                                                                        a
JET. 45.]    HIS MANNER AS A TUTOR.             251

he would accept a correction from any one of the number,
was not more interesting as a trait of Christian character in
him than good and beautiful as an example to others.

Although for the greater part of his Homerton life, the

Classical and Hebrew Tutorship was in other hands, yet with

a view to the direct bearings on the Christian ministry, Dr.

Smith, as already mentioned, constantly carried on a series of
Exegetical Lectures upon the Greek Testament among his
pupils. These were intended both to enlarge their knowledge

of the Holy Volume for the general purposes of the ministry,

and also to put them in the right way of using The Book if

ever they should be called to expound it to a congregation.
And here, with a clearness and strength of conviction which

could scarcely be exceeded concerning the great truths and

doctrines of Christianity, the Tutor never hesitated to go

into questions respecting the genuineness, authority, and
meaning of any passage which might occur in the course of

these lectures. If, for example, difficulties arose in the mind

of any Student, or an objection were raised to the current
explanation of a word or a text, the Doctor was not only a
patient listener, but he would call to his aid Lexicons, Ver

sions, and Commentaries, with all the diligence, simplicity,

and frankness, of a warm-hearted fellow-pupil for the time

being, so that if possible a satisfactory solution might be
obtained. In all these things his manner was a constant
lesson as much as his matter :--nay, however valuable the

matter, his manner seemed always of the highest pitch and

the rarest quality ; a thing well fitted to find its way into

the very soul, and to be lodged there as an element of good

for ever. With a countenance that was radiant from some
inner light, and an eye clearly and calmly intelligent --but
with an intelligence which Christianity had evidently turned

into a source of living purity to himself and of manifold
benefits to others --he sat among his pupils like a father

in the bosom of his family ; rich in the possession of their

confidence,  and rewarded  by their   interest  inChhriisst.e"fforEtsvetno
train them                 ministers  of Jesus
             to be " good

when he was constrained to animadvert upon the defects
in the productions of his Students -- whether in examining
the composition of each one apart from the rest, or when
252  HIS MANNER AS A TUTOR.                                                 [l820.

there was a muster of the whole class around the Hall table --
the celebrated passage in which the Poet has given exquisite
beauty to one of the loveliest of moral qualities, accords in
no ordinary measure with the spirit and the results of Dr.
Pye Smith's criticism :--

     " It droppeth, as a gentle rain from heaven,
     Upon the     place               It is
                    him  beneath.            htwimicethbaletstsaekdes; .''
     It blesseth         that gives,  and

   Should the Eeader think that the Editor has been antici
pating the sequel of the narrative, he may be permitted to

say, that his care has been to insert the foregoing remarks
in connection with that period of time when he had the best

opportunity for knowing and loving the original. At a later

date some changes had occurred, which might have required
notice, but of which he could not have spoken from his own

observation.
                              CHAPTEE XV.

" PRUDENCE           PIETY,"  A SERMON  TO YOUNG  PEOPLE-- MISSIONARY
            AND

SERMON AT SURREY CHAPEL-- SERMON ON LITURGIES AND FREE

PRAYER -- SECOND VOLUME OF SCRIP. TES. --LETTER ON CARD-PLAY
ING --SERMON ON THE MEANS TO ASCERTAIN THE TRUTH OF RELI

GIOUS SENTIMENTS-- LETTER TO THE YOUNG LADIES OF HIS CON

GREGATION -- LETTER TO A DYING STUDENT --TO THE BEREAVED

PARENTS -- SERMON ON MR. LAVINGTON ROOKER'S DEATH.

On the first Lord's day in 1820, the Pastor at the Gravel

Pit Chapel preached a sermon to Young People, which was

afterwards printed under the title of Prudence and Piety, and

which has gone through a greater number of editions than any

other of his single discourses. The dedication refers to the
several parties for whose benefit this was published :-- " To

the Author's own children, the objects of anxious hope

and fear :--To the Young Persons of his Congregation, whose

Present and Eternal Benefit he earnestly desires as his joy and
crown :-- And to the Pupils hi the Protestant Dissenters'

Grammar School at Mill Hill, in whose attainments, success
in life, and Beligious Interests, he feels a sincere concern :--

This Discourse is inscribed, as a Eecord of his Affection, his

Best Wishes, and his          Daily Prayers,  as a Father, a Pastor, and
                              not be easy to  find a composition which
a Friend." It would

answers throughout more fully to its title. Prudence in regard

to all the great interests of human life is recommended con

cisely and clearly in the first part, while Piety is enforced in

the second. From the sale and the gratuitous circulation of

tins little work, who can estimate the amount of good which

has been done ?

Here it may be observed, that in the discharge of his regular
254  MISSIONARY SERMON.  [l821.

duties, Dr. Smith as a preacher did not hesitate to warn the
young people of his congregation of the particular temptations

and sins to which they were liable, and into which they would
be in danger of falling, unless they maintained constant vigil

ance and earnest prayer. At times, perhaps, his manner of

doing this would not be welcomed ; yet its advantages, on the
whole, must have been very great. The plainness with which
he strove to guard all persons, but especially the young, against
the insidious approach of a class of vices which can never be
yielded to in any degree without disturbing, perchance destroy

ing, the true sources of honour and happiness, was a striking
proof of his fidelity to his office, and of a sagacious and truly

benevolent concern for the welfare of those who were in any
way under his pastoral care. But plain as were his words on
these occasions, his motives and the fine expression of his
countenance evinced such an intense loathing of all sin, --be

spoke so clearly the purity and consequent felicity of -his own
nature, --that the mind as yet untainted could scarcely fail to

be struck with admiration; which, if it were followed up by

courage, perseverance, and the imploring earnestness of suppli

cation to God for help and protection, would have the effect in
many instances of carrying the young through the most dan

gerous period innocent and free. It was not the thunder of

denunciation, nor the defiant voice of scorn, nor a vapid senti-

mentalism, that did the good work in such cases ; it was a kind

of holy compassion, rendered intense by the apparent nearness
of the preacher to the source of Infinite Purity on the one
hand, and to human souls exposed, almost unawares, to subtle
but deadly temptations on the other.

   In the month of May, this year, Dr. Smith preached the

annual sermon for the London Missionary Society at Surrey
Chapel. The place was, indeed, in size greatly beyond the
power of his voice ; and his generally calm, didactic style of
pulpit address was not such as would suit the great multitude
of persons assembled on the occasion. But as the discourse

was afterwards printed, few could read it without being im
pressed by the suitableness of the subject and the scriptural
propriety of the sentiments for a missionary anniversary. The
grand truth illustrated was-- Christ in Heaven effecting His
Work on Earth. As a characteristic incident, it may be just
.ET. 47.] ON LITURGIES COMPARED WITH FREE PRAYER.  255

mentioned that the preacher wrote to the venerable pastor of
the Chapel, the Eev. Bowland Hill, requesting his permission

to dispense with the use of the gown when he came to occupy

a pulpit where that was an almost invariable appendage to the

officiating minister.  To this the eminently plain-speaking Mr.

Hill replied :--" My   dear Sir,-- It is nothing to us in what
dress you choose to appear in Surrey Chapel. It appears to

me that such as esteem it their duty to renounce their con

nection with the Established Church should renounce her
livery also."

  In February, 1821, Dr. Smith preached the Monthly Lecture,

the subject of which was, The Comparative Advantages of Pre
scribed Forms and of Free Prayer : this also is included among
his printed sermons. On the side of Liturgies, the Eoman
Catholics and the Episcopalians take their place ; on that of

Free Prayer, the Presbyterians, the Baptists, and the Inde
pendents, with several branches of the Wesleyan Body, and

other Nonconformists, may be said in general terms to take
theirs. The question itself is one of wide import, the discus

sion of which has called forth great learning and great piety.
The Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, --the observ
ances of the Jewish Temple and Synagogue, --the writings of
Christian antiquity,-- -the different usages of modern worship, --

and the experience, custom, taste, and feelings of individual
persons, have been brought into prominence on each side of

the subject. But if a difference in practice must occasion con

troversy, a better representative of the non-liturgical party on

the one side, and a fairer, calmer, more earnestly dispassionate

opponent of the liturgical on the other, than Dr. Pye Smith, it
would not be easy to find. His intimate knowledge of the

Sacred Writings, his learning, and especially his devotional
habits, added to a high sense of the claims and advantages of
the duty as a part of Divine service, attest his fitness for the
inquiry pursued in this sermon. And, indeed, a person who is

incompetent, whether from a mental or a moral cause, to offer
with acceptance Free Prayer in the Congregation, is scarcely

more entitled to settle the question, or even to discuss it in
some of its weightier relations, than a conclave of mutes to
determine the manner of communicating thought and feeling

among those who are able to speak.
256  ON LITURGIES COMPARED WITH FREE PRAYER.           [lRII.

   At the time when the discourse was delivered, the Church of
England had not begun to develope that rapidly increasing

tendency towards rubrical observances which, during the last

few years, has hurried not a few of her sons into the great

abyss of ritualism, the Church of Eome. Looking at the
history of Christianity, from an early period dowii to the
present, it would seem as though -- speaking generally--there

was a natural antagonism between the two methods of cele

brating public worship ; so that not only does each thrive best
apart, but when a disposition in favour of forms is' indulged,
the danger is imminent of its growing to an extent' which
Protestants consider delusive and even perilous. Who, for

example, can calculate the advantages, in regard 'to'1 purity1 of
doctrine and vigour of Christian life, which' even the established

Presbyterianism of Scotland, as contrasted with the Church

of England, has derived through the medium of all the circum

stances which have been directly or indirectly involved in the
constant demand made upon the Free Prayers of the ministers ?

Substitute for this demand a Liturgy, in whole or in part --
whether by authority, or simply by connivance or' custom,
would signify little -- and what changes in a few' years m'us^

ensue ! The very standard of qualification for the ministerial

office would be lowered in its most essential characteristic ; the1
spirit, the soul of devotion, would not then be' required to the

same degree, to say the least, as now: and to require less
for the prayers is to open the door to ' an ! inferior order of
preachers, --pompous, perhaps, but inane-- correct, but cold -- '

alike unable to elicit in themselves or the congregation those
devout feelings apart from which the service will be little

better than a transient  spectacle. And  who can tell how far
back the retrogression'  might proceed?   With what ease' and

insidiousness would formalism find its way to the $ew"; the'
disuse of free^ prayer by the minister leading, in very many
cases, to its disuse in the social and family circle.

   The 'Scriptural bearings ofthe question, which are very fully
brought out in the sermon, are open to the observation of all.'
To consider, as many do,
been the Liturgy of the   the Book Of Psalms as        though it had
                          Jewish Church, Seems
                                                       to leave that'

Church with hardly anything of the kind until the time of
David; while after his successor's days, religion, as well as
-ET. 47.] ON LITURGIES COMPARED WITH FREE PRAYER.                 257

national prosperity, rapidly declined. Nor was there any pre

vision in the arrangements of the Temple service, either of a
fitting place or of appointed and appropriate ministers for con
ducting social worship, consisting of the joint prayers and

praises of a congregation.              Great celebrations sometimes

occurred, when prayer was offered and vocal and instrumental

music was introduced ; but apart from these very rare occa

sions the Temple rites were sublimely symbolic ;--the devout
attendant looked on, and thought and felt and prayed, as
though he stood alone. In the New Testament, moreover,

frequently as synagogues are spoken of, no mention is ever
made of social or common prayer being offered in them.
They were resorted to, as the Temple was, as places for the

people to pray in separately, if they thought it right to do so,--

and the Pharisees did this for ostentation (Mat. vi. 5) ; but
                                                                  the evidence will
beyond this, in  Tsohefa"reiagshtreeelantespratoyeprsr,a"yero, f  which Vitringa*
not carry us.
fand Dean Prideaux speak, and which may be found at
length in those authors, cannot be discovered near enough by

several centuries to the time of our Lord and His Apostles, to

be of any authority whatever in settling the question respecting
the practice then. And although they may be thought to have

been very suitable for the Jews generally, they were by no means
              Swihnonewrass," "
such  as One                     Holy,  Harmless,  Undejiled,     and Sepa
       from                      could  ever have  used for       himself or
rate

joined in with others. What care should be taken to avoid

every attempt to fill up the silence of Scripture by human con
jectures ! Inasmuch as the Holy Eedeemer's character and

life were superhuman, we are not at liberty to trace his resem

blance to us, even in            religious exercises, except in the

direction and only to the extent in which, with such perfect

symmetry, He and his unique, course of action are portrayed

in the Divine Writings.

   To all who are interested in the subject of Dr. Smith's
sermon, a deeper question may be submitted :--Whether,
Infinite Grace and Mercy haying provided a method of pardon
and acceptance, and having called the attention of mankind
to it by proclamations and promises, there would not have

                  * De Synagoga Vetere, Lib. iii. Par. ii. cap. 14.

              f Connection of Old and New Tes. Part i. Book vi.
258  ON LITURGIES compared WITH FREE PRAYER.                [1831.

been some incongruity in supplying to any large extent the

very words to be used in asking for the blessing ?--Hints and

outlines are here and there given : and exhortations as well as

commands are employed in great abundance ;--and there are

also those wonderful models of Solomon, David, and others,

stamped with a Divine Impress by their position in a Divine
Book --but Forms of Prayer, in the' strict sense of the phrase,
and for Congregational Worship, are not found in the Bible. --

How remote this is from that which surely would have been

the case had human sagacity contrived the volume, is rendered

strikingly evident by the innumerable attempts which have

been made in early and modern times to supply the Church

with a class of compositions in which the Scriptures are seen

to be deficient. Judging indeed from Bevelation as a whole,

the prayers of the penitent on earth may be as reverently free,
as are-- we have reason to hope -- the praises of the redeemed

in heaven. In all such exercises, unfettered expression aids

no less than embodies thought : just as the flowing forth of

water from a fountain tends to promote as well as evince

the life and freshness of the source whence it is derived.
Even accuracy and conciseness may be bought --as Dr.
Smith suggests -- far too dear, -- with
                                     a if,             view to improve
                                                    a
the language of devotion, forms are introduced which tend

to impoverish its spirit. This part of the subject has how

ever been treated very much as matter of taste. The less

erudite and more glowing style used by some Dissenters, has

been placed by the side of the generally exact and simple

phrases of the Established Liturgy; and the one has been

made to suffer for moment in contrast with the other. But
   this just view of the case Let the accomplished, classi

cally-educated clergyman of the Episcopal Church, or indeed
is                                ?

            a
                               a

any one competently nurtured in heart and mind for all the

duties of the New Testament ministry, become accustomed to
the practice of free prayer let him lead in the clear, calm, yet
                   it
                                  ;
                                       ;
                                it :

                                                   a

                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                    ,
mentally fervent manner in which such an one could lead the

devotions of his fellow-worshippers, and wonderful power

would accompany his words nor would that power cease
when the prayer was ended            would go with him --and the

people would feel                 to be going with him --through the

sermon. The whole service would thus be rendered sym
metrical, stamped by the impress of single mind the senti-
JET. 47.]  SECOND VOL. 'OF SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.                                       259

ments would be in substance one, the spirit one, and the
style chaste and correct throughout. Even the circumstance

which some have urged as an objection, --that the minister is

liable to have his thoughts or feelings influenced at times

by occurrences which are strictly                                      personal,     is amovnegsseltsh,"e
provisions by which the treasure "                                    put into    earthen

is adapted to cases in the congregation which might not other
wise be met. --But the subject to which the Homerton Tutor

drew the attention of his Brethren and of the Christian Com
munity in general upwards of thirty, years ago, has an interest

and a magnitude attaching to it in the present day which may

most deservedly recall into life and power that Discourse of

his to which these remarks apply ; for still the conflict between

forms and freedom in Divine worship is going on : and who

can tell when, or how, it will terminate ?

During the current year, Dr. Smith was appointed one of the

Broad Street Lecturers ; a service which was instituted in the

reign of Charles II. with a view to " support the doctrines of

tchineiaEneisfomr,maantdionInfiadgealiitnys.t"  the prevailing errors             of Popery, So
                                                   Six Nonconformist              Ministers (four

Presbyterians and two Independents) were united for upwards

of twenty years in carrying on this weekly lecture ; but in

1695, the Presbyterians withdrew, and the whole number was
made up from the Independent Body.* This Lecture, which

was established by the liberality of the Nonconformist Mer

chants and Tradesmen of London, has continued ever since,

although--as might be expected -- the large demands which

the numerous Societies of modern days have made on the

time of Christian ministers and people, have done a great deal

to thin the attendance at Broad Street. Dr. Smith records

in his Sermon Book, under date September 26, 1837, that he

wf1in6ili7ls2hc;oe"md ma"ntedhneceth,waemteokfnlryothmlleyc."ttuhree   which was begun by Dr. Owen in

                                                                      following Tuesday "a new series

   In the course of this year, the Author of the Scripture

Testimony was able to complete and publish the second

volume, which extended to more than eight hundred pages.

           * Neal's History ofthe Ptiritans, vol. iv. ch. ix.

                                                                                  S2
260               LETTER ON CARD-PLAYING.                                     E1822'

This work, even in the early and less condensed form in which
it appeared as compared with subsequent editions, secured,
            commendations not only from Nonconformist minis-,
very  high  laymen, but from members of the Churclnof Engr
ters  and

land. The following remarks apply to the first edition, al
twhhoeunghitthweayswperueblnisohtedw.ritte"nWuentcial nsnoomt econcludeafttehre!thperetsimeen1t-
notice of Dr. Smith's masterly production " [Answer to Tay-.
lor's Syntagma] " without reminding our readers, that he 'is
                      Mleasrsgieaho,'ctcaovnocevronliunmg ewshiecnhtitthleed    ' Scripture
the Author    of two                                                          late learned
Testimony    to the

Bishop of Oxford (Dr. Lloyd) several years since in conversa
tion with the writer of this article, stated -- that he considered

it to be the ablest treatise extant, against the assertions

and misihterpretatibns of the Modern Unitarians ; and that

eminent Prelate subsequently showed that his Opinion re

mained unchanged, by including Dr. S.'s work in the 'list

of books which as Begius Professor of Divinity, he recom

mended to    be   attentively  csotuurdseiedofbtyhethoolsoegicwahl olitwerearteurdee."sirous
              an   extensive
of pursuing

Christian Remembrancer, or Churchman's Biblical, Eccle

siastical, and Literary Miscellany. October, 1829.

  In the Eclectic for 1821, Dr. Smith wrote a brief article oh

the German Language, which he was then acquiring more
fully for his own use ; employing for that purpose such frag*
ments of time as might offer in travelling in a stage-coach,
or while he was waiting for the commencement dfsome public

business.

     Having been applied to for his opinion on the lawfulness of

a Christian minister's engaging in games of chance, he wrote
                                           " :': ¦·
thus':                '                                                       ¦"

   " 1. Card-playing and the like, are not, suitable instruments of unbend
ing and refreshment after severe studies, because they are sedentary occu

Ipations. They are great consumers of health, but never have heard of

their being restorers of that blessing. The recreations of a literary man
should be those which: involve exercise in ¦ the open air, such as walking,
riding, practical Botany, and the branches of ^atural History.-- 2. These
diversions are of ill-report. Admitting that some persons might practise
them without sin, yet the example would be offensive to the great majority
at least, of serious persons, and would be extremely likely to embolden
JET. 48.]  SERMON ON RELIGIOUS SENTIMENTS.                                            261

ottjerjs to venture on most sinful and ruinous courses. -- 3. It involves a sad
and most undeserved reflection upon the glorious religion of our Lord Jesus
Christ, as if it were noT; sufficient to make us happy without borrowing

recreations from the most profane and un'gddly of mankind.- --1. Card-play

ing and'other similar practices, occasion the excitement and action of many
sinful, passions in \the, minds of the players; -- inordinate desire, envy,

jealousy, i discontent, anger, and, other majtayolent feelings. An, eager,
thorough-paced card-player exhibits diabolical passipns. -- 5. All games of
chance seem to me to involve an appeal, in the spirit of levity and impiety,
I Ito' the decision of God.
   " Had      time, could adduce the greatest and         best of Divines, ancient    and
           in condemnation of these amusements,           falsely so called."
modern,

Excepting two .short papers in the Ecleptpc,i, the only publica-

tion of Dr. Smith's in 1822,. was a. monthly lecture,; On^he
M^eans of obtaining Satisfaction with Regard to the Truth of
Religious Sentiments.; This subject is not only one which

occasions deep solicitude to many sincere inquirers into the
mqst important of all qn^stiqns ; but the real or the alleged

difficulty of arriving at a solution, in which the mind may calmly
and safely rest, has kept some in : a state of indecision and

scepticism, and has driven others to the delusive refuge of an

infallible earthly authority ! To take up, the subject therefore

and to treat it as he has done, is . one                  of  the  many     examples  in

                                                                            t

his long life, of an earnest desire to consecrate his attainments

and talents, to the highest interests of mankind. The style is
ethical, but the spirit is eminently Christian. Like bis dis

courses generally, there is no sustained pressure on the feel

ings ; none of that fervour of eloquence which hears the reader

along with an all but irresistible energy. Hence, for .the pur

pose of forcing an opening for the truth into hearts hitherto

closed against  it,          the sermon                 wanting in power; but for

directing inquiry, for teaching, guiding,; guarding the mind in,   is if.,
its pursuit of Divine. knowledge :--especially that mincl can:
generate warmth for its own use, and only wants light to7 re
gulate the application of that warmth --this discourse, small asa it is

it     in size, will be found to cpntain all that needed. That
   is

freedom of examina^tipn for |W^ich                        pleads, was by no means

the only quality in which the Preacher's own practice was the

parent of his advice to others the self-diffidence, the constant

sense of liability to errbr and prejudice, through the influence
pf the feelings on the judgment; becoming care
                                                                            to  ascertain

the full import of the Divine Word; the implicit yielding of
262                       SERMON ON RELIGIOUS SENTIMENTS.                                  [1823.

the understanding, the conscience, and the life to the authority

of that Word; and a habit of prayer so formed that it might be
said to be in close contact with all his pursuits :--these and

the cognate suggestions he has offered, though less open to the
public eye, were drawn really from his own practice, and were

the invariable accompaniments of his intellectual labours.
Fidelity to such a model therefore and the right use of his in
structions, demand an attention as close to his moral teaching
and example, as the Student may be inclined to give to his

achievements in the wide field of literature. Indeed, as what
he did so admirably in the latter was in all the more important
relations owing to what he was as a devout man of God, he
who would be like him in the power of using the pen must
above all strive to be like him in the use and power of prayer.

   " Prayer "-- says he towards the close of the sermon to which these
remarks apply --" Prayer elevates the soul above the mists and darkness
of this revolted world, and places us under the very shining of the Ever
lasting Light. It tends to exterminate the greatest obstruction to the
entrance of that light, the prepossessions of sin in the heart. It gives

vigour and delicacy to the sanctified perceptions. It guides that holy mental

sense, which is the characteristic of the real Christian, to the quick dis
crimination and the delighted reception of truth and goodness. Through

prayer, the hallowed medium of intercourse with Heaven, the devout mind

ascends to its closest enjoyment of communion with the Lord God of Truth:
                          descend the returns of prayer -- ' every  good gift
panedrfefcrot mgiHfti.m'   Such a direct influence of Divine        grace in   and every
                                                                               purifying,

strengthening, and enlightening the faculties of the mind, is highly
credible upon the principles of philosophic Theism, or upon those of any
moral system which recognises a perfeet and an active God : and it is

on the same principles of nature and reason, equally credible that prayer
should be the general medium of that new impulse on the soul of man.1

But Revelation             gives certainty to the hope   of nature. Did      Cfhariils;'t  pray for
his disciple on           the brink of danger, that his   ' faith might not
                                                                                           and is it

presuming or chimerical for us to pray that ' the Father of glory may give
to us the Spirit of wisdom and revelation, in the knowledge of Him :'--that

is, as the preceding connection shows, of Christ? Is it visionary, is it

fanatical in us to supplicate, with earnest hope and raised expectation,
that ' we may be strengthened with might by His Spirit in the inward
man ; that we may be able to comprehend-- and know--the love of Christ ¦;
that we may be filled with the knowledge of His will, in all wisdom and
spiritual understanding ?' Thus we may be assured that the exercise of

filial desire and confidence in Him who heareth prayer, binding and
strengthening all other means which we may have been enabled to use,
will complete and crown our assurance that ' we have not followed cun
ningly-devised fables, but have received the gospel, not in word only, but
also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance.' "
JET. 49.] LETTER TO YOUNG LADIES OF HIS CONGREGATION. 263

The only document to be noticed in relation to Dr. Smith

for the year 1823, is the following valuable Letter written in

April. It was addressed " To the young Ladies united for

rPeitli,g"ioausSoicmieptryovwemhiecnht,    in  the  Vestry-meeting at the Gravel
                                         held  its  first meeting, January 3, 1821;

and is transcribed from a copy, but there can be no doubt of
the care taken by the possessor of the original to secure

accuracy.

  I" My dear young Friends, -- On returning from your Society

on Wednesday, found a very elegant writing-desk, with a not
Iless handsome note informing me that it was an expression
of your kindness.  beg to return my sincere thanks, and the

assurance of my heart's desire and prayer that the best of

Iblessings may rest upon you. --And allow me to add how in

expressibly happy should be in the evidence, that my poor
attempts were made useful to the highest good of each one of

Iyou, in intellectual attainments, vital godliness, and all the

amiable fruits of the Spirit. You feel, trust and beheve, the
importance ofthe female character, --its spontaneous tenderness,

its influence through the whole range of human society, its

reference to universal character and happiness, tmd the ob

servable fact that females have been in every age, the first, the

closest, the most constant, the most numerous of the Eedeemer's
disciples. These and similar considerations furnish most in

teresting reasons for your cultivation of all that is graceful,
wise, and holy. Your duty is your dignity :--a pre-eminent

conformity to the image of the Son of God. By cultivating
this, you will enjoy the highest blessings, and will not only be
happy yourselves, but be the delightful instruments of making

others blessed ; filling an ever-widening sphere with the be

Inignity and purity of Him who                      wroermkeatinh,"in&cy,ou&ct.o will  and  to

do of His own good pleasure.

   In 1824, Mr. Lavington Booker, son of the Eev. Samuel

Booker, of Bideford, and grandson of eminent Nonconformist
ministers, was obhged to relinquish his studies at Homerton,

and to return home in consequence of the rapidly declining
state of his health. About a fortnight before his death, Dr. Smith
wrote a Letter to him, a part of which is now copied from
the appendix to a sermon preached on the occasion of his

decease.
264                   LETTER TO A DYING STUDENT.                         [1824.

" My dear Young Friend, --Short as has been the opportunity afforded
me of cultivating your friendship, it. was sufficient to create in my mind
Ia strong feeling of respect and affection, and to make the sudden separation,
to me also so unexpected, in no small degree distressing.             had pleased

myself with the expectation of Christian intercourse with you, and the
hope of being rendered in some degree instrumental of aid to your preparai-
tions for the work to which you had consecrated yourself, and which in so
many other instances, has been the joy and crown of your family. The

Inames which you bear, paterna in memoriam avitceque virtutis, could not

but inspire a peculiar regard for you. But am bound to declare, these in
teresting associations excited no expectations that have not been realised.
The personal qualifications with which the Author of nature and, grace' has

Iendowed you, have been the strongest attractions to my esteem. It grieves

me to think that did not better know and more closely cherish so sweet
and tender a plant, now soon to be removed to the heavenly paradise. But
Iit will always be a happiness for me to reflect that had any opportunities
Iof knowing you,--that was favoured to cultivate any christian com
Imunion with you.     might adapt to you the words of the noblest of the
Romans -- ' Non libet tibi deplorasse

Iquoniam ita vixisti ut non frustra te
                                       vitam :        nee te vixisse  poenitebit ;
                                       natum         existimes.' But      am per
...the grace of God which was with me.'
suaded you say, with unspeakably greater approbation of soul-^-' Not I, but

                                                     The idea of seeing you no
more in this land of shadows, sins, and sorrows, we feel to be distressful,

but the distress is to ourselves. It is to those at the bottom of the valley

that the shades appear darkest. The damp and dismal clouds gather and
thicken upon us: but you are scaling the ¦ mountain's side. The region of
gloominess is scarcely above your feet. To have seen you, the devoted ser
vant of the Lord, growing in holiness and usefulness, a shining light
through many of our earthly years conducting souls to glory, was a desire
fondly cherished, and a hope sweetly entertained; But the Supreme Master
forbids it : and not only has He the right, but all His orders are issued in
wisdom and love.      Are you called to suffer
                      your agonised Saviour.    greatly ? O    think of the Prince
of sufferers --Jesus                                           Divine will to yon,
                                                 Or is it the
that hitherto the progress of disease has not been attended with severe
symptoms ?

all' Look unto
              Then    here is a further motive for gratitude. :  In things,
            Jesus.'    O that you may experience the most
                                                                 abundant bless
ings of His presence, fortitude under all suffering, rich consolation under all
sorrow, victory over every sin, and over        all       temptations that may
harass your mind, and the sure anticipation     of   the  infinitely more blissful

                                                     His
Ipresence in that world of purity where                   'behold His glory.'--
                                                          trust, through, in finite
Farewell-- farewell, my beloved friend !
grace, for ever, --not for ever !"
                                       you shall
                                       Yet not,

Under date,           April  16,  Dr.  Smith    wrote     to     the       ¦J r'l

parents at Bideford.                                                  bereaved
                             The following passages may be read with
advantage :--

  I" My

Letter.
event,'
      dear  Sir,-- duly      received your painful but interesting and   affecting
            event which,     though not unexpected, you justly call ' a   dreaded
     The
     had    been made known the evening before by Mr. Evans. From
JET. 50.]  LETTER TO THE BEREAVED PARENTS.                                                           265

Iexperience, which after six years still maintains a wound in our hearts,

Mrs. Smith and can in some measure sympathise with you and Mrs.
Rooker. Had you not that consolation which surpasses all description, it
would be impossible for me to suggest any adequate topics of relief to your
minds. Even that glorious hope itself increases the pungency of grief by
enhancing our sense of the present value of the treasure that is lost. Nor is
this altogether a selfish feeling. The not 'laying to heart' the removal of
                                                                            though    they ' enter
ptheeacreig' hstuecohusa, sisthaepyrocoofulodf  criminal  insensibility,  this state   of conflicts  into
                                                not have  enjoyed in                                 and
sorrows. It would prove 'that we Had no love to spiritual excellence, if we
did not mourn when it is taken from us. The anticipation of a bright ex

hibition of exemplary holiness, and of the benefits to be derived by the
Church of God, and of the greater extension of our Redeemer's kingdom,

renders the withdrawment from the field of Christian labour of such charac
ters as our dear Lavington a heart-rending stroke. To him 'to live was
Christ ;' it was to love, to serve, to glorify Christ. To our partial view

there is an extreme want of such examples. Our world can ill spare them.

But, alas! it is one of the sinful infirmities of our guilty and wayward
nature, that we are not duly sensible of the value of such possessions till we

have lost them. Then we learn that we were not fit to retain them : that

it was requisite that the Lord should lay them up among ' His jewels :'. that

they were rather formed for the nobler services of the heavenly state than

to be the associates of our weak and intermitting labours in this world of

sin and darkness. Let us then, my beloved friends, turn from our sorrows
and privations to the loftier themes of perfection in prospect. Faith is

strengthened by the very attempt. You have walked with your inestimable
son up to the gate ¦of glory. You could not at present go farther. Here

his Lord and yours has directed that you take a short Farewell of him ; a

Farewell, distressing indeed to our human feelings and trying to the best
principles of grace : but yet it is best;
                                                                                      ;i

   "When one of our^children visits the mansion of an old and esteemed

friend, we enjoy the hospitality almost as if we partook of it personally,
especially if we hope very soon to be added to the gratifying society. And
have not you, my dear sir, and the tender partner of your sorrows, this hope
full of immortality ?· Let not your heart be troubled, in our Father's house

are many mansions. You have been permitted to send forward your

beloved child, as if to arrange for your own going and> welcome at the

appointed time. Ignorant though we are of the powers and employments

of separate spirits, it appears highly credible that their admission to glory
has an aspect ut special favour upon their surviving associates in the
blessedness of God's everlasting covenant. This we believe ; but so fax we

are sure that He who  ugpivreigthhtglyr.a"ce    and       glory  will     withhold    no good thing
from them that walk

   Dr. Smith improved the death of Mr. Lavington Booker, in
a sermon to the Congregation at the Gravel Pit. From the
respect which he felt for the bereaved Parents, and froma desire
to, sperthe their grief as much as possible, the manuscript was

sent to Bideford ; and as a discourse which had been delivered
266  CONTRIBUTIONS TO ECLECTIC REVIEW.  [l824.

in that town on the occasion, was unexpectedly withheld from
the pubhc by the subsequent illness of the preacher, the Doctor

readily comphed with a request to allow his to be printed,

although it was not prepared under any such expectation.

   His contributions to the Eclectic were confined in 1824 to
two short articles : one of them was on Dr. H. Foster Burder's

Mental Discipline, a work which secured his warm recommend

ation.
                      CHAPTEE XVI.

"VINDICATION OF CHRISTIANS AT GENEVA "--EFFORTS TO PREVENT PER

      SECUTION IN SWITZEELAND --LETTER TO THE WIDOW OF DR. RYLAND
      --TO JOHN MORLEV, ESQ.--TO J. B. WILLIAMS, ESQ.--TO A CHURCH
      ON THE REMOVAL OF ITS PASTOR --ECLECTIC REVIEW : REV. ANDREW
      FULLER'S WORKS --LETTER FROM ALEXANDER HALDANE, ESQ.--HIS
      GENEROUS SERVICES -- ON A CHRISTIAN PASTOR'S HOLDING A PROFES
      SORSHIP --MILTON'S TREATISE ON CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE -- ON " PERNI

        CIOUS PRINCIPLES."

   In 1825, Dr. Pye Smith published a pamphlet with the fol
lowing title --A Vindication of those Citizens of Geneva, and

other Persons, who have been Instrumental in the Revival of
Scriptural Religion in that City. The history and design of
this production may be stated as illustrating the character and
courage of its Author.

    M. Cheneviere, at that time one of the Pastors of the Church
of Geneva and Professor of Theology in the Academy there,
prepared a " Summary of the late Theological Controversies "
in that city, which early in 1824 was published in the Monthly
 Repository, a work sustained by the Unitarian party in this
 country. The controversies alluded to, arose out of an im
portant change in the religious sentiments, and then in the
preaching of M. (now Dr.) Malan : who had a few years before
 completed his education for the ministry so much to the satis
faction of the Company of Pastors, that he not only received
ordination at their hands, but was also appointed one of the

Regents, or Tutors of the College. " Till 1815 or 1816 his

religious views resembled those of the majority of his clerical
 brethren; his eloquence procured him admiration in the pulpit;
and his high order of accomplishments made him a favourite
268   VINDICATION OF CHRISTIANS AT GENEVA.                                               [l825t

in the hterary and pohshed circles. Serious reflection, the
conversation of Dr. Mason of New York, and of Mr. Haldane,*

and the devout study- of the New Testament, were the means

which operated a gradual, but at length very decided change in

his religious sentiments and affections, and in his entire char^

acter. This change, of necessity, was indicated by his preach

ing;  aunpdotnhethiemppurebshsciomn,infdavwouasravbeleryagnrdeautn.f"a--voVuirna.bple.,   which  it
                                                                                         40.
made

The concurrence of some other events about the same time,

gave great animation to the zeal of several newly-awakened

advocates of Divine Truth ; and as in so small and so compact

a community as that of Geneva, the effects of any sudden

departure from the usual course of things would soon be felt
throughout the whole body, the Company of Pastors could not

long remain insensible to the marked deviation in doctrine, in

pungency of appeal, in persevering efforts, and in the conse

quences resulting from all these, by which the new ministry
was signalised. Geneva, which had long been favoured with

the labours of one of the most penetrating and sagacious
intellects of the Beformation-- Calvin--had now for many

years been drifting away both from the principles and the piety

inculcated: by that eminent man ; and had been carried --partly

by causes operating within itself, and partly by its nearness to
the infidelity of France--in a direction altogether unfavourable
to the reception of the truth in theory, to · say nothing ! of

receiving it in power. Accordingly, while M. Malan's preach

ing was not, on the one side, in conformity with 'the creed and
teaching ofthe Pastors generally; it was, on the other, as much
opposed to the prevailing manners and habits of thepeOple. So

that where a great change in the life, as well as in the opinions
of his fellow citizens, was required to render his' ministry
welcome or even tolerable, it is not surprising that at the
outset, when the contrast was most impressive and trouble
some, power should have been called  in to do--or at least
to try to do--the work of argument.   By the aid of Regu

lations prescribing the topics and manner of preaching, M.
Malan was soon found to be inadmissible to the City Churches,
and;                    he was put
the   shortly   after               out of his office as a Tutor of
      College.     As,  however, "  he nobly determined to pursue

      * The late Robert Haldatfe, Esq., of Aiorthrey*, Scotland.-- Ed. : i'J
.ET. 51.]   VINDICATION OF CHRISTIANS AT GENEVA.              269

his ministry in whatever path should be open to him, he, fitted
lip a small building, in his garden for the celebration of public
worship."-- Fire., p. 13. At a later period, with pecuniary aid
from England, Prussia, France,, &c, a chapel was built for

his use outside the city walls.

    Now M. Cheneviere himself having been among the most
hacistiv"eSuomf mMa,ryMoaflatnh'es
                                     opponents, it will not excite surprise that
                                    late Theological, Controversies at Geneva/'

as, given in the Monthly Repository, was considered partial and
injurious by M,. Malan's friends. Dr. Pye Smith ranked high

among the,, latter; at that period; audi as his principles and, his
knowledge, of the particulars -- not to say, his position also--

qualified him in no common degree for taking the other side,

he wrote a series of Letters in which he detailed and discussed
the facts of the case. These, were with justice admitted into
the Unitarian periodical which had circulated M. Cheneviere's

statements; and when Eobert Bakewell, Esq:, wrote some

remarks in reply to Dr. Smith, the controversy was prolonged

a little further with that gentleman. In 1825, the whole of his

contributions to the; Repository were published in the pamphlet

above mentioned, extending to 7;8 pages* In this form his

defence of truth and freedom obtained a wider circulation! than

before ; and on this ,also he could base the-; appeals, which he

was then pressing on Christian England, for generous pecuniary
aid to be extended toi the newly revived Evangelical ministry

at Geneva.

of  Speaking of   the change        which haditakennlaee      in tbe'creed
    the Genevese  Pastors, he                                 for despised
                                    said ;--" The substitute

Calvinism has proved its insufficiency to l stem the torrent of
moral corruption. Vain were , the .admirable , writings of
Alphonsus Turretin and James Vernet, on the Evidences ; and

Claims of Bevelation :. vain the various erudition, the powerful

arguments, and the winning eloquence with which they pleaded
for The Truth of thej Christian iEjeligion.',, Alas,! they thad
drawn off the hejart's-blood of Christianity ; arid they dreamei

of sustaining her lifo by [fine, disquisitions on the strength and
symmetry of her; skeleton! ^Infidelity spread tremendously

and, rapidly among iall ranks,; and dissolute maimers kept pace
with,^; while ,t)iei clergy, .with very, few exceptions,! held on
their blind career ; more and more consigning the Gospel of
Christ to oblivion, preaching paltry philosophy and empty
270  VINDICATION OF CHRISTIANS AT GENEVA.                     [l825.

morality with a vapid and ostentatious eloquence, as bad in

point of taste as it was barren of good effect, servilely learning
their sermons, and performing them in the pulpit as an actor
                                                       experiment of build
on the stage, and  exhibiting         the miserable    all the materials." --
ing houses on the  sand, and          with sand for

Vin. pp. 29, 30.

   There were no directly personal, much less any party mo
tives, to be met by Dr. Smith's vigorous action on this

occasion. The first thing which would strike the mind of

an observer of his conduct would be--his well-known an

tipathy to every kind of persecution. No one could better
understand or more vividly feel that error, in whatsoever

form it might lurk, could never be properly dealt with by

mere power ; and that truth itself could derive no real aid
from violence. Next would come his deeply-laid convictions

that the new doctrines, for which M. Malan and others were
treated in a hostile spirit by their fellow citizens, were in

fact exactly the doctrines which had rendered the City itself
famous in the 16th century. How flagrant therefore was

the incongruity, and as it were suicidal folly as well as pre

sumption, in pretending to hold the Eeformation in honour,

while the primary sentiments by which it had been distin

guished were not only ignored but persecuted. This, however,

would touch a still deeper conviction ; namely that these

Reformation doctrines deserved all possible confidence and

support, not as they were Calvin's, or Luther's, or Zuingle?s,

but simply as they were the doctrines of Christianity itself.

Here was their sure basis in his estimation ; so that he was

not an advocate for Calvin, or Malan, against Cheneviere;

but for Christ's holy Gospel against pernicious errors. Nor

was even this an ultimate point, viewed simply in relation

to conflicting sentiments and opinions; for he was never

inclined to project or protract a controversy about mere

words. His design in this case was, to remove obstacles

out of the way of that truth by which alone men could be
saved and sanctified. There is yet a further step. The doc

trines which were opposed and persecuted at that time in

Geneva, were      nboetlieovnetlyh,'  the '  power of   God   to salvation to
every one that                          but   Dr. Pye  Smith   knew of none

excepting these which were consonant with the Divine per
fections and Glory as revealed in the Sacred Scriptures.
ET. 51.]  EFFORTS TO PREVENT PERSECUTION.       271

Hence, had it been possible for him to lose sight of all the
                                                constrained him
foregoing considerations, this last would have   prerogatives of
to rise up from his place and plead for the
his God and Saviour; which, as he felt assured and with
all the strength of evidence the case admitted, could' not
be defended in theory, nor based on the sure ground of
personal holiness, excepting as with the heart these doctrines

were believed. This suggestion is fully borne out, not only
                  scope of the Vindication, but by those parts
by the general    the Author meets the discreditable ignorance
especially where
or prejudice of M. Malan's opponents, respecting the nature,
design, and tendency ofthe doctrine of Justification by Faith.

About the same time that the Author of the Vindication,

the Christian Cromwell of his age, was thus pleading for

freedom in Geneva, the neighbouring Canton de Vaud called
forth his exertions on a similar account. At Lausanne in
particular, outrages had occurred hostile to religious liberty.

Dissenters from the Established Church of the country were

subjected to insult, reproach, and violence from the lawless

multitude; and the magistracy looked on unmoved, if not

with approbation. To draw attention to the facts, and to

diffuse a salutary feeling on the Continent as well as at

home, a meeting of the, Three Denominations of Protestant

Dissenting Ministers was called at the Bed      Street

Library. Nearly a hundred were present, and Dr. Pye Smith

was placed in the chair. The following Besolutions were
passed unanimously ; and were afterwards printed in French
and English. Their preparation is in all probability to be

ascribed, as well as the meeting itself, to the zeal and activity

of the Chairman on the occasion ; than whom few were better

informed respecting the particulars, or more deeply concerned

for the success of the effort.

   " 1. That the members of ihis Body, though differing widely in their
modes of interpreting Scripture, and in the doctrines which they conceive
to be deducible from that sacred fountain, are unanimous in the persuasion

that the forming of religious sentiments by free inquiry, the making an
open profession of them, and the teaching and disseminating of them by
argument and exhortation, by speaking, writing, and the observances of
religious worship, or by any other peaceable and rational methods, is a right
of mankind, inherent and imprescriptible, conferred by the Creator, essential
272                 EFFORTS TO PREVENT PERSECUTION.                         [l825.

to moral accountableness, and which can never be infringed without injury
and insult to the sufferers, and deep criminality on the part of those who are

guilty of the infraction.
   " 2. That it is proved, by the evident reason of the case and the universal
experience of mankind, that there is no greater obstacle to the improvement

of the human race in knowledge and happiness, to the solid interests of

national economy, to the elucidation of religious truth, to the satisfactory
termination of religious controversies, and to the eventual and universal

triumph of the genuine Gospel of Christ, than persecution for the sake of

conscience and religious profession.
" 3. That, whether such persecution wear its most barbarous form of

direct punishment for religious opinions, or whether it be exercised in the

way of refusing protection, denying justice, or any deprival whatsoever of
civil rights, it is in principle the same ; a high crime against God, and de

serving the reprobation of all good men : according to the memorable declara

tion of the Emperor Maximilian II., that 'he would never arrogate dominion
over men's consciences, which is the prerogative ofthe Deity alone; that no sin
was, in his judgment, more heinous, than for any man to wish to exercise
such dominion ; and that those potentates who have attempted
            a                                                               as they
                       a
                             it
                                    is
                                                                   a
                                                                                                           a
                                                                                            it,

                                                                                        it
invade the sovereignty of Heaven, so they not unfrequently lose their own
power on                              go down to posterity
reproach.'  earth,  and their  names                        with infamy and

" 4. That, therefore,          with astonishment and sorrow that this Body

has received, from different and credible sources, the information, that in
Switzerland, which used to be regarded as an asylum of those who fled from
persecution, and particularly in the Canton of Vaud, under Protestant
Government and Presbyterian Church, severe persecution has been for
more than year exercised upon peaceable citizens, of spotless moral and
political character, for no alleged crime, but the fact of their thinking their
duty to dissent from the Church Establishment of that country, and their
attempting accordingly to hold assemblies for religious worship, in the
way which to them appears most agreeable to the Holy Scriptures, and
most conducive to their own moral improvement. This persecution has
consisted in the disturbance of religious meetings, in affording countenance
to assaults and cruelties inflicted by savage mobs upon innocent individuals,
in the refusal of protection from such injuries when formal application has

been made to the magistracy, in acts of the Government denouncing severe
penalties upon all persons who may hold religious assemblies, however small,
excepting those of the Established Communion, and in the infliction of those

penalties, by fine, imprisonment, and banishment, upon various respectable
persons, among whom are ministers of unquestioned character for piety,
learning, and usefulness.
" 5. That while this Body disclaims any pretence of right to interfere in
                               it

                                                                           a

                                                                                                                                            ;
the affairs of foreign nations, acknowledges itself bound by the obliga
tions of humanity, to testify its sympathy with the oppressed and persecuted
and by the principles of our       common religion to
practicable effort for the relief  of innocent sufferers,  use every lawful and
                                                            and to contribute to
wards removing the foul reproach of persecution from fellow-christians and
fellow-protestants  in any part of the world.
                    Body indulges the hope that  calm      reflection  and  an                                ex-
   " 6. That this
JET. 51.]  EFFORTS TO PREVENT PERSECUTION.            273

  perience of the mischiefs produced by intolerance will speedily lead the
  Government of the Canton of Vaud, to repeal the unjust and cruel edicts
  which it has issued against Dissenters, and to give effect to those principles
  of religious freedom which are the basis of the Protestant Religion and are
  a main support ofthe prosperity and happiness of our own country.

     "7. Finally, that we invite our fellow-Christians, and especially our
- brethren in the holy ministry, of every denomination, to implore, in their

  private and public supplications at the throne of grace, the bestowment of
  present consolation and speedy relief upon all who, for conscience towards

  God, are enduring unmerited sufferings, from cruel mockings, bonds, and

  imprisonments; spoliation, destitution, and exile.

                                                "J". PYE SMITH, Chairman."

   From a reply addressed to Dr. Pye Smith it would appear,

that the well-known liberal member for Norwiph, the late
William Smith, Esq,, had been requested to apply to Mr.
Canning, at that time Secretary of State for Foreign affairs,
respecting the persecution in Switzerland; and with a prompt

itude 'which marked ,the character of that great statesman,
he- lost no time in writing to the British Eesident in that
country. Arid although the answer received dissuaded from

any direct interference, there can scarcely he a doubt that

the way in which the whole subject was seen to have been

taken, up in England, had a sakitary inflnence in restraining, if
not in suppressing, these outrages on the rights of conscience.

   Those who' are Old enough to remember the circumstances
mentioned in this chapter, will notsopn forget 'the surprise

which , was felt i when the intelligence reached this country
that the stigmatizers of Calyinism because Calvin, as it was

said, burned Servetus, had all on a sudden set up a perse

cution df their own in the same land in this 19th century;
as though they would show the world how other creeds than

his could become intolerant, and that without having the
apology of his much earlier age to plead for their folly or
their violence. May    ihterl'onpgositbieon        glory of England to
use the advantages of                        the
                                               as  a watch-tower among

the nations, from which some one or more of her free-hearted

sons may ever keep a keen outlook, so that no wrongs in
flicted upon human liberty, civil or 'religious, may pass un

observed, unrecorded, undenounced ! Persecution will become
increasingly, difficult, even among the enslaved, in proportion
as the daylight of observation and history
                                                   is thrown strongly
upon it. It thrives best in the darkness           and the dungeon.

                                                   T
274                LETTER TO MRS. RYLAND.                                                [182a-

There it may, perchance, smoulder for a time--yet the very
smoke, creeping through the crannies, is noisome :--the fire
itself cannot be suffered to burn within reach of any of the
                       humanity.                      And if this be the case for
senses of civilized   Free Press
                                                     of our Country--by recording
the current age, the
the cruelties of despotic Powers and of ruthless Creeds in

a style which will make it more and more infamous, and

therefore more and more impracticable, to repeat the same

or even similar outrages in time to come-- is achieving a noble

triumph for the future.

Dr. Smith's Obituary Book will supply an introduction

to the  following    Letter   to                      the widow of the        venerable  person
whose              records                           " 1825, May 25.                      Croft,
        death it             :--                                             At Stoke's

Bristol, the Eev. John Eyland, D.D., President of the Academy

Ithere, and Pastor of the Church at Broadmead, in that city :

set. 72. cannot express the eminent excellencies of this great
and holy servant of Christ. Sweetness of temper, soundness
of judgment, and tenderness of sublime piety, were his dis

tinguishing characters.

              ' Quis desiderio sit pudor, aut modus
                Tarn cari capitis ?' "

" Dear Madam, --Information derived from friends during the last two or
three weeks, and Mr. Jonathan Ryland's favour of Monday received by
Wednesday's post, were a solemn preparation for the event so soon to he
realised. Letters from Mr. Dyer on Thursday and Mr. Crisp on Friday,
brought the sad information of the loss which you and the Church of Christ

have sustained. In this view of the event it is indeed a loss, and that of the

first magnitude. But this is not a view on which it is proper, or even lawful

for us to dwell. That amiable and holy man who had so long and so

eminently served his Lord, is now supremely blessed in the faithful bosom
of that Saviour : and on earth his name is added to the Calvins and Owens,

the Edwardses and Fullers and Sutcliffs, and the whole cloud of witnesses
to the evidence of truth and the power of holiness which this or any former
age has produced. To a low and carnal mind these sentiments would only
aggravate sorrow. But it will not be so with you. You, my dear Madam,

Iand your bereaved family, partakers with you of like precious faith, have

not, trust, had before you in. vain the doctrine and the exemplification of
our ever loved and revered friend, that genuine religion is the reverse of

selfishness.

"This. foundation truth he has taught in its ample bearings and divines
cSopnisriistteanncyd.)otfhproquwgehr,'haisndloynogu  and useful life  with
                                                     have now seen    ' the   a 'demonstration of the
                                                                             end of his conversation]*:
so lovely in lowliness, and likeness to his Redeemer in the days of His
MT. 51.]               LETTER TO JOHN MORLEY, ESQ.                                                275

           and thus you    have a delightful confirmation                        of the great Christian
           ' Jesus Christ  THE same yesterday and to-day                         and for ever.' trust
flesh;

Iaxiom,
that many hearts are in deep sincerity adopting the affecting conclusion of
IDr. Ryland's Life of Mr. Fuller-- 'Looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus

Christ unto eternal life. Thus may also live and die, O God my Saviour !
Amen.' "

   Only a few days after the above Letter was written to an
aged widow on the death of her venerated husband, the Provi
dence of God visited the family of the late John Morley, Esq.,
with the loss of a beloved daughter, a bereavement which was

felt with peculiar severity by a numerous circle of connections
and friends. Though the occasions were in their leading
features so much alike, and the time was near together when

the Letter --from which some passages will now.be inserted--

followed the one just given, the Eeader will not have to com

plain of an unprofitable sameness in the two.

" Dear Sir, --It is an old remark that lighter griefs find utterance, but
heavy ones suppress it. The intelligence of the sudden and overwhelming
stroke, which it has pleased the Wise and Holy One to inflict upon you and

your family, brought astonishment and heaviness into our hearts. The

mind shrank from believing and clung to the hope that the report might
a

                       :

                    a
                                         it,

                                 I
be mistake  sort of voluntary fallacy, which would live scarcely for                              a

moment. From an indelible remembrance, know how powerless are all

human reasonings to soften the pungency of such grief. They cannot reach
its seat. Only He who has wounded can heal. Nor does He heal by in
fusing apathy. Piety irreconcileable with insensibility. On the contrary,
it

                                   is
makes the affections more tender, by making them more pure, more ele

vated, more heavenly, more conformed to the Holy Redeemer.
   " The present privation with its dispiriting attendants, and perhaps sad
                                                seenm,' igbhritnygsapapesaolletmonhubmuat nswfeeeetlinsgesrenbituyt:a
train of distressing   consequences,            ' is
faith, the'evidence                                 a
'                       of things not
                                                       I
        '                                                                        of those to
into the   swaancstifCiehdrismt,'inwd,hebny  expatiating on  the blessedness                  whomis
 to live                                     their earthly                       tabernacle       dis
                                                             house of this
solved.' These sacred views have been, trust, rendered instrumental of
support    and sanctified consolation to you     and your companions
tion.'     cannot suppose myself adequate       to the administration                      in tribula
      I                                                                                  of topics to

your  mmaeddeitaftaiomni,liasruittaoblyeoutro'  this: mournful   event, which     have   not already
been                                            minds, either   by your own      direct  attention to

the Divine Word, or by the exhortations of your friends, or by the public
ordinances of religion. Yet, my dear Friends; do we wish for any novel
topics of consolation      Most certainly not. The perfeet word of God con^
                       P
                                       ;
                                                                              :
tains everything necessary for the formation, establishment, and entire
sanctification of the believer. Consolatory arguments not derived from that
source would be suspicious yes, they would be fallacious. The old truth,
the one and only gospel, the doctrines, promises, and precepts which have
been the support of real believers in all ages and--as inseparably con-

                                                                                 T
                                                                                    2
276              LETTER TO J. B. WILLIAMS, ESQ.                          [l828.

nected with these principles --access to the throne of grace ;--these are the
perennial sources of true and holy comfort. These have always made glad
the City of God. These will be at once the old and the new for ever ;--old
by fact and experience j new as ever fresh and vigorous. We want, we

Idesire no other. These will in their presence or effects flow on through the

vast eternity. O that you all, and and all mine, may enjoy the holy in
fluence and practice of these principles in all present trials, in all that yet
await us, in every personal pain, in every bitter sympathy, while life shall
last, and when life shall confess death its conqueror. But that will not be.

The life which Jesus gives will be victorious over death ; and he who thus
overcometh shall inherit all things.
   " To my young friends let me say : See how empty and fallacious are

human expectations ! A very short time ago, how full of enjoyment and

every reasonable hope were the prospects of your dear Sister ! What an
unexpected, sudden, painful change ! O then, be resolved, depending on
Divine grace to follow her, in all the ways in which she was a humble fol

lower of the Lord Jesus ! You may be called into eternity as early as she

Ihas been. Let the most necessary       and interesting inquiry          bCehrfisatit?h' f"ully
                                        appear at the tribunal of
urged in your hearts--' How shall

  In 1825, the present Sir John Bickerton "Williams published

an enlarged and greatly improved edition of the Bev. Matthew
Henry's Life of his father, the Eev. Philip Henry. And having
sent a copy for Dr. Smith's acceptance, and another for the
College Library, Dr. Smith thus wrote to the Author, under

date June 27, 1825.

" My dear Sir,-- The reflection is truly painful to me that a fortnight, or
perhaps a few days more, has elapsed since my receiving your Letter of
May 19th, and the distinguished favour by which it was accompanied. My
silence would have been inexcusable, if it had not arisen from causes above
my control ; the extraordinary pressure of duties and extraneous but in- -

Ievitable avocations, to a degree which might not unjustly call overwhelm
Iing, but which is harassing and discouraging more than can express.

. . . It was an opinion early impressed upon me by my excellent father,
that we have no piece of biography which does more honour to the heart

and the talents of its author, or which is more calculated to be useful in all

the aspects of divine and human wisdom, to all classes of persons, than the
Life of Philip Henry by his ' own son ' in every sense of the expression.
IThis opinion has been abundantly confirmed by my own matured convic

tion. In proportion to my esteem of the original work, have felt joy and
gratitude for the fruits of immense research and of much pious labour, by
which you have made it unspeakably more interesting and valuable.
" It is, indeed, humbling and awakening to me to read your desire, that
Iin the great privilege of intercessory prayer may be mindful of you.
I might,  with
ILord--'         dneeeepd,'reavseorny,   borrow the exclamation of the   servant of our
           have                         great need, to be thus favoured  ' by thee ; and

comest thou to me ?' But let it be considered as a reciprocal obligation.
JET. 51.] CHARACTER OF THE REV. ANDREW FULLER.                          277

that we both, and both our families, may have a larger portion of the
Spirit of prayer which so distinguished the exemplary subjects of your
biography !"

   The following passages from a Letter which Dr. Smith
wrote to a Christian Church, respecting the removal of its
Pastor to what was deemed a very important sphere of pubhc

duty, will show his mode of action in a case of no small

delicacy.

I" My Christian Brethren, --Though         have not the happiness of a per
Isonal acquaintance with you, am not an entire stranger to the pleasing
Icharacter you maintain among the Churches of our Lord, nor am un
interested in your prosperity. A most heavy and sudden affliction pre
vented my being a witness of your faith and order, and a partaker of your
solemnities on the memorable day of the ordination of your Pastor. Ever
since my high regard for him has kept up in my mind feelings of interest

Iin your edification and happiness ; and in their continuance and increase
I Ishall sincerely rejoice. These feelings are not inconsistent with the' fact

which think it my duty to avow to you, that have made statements and
Igiven advice to your valuable pastor, the design of which was to procure

his removal from you to a sphere of usefulness for which regard him as

peculiarly and specially adapted, which is far more extensively influential
than any pastoral charge can be, and in which you, in common with all the
Churches of Christ in our country, have a remote but real interest."

   Having stated the facts, the Letter concludes thus :-- " This great ques

tion is now committed to the influential grace and providential guidance

of Divine Wisdom. It appeared to be my duty thus to inform you of
Ithis transaction, in order to prevent any misapprehensions, and to intreat
your candid consideration of it.  indulge the hope that such a considera

tion will lead you to a conviction, that the voice of duty, and consequently
the authority of God calls your esteemed pastor to another field of labour,
Ifor more extended good. Then your prayers for him and yourselves will be

poured out with holy freedom and fervour ; and trust that you will have
Igrowing evidence that in the issue of the whole God is glorified, and your
edification greatly promoted.     remain,
         " My respected brethren in the service of our one Lord,
                                  "
                                           Your  obedient   servant,

                                                     " J.  Pye Smith."

Of two articles contributed by, Dr. Smith to the Eclectic
Review   in 1825, one
Fuller.   The Author   was on      The Works of the        Rev.   Andrew
                       is thus    briefly characterised           He was
                                                            :--"

not one of those men whose estimation is buoyed up by fac
titious methods and transitory circumstances.
                                                           The respect
and  honour which he enjoyed when
had                                        living, was not what he
     courted; but it was that which        followed him, and forced
itself upon him. His strong intellect, his uncompromising
278  LETTER FROM ALEXANDER HALDANE, ESQ.  [1826.

integrity, his lofty disinterestedness, his independence and
penetration in theological sentiments, his manly and evan
gelical stand against error, the severity of his frown upon all
iniquity, and with all this, the child-like humility and tender
ness of his religious character, drew to him the venerating
love of such as viewed uncorrupt Christianity as the jewel
above all price. But since death has drawn its veil over his
personal characteristics, and in proportion as time is carrying

back the remembrance of what he was, and is removing his
friends into the eternal state, the imperishable monuments of
his faith and knowledge, his sanctified and devoted energies
put forth in his writings, must rise still higher, and vindicate

their claim to be 'a possession for ever.'" --Ec. Rev. 1825.

vol. i. p. 505.

   In March 1826 Dr. Smith went for a few days into Norfolk

and Suffolk, to plead the claims of the Continental Society.
He was absent eight days in the whole, including one Lord's-
day, and during the eight days he preached nine times. Soon

after his return he received the following Letter.

  I" My dear Sir,--As a humble and most unworthy member of

the Committee of the Continental Society, cannot resist the

inclination to express to you my sense of the important service
you have rendered to this Institution during your late journey.
The example you have so nobly shown of self-denying zeal, of

Ilaborious exertion and judicious economy, is unfortunately so

unusual that cannot but consider you entitled to the special

thanks of every individual friend to the promotion of the Gospel
abroad. The interest which you have taken in the state of
rehgion on the Continent, and the talent you have brought
into the field in support of calumniated truth, as well as the
unwearied benevolence you have displayed on behalf of the

Iexiled Swiss Ministers, have been long known to the religious

world. But much question whether anything you have done
in regard to the Continent is more calculated to produce a

Ibeneficial effect in the way of stirring up others to emulation,

than the example to which have alluded, and which, pre

Isented as it is by one occupying so distinguished a place in the

religious and hterary world, must feel convinced be attended

Iwith permanent and extensive benefit.
   " beg you will exeuse this intrusion on your valuable time
MT. 82.]          HIS GENEROUS SERVICES.       279

and eminently useful labours, and believe that it entirely pro

Iceeds from a desire to discharge a small part of the obligation

under which feel you have placed every friend to the best

Iinterests of the Continent.                                               ,
                                 " am, my dear Sir,
                                               " Most faithfully yours,
                                                       " Alex. , Haldane.
" Hatcham Cottage, New Cross,

          "11 April 1826."

The particulars mentioned with such high commendation

by Mr. Haldane, were by no means of rare occurrence in

Dr. Smith's life. Not a few persons can bear testimony to

his self-denying and generous efforts in behalf of a needy

cause, or to render aid to a brother minister. Often where he

accepted his travelling expenses, he would in the best possible

manner decline to receive anything more : and in not a few

instances, he would request as a personal favour that even

these might be applied as his contribution to the object or

person for whose benefit he had undertaken the journey and

the service. In the case of Societies, his economy of time and

expense was obvious. He never seems to have thought; of

doing what was usual, for the sake of those who had gone

before, or who might come after him on such occasions.

His principle was unquestionably the right one ; indeed, the

only one which as a principle was entitled to the confidence

of a truly great or eminently good man. Nor can there be a
       that if it were common --common as
doubt  imitation --it would bespeak a high  a   principle, and not
from                                           order of character,

and would incite multitudes to acts of benevolenee far beyond

the scale hitherto attained. What, in truth, is needed, is not
so much the means of being liberal in the crude shape of
giving, as the disposition to have done with all the forms of
selfishness in craving and getting. The very absence of any
sort of material  net-work among   the. Congregational Churches
to bind up part                   in the Episcopal Church of
                   with part--as

England,  amorognagnisthaetiodnisff--ereanptpeParreedsbyttoeriaqnuicBkoedniesD, ra.ndSminitthh'es
Wesleyan

motives to engage in labours of love. He considered it an ad
ditional recommendation of the polity to which he was warmly
attached-- an evidence of its truth which his judgment would
280               MILTON ON CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE.                    [lRSO.

appreciate quite as much as his feelings --that it did involve

a necessity for sueh high self-culture, and that it did not only
                                  such scope for the ' good man ' to be ' a law
ruenqtuoirehimbsuet lfa;'fforsdo  that he had the will to undertake and the

vigour to accomplish duties, which in a more confined atmo
sphere he would not have risen to in thought, or might have
Ifshrunk from in conduct.                his was the purest form of Church

order, he acted as one who knew that it demanded the highest

style of 'practice ; and yielding to the instinct, he in no small
                                         so"ofufrGgeohetd,"."thoe  confer upon others,
degree secured    for himself, and                                 the more thoroughly
the advantages    of his belief-- As
used his liberty
                   " as the servant

Writing in April this year to a friend in Scotland, respect
 "   Cthoellecgoen,"junDcrt.ionSmoiftha  parochial
                                                    Cure with a Professorship
a                                        says :--"    can easily conceive the
Iing

in
possible occurrence of cases in which that conjunction of

offices would be highly desirable. At this moment, for ex

ample, how happy would it be for the Students at St. Andrew's
if Dr. Chalmers had a small parish there, which would give

him a regular opportunity of preaching the word of Christ.

The want of that precludes his academical auditors from a

most important means of good. Fully, however, admitting the

Igeneral ineligibleness of such a combination of offices, think
that cases of exception are ever likely to occur, and that it

would be extremely foolish to pass a prohibitory law to narrow
the field of selection, and tie up the hands of a most important

part of the community in all future time. It seems to me that
the community should be at perfect liberty to avail itself of
talents wherever it can find them, and that every particular

case should be left to be decided by its own merits." *~

   At the time when attention was drawn to the Poet Milton's
newly discovered Latin Treatise on Christian Doctrine, of
which the present Bishop of Winchester published a transla
tion, Dr. Pye Smith without delay made himself acquainted

with the character of the work, and, with his usual generosity,

contributed the result of his examination in a series of six
papers, extending in the whole to nearly twenty pages of small
print and double columns, which appeared in the Evangelical
Magazine for 1826. The plan was to place at the head of each
2ET. 82.]  ON PERNICIOUS PRINCIPLES.      28 L

paper some particular topic of doctrine or morals, in which the
Treatise differed from the sentiments or practice held by the
great body of Evangelical Christians ; and then to suggest
heads and outlines of argument by which the errors might be
III.oabndviattheed.HolEyssSapyirIi.t--is
            on  Milton's Doctrine concerning Christ
                On his notions respecting the An-
           II.
thropomorphitism of the Bible. --         The Abrogation of the
Law.--IY. The Sabbath and the Lord's Day.--V. On Mar
riage, Polygamy, and Divorce.--VI. On Veracity and Falsehood.

A considerable amount of very curious, as well as interesting
and valuable information, may be found in these several

articles. They not only show the extent of their Author's
reading, but the deliberateness, delicacy, and ripeness of his

judgment, in regard to questions which he out of the common

highway of human thought. The concluding passage may be
of interest as a summary of the whole :--

  " It is a reflection worthy of being made, that the obliquities which un

happily had forced their way, or insinuated themselves into the religious

and moral theories of John Milton, appear to have had so little influence
on his practice and his character. He never manifested the inclination to

commit polygamy. To his recreant but repenting wife, he showed himself

instantaneously and generously placable. His purity and chastity of life bid
defiance to the tongue of calumny. He believed that it is in some cases a
religious duty to hate the enemies of God or the Church, yet he was a man
of generous soul ; and though he expressed himself with a majestic vehemence

against the betrayers of their country and the foes of liberty and religion,
rancour and malevolence lodged not in his breast. In spite of his bad theory
on the obligation of veracity, the history of his life shows him to have
maintained the loftiest integrity in circumstances of peculiar trial and
temptation. And our anti-Paedobaptist brethren will pardon us for in
dulging the remark, that though he maintained so strenuously their doctrine
on the subject and the mode of baptism, he did not think proper, so far as
we have any reason to believe, to abjure his own infant-sprinkling, and
submit in his adult years to an immersion ' in the profluent stream.' "-- Evan.
Mag. 1826. p. 558.

   The same year, and extending partly into the next, Dr.
Smith contributed a series of papers to the Congregational
Magazine, entitled, An Exposure of the Pernicious Principles

with respect to Personal Religion which prevail among Young
Persons of Cultivated Minds. Five of these were published,
amounting in the whole to upwards of thirty pages with double

columns. In the same volume may be found some very valu

able communications of his on the Doctrine of Assurance,
282  ON PERNICIOUS PRINCIPLES.  [1826.

designed to correct a supposed tendency to Antinomian senti
ments in some Evangehcal Ministers on the Continent, and

also to relieve the minds of many sincere believers from doubt
and depression on the question of their personal salvation.

   The amount of his contributions to periodical works, in
Letters, Essays, and Be views, could the whole be brought

together into one collection, would be very great. Not only
was he ever ready to meet to the utmost of his power the
wishes of his Editorial friends; but his constant vigilance con
cerning all important points of Christian doctrine and duty,
and his love of fair dealing and freedom in every discussion,
often sent him as a successful applicant to pages not generally

open to members of his denomination. Very much of what he
wrote on these occasions had only a purpose and use for the
time then present ; but in that way he was serving, or attempt
ing to serve, his generation. He was not " living to himself."
And when it is remembered that, instead of being a man of
leisure, his regular occupations were more than commonly

numerous and imperative, the estimate of his voluntary
services must stand deservedly high. Unless there had been

incessant activity, with an unusual command and readiness of

resources -- a full stream in constant progress --the results, for

his own age and for the future as well, must have fallen far
short of what they now are.
                    CHAPTEE XVII.

LETTEK TO ROBERT HALDANE, ESQ., ON THE CANON AND INSPIRATION OF

     THE SCRIPTURES -- BIBLE SOCIETY CONTROVERSIES --PAPERS ON THE
      STATE OF RELIGION ON THE CONTINENT --CONTROVERSY RESPECTING
     DR. HAFFNER'S PREFACE -- DR. CARSON'S PAMPHLET AGAINST DR.
      SMITH --PASSAGES FROM THE PAMPHLET --DR. CARSON'S DENUNCIA

       TION OF DR. SMITH'S MOTIVES-- RECKLESSNESS OF DR. CARSON'S
      GENERALIZATIONS --MR. ROBERT HALDANE's UNAVAILING EFFORTS TO
      CIRCULATE DR. CARSON'S WRITINGS-- THE STYLE AN INSUPERABLE

      BARRIER TO THEIR SUCCESS --LEFT UNNOTICED BY THE GENERALITY
      OF THOSE WHOSE VIEWS HE ASSAILED -- " SLOTH," " IGNORANCE,"
       " COWARDICE " TOO HASTILY ASCRIBED TO THE OPPONENTS OP MESSRS.
      HALDANE'S VIEWS OF INSPIRATION --DR. CARSON NEVER NOTICED IN
       DR. SMITH'S PUBLICATIONS -- DR. SMITH'S APOLOGY TO MR. ALEXANDER
      HALDANE--THE SUMMING UP.

   During the Homerton College vacation, in 1826, the Theo
logical Tutor spent five weeks at East-Bourne, on the coast of
Sussex. While there, he addressed a Letter to the late Bobert
Haldane, Esq., of Airthrey, in Scotland, the principal part of

which was on the Inspiration of the Scriptures generally, and
on the authenticity of particular words or passages, such as

the disputed term in 1 Tim. iii. 16 ; 1 John v. 7, 8. A copy

of the Letter, in the Doctor's handwriting, has been preserved,
at the end of which he added, in pencil--" To this Letter Mr.
Haldane returned no answer." But though unanswered by
the gentleman to whom it was addressed, the Letter was not

suffered to be in the end neglected. A vehement assailant of

Dr. Smith's views as they had been submitted to Mr. Haldane,
appeared in the following year in the person of Dr. Carson,

J.of Tubbermore, in Ireland, who wrote a pamphlet, entitled,

Review of the Rev. Dr. Pye Smith's Defence of Dr. Haffner's
284          LETTER TO ROBERT HALDANE, ESQ.,                                 [l826.

Preface to the Bible, and of his Denial of the Divine Authority
of Part of   thEediCnabnuorgnh, ,a'*nd18o27f .  the Full Inspiration of the  Holy
                                                                              Mr.
Scriptures.                                        Now while the Letter to

Haldane is chiefly conversant with the second of the two subjects

held up to censure in Dr. Carson's title-page, it does also contain

a single clause in reference to the first. On both accounts,

therefore, it is important to introduce it here, as supplying the

first lines of a^controversy. which, in some of its details, is both

instructive and curious :--

I" My dear Sir, --You and                        " East Bourne, Aug. 4, 1826.
                                 know each other sufficiently to be quite at
ease from the apprehension of giving offence by any plainness of speech.

We shall love each other the more, if we save time and paper by an
abruptness which in other circumstances we might think rude. The dis
interested and noble attachment, which you have manifested for the interests
of Truth and the Redeemer's glory, puts me out of all fear in freely

                   to you some difficulties and doubts, relative to some things

advanced by you in your last publication on the affairs of the Bible Society.
"Your style of writing seems to imply it to be essential to the character

of a genuine disciple of the Lord Jesus, that he hold the following positions,
or some of similar kind and effect :--

   " I. That some existing copy, or edition, of the original texts of the

Scriptures is entitled, by a sort of prescription, to be considered as a safe

and certain standard of textual accuracy. It is evident that, in assuming
something like this, you are not referring to the edition of Kennicott or

Jahn for the Old Testament, and those of Griesbach, or Matthai, or Knapp,

or Vater, for the New, which are almost if not quite the only editions in

which an enlarged and comprehensive endeavour has been made to ascertain

the  genuine text, by the careful comparison of all the sources        of information.
The   chief of these, Griesbach, always enables us to form our        own" opinion on

every conflicting reading, by his summary of the evidence on each side : so
that we are not the less indebted to him, though in any particular instance
our judgment may draw a conclusion different from that which he has

Iproposed. If, then, any such assumption as have supposed exist in your
Imind, shall be greatly obliged by having the edition of the Old Testament

and that ofthe New specified, and the grounds of the preference1 laid down.

  " II. That those modem translations of the Scriptures, which were made

more or less about twb centuries ago, and are usually called the, authorised
versions, are entitled to an indisputable pre-eminence ; so that any deviation
from them is, forthwith and
sidered as false and ' vitiated  ;w' iathnodutthaatntyhofsuertwhehro  investigation, to be con
                                                                      make them are guilty of
what would indeed be aggravated and unprincipled wickedness, 'altering
the translation of the word of God, as to them seems meet.' Mr. Haldane's
Reply to Dr. Steinkopff, p. 144, 136.----Then upon what grounds of evidence
does this assumption rest ?

  " III. That the Inspiration of the Scriptures consisted in this, that every

phrase and word of the Scriptures were suggested or enjoined by the Holy
JET. 52.] ON THE CANON AND INSPIRATION OF SCRIPTURE. 285

Spirit to the writers ; so that in fact, theirs was, or at least needed to be,

no othe'r than a mechanical labour. Permit me to request your kind, but
rigorous
a Work     and scrutinizing attention to                 stoomtehebrMieefssreiamh,a' rvkos l.oin.  this subject, in
           entitled <Scripture Testimony                                                           pp. 62, 63, and
27 -- 29.  Allow me also to ask and observe some things which now occur to
me. -- 1. How is this view of inspiration to be transferred to any versions f--
2. It appears to me to be clogged with very serious and inextricable
difficulties ; and that the contending for it is likely to bring great detriment
to the evidence and interests of evangelical truth. At the same time, it is

one of those subjects which ought to be considered and settled without any
respect of favour or disfavour to any system of doctrine. -- 3. After the
attention of about thirty years to this subject, a view, of which the following

I Iis an outline, appears to me to be the truth on this subject. Yet, trust,
have well considered what you have advanced in your excellent Work on

the Evidences and Authority of Divine Revelation.
   " (1.) That the essential seat of the inspiration lies in the thoughts and

sentiments, whatever be the variety of phrase by which they may be ex
pressed. The inspiration of God, therefore, extends to all metaphrases and

translations, provided they be equipollent in meaning.
   " (2.) That though the inspired writers used the diction which was most

familiar to them, according to their characteristic style and verbal habits,
ysieotninofatllheca'sems,intdheofortihgeinaSl pHirietb.'rewF,orC,haelditehee,r                     best expres
                                                                                or Greek, is the   and phrases
                                                                                the very words
were suggested by the Holy Spirit, (most probably so in prophetic declara

tions and messages,) or were accepted, so to speak, by Him ; which two cases
Iare precisely the same in practical effect.
   ·· (3.) That in historical narration (under which include all relations of
the feelings, fears, sorrows, temptations, deliverances, &c, of individual be

lievers, or of the Church as a Body ; e. g. the Book of Job, that of Lamenta

tions, and many of the Psalms,) all that we want are due selection and
faithful statement : and these, inspiration secures.
" (4.) That in the didactic parts, the Apostles, &c, wrote as they were in
           soeTenspeaankdinhge. arEda,'chw,haint  both   kinds   of communication,                 Luotrtedr,e' dinwhthaet
the habit                                          he '  had    received from the
he ' had

entire exercise of his own judgment and affections, and with, it may be, a
perpetual variety of expression, pro re natd ; yet with a full consciousness
of being taught and guided infallibly by the Holy Spirit.
  I" (5.) That with

extreme difficulties

the Writings --the
           regard to some parts of the Old Testament, there are
                                                                                                   Writing --
           iHn oalpyplWyinrigtintghse--Nethwe            Testament terms--·' the                   is written

                                                         Oracles of God--what
in the Law of Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms.' E. g. can find no

determinate evidence that the Song of Solomon and the Book of Esther

come under those denominations. That they are genuine books and the
I Ilatter a true history, have no doubt : but do doubt whether they were
Iincluded in the New Testament terms just mentioned.
                                                                                                   fear that the

narrator of Esther was influenced by a very weak and sinful fear of the

IPersian Court, and that thus he abstained from 'ascribing unto Jehovah the

glory due unto His name ;' which, think, a godly Jew could scarcely have
kept himself from doing, when relating such astonishing dispensations of
providential mercy and judgment. Yet the facts are not the less certain,
286  BIBLE SOCIETY CONTROVERSIES.  [1826.

nor is our instruction prevented, from the sad omission of any reference to
the name, perfections, government, word, and worship of the Blessed God,

    " (6.) So my belief in the inspiration of the other historical books of the
Old Testament, is not affected by the numerous and incontrovertible in
stances of errors from very early transcribers, and which are in all existing
copies and in the most ancient translations, having respect to names,
numbers, summations, and other little circumstances. (See Kennicott's
Dissertations ; Dathe Vet. Tes. passim, and other Authors.) Judicious and,
honest criticism has done much towards the removing of these difficulties ;

but they exist in full force in most, if not in all the old authorised versions.

. . . Allow me to entreat you, my dear Sir, to give to this great subject

Ia renewed consideration. To me it appears that the views, which have

thus briefly and cursorily touched upon, are the just result of what the New
Testament intimates and warrants in the case."

   This is about half the Letter : the other is occupied with
miscellaneous remarks which are of no special interest now.

It is, however", in the latter part that the question occurs --

" Could you favour me with a sight of Haffner's Preface ? "

    The first clause of the Letter shows Dr. Smith's motive
for writing it to have been, a desire to call Mr. Bobert

Haldane's attention to certain views respecthig the Canon
and Inspiration of Scripture, which that gentleman had then
recently stated in a publication animadverting on the affairs
of the British and Foreign Bible Society ; which to the
Homerton Tutor appeared untenable in the form and to the

extent contended for by his friend in the North. Now to

all who are familiar with the early history of that Society,
it is well known that in the delight which was experienced
on perceiving wide openings for the circulation of the Scrips
tures on the Continent, the ¦ Committee of the Institution
furnished aid, in the shape of money, printing paper, or books,

for distributing Bibles as largely as possible, without laying
down any rule which would exclude the: Apocrypha from the
volumes intended for use in Foreign Countries. That such
a plan ought to have been maintained in perpetuity, few
persons of evangelical sentiments will in our day affirm :
but that it was of great service in the, transition period
when it was first introduced, few probably will deny. An
impulse was given to Bible distribution not only in many
Protestant, but in many Popish communities in Europe, which
may be traced clearly to the absence for a time of any

public discussion respecting the Canon of Scripture. It was,
JET. 52.]  STATE OF RELIGION ON THE CONTINENT.  287

notwithstanding, unquestionably proper that that discussion
should at length come on ; and the initiative, or at all events

the great impelling power, was found in Scotland. The con
test was protracted, and the combatants in defence of the
early plan were able and eloquent, yet as the age was ripe
for the purer principle, the Committee in Earl Street, and the
Society at large, yielded to the just wishes and demands
of their Brethren in the North. Mr. Eobert Haldane was
one of the earliest, and most efficient instruments in effecting
this important change.

   It was probably in the same spirit and from the same

motives, that the Bible Society was not at first very vigilant in
keeping the copies of the Scriptures which they assisted

to circulate on the Continent free, as tiieir issues in this

country were, from additions of other matter, either in the
shape of introductory remarks or of interspersed notes. But

here also their want of due care in this respect, and the con
sequences which might ensue from such an oversight, were

urged on the attention of the Christian pubhc by the gentlemen
who had begun and were vigorously carrying on the contro
versy for excluding the Apocrypha from all Bibles distributed
by the Society's agency.

    Dr. Smith, it is presumed, agreed with his countrymen

generally at that early day in the plan, which was at length

laid aside, of circulating the uncanonical books with the
canonical ; and it is certain that he did not entertain any such
dread of the injury likely to arise from the addition of other
matter to the Scriptures, which was felt and complained of by
not a few warm friends of the Society in England, and by a
still larger number in Scotland. His habit of seizing upon the
 true and the good in almost every kind of publication, ren
 dered him inapt to detect, or at least slow to denounce the

 doubtful or the erroneous, in the manner which is common
 with a large class of critics.

  In order to impart1 information, and especially to prevent, if

possible, the interest felt in this country in Bible distribution

abroad from abating, or from being turned into a mere feeder
of party feeling, whether on the one side or the other of the
discussions which had arisen respecting the Apocrypha and its
allied subjects, Dr. Smith contributed a series of papers to the
288          CONTROVERSY ON HAFFNER's PREFACE.                                        [l880f

Evangelical Magazine, upon The State of Religion on the- Con
tinent. The first of these appeared in the number for January,
in 1826, and was introduced by a short Letter to which he put

his well-known initials, J. P. S., which served to accredit .him

as the author of the, whole series under the abqve title. \ The,)

second came out in February, the third in May ; and the- three
consisted almost entirely of passages translated .from the, Be- ,
ports of different Bible Societies abroad. ,,,Some of. these,

papers were .followed . by statements rebating tq contributions.
which came to. Dr.. Smith; in, aid of ,%he Exiled.Swiss Ministers,

to which j his name in full was                   , andj. from , the

manner in which the two;,s^ts of communications.' were  printed,                              (
in the Magazine, the Beadejr would readily attribute    both tp

the same pen.       »                   , , .. ,  .,                                  .

The fourth paper appeared, in the month of September, and

was derived chiefly from the Report of         Strasburgh Bibfe;^

Society for 1,824,. find from a speech delivered; by Dr. Haffner. ,

at the annual meeting. At that time Dr. .Smith had not seen,.

nor did he see until, the following month, , thf; c^le^rate^
Preface about which so much discussion^ afterwards,.arose. ., In....
the Magazine for    aOtctSotbrears,buargLhe,"ttetrhewawsritienrs,erotfedwhoinc,,h','
State of. Beligion                                                                    The,;

                                                                                      con-,.

cealed his name under the, signature of Alethcia, in Greek

characters.  Besides calling in question, the  cpoarrpeecrtnienssthoe fp^ree^
impressions  likely to arise from Dr. Smith's

ceding mqntji on the general subject, Aletbeia, brought, charges

alriisgohaueisnslsytihaiDs rs..dcoisHffbaeerfflineaeftr,ovfiint,athlpe, ,ajprihtnirscipu^ilratairat,nioitnsyay;."ionfgjtt,hhaet,thahBteib""lhebeo;"ldislqvuonptdiuntobg--V^.(,

ais,o,t\yc- or three passages from a Preface, which he had, wrijften.

to accompany fhe copies of the Scriptures issued by ^he ,Stp,s-(;}
burgh Bible Society. Here, therefore, it hs, important to. notice,^
that ; the Preface, was., mentioned first of 9,11, in this di$cu§siqn .
by Aletheia, and not by Dr. Smith ; apd .whatever lh,e latter said

about it subsequently, was said, np^, so much, from chojce, as

from ,that necessity which he,, felt h^irnself^ placed,,;under by .the
course which, ,ha$ been, adopted i on, the other sijde.
  A Beply ·appeared ,in thf
                                l,aM,inuatghdapezrninoueus,nec,sfmbrwg(.^hNatohtve,e,mubnefar,ibrneweridtshes,emaDnMr,dr^a,
Smith',s name in,,fuii, , Tl^e
strong expressions! for hiixi,

unqharitableness, as, he h.^^^flfitj^e.charges^whjjjh^had'b.eeh,
.ET. OS. |     CONTROVERSY ON HAFFNER'S PREFACE.                                                                                                                                    289

brought against Haffner as an infidel, &c. &c. ; he then refers

to the Letter which he wrote to Mr. Bobert Haldane in August,

tmatohepattatherwht iiBstohifbrelw"eq,hau"inecsyhhtarhdteoapsnlhyobi.ts"eue"npoHtalodelrfetrgahieodeenysddcao"otnepfoitewrodh"esitannhye,thheltiohsawanctahsoafapfthittleeihnrne,g  stating
                                                                                                                                                                                    Preface

                                                                                                                                                                                    writing
                                                                                                                                                                                      of his

purpose in Edinburgh, he had applied to a friend in the South
of Germany to send him one, but he adds that " before this

application could take effect, and in a manner the most un

I Iexpected, and must say providential, three days ago was
Igratified with a copy of the work which had so much longed

Ifto see." --Ev. Mag. 1826, p. 476.-- the Eeader will keep in

mind this last clause, he will be struck with the astounding
use which was made of it at a subsequent period.

Dr. Smith was not satisfied with the fairness of the quota

tions from the Preface, as they had been given by Aletheia in

the former month's Magazine; indeed he questioned whether
that writer had ever seen or read the whole of the production
from which the extracts had been picked. With his wonted
sense of equity, he sought to see all, and he did see all, before
he ventured to pronounce an opinion ; and the result is given

in this Letter in reply. The work of the Strasburgh Professor

was entitled An Introduction to the Knowledge and the Profitable
            of the Bible ; occupying " thirty-seven pages
Reading      Dr. Smith goes on to say, that the Author                  in                                                                                                          large
octavo."                                                                is                                                                                                          "cer

tainly to be   ranbkuetd"tahmatontghethfreagthmeeonlotgs"ianwshiocfh  Germany                                                                                                       called
Rationalists                                                          had been                                                                                                      intro
duced in Aletheia's Letter were " nearly all so garbled and mis

represented, as to produce an effect very different from that

which they have when read in $heit connection. Not only are

they most injuriously separated from their connection, but even

clauses of the very sentences professedly quoted are omitted,

evidently for  rtehveoltpinugrpoassepecotf."  making    the dissevered  fragments
                                                         477.
wear a more                                   --lb. p.

These were heavy charges, and charges which were not

rebutted, and which could never be rebutted, by successfully
showing, which was done, that the Preface contained a good

deal of exceptionable matter, and was a very unfit accompani
ment to Bibles circulated by the1 Christian benevolence of
England. As an Introduction, however, it took its place
among a multitude of works bearing that name; which, " what-

                                                                        u
290       CONTROVERSY ON HAFFNER's PREFACE.              [18^0.

ever may  be the doctrines held or denied" by their respective
Authors,  Dr; Smith was " convinced " contained " the funda

mental principlesi of Bible 'interpretation ; and that, all the

great doctrines of vital Christianity --a Saviour properly divine,

Eedemption, Sovereign Grace, and Sanctification by the Holy
Spirit-- are, by the fair
                                                        irrefra-
If Igabby deduced from the                                   may
          application of            those  principles,
          Sacred Word."
                                       He  adds --"

venture to express my humble opinion, it will not be till those
principles are made, use of, in a clear and judicious manner,

for the deduction and elucidation of Scripture Truth, that the

Protestant nations of the Continent will be raised from the

Itdeath-like stupor of                                   pure
                                                          this
Gospel flourish again
          inafmidoenlgitytheamnd."  formalism, and; the
                                    --lb.
                                           was only in.

aspect, and to this extent, that Dr. Smith defended Haffner

and his Preface. He did not maintain that the Author held

evangelical sentiments, or that his Work ought to be circulated

together with the Scriptures.

The Magazine for December contained three Letters in pro

secution of the controversy. The first was from Aletheia, who
now annexed his proper name as Alexander Haldane.* By an

arrangement between the Editor and that gentleman, Mr. Hal -

dane's Letter was submitted to Dr. Smith in manuscript/ whose

Animadversions by way of Bejoinder, appeared in the same
number: -- and as the latter were sent to Mr. Haldane in manu

script, that gentleman sent a Second Eeply,, which also was

published with the rest. Could the whole be transcribed for
the Beader's use, not the slightest fear as entertained of the

conclusion he would come to respecting the side on which the
victory remained in regard to all the leading topics which ha4

arisen in the course of the discussion^ On. one point, which is
a little curious, and which brings into view the almost totally
unused satirical capabilities of the Homerton Tutor, it may be
worthwhile to state the particulars; especially as they serve at
the5 same time to show his power of going. to; the roots of things
for the principles by which his judgment and conduct were
regulated.

   Taking advantage of the feminine termination of the. Greek
word Aletheia, he uses rather freely in his first reply; the pro
nouns she and her in relation to his correspondent. For this

     * The Writer of the Letter to Dr. Smith, p. 278 of this volume.,, ;j
JET;'                  CONTROVERSY ON HAFFNER's PREFACE.                              291
         52.]

liberty he is reproved in sharp terms and at some considerable

length by Mr. Alexander Haldane in his second Letter. The
"Itparagraph begins: --
                         may seem almost cruel to damp the

joy which the Doctor takes no pains to conceal, at what he

conceives to be an inaccuracy in my signature ; he has, how

Iever, enjoyed his ovation, for can scarcely dignify it by the
Iappellation of a triumph, for a whole month ; and must at
length, however reluctantly, proceed to strip my learned opponent

of his boasted laurels." The stripping part is effected thus :--

"Unhappily the Doctor's learning or his memory have, for

once at least, proved treacherous --for as every /Tyro knows
who ever opened a Greek grammar;' or can construe John i. 17,

Aletheia is an abstract noun signifying Veritas, or truth, and
although feminine in its gender, is as appropriate a signature

for a man as Veritas or Truth, which are both so hackneyed.

This seems by some strange and unaccountable fatality, to have
escaped the Doctor's recollection. In this instance, like

Ianother delebrated personage, he has been ' oblivious ; ' for am

sure he has too much candour to seek for a temporary victory

corveedrualintyopopfotnheenti,gnboyraimntp."o--sinlgb.thpe.  authority  of his  name  on the
                                                             521.
IDr. Smith replied :--" can perceive no argument in this
Iparagraph.            was not aware that it was so extremely common

for anonymous writers to designate themselves by abstract

nouns ; but, common or not, it appears to me to be a great

violation of propriety in reason and taste. For that a man may

assume to himself the title, not of Alethes, Philalethes, or some

noun implying a person, but of an abstract quality,: seems to be
the very summit of arrogknce. Such a style should be reserved
for Him alone who, to express His absolute perfection,; is styled

the Truth, the Life, our Hope, our Peace. He might as well

call himself Beligion, Faith, Virtue, Love, or the, like. Yet,

when a writer has chosen to -take so much upon himself, he

ought to accept the fair consequences.'^ --lb. p. 524. -- This
seemed conclusive ; for not the slightest reference was made to'

the subject afterwards.                                                               - ·- -

In the Supplement to the Magazine, which; was published

about the middle of December, a Letter addressed to the Editor,

appeared, in which Dr. Smith takes his: leave of the controversy.
                                                             be given :--
Th"eSfiirr,s--t aIntd  last paragraph   will  now                          between    Mr.
                       is high time    that   the            discussions

                                                                                u2
                                                                                                                 Hi

292                dr. Carson's pamphlet                                                             '<'[i82fl.

IAlexander Haldane and myself should terminate.  therefore

make no observation upon his rejoinder in the last number of

the Evangelical'Magazine. It will be the most perfect satisfac
tion to me if your impartial readers will seriously compare the

several parts of the correspondence under the respective par

ticulars ;and, if they think fit, will consult the lately pubhshed

Minutes ofthe British and Foreign Bible Society, relating tolhe
Strasburgh Preface.
"It''-' is my prayer that both myself and my antagonist, for
Iwhom retain a
                   Hsinienacldeorv,eee,'vreeangnaCdrhd',rmismta.ay'yinonallatlhl inogccsasgioronws*   'speak
and act the truth                                                                                    up into

HIM who is the       ·'<! am, &c. &c."

11Here it becomes important to notice that, contrary 4o what

might have ' been expected-^contrary, perhaps, to ordinary

usage in 'the like cases--the discussion which had to all appear

ance been thus brought to a close on both sides in the : year

1826, was not in reality, but only in form ended, in so; far as
one of the two 'parties was concerned. In 1827, Dr. Carson's
pamphlet was issued, the design of which was, as intimated in a

former page, to assail Dr. Smith on the twb principal points? in

which he had respectively come into collision with Mr. Eobert
and Mr. Alexander Haldane. The ' minister of the Gospel,'
Of Tubbermore, had an undoubted right to take up the con

troversy with the Homerton Tutor on his own account, as soon

as ever it was, seen to have been discontinued, by those with
whom it began. And as his^ learning is understood, to have

been considerable, and his manner of avowing his sentiments
unusually positive, no surprise was probably excited when such
a pamphlet came out with his name ; in which the two subjects,

of! Haffher's Preface fndthe Canon and, Inspiration 'of the
Scriptures, are ^groupedi together in the, title-page ; and th&fcjn
a style of mingled assumption and assertion likely to place Dr.

.Smith in/^ii invidious light before the world. It might, how
ever, have been deemed a little singular ,by persons who ,were
not in the secrete4h«t< with such an uncommon amount, almost
                   on/Jach of the questiphs as his' sVcalled
phrenzy of

Review displays, Dr..',Carspn0s^pril4;£^aye ''been; able in regard
to one of them, atfd thatthe most important of the two, to keep
silent so long. For as he goes, in appearance at least, "to the
JET. J52.]                          AGAINST DR. SMITH.                                                                                            2#8 -

firstvolume of thefirstedition ofthe Scrip. Tes. for the ground

of his attack on Dr. Smith's views of Inspiration, he had
evidently allowed eight or nine years to escape, from the
time' when, those views were first published to the time, when

he was aroused- to that vehement sense of, his duty in regard
to them, which seems to be the i burden of his pamphlet.
, ..(But in truth, all occasion for conjecture                      or difficulty respect
ing his .services on the two questions                              above mooted -- the

ephemeral one concerning Haffner, and the ^permanent fine of

Inspiration^r'has been set aside for ever by ,a>Volu;|ne;, which has
lately, issued, from the nPress :-- the Memoifs,^ the . Lives of

Robert Haldane of Airthrey, and of his Brother James Alexander

Haldane : By> Alexander Haldane, Esq., of the Inner Temple,

Barrister-at-Law. *--While this valuable Work solves some

mysteries in relation to other parties, it, does also suggest s.qme

lessons respecting Dr. Smith which will probably give additional

lustre  to his character            as a Christian                  gentleman, and to the
worth   and weight of his           example in the
                                                                    field of cpntroversy. --

The following particulars -- stated, it must be confessed, with
the utmost frankness and simplicity by the learned Barrister-
will clearly enough, if not satisfactorily, explain, the manner of
Dr. Carson's introduction to this arena, and the way in which
he was sustained in it by those who procured ,his aid,t- : .1. ,

" The pastor qf Tubbermore, . the npr,th of Jreland,. was                                                                                         man pf
f*
          a,

                            it

                                         a
                                                                     i,n,

                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                               ,

                                                                                 it a
deep spiritual attainments and of noble independence one whose skill in
the refinements of criticism, the subtleties of metaphysics, and the philo
sophy of language, was such as to leave him buVfew competitors. But, in
his isolated position and with his contracted means,: there! was danger lest
his abilities might be, unexercjse^like^a, piece of artillery whi|chfh^s
                   or wants, gun-carriage. On yaxiQuis occasions was, therft-
into,

       IiOnd. Hamilton)rA.dams, Mid Co. 1852.
                                                             that several months prior to tile pub
       The Editor owes  "     Mtoelnhoimirsse,"lf  to  say,  carefully read the controveSsyfin'the
lication of the above                              he  had

Evangelical Magazine, of 18/2&;, and also Dr. Cars.on's Pamphlet .vbu^jie^Miied at

that time to introduce the. subject into these., pages,                                                               an impression r|hat(jt

was comparatively    void of interest at               the present  day and                                           tohfatgrtiheef'             pamphlet
in particular could  not be dwelt upon                 except with   emotions                                                                     and pit<p.
                 a'
                                       ,

                                                  , it
                                                                                                                   ;
When, however, the Barrister's work convinced him thathe ai^aimistaken in
                                             feflrtomhit£hedu"tMy etmo gooirso,v"er,hethheasgrboeuennd
iea,clifgf these,  respects,  tjhe  Editor                                                                                                         afresh:
                   valuable   aid   derived                                                                                                       enabled
jmd with the

to do this "in manner somewhat niore consecutive and complete, he hopes
also with more important practical benefit, than could otherwise ihaveicbesh
,,secured.^
                                    -. -               - ., ,,-.    - - -,                                            p|,,v                       +f^[f,,
294                    DR. carson's pamphlet                                    , [IB26.

fore, Mr. [Robert] Haldane's privilege to be able to bring Dr. Carsom'B
talents into the field, iby securing to hira at lea.st-Someureward for hip
literary labours, and always shielding him from .lpss. For many years
a large proportion of         Carson'sMwr.o'rkHsaldwaenree,'sfro'emxpetinmsee'.?t'o--tMimee^mosiresn,t  over
to Edinburgh, and      Dr.
                                                                                                        &c,

p. 526. The following passage is also singularly elucidatory: '?Dr. Carsoate
writings, notwithstanding his great qualities, were not generally popular, ;
¦asPanonypdde,hitasShlttmrehyio,tuuhtngeshnhpdiamehrsidinmegltfs,o,e,tlcshfraeer_acsatimesdmpoalgempwriainettjhiuchffipwlscoehwm'iceWahrnhnwihceehirtsf,uiitnhwmuwhmaaiscbskhleeddhiafefniecdVdueelat1nm^otuioaanbt.cStlyeeudmrma' pseot,ur'rDnotarr..t,
. , . For Dr. Smith's personal character he .enter,tjain,ed a h|gh respect.
It was not Mr. fJJaldane.'SjfiaiBlt if D,r. Qarson/sf writings, were
                                                                                pnpf^almmoosret
generally sought #fter ; for he distributed, gratuitously, hundred's
every work he published. For example, in a Letter, datdd the 12th of
IApril, l'S27, he writes: --'By mistake only two hundred ofCasrson's Re
view were sent to London.     intended that there should have been three
Jihundred, that you might consider, in whsit way it, was Ibept. t^, (Jistribu.te
them.      is sp, important, a, publication, containing principles so essential

and so ably stated, tl^at it  is peculiarly       vaedrayptloeodsefoarndEnsgulpaenrdfic, iawlhmeraennmear.n' y"
view the subjects of which
                              it treats in a
--lb. pi 536. A few pages earlier it is stated, that ''this pamphlet Mr.Hal-
dane first proposed to publish in London, without the Authpr[s ,name :" but
                ssuhbosuelqdueanpt;peLaert.ter',T--he"rethawtililt,'
he^wrote inrja                                                        was  now  determined that the
Author's name                                                         he        ' be about fifty pages

respecting Haffner/ and "as many respecting Dr. Smith's theory; of inspira
tion. The last, on 'inspiration, is not quite finishedi. , They are both most
                                                                      will find hnasej$ matcb.e(J,,-in
powerful,     especially the   latter.     Dr.    Smith
learning   pud everything                 lb. p.   525.
                              else.' "--

    The Beader has now before him a very clear and candid
 exposition of all the facts" which are requisite, to connect Dr.

 Carson's pamphlet, first, with Dr: Smith's completed- con
troversy --as it might have been thought--- "with Mr. Alexander
 Haldane hi 1826 ; and, next, with" that unanswered Letter! to
MrV BobEr* Haldane, Written in August the same year; which,
however, 'aV it was a private Letter Dr. Carson could- not; ex
pressly mention1, and therefore a volume of Dr. Smith's, pub-
'hsheaIJas lorig before as 1818, was seized upon in this new
 service J'hence^the1 same champion met, in his peculiar way-jf the
exigencies Ofthe two" Brothers at once. Faf'indeed be it from
 the "design of theSfe1' fehiarks--to call in question the propriety
 of that principle; by which one, Christiatt'S talents are brought
into 'valuable 'exercise by the noble generosity of another
 Christian's 'purse. The hand and the head in the Divine
moral government, as well as in our physical constitution, are

 often made admirably subservient to each other ; so that while
JKT. !52.]        ; AGAINST DR. SMITH.                    295

there is & division of labour --to prevent any from being un
employed; the result is one ---the mare surely to "knit "the
several labourers " together in love." In the practical : applica

tion Qt.thls principle however, argumentative equity, to say
nothing of the higher spirit of the Gospel of Christ, clearly
demalids-^that the party employing the penf of another to
Jlefehd his particular sentiments or line of conduet against
thosie who differ from him, shall not have been implicated in
the personalities of the given controversy with any one opponent

whom the champion is to fasten upon by name. In other

wOrdsi-- the Principal iii a contest must not call in the aid of a

Second, to, pick off an adversary whom he has hot been able to

bring down himself. But if in any instance, this widely Ad

mitted law is forgotten ; then, next, the hired advocate must on
no account be suffered with the concurrence or even mere cogni

zance of his Chief, to use a style of language in assailing

the opponent, which the Chief himself would be morally incom
petent, that is, would justly scruple to, employ as a Christian and

a gentleman, had he thought proper to continue the controversy

m his own person. Or again in other wbrds-- all Dr. Carson's
                                against Dr. Smith --and by
learning might have been,
Mr. Haldane's means : --but, then, there was so much', the

greater need of care and even scrupulosity that only his

learning should be employed, in order that the - motives of

both parties on that side might be as free from embarrassment

or blame as oould, be expected, under circumstances somewhat
novel --not to say dehcate.
                                          ..,-.. ....,,,

But, alas, these rules appear, to .haye.been forgotten--Jfr.
Haldane not only ".brought Dr. Carson's talents info the field"

on this occasion, ,nqj:,,, only wag, he well, acquainted with, the

offensively, personal title of the pamphlet before it was printed;

he knew .also the con^enis anjd style oj the .wliole work, , which

had been written at his instigation and .was,, to ]pe,;circulatq4Vat

his expense, as; his Letter above, quoted shows. And as, if to

increase our perplexity , in attempting " to adjust erithe,r the
creditor the censure due ;to Jhose who were concerned in tjiat

production, the Biographer reports of Dr..,Ca^sqn that, he was

"humble and amiable -as Dr. Pye .Smith himself ;", a^d even

adds, that "for   Dr. Smith's   personal  character       he entertained
                      Now that  personal  character       thus sai<J to he
a high respect."

held- in honour by the writer of the pamphlet, was known
296                       PASSAGES FROM DR. CARSON'S                                                            [ltti6>

intimately to both Mr. Bobert and Mr. Alexander Haldane ; and

no wonder,. for it was not some. sudden illusion fascinating the
public eye and then vanishing as suddenly; -- it had been the
regular growth of many lyears of Christian culture, of diligence
as a Pastor, great , efficiency as a Theological Tutor, and of

acknowledged courage, and success in defending from theipregs
the, 'JFaith: once delivered to the Saints.' How, titen; wasthe

'.humble and                    minister! of the Gospel, of Tubbermore,
inclined, and how allowed--it, might seem jharsh to say
encouraged---under such high patronage, to deal' with- a character

fhoiugnhdreedspuepcot'n?  such  claims,   and for which     he was said to have fa
                           An;  answer   to this- question  will tend to illustrate

the history of more persons, and of: more ways of managing
controversy than one :--                 ,i

     "  Had. w, ,er ,no,        pwlienatesirn,rgvs¦;u. ,ma, ,nmderi^f,w, t' eo' mu·l-dpesb,te:s  thou. g°ht, .
        Not half so                                                                              were not,

        Such comforts by a calm could not be brought ;
     ¦ For things;- sa/ve> by their opposites, appear not."1 1' >'

 ·"It is due to the Author of the Memoirs to premise that heisa

has given some specimens of the style, of Dr. CafgOn's work.it
He has not, however, done justice to -- and he flight well       ;
shrink from such, task, for the leading features by which.it                      ,
                                                          it,
    at once distinguished and disfigured cannot reflect credit
                                                                                in
upon the taste, the judgment, or the temper, of ahy 6f the
parties concerned in that production and, yet what the learned

Barrister has done makes necessary to do morej order
that the several names mixed up in the transaction*-Dr.
Smith's especially--may appear in a' right aspect." Even the
many passages about to,, be quoted will by no means exhaust

the class to which they belong muqhuless,, are, they, £(,&, severed
from [the context, adapted to produce false impression of the

prevailing tone of the whole: --indeed, their number as shown

by the pages, andjfli&j coarseness' of the langiiage?r bespeak
clearly enqugh the rank-ocas of .fcfcpqffcin. which like indigenqus
weeds they abound. Here cannot be. out; of place just
remind the Beader of the noble Vindication' of the Citizens of
Geneva, Which-- as he has heard--first appeared as series of
Letters addressed to the Editor of the Monthly Repository, 'tiiat
the defence of the evangelical Christians of Switzerland might
more certainly find its way to and abash their Socinian persecu-
                                         it i

                                                          a
                                                                                   a

                                                                                                   tp
J2ET. 53.               ATTACK ON DR. SMITH.                                                                297

tors : aud which, among other services rendered to calumniated
good men, contained an able and a spirited refutation of
                                                                    had brought               against Robert
the charges which       M. Cheneviere                                                         says Dr. Pye
Haldane, Esq., of       Edinburgh*                                  "Mr. H."--

Smith-- "is a man of family, fortune, and talents, who has

for many years devoted himself with a generosity rarely
equalled, to the most benevolent purposes that can be enter
tained by a human mind. There are few persons who are
Imore addicted to cool reasoning ; or who have more correct
views or more consistent practice on the subject,                                             lwibiellrtnyo,"t say                ,
of toleration, but of the entire rights of religious
                                                                                                            &c.

Vin. p. 21.--The pamphlet from which this passage is quoted
was published in 1825 ; in 1827 Dr. Carson's Review, dc. &c,

appeared, with which Mr. Bobert Haldane's name is now so

closely identified, and the style of which is in a                                            sense         match
less, as may be seen from the following specimens
                                                                                              :--

I" One of the most astonishing and detestable productions have ever seen

from the pen of a man professing strictly orthodox principles, is a paper,
                    aPnyseweSrmoifthA,letthheeioal,o"gipca. l1.
If&c. &c,  by  Dr.                                                  tutor  of Homerton Academy, and
           to  the                                                          Neology ought to be depre
his reply                                                           --"

cated more than open infidelity, as more imposing and seductive to the bulk

othfamnenth, ethweordkefeonf cDer.oHf aDffrn.eHr ahffinmesrelfb,"y  Dr. Smith is              more to be    abhorred
                                                                    p. 2. -- " When            provisions,  poisoned

by the enemy, are served up to the Christian soldiery by their own officers,
                                                                    tlheaestwhaollleaswhitahromultesdsi,s"crpim. 3in.a--tiTohne,
shall not multitudes  be emboldened to eat
                      equally nutritive, at
if not as being all
IfMonthly Repository having thought proper to speak of                                        Dr. Smith's reply to
Mr.  Alexander Haldane's charges against                            spHiariftf,n"e--r, Dars.  " able and complete,
and  highly honourable to his Christian                                                        Carson ventures to
deal with motives as well as facts :--·" the praise of Dr. Smith is in

the Churches of Christ, he must certainly be allowed to have a very con
siderable share of the wisdom of this world, for we see that his praise is also
high in the synagogues of Satan. This may be what the learned divine

was looking for ; at all events, it was what might naturally be expected.
But if he knows the grace of God in truth, these compliments will give him
little satisfaction in the moment of contemplating his meeting with Jesus.
He must have a peculiar kind of conscience, if he expects for this part of his
conduct a ' well done,  and faithful servant.' It is undoubtedly very

pleasing to the natural vanity of our minds, to recommend ourselves to the
esteem of all men. To the jiride of genius and of learning, there is nothing
so seductive as the praise of the learned. To be willing to become no

thing, or even less than nothing, in suffering the scorn and reproaches of

literary insolence, is truly not the least fearful kind of martyrdom. But

                        * Vin. pp. 20--27.
298           PASSAGES FROM DR. CARSON'S                                               [l838.

freedom from vituperation [freedom from vituperation !-- can that really be

what the Author meant ?] has never been purchased by a disciple of Christ,
but at the expense of cowardice or indecision. What, then, shall we say of
him, whose defence of a Neologian has earned such eulogy from the Monthly
Repository ? Such panegyric is the reward of treason. Was ever such a
compliment paid to Jesus Christ ? And has the good-natured, impartial,

and discriminating Dr. Smith, more candour than the Son of God ? Was
ever such a compliment paid to the Apostles by the haughty children of

self-righteousness ? And has Dr. Smith more prudence, and discreet
liberality, than the ambassadors of Christ ?" p. 4.
   " The statement of
with the supposition,  Dr. Smith   [respecting   Haffner's  Preface]          Giosdc,"onps.is7te. --nt
                       that very  little of the  Scripture  is from

" Why speak of the alleviating circumstances in the guilt of error, if it is
not with a view to his [Haffner's] acquittal, or mitigation of his punish
Ifment?   all this does not insinuate that this faith has something in it
Ivaluable as a recommendation to God, have much mistaken its meaning;
Ifand in any other sense, it is uselessly brought forward in this question.
we can have hope that such a faith as that of Dr. Haffner, will be accom

panied with salvation, his Preface to the Bible is not so mischievous as we
              But if it excludes
apprehend.                        fdraommnhaetiaovnen,ofnmo atenmkinpdo,r"al   moral   good should
induce us to  contribute to the                                                        " Had Jesus
                                                                              p. 9.--

Christ paid a little court to the Rabbies, instead of being repelled and dis
gusted by his doctrine, they might have been attracted by the truth. What
a striking difference between the general tone of Dr. Smith's language, with
respect to the danger of error, and that of Him whom he calls his master.

This courtly divine falters in pronouncing the condemnation of the most
hardened enemies of the Gospel. He speaks of painful fears, with respect
to men whose doctrines are completely subversive of the Gospel, as if it
                           whether God will
were a doubtful matter                            rbeyallymakcionngdehmimn seulnf bealielivaerr."s
according to his word, or  suffer them to escape
p. 10.--" It is a false, it is a diabolical liberality, that by implication casts
reproach on Jesus Christ and his Apostles. The whole tenor of Dr.
          Apology for Dr. H. is of this stamp.
Smith's   of the learned Neologian, than zeal      There  is more respect              Gfoosrpethl.e"
feelings                                         for the  purity of the

p. 11.

Quite in harmony with his sense of justice and with all his

Hterary habits, the Homerton Tutor . endeavoured, as we have

seen, to obtain a copy of Haffner's work, before he ventured to

form and give an opinion concerning it or the Author. Fail
ing in his attempt in one or two quarters, he at length secured
Ia copy in

must say
              pwrohvaitdehnetiadleemmeadnnaenr.'uneHxpoewctedm, usatndhe      (he adds) '
                                                                                have been
whsatmirsaiitratptebleelnerdsboaynansadolnhcdeihmisawtsrrheaeolcsf,ts'ewerdaa:'sn--i--df whweehoheav'eveer nrbteeearedtnatinhteeodldfo--alloh'waigisnhghruecmsopmbelmecteanfnotd,r

" Here is a true Don Quixote, in defence of the Ncological Doctors of
JET. 62.]        ATTACK ON DR. SMITH.                                                299

Germany. When all expedients failed to enable him to enter on his exploits,

the God of Providence himself is represented as interesting himself in vin
dicating this Preface. -- Who can doubt that the God of truth is on the side
of Dr. H. in this contest ? Yes, Dr. S., it was, no doubt, providential. But
it was that sort of providence that presents the knife to the assassin : it was

that sort of providence that presented the rope to Judas Iscariot. After read
ing the Preface referred to, will any Christian say, that God by his providence,
"Ifexpressed his approbation of Dr. S. in vindicating that blasphemous
work?" p. 15.--  by this Don Quixote expedition of theological chi

valry, he has an eye to the approbation of the wise and learned of this

hwaovreld,histhreerewairsd,"nop.do2u0b.t--, "buItt,  in the   emphatic    language   of Jesus, he will
                                                               Dr. S. to  consider,  that all courtesy
                                                     behoves

with respect to the opposers of the Gospel, springs not from a desire of win
ning them to Christ, but may proceed from a slight impression of their
danger, or selfish insinuation. Apparent moderation of spirit may proceed
from indifference towards the truth, while it pretends to descend as a grace
of the Spirit. Indifference often assumes the garb of meekness," p. 31.

Thus far the tirade on Dr. Haffner's Preface, which extends

to the thirty-second page of the pamphlet. We now come to
his ' Bemarks ' on the second branch of his subject, which

ostensibly had for their basis the first volume of the Scrip. Tes.
published nearly nine years before ; a sufficient length of time

to allow of some substitution of reasoning for dogmatism,

greatly to the Beader's advantage, not to say the Writer's

credit. That Dr. Carson had seen this work is, however, an im
Ifportant feature in the whole case.
                                                              not known to him before

or in any other way, he could now by the aid of volumes which
he professed in part to have examined, become acquainted with

Dr. Smith, whose sentiments, spirit, and character are very
clearly impressed upon almost every page. There could be no

doubt respecting the soundness of the learning of the Scrip.
Tes. to the Messiah ; nor any of the Author's knowledge of

the subject in all its relations ; nor of the strength of his faith

in the doctrine which he maintained ; nor of the perspicuity of

his statements regarding that doctrine. Nor could there be
any doubt of his moral qualifications ; such as conscientious

care to examine and adjust every tittle of evidence; a frank

admission of difficulties with a firm retention of great truths ; a

modest forbearance and courtesy towards opponents combined

with the most faithful appeals on the danger of their errors.

Added to all which and as pervading the whole, there was an
eminently devout spirit and a most conspicuous submission to
the authority of the Sacred Writings. How astonishing,
300  PASSAGES FROM DR. CARSOx's                                                                  [1826.

perhaps unprecedented, that a reputation personal and hterary,
based upon such qualities and secured by the able advocacy

of such doctrines, should have been put in jeopardy, if possible

undermined or destroyed, by the united endeavours of Christian
men who really knew his worth, and were of one mind and
soul with him in regard to the design of his work upon the

Person and Claims of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

  But if in his eagerness to begin the attack, Dr. Carson

neglected to examine the Scrip. Tes. as a whole, and thereby
lost his clue to the qualifications and spirit of the Author ; the
very portions of the work on which he grounds his charges and

inuendoes, were expressly designed by Dr. Smith to defend the
Inspiration of the Scriptures against Dr. Priestley and other
Unitarian writers. With the slightest possible exceptional

clause respecting the Song of Solomon in the edition of 1818,
(the one actually quoted in the pamphlet,) Dr. Smith states--

that whatever construction is adopted of 2 Tim. hi. 15, 16,
the passage " furnishes the strongest testimony to the inspira
tion of each and every of the books of the Old Testament."

Yet in the face of this declaration, and of a subsequent note
equally explicit on the Inspiration of the New Testament, also

quoted in the pamphlet, Dr. Carson --because he had a specific
task to perform --was allowed to assail the Author of the Scrip.
Tes. in the tone and manner following :--

" Dr. Smith's account of inspiration appears to me to proceed on princi
ples at variance with the fundamental laws of biblical interpretation. It

founds on theory, and supports itself not by the declarations of the Divine
Word itself, but by the supposition of difficulties and views of necessity.
Whatever distance there may be between the views of Inspiration allowed

by Dr. Haffner, and that contended for by this writer, they both build on
Ithe same objectionable foundation, though the          rdeivliignieousasssiestnatnimcee,n"tsp.
                                                                                                 of the
latter permit him to ascribe a greater degree of                                                  32.--
"concheapvteionnesvethramn etthwisithauathworr,i"tepr.
                                                        who betrays greater indistinctness in    his
                                                        34. --¦"¦ Infidels demand evidence with  re

spect to the Scriptures, not analogical to that in any other qf Ro.&'SjWorks !

and when Christians endeavour to satisfy them in this, they compromise
the dignity of their God. Is it not enough that men have, the same kind

and degree of evidence, with respect to the revealed will of God, that deter
mines them in all other things ? Must Jehovah shut up everv avenue
to evasion, before we will deign to accept his mercy ? Salvation is our own

concern. Shall we then so doat on damnation, that unless one lise from the
dead, we will not believe the message of reconciliation ?" p. 36.

There now occurs the first of several passages , scattered
JET. J52.              ATTACK ON DR. SMITH.                                                                          301

through this part of the pamphlet, in which the levity displayed

by DrJ Carson in sporting with a creature on one side of a

vicious comparison, incurably and very offensively taints his
manner of referring to or bringing in the Creator, Bedeemer,

and Sanctifier, on the other :--

  I"Except it be for the same good-natured purpose, to make the toil of

complete inspiration less necessary in God, cannot see the use of substi
tuting, in some cases, divine acceptance of words for infusion. According
to this scheme, there is no need for the inspired writer to trouble the
Spirit for the inspiration of every word : on many occasions his own know
ledge of phraseology, subject to the Divine inspection, will sufficiently

supply him. Such a scheme appears to me too bungling to ascribe to any
man of common sense-- to ascribe it to Jehovah
                                                     a                                  in my view, little less

                                                                     it

                                                                                   is,
than blasphemy. . . To set penman of Scripture and the Holy Spirit

to work on such a scheme strikes me as so ridiculous, that cannot look at
   but with contempt and abhorrence. Is to make the work a little
it                                                                                      is I
                 omnipotence, and to save some trouble to him who                                     wpreoaproiessedno"t
             tp                                                                                      '
easier

in working, that such  a            confused and jumbling plan                                                       ?

pp. 37, 38.

   Dr. Smith having said that extreme difficulties attended
                                                     '

                                                           is
                                                                     is
the idea of complete verbal inspiration, in cases where the same

discourse or sentence of our Lord related in different words

by two or more of the Evangelists, he                                                   replied to in this

style --
I
              :
   "Instead of finding extreme difficulties in the things here mentioned,
                                                    in perfect contempt, that finds
 ...hold that          aulnl,d"erps.tan3d9i.n--g  "Were there not some jumble           in                them any
                                                                                        in                his mind
difficulty at
   . . variety of expression would never strike him as inconsistent with
inspiration.           admit, for argument sake, that the doctrine of
                       I

                                  a
plenary inspiration has great difficulties, though have demonstrated that
                                                                        I

   has none. What can my opponent make of the admission
it                                                                                      P                 Shall the

             ;

                    a
existence of difficulties be sufficient reason to deny what the Scriptures,
with such              mass of evidence, assert            Then give up the Sovereignty of
                                                     ;  give up the divinity of Christ give
grace give tip particular redemption                   P                                                    a

up the Scriptures themselves give up the existence of God. It                                             is    ;shame
                                                  ;

faonryasneyntmimaenntacuqnutaeinnatebdle,"wpit.h41th.--eo"loHgay,d  to  talk of difficulties as rendering
                                                                    he
                                                                        allowed himself coolly                [?     !]  to

                                                                                                                  !

examine his own reasons, he could not have allowed his mind to be entan
gled by cobwebs that must break by the lowest exertion of human intellect.
 ifshould

however
I                be surpriseda      very child could be                 ismoppohsiesdtryonofbyit,s"upc.h  reasoning,
                 unable he irii^ht   be to unravel the                                                    45. " His
...objections.
                 originatinga'ppineasromraethoetrhetor  have            been sought by study, to              justify
a sentiment                                             cause.             They are more like the             forced
thoughts of
                 declamation, when                   strains to make the best of bad cause,
                                    a

                                         it

                                                                                          a. a
than the serious scruples of sound mind. Had he given up fortress com
mitted to him by his sovereign, to forces so inconsiderable, there could not
302                            PASSAGES FROM DR. CARSON'S                                 D820>

have been found a court-martial in the empire that would not have doomed
rhaenimsdsesstotrcilkooemsesmhhitiisstechdoealtoodu. rCsh,"rTish&teica.nd&socct.briyne. Jeos.fusv.eCrbh"arliTshtin.isspiDtrharet.ioornSym, isiitnhodneecerdioe,fsits'hmeoneferocryto,'f
                                                                          interpretation  of Scrip
tthuere,m" ops.t  inexcusable  that  ever      was      forged  for  the
                  49.

To widen the field and to supply new matter for carrying on

the attack, Dr. Carson next avails himself of an inference that

Dr. Smith was the writer of an Article which appeared in thq
                                                                          ' Apocrypha Con
Etrcolveecrtiscy'R--ev"iaenwdfourpNonovtehme ber,       1825,   on the    Dr. Smith said in

                                                                  --as
his Reply to Taylor -- " he builds no small abuse --yet the

article is not among those which have been assigned to the

Homerton Tutor by the trustworthy Editor of that journal;

and from the evidence of its style, it no more belonged to

him than to his Tubbermore calumniator.* But to use a
                                                                     from his pamphlet, --
phrase of         Dr.  tChaerosroyn,''s          already  quoted
' founding                                     he writes   away      as one whose guesses
                  on

were facts, to whom proofs were impertinences, and modesty,

in their absence, a cardinal sin ; for after extracting a passage
from the Eclectic, he says :--

" To enter into the proof of the inspiration of these books, so rashly

qpulaecset,i"onpe.d63b. --y "DCr.ouSldmihthe,    would  be altogether a   waste of time in this
                                               succeed  in showing that   a certain book belongs

to the collective denomination received by the Jews as Scripture, and that

it contained evidence of non-inspiration, he would prove Paul a liar, (2 Tim.
Ifiii. 15, 16,) and discredit the inspiration of every other book in the Canon.

    one part of the volume attested as inspired by Paul, be proved to be un
inspired, his attestation is worthless with respect to every book in the colla

tion. Dr. Smith, then, is not only inconsistent with himself in this matter,

but he actually labours in the cause of infidelity, with respect to Revelation

* Dr. Carson's 'Remarks on Dr. Smith's Theory of Inspiration ' began with

what was well known to be his from its place in the Scrip. Tes. Why then,
should the decorum of honourable controversy be infringed or endangered, --by,
first, assuming against several particulars of internal evidence, that he was the
writer of a paper which was anonymous :-- and, next, by assailing him per
sonally on the sentiments contained in that paper through twelve pages, with

out any intimation whatever by way of apology Should the surmise of his being
the Author turn out not to be true ? The answer is too obvious.
had to reply tothe private Letter written by Dr. Smith to his ' old       fDriern. dC,a' rsMorn.
Robert Haldane, in Aug. 1826 :--and as the sure ground of the Scrip. Tes. did

not furnish a basis wide enough to reach some of the sentiments, stated perhaps
in confidence in that Letter, the fallacious theory that Dr. Smith was the
author of the article in the Eclectic for Nov. 1825 was too readily laid hold of
for the purpose.
JET. 52.]                            ATTACK ON DR. SMITH.                                                      303

Iin general." . . . " am unwilling to suspect Dr.                                                     Smith of secretly
Idesigning                                                                                            cannot clear him,

but at the
           teoxpuenndseermofinheisthjuedagumtehnotr,it"y   of Scripture   ;  yet

                                                          p. 64.

    The Biographer of Messrs. Bobert and Alexander Haldane
follows Dr. Carson's example, in ascribing to Dr. Smith the
article in the Eclectic, of November, 1825* He has given in

the Memoirs, pp. 528, 529, rather a long extract from the

pamphlet based on that fallacy, but he                           hwahsatomCiattneodn,t"he&cin. t&roc,
ductory clause before the words, " Now
which are these --

    " But there are no bounds to the absurdity of this learned and ingenious

writer. [All along confidently and rashly assumed to be Dr. Smith.] He
tells us that the book of Esther and the book of Chronicles, though
Inot inspired, are ' very
                                     pcraonpoenr,l"y   included  in our   Canon, as both authentic
and true.' Now what                                              ending   with the extraordinary
                                                      &c. &c,
passage :-- " thank thee, great Jesus, that thou hast not left the

making of our Bible to the ingenuity of learned doctors. Much of thy
wisdom in it appears to them to be folly. Their learning is employed

in mending thy work, and polishing what thy hand has left unfinished.
Go, Dr. Smith, enrol thy name with that of him who, in the arrogance of
his wisdom, boasted that he could have given a better model for creation,

had he been admitted to the divine counsels. But let the Bible alone. It
is the very wisdom of wisdom. The blemishes that the wisdom of this

is  * At page 505 of the             " Memoirs "          an article in the  E"cwleacstict,hefocrhAiepf raidl,vo1c8a2t6e,

    referred to : the writer         of which, the        Biographer says,
of the Apocryphists ; . . . was well known as the friend of James Mont

gomery, and    as being himself the author of some beautiful                                          gems of  sacred
poetry, which  the Christian world will not willingly let die."                                       Now Dr.  Smith

wApasocnryopt htishtes,'peforsronhe  thus   described :   he was not the ' chief advocate of the
                                      does  not appear    to have taken a prominent part in that

controversy ; and although a well-known friend of Mr. Montgomery in early
life, for many years there had been very little communication of any kind
between    the two;   while          ptoheetryl,a'st&cd.e--scirsipwtivheollyphirnaaspep--lica'tbhlee
beautiful  gems of   sacred                                                                           Author of some
                                                                                                      to the Homerton
Tutor. If, now, the Biographer, or the Reader, will turn to a Note at the end
of the above paper on the ' Conduct of the Bible Society ' (in the Eclectic for
April, 1826) pp. 383, 384, he               will
also the Author of the Article                         perceive that the  Cwonrittreorveorsfy,t'haitnpNaopveermwbears,
1825. --But the surmise that                on        the ' Apocrypha

                                            Dr. Smith wrote the latter, groundless as it
proved to be in the end, and not perhaps very firmly believed even at the time,
was needed, in order to enable Dr. Carson to assail that part of the unpub
lpiogitsorfhsoisEeeudsdantdhmdLeeuoerttrftyitaeastnrttodaotcorptkrhdeMeeswfreeh.CncahtEttrseoosvobnueficecrhrt.leht--see,HvItaiwtdcledooinnsacacnerenetroi,ncaliosenpsfgaisrAitnawutgohthfuhicaseohtnuEdr4tchl,tepeoc1ut8rpiSpc2rcoo6rasv,iepber.oevstteThpo-eeamsdctttei,siDnncgtfruiu.osrsnnStehimtdsehhietehB;dsoubdonpuikdot
not write either of them.
301 THE RECKLESSNESS OF [l826.

        f"sinisxdescupraiengdesitsmaaoruertehoosfrtteialnlgaiitfnsosutgnrpdeliaangtgeiasrtoisnemx,tc"heelloDernry.c,i'eCsaa,r"nsdopn.in6a5d.ds,st--Tyhle"enNwoahwfitcehr
world                     it                                                           it a                                        if
                            it,
nearly
indeed                            is

                                            it '

                                                    is
the Book of Esther really written in the wisdom of God, will be no
                                                        not in the style of human wisdom. God
defence for Dr. Smith, that

has presented to him as his own work, by having                                    it  inserted in the

Canon sanctioned by Christ, and attested as inspired by Paul. If, in the
arrogance of his own wisdom, he presumes to see defects in
                                                                                       it                                          notwith

standing such attestation,           it      at his peril he rejects it. He indulges the
                                         is

very same spirit that induces all unbelievers to reject the gospel. Do then
                                                                                   ?

                                                                                          II

                                                                                                       it
say, that to deny the inspiration of this Book                   is  damnation         No-- say
    not damnation :" p. 71.
is

    We leave the sentence incomplete suffice to say, that the
                                             is
word here used, and which                                                      of
was so great favourite with                      '                             of
                                                                ;

                                                                    it
                          it a                                 felt to be one      ftehaerfuglosipmelp,'orot,f
                                                                 the minister
                               is
Tubbermore, that besides its introduction in several parts of
                                   repeated in this place no less than five times
the pamphlet,

in six consecutive lines. The whole closes in the same spirit,
and without one word by way of palliation or apology --in the
                                                               is

                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                                :
very last paragraph, Dr. Smith addressed                                       personally,                                         in the

following unjust and offensive style --

   " You have denied             the verbal inspiration        of the Word of God, and every
kind of inspiration to           all the passages that         any one may choose to consider

not of religious or moral nature, and you close bya                    rejecting whole Books,
on principles that will condemn the whole Bible.                        Your speculations are
very crude-- your sentiments are self-contradictory -- and your half-formed
conceptions show that you have been too hasty in giving your opinions to
the world. You must go back or forward,-- stationary yon cannot remain."

    These assertions, reckless of truth and daring in their
generalizations, are grievously aggravated by the conjectural,
                                                                                       founded.'
and really   baseless              theory on which they were
             use the               words of an old writer--these                       are "the
Surely --to                      ;                                             a
                                         '                                              '
tcermudpee,redandspihriats."ty--,                           'anduntimely abortionsof
                                   " But   the tongue can no         man                        :

                                                                                         it

                                                                                               is
                                                                                     self-full,                                    dis
                                                                                   tame                                              an
unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Therewith bless we God,
even the Father and therewith curse we men, who are made
after the similitude of God.                 Obruetthorfetnh,e"
                                                                 same          mouth proceedeth
b" ltehsessiengthinagnsd   cursing.   My     be.''               says          the holy Apostle,
                          ought not
                                     so to

   Low and even base motives are directly or by insinuation                        is
ascribed to one for whose character the Accuser said to have
JET. 02.]                  DR. CARSON'S GENERALIZATIONS.                                       305

had a high respect. The uniform opponent of Socinianism,

whether in the field       of argument             or as a source     of       persecution
for conscience sake,       is held up to           obloquy as a '                    divine,'
                                                                      courtly

who might   perchance be looking                   for  Sparataisne;'inthwaht aist,Dirn.  Carson is
pleased to  call 'the Synagogues                   of                                     Unitarian

quarters. Dr. Pye Smith is reminded that the equity and

moderation which he conscientiously sought to manifest in
tdheealtinrugthwi;t"haonpdpoasnetnhtosu, gmhigthhtisarwiseere"
                                                                from indifference         towards
                                                                not cutting near          enough

to the quick, it is added, that such moderation might " pretend

to descend as a grace of the Spirit. Indifference often assumes
the garb of meekness." The Pastor of Tubbermore is further
                           a parade of his " contempt for
caanrdefjuuldtgommeankte"  of the Theological Tutor at                the understanding
                                                                      Homerton. As a

matter of policy, this part of his work may be thought a little
ionvehrdisonreea; sfoonrinigf,"thetrheerweaswa"sa
                                                   world of      obscurity and            silliness
                                                   all the      less occasion,            or even
excuse, to state this in words :--for what wise man would think
of ' crushing a moth with a mallet ;' or what necessity to employ
Dr. Carson to brush away " cobwebs ?" But when the author

of the pamphlet attempts to graft with such an unsparing hand

his own inferences on Dr. Smith's premises and positions :--

when the entire Bible is made to follow the fate of the

difficulties supposed by some to attach to the canonical

authority of one or two Books :--when because verbal inspira
tion was denied, Dr. Carson thought it just or expedient to as
sert that Dr. Smith also denied "every kind of inspiration to all
gthioeupsasosragmeosrawl hnicahtu, raen,"y
                                             one may choose     to consider   not of a         reli
                                            the outrage upon    legitimate                     and
                                                                             argument

even truth itself was too flagrant to admit of excuse or apology.
Nor is it possible to overlook the fearful damage which might

accrue to a vast multitude of persons who, because they could
not adopt the sweeping decisions of Dr. Carson on the one
side, were to be left exposed to
Scriptural authority and teaching,                      the utter      destitution of all
                                                        which he      seemed to exult in
denouncing upon them, on the other :-- as though, if he could
not compel persons to acknowledge in his sense the validity of
every document of the title deeds of a large estate, he would
then do his uttermost to convince them of the worthlessness of
all. Alas ! that that wonderful passage of ineffable tenderness
and power, should have been read" by
little advantage :-- John xx. 24--29.                           this  learned             man  to so

                                                                                            x
306              DE. CARSON'S STYLE AS AN AUTHOR                                [UWH.

In quoting rather largely from Dr. Carson's attack, the

design has been to enable the Beader to form his own opinion

of the quality of the article which was produced by the peculiar

talents of a Christian minister, and put in circulation with the

approval and by the purse of a Christian gentleman. The

Editor shrank from the responsibility of substituting any words
of his own for the ipsissirna verba of the hired champion :-- less

might, indeed, have satisfied; but there could not then have

been that impressive, that monitory sense of the almost match

less enormity of the mistake committed by each of the parties
to this sad production. --But the sequel must be noticed.
                                                               "
DeWfeencaereoftotlhdeinStthraesbMuermghoirsP,rethfaactet,"his     Beview of Dr. Smith's
                                                               .   . . was the first of

a series of publications, each written at the suggestion [ ! ] of
Mr. Haldane, and each published at his risk ; so that during a
period of nearly ten years, Dr. Carson was enabled triumphantly
to maintain the field against all comers, while he not only de

fended the Canon which had been assailed, but by overthrowing
one adverse theory after another, proved to demonstration that
the plenary inspiration of the Scriptures can never be success
                  except through
fully assailed,  those who choose  the  suslrortehn,dethr ewiitghnoourtanacest,ruogrgleth."e
cowardice, of                      to

p. 527. This is said; and yet, three pages afterwards, the

Beader is very honestly   told, that   "mitorweasgneonterMarll.yHsaolduagnhet 'asftfearu;l"t
                           were not
if Dr. Carson's writings

and as though to make every tittle of information and evidence
complete, it is plainly intimated that they could not be rendered
popular though   Mwro.rkHahledapnuebh"sdhiesdtr.i"buted
of almost every                                                   gratuitously  hundreds

But can it be a matter for wonder or admiration that any

controversial Author should keep the field against all comers, if
he writes in such a way that his performances are considered a

drug even when wealth makes a vigorous effort to circulate
                        :--if it was
them as     presents                   not  difficult for Dr. Carson to
' create a  solitude,'   wiser men --  not
                                            to say better--should pause
before they call the stillness ' peace;'
                                             or dignify with the honours
of a triumph the mere isolation of the eombatant. Men of
education and judgment would not generally look for arguments
in the midst of a style groaning almost under a load of con
temptuous epithets and phrases : in some minds it would create
a positive aversion to the views of the Author ;-- others would be
JET. 52.]               INIMICAL TO HIS SUCCESS.                                             307

morally incapable of reading what he wrote ;--others would not

exactly know whether he was convincing or frightening them,

and would be afraid to commit themselves to his guidance. In
the circle of Dr. Smith's own friends --a large one in a case
of attack like this--the pamphlet was self-excluded. Who

could buy or give or receive as gift, or talk of in any
way approvingly unless they were prepared in that instance,
           it,               it

                     ;                 a
                                            ;?

                                                            it
to lay aside the ordinary courtesies of human society, and to

forget the respect due to Christian worth The passages which

have been given have, no doubt, gone far enough to produce

quite nausea for that kind of writing and in that view, as
        a

well as others, they may not be without their use.

paDlnreoW.ntahhCreeyran,r,"sinomsanopn'rsideraohtvoiaeofvrn,ihnatgohvfein"tglheoeav"repnrSertocdhrvrioepBwdtaunrrretiossotnecderaenmaspdonevenaevskretssrrea,"tcioot&hnncef.iodtrh&eyanc.ttalyftthheoeerf
                                                                                          ;

must be but very slenderly informed concerning the actual, the

avowed state of sentiment on these questions at the present

day. In what community of Christians, excepting perhaps the

Plymouth Brethren, does anything like uniformity of opinion

or belief prevail, whether among the ministers or the private
members, on the points to which he refers
                                                  Dr. Henderson's
                  a
                         a

                                                                       ?

                                                                 it
Work on Divine Inspiration came out years after Dr. Carson
had published volume, in which, according to the title-page,
the Theories of Inspiration
Smith, and Dr. Dick, were    of Dr. Daniel        Wilson, Dr.                             Pye
                             " proved to be       erroneous :"                            and
though the same
with what he calls  Dr.    BCeafrusotantiofonl"lowoefdthDe r.doHcetrnindeersonc'osntaWinoerdk
                        "

on this subject, that doctrine prevails widely among Tutors,
and Christian Ministers, and in Christian Churches still. In
1831, Dr.. Samuel Hinds, the present Bishop of Norwich,
pubhshed An Inquiry
                           into the Proofs,  Nature, and  Extent of
Inspiration, and into      the Authority of  Scripture.*
                                                          A single
clause  Ewnilgl lsishhowCwhuhractharoenththeeseqnuteimstieonnts:--of"tThhiserleearanreed
of the                                                                                     Prelate
                                                                                          portions
of the Bible which must have been written under general
                  *

                                     ;
                                                                 ;

                                                                                      :

                                                                                  2a
commission, and others from special instruction. The pre
dictive parts of the prophetical books must have been the result
of positive and particular directions the history, on the other

                  Lond. Fellowes. Oxford Parker.

                                                    X
308  DR. SMITH'S VIEWS OF INSPIRATION UNCHANGED. [l.v'O.

hand, and the apostolical epistles, may be more properly,

perhaps, classed among the ordinary acts of an extraordinary
agency --that is, the general inspiration to write--the general

commission     and qualification were given    ;chthoeiced."etpapil.s                    of   their
duty left, to  a certain extent, to their own                                                  120.
                                                                                        119,

When this was written, Dr. Hinds was Vice-Principal of
St. Albans Hall, Oxford.*

  It is scarcely necessary to say that Dr. Smith's own views of

Inspiration remained unchanged down to the last edition ofthe

Scrip. Tes., and, indeed, to the end of his life among us. So

far, then, as can be   ascertained from facts, Dr. Carson's
'demonstrations' have  not been generally considered demon

strative by those who have written on the question : and so far

as probability is concerned, there is no little ground to appre

hend that the attempt to force upon men one of two positions,

elaborately carried by that Author to the widest attainable
points of divergence, has had an unhappy influence in urging
some who could not rise to the demand made upon them on

the one side, to risk the consequences which, as he said, they

must accept on the other.

   And is the learned Barrister-at-Law so familiar with the
history of the controversy, so well read in the Writings which

have appeared on both sides, and so competent as well as

entitled to adjudicate on the motives of men richly endowed

in intellect, of great moral worth, and of honourable stations in

the Church --as to be qualified to assert, that if they " choose

If"HtSociagrlsdinpuaotrnruraeernen, csde,te"h,r"e"inotrrhetthesheuelditsroecm"ntscrueionswtehaerbloddeficeb"atysh?cr"eDibre.pdleCitnatoairssroytcnheerintiarasnipnd"irtashtlthoaioetthnt,Mh"eoeyftshstaerhrsieer.

all in error, it cannot be equally certain that the grounds of
then- error are to be surely detected in any one or more of the
qualities designated by the disparaging epithets here used: --
and if even that were certain, the propriety of a creature's

assuming the prerogative and authority of the Supreme and

Final Judge, by such a style of pronouncing a verdict upon

motives, must ever be, and for manifold reasons, denied. But

* See also the views on this subject of Dr. Edmund Calamy --John Fred.
Stapfer--Dr. Timothy Dwight--Dr.       seGne.o--rgeDrH. ilHl,enPdreirnscoinpa--l Dor.f  St. Mary's Coll.
St. Andrews --Dr. Leonard Woods,                                                        Arnold. --Scrip.
Tes. fourth ed. vol. i. pp. C3 -- 69.
JET. 52.]   DR. CARSON NEVER NOTICED BY DR. SMITH.                                                                                                     309

                                         '

                                               it

                                                                 ; if,
it would be immensely to the advantage of Christianity,
with the warmest zeal for the letter of Bevelation, there
were corresponding power to imbibe and exercise its spirit.

The casket indeed of value for the jewels which contains
if a
                                                                                                                                                       the
            is
but the latter are not worn for use and

chief purpose of contending for the former seems to be over

looked.

After what has been said,           almost superfluous to add
                           a it
                               is

                                       a
                                            a

                                                          it

                                                                              a

                                                                       it,
that Dr. Smith never replied to Dr. Carson's pamphlet. The
arrogant tone of the whole, the gratuitous, the utterly ground
less insinuations, the fanatical assumptions and assertions, --
not only put out of his power to reply, but made impossi
            it a it
ble for him to think of replying with due regard to his own
character as Christian and gentleman; while the unsale-

ableness of the thing, and its unacceptableness even as pre

sent, made           useless to attach the slightest value to                                                                                          in

respect of any arguments which could have been fairly picked

out of so jeering and contemptible  performance. And fur
ther, --with becoming concern for himself, and for the out
            a

raged claims of truth, equity, and soberness, the Author of the
Scrip. Tes. never mentioned the name of Dr. Carson in any
part of his work not even in that part devoted to the question
                     ;

on which the Pastor of Tubbermore had expended whatever

skill and power he had in succession of pieces published at
                        a
                                 a

                                                is

                                                                     it
Mr. Eobert Haldane's cost. This silence rendered the more

emphatic from the fact--that in the last ed. of the Scrip. Tes.

Dr. Smith careful to refer, in perfectly courteous way, asis

became him to do, to Mr. Haldane's views on the subject of

Plenary Inspiration, contained in his work on the Evidences

and Authority of Divine Revelation; and also to the Bev. Lewis

Gaussen's work on the same side of the question: but Dr.

poDCefearfriesDonodrnc.e'soHfoepfnrnodeDdeaurrrcs.ltyoionHn'atssef,nfnDeofyrrco,e'tmarriinsn,et"h,'1e8wi2n'h7Be,en1vd8ioe3'wew7an--chotthfoaDothrf.is  Pye Smith's

                                                                                                                                                          Befutation

                                                                                                                                                         "during
                                                                                                                                                       his publica
                                                                                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                                                        '

                                                                                                                                                                          a

tions was written at the suggestion of Mr. Haldane'--

were left, as they deserved to be, unnoticed in                                                                                                        work
                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                                  a
which was distinguished for exact and varied learning, for
conclusive argument, for fine Christian temper, and for
style the very opposite in every valuable quality of the
310                  THE SUMMING UP.                                                  [1886.

Tubbermore Pastor's. --" He that is void of wisdom "-- says
             h--ol"ddeethspihsiesthpeahcies."
the Proverb                                    neighbour  :  but  a     man  of       un
derstanding

   Beturning to the point at which this part of the narrative
began --the controversy with Mr. Alexander Haldane in the
Evangelical Magazine-- the Memoirs refer in two places to

a Letter which Dr. Smith wrote ten years afterwards, that
                                                          in which he " spokeis
in August 1837, to his old                                             is
                     ''                                      p. 516. Again --
with regret of the expressions he had                                                   a is,

"he himself acknowledged with his accustomed candour that

in regard to Haffner, he reflected with sorrow on the tone and

manner in which he wrote       and Dr.         Somveirthhiswapsiettyo,o"     good
man to allow his pride long  to triumph                                      p. 524.

The design of these references and expressions not so clear

as could be desired. Dr. Smith wrote certain things in regard

to Haffner and he wrote these in certain style, in reply to
     ;                     it

                               ;

                                       it ; a
Aletheia, or Mr. Alexander Haldane the difficulty to ascer

tain whether he reflected with sorrow on his having defended

the Preface, in so far as he deemed entitled to defence after

he had carefully examined    or whether his sorrow related to
" the tone and manner in which he wrote " to his valued

opponent on that occasion. From the character, courage, and

Christian temper of Dr. Smith, and from the few words given
from his Letter his design appears to have been to make an

apology for any wound he might have inflicted on Mr. Hal
dane's feelings as gentleman, by style of writing which
well known to have been quite out of his usual course, even in

cases of controversy with persons of less mark in the Church
             ;
                  a
                                                a

                                                                                     is

of Christ than Mr. Haldane.                                  will add another
                                                             it
  If this view of the reference be correct,
                                                                     a
to many examples found in the same life, of noble deter

mination to obviate by frank acknowledgment at one time
                     ;a a
the errors of feeling or of language into which he had fallen ata

another. Or the reference includes what he did in regard
to Haffner's Preface, as well as how he did in respect of Mr.
a                                                            it

                  ;                                                       :

                 if                                                         a
                                                                                  is
Haldane, then the example takes wider range for he here

confessing to an error of judgment as well as to defect of
temper -- apologizing that he should have written not only in

wrong spirit, but in wrong cause. Taking                                it,  however,

under one aspect, or both and comparing as rigidly as possi-
JET. 52.]        THE SUMMING UP,                                            311

ble the defects of his " tone and manner " in regard to Mr.
Haldane, with the " tone and manner " of that venal pen which

had been employed too lavishly against himself ; how wonder

fully is it to his credit as a disciple of Christ, and how deeply
to be lamented for all the other parties implicated in this con

troversy, that he seems to have been the only one, according

to the testimony of that most competent witness, the Barrister -
                                                  ' did not '
at-Law, who by   ahi'sgopoidetyc.o' nfeMssaioyn  such worth    allow  his   pride
to triumph over                                                ever   find   such

commendation ; and in the end, truth and Christianity will

secure a glorious victory !
CHAPTEB XVIII.

LETTER TO AN 'ANXIOUS INQUIRER' --SECOND LETTER --LETTER OF CON
      GRATULATION -- SERMON ON OUR LORD'S RESURRECTION -- ECLECTIC

       REVIEW: GREEK LEXICONS: GERMAN NEOLOGISTS : ANTISUPERNA-

      TURALISTS -- LETTER TO HIS MOTHER--HIS MOTHER'S DEATH-- PUB
      LICATIONS : PRESIDENT EDWARDS --SECOND EDITION OF SCRIP. TES.--

      ECLECTIC REVIEW: PORSON's LITERARY CHARACTER: SHEPPARD'S

       DIVINE ORIGIN OF CHRISTIANITY: PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF JESUS

      OF NAZARETH --LETTER TO A FRIEND -- LETTER TO HIS DAUGHTERS.

  Fully to enter into the Letters which are now to be intro

duced, the Beader will suppose Dr. Pye Smith to have been

applied to by a comparatively young man who had been well
educated, and who had also enjoyed the advantages of Chris

tian training in his family, but who was beginning to feel
the claims of rehgion with an urgency which made him not a

little anxious to obtain the counsel of one much older than
himself, and for whom, moreover, he had the highest respect.

And on Dr. Smith's part, there was not only the interest which
he would take in the subject itself, especially as recommended
in this case by the frankness and just solicitude of the appli
cant, but there was also the tie of relationship to enhance the
force of every other motive. He thus wrote : --

  " My dear Friend, --It is not in my power to express the gratitude and joy

Iwhich felt in reading your most welcome and delightful Letter. In its
I Icontents trust that see the answer of those parental prayers, which have
Ibeen poured out on your behalf from your earliest days; and humbly
venture to add, of those which a very unworthy relative of yours has often
and fervently addressed to the Divine Majesty, since he had the pleasure of
Ipersonally knowing you.
   " Notwithstanding the gladdening hope which  entertain that the change
JET. 53.]  LETTER TO AN 'ANXIOUS INQUIRER.'                             313

of inward sentiments, as distinguished from intellectual theory, which you

have described in a manner so interesting to me, is indeed a work of the

ISpirit of grace, -- shrink from the taking upon myself to pronounce, as it
Iwere, a decision upon the momentous question. rather think that it is the

duty of Christians   to aid each other,  by   mutual direction and assistance to
                      whether we be      in  the faith.' Without that evidence
' examine ourselves

which arises from an earnest and self-renouncing application to the Divine

Redeemer, and the attendant consciousness of an abhorrence of all sin, and
affectionate pursuit of all holiness, a mind awakened to a just sense of the

importance of eternity, the "glory of God, and the excellency of religion,
could derive no solid comfort from the suffrage of a weak and erring fellow-
sinner : and with that evidence such a suffrage may well be disregarded.
My earnest request therefore is, that you would cherish by all possible
means the life and earnestness of prayer, both that which is regular and
that which consists in silent ejaculations. Such ' drawing near to God' you
will indeed find to be productive of serenity and joy infinitely more desirable

Ithan anything that might be produced by the favourable opinions of men.

In the devout reading of the Scriptures, beg to recommend to you to select
the parts which apply the most immediately to the description or exempli
fication of heartfelt religion : e. g. Psalms xix. xxv. Ii. cxix., the discourses

of our Blessed Lord, the epistles of Paul to the Romans, ch. i. --viii., to the

Ephesians, to the Philippians, to the Colossians, to the Thessaionians, to

Timothy, to Titus, to the Hebrews, those of Peter, and those of John.
   " You propose a specific question upon ' a strong apprehension of the

I Iatonement' to the mind. Now apprehend that the modifications, if may

so call them, of religious impressions are distinguished by a variety as great

as the different temperaments and circumstances of men ; while there is a
                                 great and
           of character in  all  apprehend,  essential features.  The influence of
                                                to communicate    facts, doctrines,
           Spirit is not,
IcthoemmHuonlityy

promises, or warnings, in any other way than through the ordinary inlets of
knowledge to the human understanding ; but that it consists in giving a new
taste or disposition to the mind, in consequence of which it attends to divine

things, perceives their intrinsic beauty and glory, is attracted and determined
to them, and gives to them their just superiority in its affectionate estima
tion. * That which you have described, as the predominant feeling of your
mind, appears to me to include the great fact of a Divine mediation,
rendering it honourable and glorious to the justice of God's moral govern
ment to pardon sinners and bestow upon them all the blessings of holy
character and reconciliation to God.         BCuhtr,istupJoensusthiosutrraLnosrcde,'nd(ePnhtilispupbijaecnts,
'the excellence of the knowledge of

iii. 8.) what reason  we have to seek for more extended knowledge and
deeper impressions !
                      It is the first step in vital religion, the very first act
of sincere faith, to comply, simply, implicitly, unreservedly, with the Saviour's
Iwondrous invitation, ' Come unto me, and ye shall find
                                                                  rest unto your
souls.' Such a humble and entire clasping and clinging, if          may so speak,

* " Therefore the mind thus qualified, excited, and disposed, ought the more
diligently to employ the scriptural means which God has so mercifully adapted
                          moral constitution, reading, reflection, and
to our intellectual and   and the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.'  p"rayer,  in
order to ' grow in grace
314 LETTER TO AN ' ANXIOUS                                                     [1887.

dtoemCphtriiosnt,,'  as ' our wisdom and righteousness, our sanctification and re
                     must be the perpetual principle of our life down to its latest

Imoment.                                    know not where to find views

  " On this and every other great subject,
and statements more scriptural, judicious, and luminous, than in the
posthumous papers of my late inestimable friend, Dr. Ryland, in the
'Pastoral Memorials' which you saw on Sabbath evening. But for the
present allow me earnestly to recommend your perusal and meditation AGAIN

and again of the late Mr. Scott's two small Discourses on Repentance, --
then on Growth in Grace ;-- and after a time, on Election and Perseverance.
All my experience convinces me that we may hope for solid satisfaction and
the strengthening of faith and all holy principles, much more from the
diligent study, with prayer, of such short treatises as these, than from a

more excursive course of reading.

Ipamphlets have been the assistants
Ifobliged by a few lines from you.
                          When for some time these inestimable

                          of your meditations, shall be greatly
                          you should wish
                          I                                                shall be happy to
                               I

                                                                           ;

                                               iIt,
                                                      I

                                                              I
                                                                                                       a
recommend some other, perhaps larger, work to you but your own know

ledge of Authors, and the hints and leadings which you will derive from

Mr. Scott, will probably supersede any of my suggestions. Yet would not

now omit to mention his excellent volume of Essays, which would be

valuable auxiliary to the course which have recommended. Yet think
that the three pamphlets, used as earnestly request, will meet almost every
question which you have indicated in your Letter, or which can arise in

your breast.                                !
   " May the Spirit of Jesus ever guide you, my dear friend, and fill you

with his richest and most gracious influences May His providential care
yaonudrse."very divine mercy be vouchsafed to you! Ever and affectionately

It will be observed that while the point on which the appli

cant sought Dr. Smith's opinion was one which has occasioned

deep anxiety to many at the outset of their really religious

life inasmuch as related solely to moral and spiritual
a                    it
                            it
         ;
                                            a
                                                               a

                                                                   a
change of the highest possible magnitude to the individual

person, the Letter writer could not presume to answer                      it  cate

gorically, for was not matter of fact within the range of
his knowledge or experience. With wisdom, therefore, and

diffidence every way characteristic, and yet with the truest

concern for the welfare of his friend, Dr. Smith did not ven
ture to use the language of confidence, but was content with

giving such suggestions, as -- followed --would be likely to
                     is

                               if

                                                                        ;
secure and attest the reality of the change which was in fact
the great thing to be aimed at, and not any present impression

that had already taken place. The sustentation and growth
it

of the new principle the only legitimate proof of its exist
ence in the human heart.
JET. 53.] SECOND LETTER TO AN 'ANXIOUS INQUIRER.'  815

   The former Letter was written in May; the one which
follows, in August, 1827.

  " My dear Friend,-- It has given me sincere grief, since receiving your

Ilast Letter, to have found myself continually prevented from writing to you

by a host of hinderanoes. But do assure you that my long delay has not

Ibeen the fruit of indifference. Rarely, if once, has the day been in which
   have omitted to implore for you at the throne of grace all that divine
wisdom and guidance which you need for your highest enjoyment of peace

and holiness, and for your possessing the happiness of being useful, richly
useful, in the important sphere which you fill. The distresses of which you

Ispeak are those of which doubt not that every real Christian is sensible,
Iin a variety of degrees and modes. But really do not feel myself qualified
Ito treat them, in any manner that can hope will be near so profitable as
the discussions to which you have ready access in Doddridge's Rise and Pro
Igress of Religion, Witherspoon on Regeneration (the iii. vol. of his Essays,)

and Mr. Scott's writings. Not having the books here, cannot refer to the
Iparticular parts, and  am sure that to you those portions will sufficiently

Iindicate themselves.   trust that you would also derive important benefit

Ifrom studying the Third Part of the Treatise on Religious Affections, by
President Edwards.      think that it would be advantageous to read the
Third part, and well to enter into the spirit of it, before reading the Second.

The first part is merely introductory.

   " May it not be that serious minds suffer acute distress sometimes from a
cause which is little noticed, perhaps by very few ever imagined :-- the in

evitable changes in the use of language ? We in this country use the
phraseology of devotional and of experimental piety which was established by
our excellent countrymen in the seventeenth century, and we seem to hold

ourselves bound to it with a remarkable and somewhat superstitious strait-

ness. But we do not attend to the insensible alterations which time works

in the acceptation of terms, and in the very complex associations of thought
and secondary ideas which we group in our employment of particular

phrases. Undoubtedly some conveniences attend the use of a kind of appro
priate technology for religion, as it identifies us the more closely with our

inestimable precursors ; but it is injurious if it betray us into the expecta

Ition of feelings comporting with our altered sense of words. For example,
   doubt whether aycmr) and xaP^> which might be very properly rendered
love nn&joy two hundred years ago, do not now require some more marked

and scrupulously distinctive terms in translation, to prevent our misunder

Istanding. When the former word is predicated of the Blessed God, would
not propose any alteration. The sovereign and rich and wondrous benevo
lence of God to sinful man well suits the simple and majestic term-- ' Herein
    lTohveelo!--veBeohfoCldhriwsthawt hmicahnnpearssoefthlokvnoewtlehdegFea.'theBruhtaswhbeenstoitwiesdaupppolinedusto!
is
--

I Ithe sentiment of an imperfect, sinful, human mind towards the Infinite

One, venture to think that some periphrasis (for fear we have no single
term exact enough) is desirable : such as ' a feeling of solemn but delightful
reverence.'

Iaffectionate
    dWisphoesnitioanp,plfireidentdolinoeusrs,f'elsloewem-cremaotureresfa, it'hbfeunlevroelenndceer,ingksi.ndnSeoss,

conceive that xaP" signifies, not so much what we usually mean by joy,
316             SECOND LETTER TO AN 'ANXIOUS INQUIRER.'                                                               [l8'27.

Iwhich in modern use conveys, think, some secondary ideas of agitation
and turbulence ; but something like ' Christian cheerfulness, a happy
serenity of mind.'

   '' Excuse these hints. You will improve upon them. Mr. Foster has

some useful and ingenious thoughts on either this subject, or one closely
allied to in one of his Essays. When read about twenty-three years
I                                                 :
         it,
                                                    II
                                                            I it
ago, felt repugnant to his positions but think should be less so now.
The writings of the Reformers had less of this strict technicality.
" --To me appears that the grand means (for, blessed be God,
a                                                                                   it                                not

                 it                                                                     is

  secret except to those who will not receive its rich evidence) of maintain
ing happy cheerfulness in union with that penitent humiliation which we
                                    the habit of lowly but prompt intercourse with God
should ever preserve,           is

through  the                  Divine Mediator, by thought  and  ehjaavceulareticoeni;ved'rethjoeicaitnogneimneGnto,'d
through  our                  Lord Jesus Christ, by whom   we

Rom. v. 11.                     that had more of this Then should be better qualified
         '                                        !
                  O
                                                     I
                   I                                    I

                                                                  is

                                                                         it

                                                                                  is

                                                                                 if
to instruct or assist my young friend.             But am        gcloonryv,in' ced  that we ever
                                                  and full of                        in this mental
on earth rejoice with joy unspeakable

union of Divine Grandeur in holiness, justice, wisdom, love, condescension,
--with our meanness and vileness: and this, this indeed a living fact, but
                               through Him who loved us, and gave Himself for us.'
     so only                  that Howe's writings would be particularly adapted
      think
"it                                                                                 to                                edify

  I is
                             '

and to establish you particularly some parts of his Living Temple -- his
                                ;

                                      I
IfBlessedness of the Righteous, Redeemer's Tears, Delighting in God.                                                  you

had convenient opportunity, would recommend the reading of Mr. Scott
   a

"Ion Election
                and Perseverance.                                                      yours."
                                            am, my dear friend,  affectionately

In the above suggestions concerning love and joy, there

   great refinement, elevation, and accuracy of holy thought,
is
evincing the sensitiveness and delicacy of singularly devout
             ;                                             :

           is                                                          a
mind presenting in this respect a very striking contrast to

the freedom and almost flippancy with which the first of these
                Itused by some persons.
terms                                                           may well excite wonder

that the emotions of our nature may lawfully be directed to the

Infinitely Great and Holy Jehovah --yet, viewed in the light

of our condition and capacities as formed by Him, might                             it
have surprised still more had feeling been excluded from His
presence while thought was admitted. But certainly the pro                                      a
found reverence which ought ever to distinguish the exercise

of the intellect when God the object, ought no less to prea
vail in the heart also. Hence love to Him must indeed be "is

feeling of solemn but delightful reverence "-- kind of infinite
                                                                          a

complacency, not                only in  bhaeallp"tphyuantsseHpreeeankditaoyebslo,ef,"bmutminaedys,"pegocrrioawlalyt  in all
                                joy, "                                                                                times
that He is. And                                                                                                       up in
rising higher so                 as to

connection with such love.
JET. 53.]  SERMON ON OUR LORD'S RESURRECTION.                                  317

   This part of Dr. Smith's correspondence closed thus in the
following year :--

" My dear Friend, -- It was my wish and intention to have written a
Letter of cordial pleasure and congratulation to you, on or near the time of

your openly joining yourself to a Christian Church, and thus confessing
before men your devotedness to Christ ; but peculiar hurry of engagements
I(--from which can hardly hope to escape -- ) swallowed up the power of
Ialmost any optional act.    rejoice to hear of your continuing stedfast in

the faith and holiness of the Gospel, and sincerely pray that the abundance

Iof rich grace may ever rest upon you. . . . Without extravagance
can express a deliberate opinion that a recent posthumous work contains the

materials for most satisfactorily meeting every point of difficulty and anxiety,

to which you have adverted in some of those Letters which are to me so
                             It is ' Pastoral Memorials, by the
           and interesting.

           you once take it
If I IvReyrlaynpdr.e' cious                                              late  Dr.
                             in hand, think you will perhaps         do   as
                             regular aid to private devotion. "                do,

make a paragraph or two the

Infrequent as are the allusions in Dr. Smith's Letters or

other papers to his own private habits and experience as a
Christian, the one just given has a double value. Should

it,  however, be deemed singular that he needed or used such

aids in prayer,  highly probable that the secret of his
                 it
apparent independence of them arose out of the fact that
                      is

                          a

                                   is
he was not insensible to their worth. Considering the vigour

of his mind, and the incessant energy with which he held on
in the path of duty, there
                                       perhaps hardly any peculiarity

more remarkable or more suggestive, than his constant and

most diligent use of class of books as aids to personal piety

in all its forms, which by many Christians are either not read
at all or but slightly, as though scarcely any benefit could be

gained from them. Are we wrong in supposing that in his
case the stream of devout thought and feeling and action was
deep and full, because --instead of leaving so much to itself
as some are apt to dp --he diligently strove to feed through
                                       ?
                                           a

                                                        a

                                                     it
                                                           it

                                                                 it
the medium of rivulets and channels which, though small in

themselves, were in their tendency to  common result of
immense service to his character Principle itself rose high,

from the care bestowed to tend and strengthen by rules.

   In 1827, there was published volume of "Lectures on
some of the Principal Evidences of Bevelation; delivered at
the Monthly Meetings of the Associated Ministers and
318 GREEK LEXICONS. [lWl.

Churches of the London Congregational Union." One of
the course was by Dr. Smith --that, namely, On the Evidence of
the Divine Origin of Christianity from the Resurrection of Jesus.
Within the limits of thirty pages, all the more important par
ticulars relating to the subject are detailed and examined with

much clearness and power ; and few if any of the Author's

smaller works equal this in condensation of the materials, and
in cogency of argument.

   The plan of the Lectures was designed to counteract the
tendency of a set of low infidel publications, which under the
sanction of a so-called ' Christian Evidence Society '-- of which
a renegade Clergyman, the Bev. Bobert Taylor, was the main

stay -- were industriously circulated to undermine if possible

the facts, in order to overthrow the doctrines of Christianity.
About the same time, at the request of the Christian Instruc
tion Society, Dr. Smith prepared an Answer to what was called
'The Manifesto' of the infidel party; but as this Tract was
much enlarged in subsequent editions, it will be more fully

noticed further on.

He was again occupied very extensively during this year

in preparing articles for the Eclectic Review. The first was on

the Memoirs and Remains of Joseph Brown Jefferson, who had
been a student at Homerton, where he secured the high

esteem of his Tutors and the affection of his brethren by

his talents and his character ; but who was removed by death

after only a brief settlement as a pastor over the Congrega

tional Church at Attercliffe, near Sheffield. Dr. Smith's next

contribution was on the Lausanne Persecutions ; an article

written not for the mere purpose of making known the facts,
though that was of importance ;--but to stir up British philan

thropy to send relief to the sufferers. His third was on Greek
and English Lexicons ; those of the Rev. Greville Ewing, Dr.
                  Dr. John
Donnegan, and     certain'' --  Jones,    being the   text books of the
                                he says               English, German,
article.--"It is                         --"that the

and other languages descended from the Teutonic, are more

ready and perfect vehicles for conveying the meaning of the
Greek, whether in single words or in composition, than is the

Latin tongue. On the other hand, the advantages of universal

conveniency and of maintaining the familiar use of Latin, are

exceedingly important, and may well lead us to hesitate at
2ET. 53.]  GERMAN NEOLOGY.           319

concurring in the wish to substitute vernacular Lexicons and

Grammars for those by which we and our fathers were trained.
It would be a serious calamity, if Boman studies should be
Ifsacrificed to Grecian.  ever an accomplished Greek scholar

should be produced, who possessed but a mediocrity of Latin

erudition, such a man would be the first to bewail bitterly his

defect. Upon this question, however, we are not now allowed

to have a choice. The custom of construing Greek into Latin

is almost exploded in our schools ; and, it must be confessed,
with no small gain to the progress and pleasure of the learner."

Ec. Rev. 1827,, vol. i. p. 488.
   Two articles, amounting to fifty-six pages, were contributed

by him on what was really one question ; the first, on the Neo

logism of Germany, and the second, on Bretschneider's Vindica
tion of the German Divines. Probably there was no person
besides Dr. Smith who at that time had the knowledge of the

facts, the learning, and the class of sentiments, so ably em

bodied in these two papers. They bear intimately on questions

still under discussion, and vexed with controversies. --A pas
sage or two will show this.-- " It is obvious that the most false

and dangerous notions upon the Inspiration of the Scriptures
lie at the basis of the Neologistic theory. . . . The testi

mony of the Scriptural writers themselves, is our only source
of evidence on this cardinal point. That testimony is admissi

ble, and comes with its full force, as soon as their perfect

integrity and credibility are established by that grand body
of proof which has been so often and so triumphantly laid

before the world by authors on the Evidences of Bevelation ;

t't'atahtnhhuadeegt htwhhtm,hai'd--atidntt'edetnthshetoeiwymfiscowCdonrohmoymrtmiesi,s'at,an--'mnd--dm'orse'esttvnphetaesdakelece,woidsfowivruatedhnsse--totoLw' toththhhreiedcemh,'ws--oibtslhyedseomoHmnthHisaooatlffSyf'ipGrhmireoSidatp,w,t''iihro----iont
despiseth, despiseth not man, but God.' "--Ec. Rev. 1827,

vol. ii. p. 18.
   On the Antisupernaturalists : --

  If" the doctrines of Christianity consisted of inferences and constructions,if,

made by men's inductive faculties from data accessible to all mankind, -- as

the systems of natural science have been formed by the accumulated labour
of ages and the felicitous application of distinguished individuals ;-- in
consequence of their very nature as referring to things spiritual, existing in
320 ANTISUPERNATURALISTS.                                                                       [1828.

the future state, and incapable of being made subjects of investigation and

experiment, those doctrines were not such as must have been made known

by a positive intervention of the Deity, or they could never have been
known to man in the present state at all ; --if they were not contained in

written documents whose most prominent declarations are, that their contents
                              but are oracles of God, the word of Jehovah,
are not of men nor by   men,
what the Spirit of the        spake, what were given by His inspiration ;-- if
                        Lord

those declarations were not so inextricably interwoven with all the other
facts, doctrines, and precepts which they contain, that if the writers could
be mistaken in this respect, not the smallest reliance could be placed in them
in any other ;--if the hypothesis of the Antisupernaturalists (viz. that the
assertion of miracles, prophecy, and a positive communication from the

Deity, was made by Moses and the Prophets, by Jesus and the Apostles, as
a wise and benevolent, artifice  [ -- what a code of
                                                                                    morals'too would these
men setup!-- J to recommend      their pure religion                                to the general mass of

mankind, whose grosser minds arc not accessible to mere rational argument ;)

were not indisputably fatal to their integrity, and did not without the
possibility of escape, fix on them the charge of being deceivers the most

wilful, deliberate, and audacious that ever lived ;--if these were not the

broad facts of the case, then might Dr. Bretschneider's syncretism.be listened
to; then might we inquire whether, as he complacently aifirms, 'in both
pcarosdeuscaesrepligraiocutiscaflairtehligeixoins.t's, which determines the mind to obedience, and

   " But we detect the source of this dangerous and fatal error in the notion,
that there is so wide a difference between Religion and Theology, that the

former is quite independent of the latter. Here, however, we must acknow

ledge that, as in many other instances, the boundary line of truth and error
Ifis not to be drawn without care and accuracy. It may be a question solely
of words.  by Theology we understand the history and knowledge of

human representations and arrangements of doctrines and hypotheses, which

is the sense in which the modern divines of Germany commonly use the

word, the distinction may be sustained ; but if it bo so understood as to

imply, that the subjects of theological disquisition are pure theories, and

indifferent to the existence or the, exclusion of vital religion, we cannot but
regard it as a false and very pernicious way of speaking. True religion
must bo built upon true theology ; namely, the theology of the Scriptures,
received by right apprehension and sincere faith ; and true religion is no
other than the application of that theology to the affections of the mind and

othfegecnounidnuecht oolifnethses."l--ife,Ece.sRtaebvl.ish1i8n2g7.  in both    the  principles  and the practice
                                                                     Vol. ii.  pp.  393, 394.

   In the year 1828 Dr. Smith contributed to the Eclectic three
articles relating to the same subject as the foregoing: --they
were, however, brief, and in part explanatory of what he had
before written ; and also a review of Bussell's Works of the
Reformers. He also published this year the first edition of the
Work entitled, Four Discourses on the Sacrifice and Priesthood

of Jesus Christ, and on Atonement and Redemption,
;ET. 54.]  DEATH OF HIS MOTHER.  321

   Towards the close of 1826, information reached Homerton

of the serious illness of Dr. Smith's surviving parent; and
although she lived rather more than two years after that date,

her state of health appears to have been gradually declining

until her death, which occurred February 12, 1829. At the
earlier period, her son addressed to her the following Letter : --

   " My dear and honoured Mother, --From my brother's Letter received on
Tuesday night, we learn that you were the subject of serious illness. Though
we know not what may be the Divine pleasure as to the issue of this dis
pensation, it is a mercy beyond expression great that we can view it on
solid grounds, as holy, wise, and gracious in the counsels of God ; and as
also a fruit of his covenant-love towards yourself. From very early youth
to a good old age, He has enabled you to cast yourself upon His grace and
faithfulness in the Lord Jesus. He has supported you under heavy burdens,
He has carried you through many troubles, He has wiped away the tears

Iof many sorrows, He has answered your prayers, strengthened your faith,

and given you, do not doubt, a comforting and scriptural persuasion that
1neither things present nor things to come shall ever separate you from His
love in Christ Jesus our Lord.' The reflections of your mind upon past

Iexperiences of the work of the Holy Spirit in you, and of the dispensations

of Divine providence, are, trust, sweet and refreshing : but still more is
it so to renew your direct and daily actings of faith in earnest applications

to the blood and righteousness of the Saviour. It is by this communion of

the soul with HIM, that sin is subdued, grace is strengthened, darkness is

driven away, and holy consolation is enjoyed.
   " Our earnest and daily prayer is, that you may be favoured with a large

enjoyment of those blessings, so long as it shall please the God of grace to
prolong your sojourning in the valley of tribulations ; and that wThen He
shall see meet to call you hence, it may be to that heavenly rest and joy in
which, absent from a trying world and a frail decaying body, you shall be
present with the Lord, shall be perfectly conformed to Him, shall behold
His glory, love and enjoy Him without a cloud of sin or sorrow, and
shall be for ever with Him. . . . That the God of all grace may fill
your mind with all joy and peace in believing, and make you more than a
conqueror through Him that hath loved you, is the earnest prayer of,

                              " My very dear Parent, your affectionate Son."

   In April 1828, Dr. Smith embraced the opportunity of an

ordination service which he had to attend a few miles from
Sheffield, to spend two or three weeks in that town and its
neighbourhood. He thus had the gratification of seeing more
of his mother, then in the eighty-third year of her age, than
he had been able to do for several years before ; and this must
have been a great solace to his mind, when early in 1829 he

received the tidings of her death. In reply he wrote thus
to Mr. Leader, his brother-in-law :--

                                                                                               Y
32-2      PUBLICATIONS PRESIDENT EDWARDS.  [l829.

                                                               " Homerton, Feb. 14, 1829.
" My dear Brother, --We have just received your Letter announcing, as
you remark, stroke upon stroke. Yet each of these three solemn events we
have been long expecting. . . . With regard to our late justly beloved
mother, we cannot but discern the manifestation of abundant mercy. The
evening of her life, through the divine blessing upon your and our dear
Sister's affectionate attentions, has been serene and comfortable. While
nature was declining, she has been happily exempted from the sufferings
which many undergo : and the closing scene was eminently merciful.

  I. . . From the little that know of her earliest religious experience,
I think it probable that she has been a disciple of the Lord Jesus fully
Iseventy years. Very many have been her trials and afflictions : but they

had all a beneficial effect, and have not a doubt that she walked habitually
with God, and enjoyed the sanctifying consolations of His gracious presence.
          iwsisenionwcdaeniendfmin'oibtseltelsyssaebtdeis'tftaaecsrthotahrivalyinngtsoa' hydaievtdehain't cto'hnteotiLndoueredpda.'ritnWatenhdeareftloepsehb,ce'u--·liwaarintlyhd
Of her
Christ'

that she

called to gratitude upon all these accounts. . . . Let us bless God that

we had such a Mother, and so long continued to us : and our children that

Ithey had such a Grandmother, who so earnestly prayed for them, and

the benefit of whose prayers, trust, they will for ever reap. To dear
Robert this must be a very pungent stroke. But let him and us reflect with

thankfulness, that he was enabled to show such habitual respect and duteous

Ikindness as he did. It will always be a comfortable topic of recollection ;

and assure myself that the disposition will be confirmed in all the feelings
and exercises of filial duty to his Parents.. --Thus, my dear brother and
sister, the Lord speaks in the language of corrective admonition and con
solatory encouragement to us all. May we hear the voice !"

   The year 1829 was probably the most laborious of any in
Dr. Smith's life, for the amount and variety of his hterary
works.

   Early in the year he prepared an Introductory Essay to
President Edwards's Narrative of the Revival of Religion in
New England. This was published in that valuable series of
works on the same plan which issued from the press of Mr.

Collins, of Glasgow, a few years ago. A more complete

agreement between two persons, both in sentiments and in
order of piety, than that which existed between the President
of Princeton College and the Tutor of Homerton, can scarcely
be imagined. Not, indeed, that the latter is to be compared
with the former, or would ever have thought of being compared
with him, in the metaphysical tendency and force of his intel
lect : but in the results and in a large measure the methods of
argument adopted by the great American, and pre-eminently in
depth and intensity of devotional character, Dr. Smith might
JET. 55.] SECOND ED. OF THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.            323

in strictest equity of human judgment be placed by the side
of Jonathan Edwards. By one very important quality the
productions of the two Authors are distinguished in nearly an
equal degree : that is, by the constant prevalence of a deep
tone of piety, the presence of which can be distinctly recog
nized even when religion is not formally introduced ;--just as
though the common air were enriched with some precious

odour.

   In February Dr. Smith preached the Monthly Lecture,

which was afterwards published ; and the second edition of
which came out in 1831. This was On the Principles of Inter

pretation as applied to the Prophecies.

   Towards the close of the year   a second edition of  ethnelaSrgceridp."
ture Testimony was published; --"  much improved and

The sale of the first, within about seven years from the com

pletion of the work, shows the value in which it was held by that
rather limited circle of readers to whom such a production would

be an object of interest. Gradually it became more and more a

matter of knowledge, that the utmost reliance could be placed on

the Author's statements and information, the soundness of his

learned criticism, the safety of his unexaggerated inferences, and

the fidelity, measured dignity, and force of his appeals. And as
without having the dry, technical form of a word-book, the Scrip.
Tes. had all the concise fulness of Encyclopaedia, in regard to

the manifold leading or subsidiary questions which in early or
modern times have been brought into this vital part of theo

logical discussion, persons whose views were unsettled on the

subject as a whole, or on any of its branches, would be ready

to seek his aid; and even many firm believers of the truth

which he defended, would be curious to see on the one hand

the concessions he made to his opponents, and on the other

the fresh acquisitions, either as materials or as arguments, by
which the work was understood to be distinguished.

  A comparison of the preface to the second edition with that

of the first, will show a very different state of feeling in the
Author at the two periods. When the first was published, he

had not only to lament difficulties which had occasioned delay
long beyond what he had ever anticipated, but the loss of his

beloved son, Philip Henry, spread a gloom over his prospects

                                                        y2
324  SECOND ED. OF THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.  [l820.

which was at the time too dense to allow him to trace the
success of his work in the public estimation. Nor can it be
concealed that, had his personal circumstances just then been
of a less cheerless kind, he could scarcely have been free from
apprehension respecting the result. His publications had
seldom gone beyond the limits of a single sermon at a time ;

and although his contributions as a Beviewer had secured for
him the full confidence of many men of learning and judg
ment, nothing certain could be affirmed, perhaps not even
anticipated, respecting the sale, and in that sense the success,

of two large volumes of nearly 1300 pages. In addition to the

far greater wealth of the Clerical and Lay Members of the
Established Church --as compared with the Dissenters -- the

mere number of Clergymen constitutes a very wide field for
 the circulation of any important theological work issuing from
 Oxford or Cambridge. Now Dr. Smith belonged to the smaller

 and poorer Body; he was also a most decided vindicator of
 then- distinctive principles, which he had advocated in the
pulpit and by the press. When, therefore, a few years after the
 completion of the first edition, the sale evinced its acceptance;

 and the numerous testimonies of competent judges in Letters
 and Beviews left no room for doubt respecting its right to be
placed in a high place of authority upon the most important of

all questions, the learned Author--notwithstanding his great
diffidence in regard to his own productions --could not avoid

 the use of a tone and style of language in the preface to the

 second edition which is marked by great firmness of feeling, as
 though he could now allow himself to be sure that the study
 and prayers and vigilance of years had not been in vain.

    He thus writes : --

   I" In again bringing before the public the work on which rest my chief

 hope of usefulness, my first duty is a humble and grateful acknowledgment
 to the Almighty and most Merciful One, for the degree of acceptance with
 which it has been favoured. That the faith of some Christians has been
 strengthened, and that others have been preserved from falling into the
 system of error whose plausibility had nearly imposed upon them, cannot

 but be to me a subject of the most encouraging reflection. --It would be

Iaffectation to say, that deem this book a small and feeble contribution to
I Ithe cause of religious knowledge. Had thought it such, should have
Ibeen highly culpable for troubling the public with it. In the subject which

 it treats, was led by personal circumstances and connections to take much
 interest, from an early period of life. Its composition and improvement,
 notwithstanding many interruptions, have been a principal occupation
JET. 55.] SECOND ED. OF THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.                 325

during many of my best years. It was begun with an apprehensiveness
against irrational prepossessions, over-statement of premises, and excess in

conclusions ; amounting to jealousy, and by some censured as a blameable

Itimidity. Of this caution, however, even if it has been redundant, do not
repent. In proportion to the solicitude and tardiness of the process, has
Ibeen the satisfactory character of the result.
                                                 should be faithless to the
Imost serious convictions, were not to profess my belief that these volumes
contain a body of proof, not invented by an erring mortal, but elicited from

the records of Divine Revelation, in favour of the ancient and common faith

of Christians ; a body of proof which can never be overthrown, and w hich
time, so far from impairing, will but the more confirm and extend." -- And

Ithen towards the close :--" It has been to me a reason for deep gratitude, that

in the vigorous revisal of these volumes have found not a single argument

Ithat could retract ; while to many, continued investigation has enabled

me to give accessions of strength. This edition is increased by more than

ponaerafgoruarpthhs.o"f new matter ; besides innumerable modifications of words and

In the interval between the two editions, the Author had

very greatly extended his knowledge of German literature ;

the fruit of which was used freely in enriching the volumes
published in 1829. Just at the time when the mental produc

tions of that country were beginning to attract general atten
tion in England ; and hopes were excited in some quarters and

fears in others that the result would be unfavourable to Chris

tianity, Dr. Smith was ready with passages from a variety
of German writers ; -- some of them showing in a striking
manner, how the truths for which lie contended might be
served by the testimony of opponents-- and some, how those

truths had acquired the aid of friends whose names were until
then strange to English ears. Bertholdt --Bretschneider --De
Wette -- Gesenius --Heinrichs --Bohr--Stolz --Storr --Tholuck
--Wegscheider -- and others are not to be met with in the first

edition ; nor was Michaelis used so freely in that as in the
                                                 Michaelis) --a
second;  and    Seiler (contemporary with                         name
         great                                   largely quoted
held in         honour by Dr. Smith --is                         in the

second, but not at all in the first. Over and above the actual

produce of his labours in this comparatively new field, Dr.

Smith's example in cultivating it as he did clearly proved that
if he could not, on the one hand, join with those who were ready
wholly to decry the study of German Authors, -- as though it
were a sure inlet to irreligion and scepticism; he did not, on
the other, lose his self-possession, -- as though on a sudden he

had become sensible that he was in the presence of an all but
326 LETTER FROM DR. TURTON.                    [l829.

superhuman power, before which his intellect must surrender

its independence, and work --if it worked at all--in fetters.

While however his manliness and just Christian courage --based

upon his deepest religious convictions-- are obvious, every com

petent Beader of the Scrip. Tes. must be sensible of the great
loss which the argument --not the doctrine itself-- would have

sustained, if this new field of criticism had not just then

been thoroughly explored by the Author.

In 1829 Dr. Smith contributed several very valuable articles

to the Eclectic. The first, of nearly twenty pages in length,

was a review of Schleiermacher On the Gospel of Luke. In the

following month an article of about the same length appeared

relating to the Controversy on 1 John v. 7. The text-book for
the latter was the then recently published Vindication of the
Literary Character of the late Professor Porson; by Crito
Cantabrigiensis ; since known to have been Dr. Turton, at

that time Begius Professor of Divinity in the University of
Cambridge, and now Bishop of Ely. How the review was

appreciated by the learned Author of the Vindication, will be

seen from the following passage of a Letter written by him to
Dr. Smith :--

I" Bev. Sir,-- Unless                       "Cambridge, 11 June, 1829.
                                  very much mistake, Crito Cantabrig

ioefnsPiosrsiosn,in' dinebttheed  to you for   a Critique on his ' Vindication
                                  last number  of the Eclectic Beview: -- a cri

tique, the perusal of which could not but afford him the highest
satisfaction. Allow me therefore--laying aside my nominis
umbra --to express in my real name my sincere thanks for the

attention with which you have perused that work, and the very

Iable and flattering manner in which you have pointed out its
merits.  had previously seen some extremely favourable

notices of the Work in the Publications of the day ; but yours

Iis the only account of it which praises it for properties which

if have fulfilled my own intentions, constitute its principal
value -- the statement and elucidation of some of those grand

Iprinciples which ought never to be lost sight of in Sacred criti
cism.    also endeavoured to render a trite subject interesting,

by a considerable variety of literary information ; and the lan

Iguage you have used encourages me to hope that have in

some measure succeeded."
JET. 59.] SHEPPARD'S DIVINE ORIGIN OF CHRISTIANITY.                          327

                                                                               ·

   The next article was an able and commendatory review of a
work on the Divine Origin of Christianity, by John Sheppard,

Esq. of Frome. A passage of exquisite beauty at the close of

the paper deserves to be quoted, for the sake of the valuable

yet by no means common-place sentiments which it conveys ;
and also as illustrative of Dr. Smith's nice discrimination of
judgment upon points respecting which positive information is
slender, and where the temptation to indulge the fancy or to

speak in a dogmatic style is great. Having suggested that a
protest should be entered against " the malevolent assertion of

Celsuigsn, othbalet,''   Jesus was, as they     say, little    of  stature,  unsightly,
and                      " he then proceeds     thus :--

"Not that we deem the glory of Christ to have consisted in external
                                                any mode of ' knowing Christ after the
bfleesahu,'tyw; hnicoht  that we would  foster  countenance to a worldly taste ; not that
                         would be only  giving

we doubt the influence of labour and hardship, poverty, sorrow, and
manifold suffering, in producing a marked effect upon the limbs and
                                                               we charge his enemies with
countenance              of the afflicted Nazarene ; not that  they said to a man of thirty-
a very gross             exaggeration of appearances, when

four, ' Thou art not yet fifty years old not that we dare affirm the figure
and features of Jesus to have been east in the most perfect mould of
symmetry and beauty :-- but simply that we acknowledge the obligation of
seeking for truth upon all subjects, small as well as great; and when

certainty is confessedly not attainable, of being satisfied with reasonable

probability. Now let us attend in this surely not unlawful or uninteresting
exercise of conjecture, to the glimmerings of evidence and the results of

theoretical but impartial considerations. We look upon it as altogether

alien from the meaning of the prophecy, to understand Isaiah liii. 2, 3, as at
all a description of the bodily form or external manners of the Redeemer.
The design is, we conceive, to describe in the prophet's style of poetical

amplification, the objections of the Jews and of unbelievers universally, to

the spiritual glories of the Messiah, his holy character, his expiating suffer
ings, his grace to the unworthy, and his divine authority; -- objections at

once false and impious. Those who understand the principles of physiology
will admit the incontestable truth of the assertion, that the miraculous pro

duction of the human existence of our Lord by the immediate power of the
Holy Ghost, did of physical necessity preclude the causes of formative defect
and imperfection ; though the corporal frame thus produced, would "most
probably be extremely delicate, and endowed with an unrivalled exquisite-
ness of sensibility. There are some passages in the Evangelists which seem

to imply, that the aspect and attitudes of Jesus bore a dignity and meek
majesty in such insuppressible manifestations, as often struck even his
enemies with admiration and awe. And it can admit of no doubt, upon

some of the most certain principles of human nature, that the holy affections

of our Lord's mind, existing in absolute perfection, never dormant or
remittent, never interrupted by irregularity, or inadvertence, or successful
328 LETTER TO A FRIEND.                                    [1839'

temptation, but always intense and active, must have given to the entire
action of nerves and muscles, which produces physiognomical expression,
a character pure, sweet, and majestic, such as never belonged or could belong
to any sinful child of man. Add to all this, the lofty communion which the
                                       the perfections of  Deity, and his con
soul of Jesus  perpetually held with   with that Infinite  Essence, -- and what
sciousness of  his own personal union
must have been the effect?-- We are incapable of appreciating it. It
required to be modified and subdued by the deep abasement to which He

stooped for the sins of the world, or human gaze could not have endured
it."-- .Ec. Rev. 1829, vol. ii. pp. 219, 220.

   To keep pubhc attention directed to the state of religion on

the Continent, he contributed a paper on the Dissenters in
Switzerland, which appeared in the same widely-circulated

journal.

He also prepared for the press and gave his warm recom

mendation to an American work, Dr. Henry's Letters to a

Friend, intended to relieve the Difficulties of  an Anxious Inquirer.
The Eeviewer of this publication in the          Eclectic says -- " the

religious public are laid under fresh obligations to the learned

Editor, who, amid his multiplied avocations, academic, pastoral,

and hterary, has found time to discharge this humbler office of
kindness and usefulness."

Notwithstanding the amount of labour which he thus acconv

plished in a single year, Dr. Smith was able to spend part of

the College vacation at East Bourne. The activity and holy

direction of his thoughts, during this season of so-called leisure

and recreation, will appear from the following passages from a

Letter which he wrote to a friend while there.

...I " My dear Sir,  In this place, with Mrs. Smith and my daughters,
am enjoying a few weeks of retirement from the never-ceasing urgencies
Iof my station at home all the year round. But would consider that these
favourable means of recruiting health and gathering new strength are not
given us for our own sakes, or for the gratification of any selfish and earthly
desires ; but that we may have more motives and stronger means for growing
in inward holiness and performing the actual service of our Lord.--No man
has a right to live to himself, and no real Christian wishes to live to himself.

True honour and conscientious satisfaction can be enjoyed only in the con
sciousness of a humble, sincere, governing principle of dedication to God
through the Divine Mediator, and of employing all our faculties, time, and
opportunities as means by him entrusted to us, and conferring upon us the
happiness of honouring Him
JET. 50.]              LETTER TO HIS DAUGHTERS.                   329

" This is indeed the state of mind which we should above all cultivate.
But it can only result from the union of the two great principles of the

Christian faith, Christ for us, and Christ in us. By the former we rely
upon the Deity, condescension, sufferings, death and righteousness of the

LoEn Jesus for our acceptance before that holy and awful tribunal before
which we must very soon appear : but it is by the latter only, by the work
of the sanctifying Spirit of Christ, enlightening, humbling, and purifying

the soul, that we can enjoy the evidence of an interest in the former class
of blessings. In the word of God, and by the very nature and necessity of
the case, these two cannot be separated : but our corrupt and too carnal

hearts are ever seeking to effect such separation. Yet it is not the reality of
either the one or the other that can subsist apart ; it can be only a resem
blance. Such an artificial resemblance, in the one case, is a subtile An-
tinomianism ;--in the other a plausible enthusiasm.
                                                        how difficult it is to
avoid the evil, on the right hand and on the left ! What need have we for
constant prayer, watchfulness, and the life of faith on the Perfect Saviour !"

Towards the close of the year, when Dr. Smith's daughters

were from home for a time, his parental solicitude was expressed
                              :--
Iin                    lines
"thAesfoylloouwianrge  now,   my   dear  children,  so  much the  mistresses

of your own actions, do most earnestly desire and trust that
you will labour to discipline your own hearts to the closest

accordance, the most prompt, the most entire and unhesitating

obedience to the will and authority of Jehovah. Too often,

even where we may hope that there is the reality of religion,

Ithere is a great deficiency in particular branches of Christian

morality ; and in none, fear, more than in the habit of self-

government and self-control. Yet this is a habit of the first

necessity to every believer, in order to holy consistency of
character and growth in grace. Without Beligion itself
it I a

                                                                                     '

                                                                    it,
                                                                              is

                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                     !

                                                                                         is
   deformed, sickly, stunted plant: our usefulness on earth,
and our happiness in heaven will be exceedingly impaired.

0, beseech you, think much upon this great subject Let
    be daily pressing upon your hearts. Be always aiming at

twhai"stcHhbflouewlsnseesdsso, laetamtannidnlmysetrmnetonmuooefuntshoouelsyxerStyieoolnuf.-rcosnitLtuoraootliko, ntboyJefasiuthsB,.e'pmraoyveerd,

from parental inspection, advice, and monition; left to your

own will and guidance, and exposed to the never-ceasing arti
fices of evil spirits, -- 0, my dear children, be constantly and to
the highest degree importunate in prayer for self-knowledge,
prudence, discrimination, humility, and the life of faith."
          CHAPTEB XIX.

DEATH OP REV. W. WALFORD'S DAUGHTER -- THE FATHER'S MENTAL
      PROSTRATION--DR. SMITH AND MR. WALFORD--ANSWER TO TAYLOR'S
      'MANIFESTO' --SERMON ON THE HOLY SPIRIT --ON PROPHETIC INTER
      PRETATION --TRACT ON CHURCH DISCIPLINE -- ABSTINENCE FROM FER
      MENTED LIQUORS -- COLLEGE DIARY -- HIS DAUGHTER, SARAH EDWARDS
      SMITH-- HER DEATH --ADVICE TO A SON --DEATH OF MRS. PYE SMITH
      -- LETTER OF DR. SMITH ON THAT EVENT -- FUNERAL SERMON FOR

       DR. ROBERT WINTER.

   In October, 1829, an event occurred in the family of the
Bev. William Walford -- who had been for nearly sixteen years
the Classical Tutor at Homerton, --which not only affected
Dr. Smith's feelings deeply at the time, but which, by pros
trating the energy of his Colleague, opened the way for a
change, and indeed for a succession of changes in the Institu

tion, which called into exercise in one way and another the
varied resources of the Theological Tutor up to the date of
his own retirement from that scene of labour. This event was
the death of Mr. Walford's only daughter, who was removed

after a comparatively short illness in the eighteenth year of
her age.* They who have read Mr. Walford's Autobiography
will not easily forget the account which the Author gives ofthe

* This young friend, who became a member of the church under Dr. Smith's
care in May, 1828, secured, by the high order of her piety and mental culture,
the warm  affection of the Pastor,
          on the death of Dear      Eamndm, ian,d"eefdro, mof  all who   knew    her.    The funeral
sermon "                                                       Phil. i.  23, is  still  remembered

with great interest by some who heard it. From the notes kindly lent by Mr.
Henry Butt, regret may well be felt that such an outline was not filled up by
the preacher, and 'published for the general good. Heart and mind acted in
full and deep concord on that occasion ; not unlike what is found in the noblest
of John Howe's Funeral Discourses.--Ed.
JET. 56.]  DR. SMITH AND MR. WALFORD.  331

crushing effect of this bereavement. After having struggled
in vain to shake off the heavy mental depression, he was
obliged to resign his office at Homerton; and to seek-- not,
indeed, the solace, for that was quite beyond his reach, but--

the seclusion of private life. Years had to be passed by him
in a gloom which was rarely broken by a single ray of light,
until at length his friends were ready to fear that the darkness
would never be dispersed except by the dawn of the eternal

day. With the true and touching fidelity of a Christian wife,

Mrs. Walford was ever found by his side, as one looking
out for a change in the scene ; nor did she wait in vain,

although he had given up all hope. At the end of five years --

who can estimate their length to the feelings of such sufferers ?

--Mr. Walford was permitted to emerge from the deep

shadows. He resumed the use of his books and his pen,
and could once more enter upon duties and relish joys as
though the wearisome parenthesis had never intervened.

   As the blight of the bereavement occurred in the middle of
the College Session, temporary arrangements were at once

adopted, and were subsequently carried on for several months,

to afford time for every remedial measure to be tried with
a view to Mr. Walford's restoration to his usual health. But
on the failure of this hope, his resignation was reluctantly

accepted, and the Bev. Daniel Godfrey Bishop, who had been

educated at Homerton, became the Classical Tutor. The

Committee wisely availed themselves of this change, to in

troduce a housekeeper to whom was entrusted the domestic

affairs of the Academic family ; so that from this time the
Eesident Tutor was freed from a set of cares which --as we
have seen--had often been a source of perplexity, and which
were not exactly compatible with either the duties, the just

influence, or the dignity of the Tutorial office.

    No one of Dr. Smith's other colleagues remained half the

length of time at Homerton that Mr. Walford did ; and if the

latter had not been overtaken by so severe a trial, the proba

bility is that these two Tutors would have continued together
quite up to the evening of their lives. Very unlike as they
were in many respects, the combined influence of their char
acters, their style of piety, their manners, their methods of
teaching, was felt by not a few of the Students to be exceed
ingly salutary. In each there was a very sincere and generous
332 answer to taylor's "                         [lsso,

solicitude for the welfare of all the pupils -- a remarkable free
dom from partiahties or prejudices in relation to particular
individuals --nor was any attempt made by either of these truly
honourable men, to impair the reputation and weight of the
other among the Academic Body. They were eminently such
men as could with the highest advantage be both respected

and loved ; and the fidelity, the friendship, with which they
clung to the Students ever after they had completed a reput
able course at the College, could not fail to deepen the interest
with which they were regarded while living, and as long as

any remain who knew their worth the memory of each will be
fragrant.

It was in the year 1826, that some persons assuming to

themselves the name of The Christian Evidence Society, under

the leadership of the Bev. Bobert Taylor, A.B., issued a hand

bill called, as briefly mentioned in a former page, their Mani
festo. This was addressed " To all Clergymen, Ministers, and

Preachers of the Gospel,"--- to certify that at the meetings

of the above society, which had been holden weekly for several
months, it had been decided by an " almost unanimous vote " !
that " the arguments hitherto adduced in defence of Chris
tianity are sophistical and false"! -- and further, that "the

Eeverend Secretary of the Society hath in refutation thereof
fully and unanswerably demonstrated that-- The Scriptures

of the New Testament were not written by the Persons whose
names they bear : that -- They did not appear in the times

to which they refer : that--The Persons of whom they treat
never existed : that -- The Facts which they relate never hap

          -- Upon this a challenge was put forth, summoning all

Christian Ministers, to go and argue the points at the Paul's

Head in Cateaton Street ; or to submit to the imputation that

their cause is a bad one, and that Christianity is incapable of ra

tional defence ! And, further, with a view to take advantage of

the neglect or contempt which so silly a vaunting would be likely
to receive from the pubhc at large, the projectors resolved
on securing that capital fulcrum for their purpose which would
be supplied--first, by an ostentatious distribution of their 'Mani

festo ' at the doors of places of worship and at public meetings
for religious objects ;-- and then, by the anticipated indifference
Itwith which the whole scheme would be treated.
                                                 was a sin-
JET. 50.]  ANSWER TO TAYLOR'S " MANLFESTO.                                    333

gular mark of extreme infatuation --the very fanaticism of fool
ishness --that any number of persons could seriously believe
themselves to be in the possession of evidence or arguments

unanswerably demonstrative against Christianity, and yet that

people generally could not be got even to listen to what they
had to say, unless specially urged to do so by a handbill.
Surely, it was not by such a method of puffing that Chris

tianity secured, or that it retains its hold of the public mind.

   One of these challenges came into the possession of the
Bev. John Blackburn, who at once, as the vigilant Secre

tary of the London Christian Instruction Society, called the
attention of his Brethren to this new mode of spreading in

fidelity. Dr. Smith's sermon on our Lord's Besurrection, in

1as8s2e6r,tioconnstaionfedthseom' eMpaansifseasgteos.'refeTrorinhgimto  and refuting the bold
                                                                        therefore, he being

already prepared to meet the danger, or rather the menace,

application was made for an answer to the mendacious hand

bill ; to be pubhshed by the Christian Instruction Society, and
sold at a low price to secure wider circulation. He comphed
promptly with the request ; and not content with the produc

tion as it appeared in a first edition in 1826, he went on add

ing to its value until in the fourth, in 1830, the work exceeded
a hundred pages in length.*

Viewed in relation to Christianity as a whole, the Answer

deserves a high place among productions of far larger size on

the Christian Evidences. But it had at the time this special

recommendation, that it took up in detail the several allega
tions of Taylor against the genuineness ofthe Sacred Writings.

The odd stories which he had scraped together and mangled ;

the bold assertions in which he dealt ; the sweeping inferences
which could not stoop to be exact; the unfair quotation of

authorities; and his manifest ignorance of much that he pre
tended to know ; -- were pointed out with a care and singleness

of purpose, which could not be overlooked even by his partisans ;

clearly showing in Dr. Smith an honesty of heart and an
amount of real learning fairly applied, which if the moral

qualities of an advocate say anything in favour of his cause,

must have placed Christianity in a noble position as contrasted

* The Third and Fourth editions include a Rejoinder by Dr. Smith to a
                  RBeelvig. ioRno.b' e--rtEdTa. ylor's  entitled--' Syntagma
pamphlet of the                                                               of the Evidences
of the Christian
334 answer to Taylor's "  [i830.

 with the pretensions of the infidel ' Manifesto.' Should similar
 blunders still be committed, or similar assertions and impressions

 at any time prevail, the Ansiver will still be as suitable to the
 occasion as it was acknowledged and felt to be at first. Indeed

 scarcely any one, whether he has few doubts or none on the

 subject of Christianity, can read it attentively without great

 advantage ; for by annihilating the specific objections to which

 the prominence was then given, it not only sets them aside,
 but shows at the same time how easily all such objections may

 be obviated, when once they are sifted by a Christian scholar.

    A large amount of information is conveyed in the Answer.
 For, being fully aware how important it was on many accounts

 to observe as great an economy of space as possible, the facts
 which relate to Taylor's multifarious assertions are ranged in
 the closest manner ; and the inferences from them -- now show

 ing the gross ignorance, and now the fraudulent dealing of the
 infidel writer -- are brief but decisive. There are also some

peculiarities which are rarely if ever met with elsewhere in Dr.
 Smith's works, --there are epithets and phrases which imply a

 strong sense of repugnance against the Reverend opponent of
 Christianity, as though he was not to be regarded as an honest-

minded man who was really seeking after truth, though for a
 time under error. And can any impartial person, after having
 carefully read the publications on both sides, fail to perceive a
 wide contrast between the two ; not simply with regard to the
conclusions arrived at, but in those important qualities of moral
integrity in the pursuit and exact honesty in the use of materials,

without which argument, and evidence, and even demonstration
are no better than ' a delusion, a mockery, and a snare ?' Now
Dr. Smith was extremely sensitive on a point of this kind. He
could readily bear with opinions which differed from his own
whenever the sincerity of an opponent was evinced by his fair
dealing with the questions at issue ; and even his style of

remark and rejoinder, strong as it might be, was obviously

courteous. When, however, there was culpable remissness and

negligence ; and still more when the will was employed to warp

and garble and pervert testimony, then his patience--great as
it was --would give some brief signs of being put to a heavier

strain than a man of his known integrity of purpose could
endure ; and his temper would glow with an indignation which
had for its object--not, indeed, the errors as he might deem
JET. 56.]  ANSWER TO TAYLOR'S "MANIFESTO."                335

them of his opponent, but--the mental or moral obliquity in

which they had originated.
   As an example of his style in this particular, and also as

showing the sort of Author whom he had to cope with, a single
paragraph may be quoted from the preface to the fourth edition

of the Answer. The preface is confined to a work then recently

published by Mr. Taylor, under the title of The Diegesis ;
which he describes as " a Discovery of the Origin, Evidences,

and Early History    of Christianity, never yet   before   or else
where so fully and  faithfully set forth." And            this new
                                                 yet of

and rare explorer of the records of the past, Dr. Smith thus
writes :--

"Notwithstanding Mr. T.'s multifarious collection of passages

from authors ancient and modern, and all the malevolent artifice

with which he perverts them, it is abundantly evident that of

sound and accurate knowledge, he possesses but a scanty share.

His frequent mistakes in the orthography of proper names, and

other errors as to matters of common knowledge, mark the

poverty of his information. He takes for granted, and upon

the assumption he builds no small abuse, that Dr. Gilbert

Burnet the Bishop of Salisbury, and Dr. Thomas Burnet the

Master of the Charter House, were one and the same person.

In like manner he identifies Dr. Bichard Bentley ( --for calling
whom the Prince of Critics he takes occasion, by the way, to
hurl his shafts at the writer of these pages !-- ) who has been

dead almost a century, with a gentleman of our own time, the dis

tinguished mathematician and astronomer, and an ornament of

the Asiatic Society at Calcutta, Mr. John Bentley. Yet this

scorner of Bichard Bentley, forsooth, talks with the most com

fortable complacency of the Golden Verses as an unquestioned
work of Pythagoras : and Dr. Watts's popular translation of a

few lines from that ancient poem, Mr. T., with the same

promptitude, ascribes to a worthy schoolmaster at Edmonton.

How wondrously qualified, then, is this erudite gentleman to

move a question against the genuineness of the passage in
Tacitus relating to the Christians, and the two Epistles of
                    In this hopeful adventure he long and
Pliny and Trajan.
boldly flounders."

   Several Letters were sent to Dr. Smith, speaking in high
terms of the work. " The answer is complete "--said Henry
336          sermon on the holy SPIRIT.    [l881.

Drummond, Esq.,    M.P.,  of Albury--"     bmuut sTtafylyloartishnigohtewr ogrtahmye.o"f
your putting your         in rest: you
                   lance

     alatteCaEmevb.ridHgueg,hwrJaotme,es"  Bose, at that time Christian Advo
IThe                                         have read your pamphlet without

cate
a moment's delay, and thank you very warmly for it. It is

Ipowerful, clear, and indignant as it ought to be. The popular

part think most important, and rejoice to hear that so large
a number of copies of so valuable and well-judged a reply to
Taylor's vile abominations have been
                                           But the

following testimony is still more gratifying ; and it may be but
a sample of a rich harvest that will come to light when both

sower and reaper will be permitted to rejoice together. A few

months ago, one of Dr. Smith's sons called on a Gentleman

who has for many years been most efficiently occupied in

       the knowledge and                   love of the Gospel, who said --
     tell you how much                     owe to your venerable Father.
I I"prommoutisntg
             to Taylor's
His Answer   conversion,   Manifesto       whaaspptyheemfirpsltoylminekntisn."  the
chain of my               and present

    The printed sermon on The Personality and Divinity of the
Holy Spirit, was preached by Dr. Smith as a Monthly Lecture
in January, 1831. The Author first considers the Origin ofthe
term Spirit of God; --secondly the Meaning of the term, and
other expressions referring to the same object, as they occur
in the Old Testament ;--and finally the Doctrine of the New
Testament concerning the Holy Spirit. Under the second

branch, there is a very careful distribution of the passages in
the Old Testament relating to the subject, arranged under a

series of subdivisions ; so that the reader can find almost at
a glance any particular text, with its meaning assigned to it
according to the best judgment which a thoroughly learned

and devout Bible-Student could form. A similar distribution

is applied to the New Testament passages, which are arranged

under the three heads of--Personality --Deity -- and such as are
used in the way of implication, allusion, or indirect reference. --

One of the Appendices to the Scripture Testimony is On the
Doctrine of the Holy Spirit, in which the Author has pursued
the same plan as that adopted in the sermon ; but the latter

is much more extended, and the details as well as the inferences

are much fuller, so that if the sermon could be printed in the

future editions of the larger work its value would be enhanced.
JET. 57.]  SERMON ON PROPHETIC INTERPRETATION.                   337

The second and ' improved ' edition of the sermon On the

Principles of Interpretation as applied to the Prophecies of
Holy    Scripture, was published  ptrheilsecyteioanr.;"  It has  been well
                                                                  discourse
called   "a learned academical                           such a

as would suit a theological class room, and many of the

materials of which had, no doubt, undergone frequent revision

for that particular use. The author proposes "the following

as a just description of Prophecy. --It is a declaration made by

a creature, whether human or of a superior order, under the

inspiration and commission of the Omniscient God, relating to

an event or series of events, which have not yet taken place,

which could not have been certainly foreknown by any science

or wisdom of man, but which will take place in the visible dis
pensations of the Divine government in the present state."

A brief account is given of the several prophets among the

Jews ; with the leading subjects of their respective writings.
Twelve ' Bules ' are then laid down, to guide students of this

part of the Divine Word; several of these are illustrated by

examples, and in passing along cautions are interspersed

against various ways in which they are violated. Many pages
of Notes are added, the most important of which were designed

to counteract the objections of the German Neologians against

the Genuineness of the Book of Daniel, and some parts of the

prophecy of Isaiah.

   Thus in about seventy pages the Student of the prophetic
Scriptures has at command a very carefully prepared set of

suggestions and principles, which will aid him to distinguish
between things that differ; --a part of a true system of inter
pretation which can never be neglected without danger to the
coherency of Divine teaching, and a positive diminution of the

matter revealed. They, however, who feel an interest in Prophecy
chiefly on account of the scope which they think is afforded
by it to settle the time and manner in which certain great

events are to be realized in the future history of the Church

and the world, will find no encouragement here for their par

ticular theories. Yet even they may derive benefit from the

Eules which are laid down ; and especially from the example

of the Author in stating his views in a style so remote from
dogmatism. Where the subject-matter required, no teaching
could be more clear and conclusive than his. But on questions

about which moral certainty was not, as he thought, attainable,
338 TRACT ON CHURCH DISCIPLINE.                             [l«31.

or not with the existing means of information ; there, although

he had his opinions, and could state and defend them if occa

sion called for he was careful to mark the distinction by his
            if
manner of treating the subject; and by doing this, he un
                 it,
doubtedly placed the great articles of his creed in stronger

relief, than he had manifested positive tone of speaking
                                                 :a
in regard to points about which good men widely differ. a

   On the one side of this question, learned Episcopalian
correspondent wrote to him thus -- " What injury has been
done to Beligion by the rashness of those who pretend, from

Scripture, to foretel events, and assign the times of their

coming to pass               trust that your work on the Interpretation
            :
                         !                means of checking this deplorable in
                                          side, the late Eev. Edward Bickersteth
                 I
foaftuPartoipohne."cyOmn atyhebeotthheer
wrote thus -- " My dear Dr. Pye Smith, --Always believing you

to love the Lord Jesus in sincerity, could not but entertain
and continue affectionate feelings towards you;--though we
                                                 I
                                                         I
differ on some important theological truths, trust our one

object  is  the exalting of Jesus, and the honouring and con

fessing his truth for the salvation of our fellow-men.      have
                                                            II

                                                                  it
                                                                                  ;
indeed read carefully what you have published on prophetical

interpretation, and am only the more confirmed in what hold

but  Lwohrod.s"hall  decide  till the     great  day  ?    We must leave to
the

   At the request of Society which was formed for the circulaa
tion of small treatises respecting the principles, constitution,
and history of the Christian Church, Dr. Smith contributed   a
tract on Church Discipline according to the Authority of Christ,
Revealed in the Neiv Testament, which forms No. 20, of the
Library of Ecclesiastical Knowledge. Scarcely any person of
any Eeligious Body, nay, scarcely could an infidel complain of
the principles here laid down for regulating the affairs of

community united to carry out among themselves, and with no
external aid whatever, set of views which they are supposed

to hold in common. All the means to which the Author gives

the sanction of his matured judgment are moral; and the spirit
in which they are to be used such and such only as comports
with the meekness and gentleness of Christ. The Tract well

deserves wide circulation among Pastors and members of

Christian Churches generally. It shows that the question
                             a

                                     is

                                                                                                                 a
JET. 57.]  ABSTINENCE FROM FERMENTED LIQUORS.  331)

which had the highest attraction for the Author was --not,
which is the form of Ecclesiastical Polity most favourable to
the power and authority of the minister, but--which is the

form best adapted to mature his judgment, to regulate his
feelings, to purify his motives ;¦--in a word, to perfect his holy

character.

   In August this year Dr. Smith furnished a short Preface to

 a republication in this country of an Essay by the late Professor
Moses Stuart of Andover, against the use of all fermented
 liquors. Although his habits were ever most exactly consistent
with the strictest temperance, it deserves to be known for the

 sake of his example in later life, that during many years from

 the date of his settling at Homerton he did not abstain totally
from wine. When, however, the subject came fairly before
him. through the medium of the newly-formed Temperance
 Societies, he at once adopted the practice of an entire abstinence

 from all intoxicating beverages ; and became a most zealous
 advocate of the principle. Occasionally when in a small circle

 of friends --perhaps at the dinner-table --the tones of his voice,

 no longer regulated by an ear which had lost its power, would
be for a moment quite startling, as he uttered some brief but

forcible sentences, urging the disuse or depicting the injury
arising from the use of fermented liquors. At other times,
when he happened to meet one who had adopted his own views,
his expressions would quite sparkle, like his countenance, with
an exuberant joy ; clearly showing what a light and glad heart
he had with his spare regimen. Nor can it be altogether

denied, that agreement with him here was occasionally urged
as a passport to his favour in regard to some object in
which the applicant might not be quite free from selfishness.

There is authority also for saying, that whenever medical advice

recommended a temporary relaxation of his rule ; if he complied
in practice, it was with no small reluctance, and with a most

undisguised want of faith in the prescription ; just as though

he could not allow himself even to be benefited in any such
way. Occasionally the solicitude of his children sought the aid
of a little artifice, in carrying into effect for a few days the
administration of some stimulant prescribed by a Physician.
But he was so genuine an abstainer, that he could scarcely
endure, much less linger after that under the name of medicine

                                                                                            z2
340 COLLEGE DIARY.                                                           [1631.

which he had given up as wine or malt liquor ; and thus, in so
apparently slight a matter, the thoroughness and deep sincerity
of his nature rise up as things worthy to be looked at. When
these experiments were being tried, it was very commonly
feared, and not uncommonly said among his friends, that he
was endangering his life by the rigidness of his rule. Happily
however for himself and them, and for the credit of the cause

for which he was thought to be suffering, he lived too long to

justify any such apprehensions. Indeed, considering the great
amount and variety of his mental labours, and the pecuhar

difficulties which for many years lay directly in his path, the
demands on cerebral energy were so great, that he might have
been snatched away years before the hour of his tranquil de

parture, had he not been led to avoid that sort of pressure on

the finer vessels of the brain which not unfrequently arises
from a long and regular though moderate use of stimulants.

   As an example of his zeal in this cause, the following para
graph may be quoted from a Letter which he wrote when at
Sheffield in July, 1831, to Mr. Edward Baines, of Leeds, an

Iefficient co-worker in the same field : --" Being a member of the

lately formed Temperance Society in London, feel it an in

Idispensable duty to introduce the momentous subject wherever

  am allowed. In consequence of representations, received in

the most friendly manner, to the Vicar, Clergy, Dissenting

Ministers, and other respectable persons in this Town, arrange

ments are going on to hold a Meeting in the Town Hall on
Tuesday evening, August 2nd. Mr. and Mrs. Leader entertain
a hope of seeing you here about that time. Permit me then to

solicit, that if you can make it compatible with your plan, you

would confirm their hope, and engage to bear a part in the dis

cussions of the proposed meeting. The only difficulty is to
overpower prejudice : for the moment a man of sense grasps the

principle, he must give it his approbation ; and if he be a man

of integrity, he  must become    a practical   suppreolrigteiorno."f  a it,  on all
considerations    of humanity,  patriotism,
                                              and

   From this date to the close of Dr. Smith's work as Tutor
at Homerton, occasional references will be made to three small
memorandum books, to which the name of College Diary has
been given. The entries are for the most part daily; they
relate to his attendance and particular duties with his theological
JET. 57.]       SARAH EDWARDS SMITH.                  341

class ; and the occasions of his absence are also often inserted :

but the notices are of the briefest kind, in nearly all cases not
more than a single line for a day, so that but very little use
can be made of them in a way to interest the general Eeader. --
We copy the following incident, both to introduce and explain
a Letter, addressed to Mr. Henry Eutt and Mr. William Under
bill, two of the members of the Doctor's Church :--April 28,
1831, " Obliged to go to Town in consequence of a robbery
committed on my person :" the robbery involved the loss of
his watch ; a loss which was as speedily as generously supplied.

                     I "Homerton, May 7, 1831.

   " My clear Friend, -- beg to return my most respectful
thanks for the very liberal present which you, in conjunction

Iwith some other members of our Church and congregation,

whose names have not the pleasure of knowing, have been
pleased to make me, of a handsome Gold Watch. You will
allow me to request that you would communicate my acknow
ledgments to each of those friends who have been associated
with you in this act of kindness, so seasonably devised, and

performed with so much delicate generosity. It is my desire

and prayer that, every time this memorial of your affection
meets my eye, it may awaken in my heart the strong feelings
of Christian love to its authors, a deeper sense of my increased

responsibility, and more earnest solicitude to be made to them,

Ithrough heavenly grace, the instrument of et"ernaalmb,e"n&ecfi.t.&c.

Nearly fourteen years had passed away from the death of

Philip Henry, when Dr. Smith was called to part with the

younger of his two Daughters. One Letter written to the sisters,

when they were absent from home in 1829, has already been

given ; another in the following year thus expresses his Chris
tian solicitude and love :--" To my very dear Euth and Sarah

nry tenderest paternal affections unalterably turn Though so

far from me, my imaginative faculty is daily looking at her :
and my fervent supplications daily implore for her and her
alldear sister  holy amiableness, prudence, penetration, and

the divine preservation.  that they may be filled with the

richest influences of the Eternal Spirit; that so in the mmay
be found every thing that is ' true, -- grave, --righteous, --pure,
--lovely, ---worthy to be well spoken  " And then in
342                SARAH EDWARDS SMITH.                             [l832.

fragment-- " Best love to my beloved ones. The Lord fill our

dear Sarah with    richest grace, for  sanctification on earth and
full meetness for                      By transcribing the account
                   glory !--J. P. S."

which Dr. Smith inserted in his Book of Family Memorials

respecting his daughter Sarah Edwards, beginning with her
birth, the plan he pursued in such records, as well as the

devout spirit with which all his domestic duties, joys, and

sorrows were received and appreciated, will be evident.

..." Our sixth child, and second daughter, was born on Saturday, July 21st,
One Thousand Eight Hundred and Ten.          On October the twenty-

Ifirst of the same year, we brought this our dear infant to the Sanctuary of
God.  endeavoured to preach an appropriate discourse, on Gal. iii. 14.
The name which we had previously given to our little girl is Sarah
Edwards ; in the hope that if she. is spared to suitable intelligence, the force
of association with the name of the holy and most exemplary wife of
President Jonathan Edwards may, under the blessing of Infinite Grace,
excite to imitation.* My dear companion having joined me in renewing

Iour solemn profession of faith and devotedness to our God, in the covenant

of His love, baptized this our beloved child by the pouring of water, in
the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, the one God of
heaven and earth. O that our dear little girl may become a partaker of the

blessed influences of Divine Grace, and in   time and    eternity   gl"orify  and
enjoy the Author of her being and the Giver  of eternal  salvation
                                                                     !

   Then on the very next page, although more than twenty

years had intervened, the narrative is thus resumed :--

   " This beloved child was enabled by the Grace of God, to answer our
purest desires, and to give most satisfactory and delightful evidence that
the name of Sarah Edwards was indeed appropriate. Her intellectual
capacities and faculties, and her affectionate and active powers, were all of
a very high order. Before she had completed her sixteenth year, she gave
good evidence of genuine faith and holiness. From that time her devoted

ness to the service of Christ was decided ; and in her subsequent course she
was equally distinguished, in the estimation of those who had the most

If* the Life of this Lady, Mrs. President Edwards, could be published in a
size which would place it within reach of the general class of Readers of
Christian biography, great benefits might arise from the circulation of such a
work. For the very early age at which she became decidedly pious ; for the
rapid and yet sustained growth of that piety ; for a rare union of high intelli

gence with personal attractions of no ordinary kind ; for the successful methods

by which she facilitated the studies and promoted the public usefulness of her
illustrious husband ; and for such skill in training her family that in after
                                 a kind of spontaneous reverence to their
years the children ever showed   Edwards is almost 'without a parallel in
parents ;--the wife of Jonathan
historv. --Ed.
MT. 58.]  DEATH OF SARAH EDWARDS SMITH.                                                     343

searching opportunities of knowing, by the fervour of zeal for God and every
department of his cause,
                                   and    by a penetrating    sagacity and cautious judg
ment. It was manifest              the    Lord had given      to her much of ' the spirit of

wisdom and understanding, of counsel and might, so that she was of quick
                                          of the Lord.'
und" eIrnsttahnedisnpgrining  the  fear                  but  cither  permanent  or  often  return
                              of   1831,   anomalous,

ing indisposition showed itself. Her brother Ebenezer, who would have

watched over her, was in France and Switzerland during this critical time.
Upon his return, he saw the serious aspect of the case ; and all suitable

means were used in accordance with the exigency ; for there was abundant
reason to think, that both the heart was enlarged and the lungs inflamed,

or even that tubercles were already formed. As soon as was practicable,

she was removed to his house in Town, in order to enjoy a somewhat more

mild and less variable temperature, and to be constantly under his eye and
treated according to his directions. In all that he did, his opinion was

corroborated and his course of practice approved by Dr. Cholmeley and Dr.
Bright. Patience, sweetness, mildness, steady faith, its consequent hope,
lively interest in the progress of the Redeemer's kingdom, attention of the

most judicious, faithful, and affectionate kind to her relatives and friends,

and the constant exercise of the devotional means by which intercourse
with God is enjoyed,-- these were the elements of which her habits were

formed, these in their calm and constant development were the materials

Iwhich made the history of her last five months of life.
   " The true and just description of her last scene derive from the pen of
my excellent friend Mr. Edward Baines, Jun., which, by a peculiar exten

Ision of kindness " [on the part of] " Mrs. Edward Baines, to whom it was

written, have been allowed to see and copy. . . . ' Her release was of
Ithe calmest and happiest kind, and together with her whole illness, afforded

one of the most beautiful illustrations ever knew of the power of religion
to ennoble the character, and to support under the greatest afflictions and

even in the hour of dissolution. Her sister was the only person with her at
her death. The suddenness of the event surprised them, and her brother

Ebenezer was out visiting a patient. On Thursday evening her dear father

was with her, and she spoke of her approaching end with that wonderful
composure and cheerfulness which nothing but the highest assurance can
inspire. She said she wished to have inscribed on her tombstone, after her
name, ' Not I, but the grace of God ' ; and that a sermon should be preached

on the same text improving the event, in which nothing was to be said of
her, but only the riches of the ' grace of God ' to be magnified. Her charac
ter grew more sweet, more lovely, and more childlike to the very last ; her
faith never wavered ; she had no triumphant or ecstatic feelings, but a calm
and clear assurance of acceptance with God through her Saviour, combined

with a deep sense of her own entire unworthiness of divine favour. Her
spirituality of mind was remarkable. The importance of eternity, the ex
Icellence of religion, and the happiness of being reconciled to God, seemed
quite to fill her mind. Never, never can                              forget the elevation and
sweetness of her manner, the deep piety of her sentiments, and the joyful
anticipation she had of heaven. She seemed to pause on the threshold
of that bright world, and, already radiant with its holiness and blessedness,

to beckon in the most affectionate manner to her friends to follow her.
344               DEATH OF SARAH EDWARDS SMITH.                             [1832-

   ' After having suffered  what   her sister calls a tempest of bodily distress
during the week, about      eight
                                   o'clock on Friday evening it hushed into a
calm. Miss Smith took up the Bible, and read to her the texts she could
find in the Old and New Testament promising the presence of God with his
people at the hour of death. She then knelt down and prayed, and at the
close of the prayer, Sarah appeared to sink into a doze, yet not to be wholly
insensible. Miss Smith thinking she was comfortable though very weak,
read to her one of Mr. Jay's Morning Exercises, that for the 18th of May,
which contained the passage from the 23rd Psalm in which David says

I Iexultingly, ' Though walk through the valley of the shadow of death
will fear no evil, for Thou art with me ; thy rod and thy staff, they comfort
me.' When she had done reading the passage, which was short, she saw

that her dear sister's head had sunk on her bosom. She took up the candle,
but could not perceive her breathe : a gentle sigh told that she was still

living ; and at short intervals, three more sighs, as soft as the breeze on a

summer's evening, closed her mortal existence.

   ' "Was not this a ' gentle wafting to immortal life ?' Was it not a death

Iworth the sacrifice of all this world's pleasures to ensure ? From the

bottom of my heart would say, ' May my last end be like hers ! O, in
                  Linorhdo,'wshgolowrioreulsigiaonl.ighCtoudlodesphsiulocshopahydewatoh,rksosuc' hprwecoinoduesrs?in
how important,
the sight of the
What a mighty contrast between this death-bed and that of the worldling, --

that of any man (be his virtues what they may) who has not an assured
I Iinterest in the ransom paid by our blessed Redeemer ! . . . .
' Yesterday       saw the remains of the dear deceased.         never saw so

Ibeautiful a corpse. It was death without its terrors ;-- so little like death,

so much like sleep, that could scarcely persuade myself it was but the
tenement of clay. She looks very lovely : a serene smile was left on her

lips, and her closed eyes rather indicated meditation than the absence of

mind. It was ' the rapture of repose ;' and the sweetness of the expression
                                                by the perfect
was sublimed   into something like majesty        brow.' "      immobility  of the
features, and  the fine curve of a marble-like

Her sister prepared a memorial of the circumstances attend

ing the last illness and death of her beloved Sarah Edwards,

from which a single paragraph may be quoted for the fuller

light which it sheds on one interesting passage in Mr. Baines's
Letter, in which Dr. Smith was a party concerned :--the time

referred  to was the     day before his  daughter's death.      her ;       and
          Thursday       morning our     dear Father saw
   " On

again in the evening quite unexpectedly to himself as well

Ias to us, he entered the room. Dearest Sarah and were
alone ; but she, begging him to sit quite near to her, said that
she had a request to make. First, she wished to know if
there were any words in Scripture more brief and strong in
               personal  obligation
Iexpressing    grace of  God. -- She  to the Saviour than these-- not
                                       inquired whether there would
 -- but the
JET. 58.]       ADVICE TO A SON.                                                                        345

be any objection to their being separated from the sentence ?

and being satisfied on this point, she begged him to cause

those words to be engraven on her tomb ; also that they should

be the text for a discourse to be preached on the Sabbath
morning after her funeral by Mr. Binney--whose ministry she
                valued --unless Papa should prefer
h' Nigohtl,y'  she said, ' a funeral sermon. O no !                                   an older friend.
                                                                                     There must be no

mention, no allusion to me ; for there is nothing, nothing in

me ; but only to exalt the  grace of that Blessed, Blessed
Eedeemer who has brought    me to himself.' Papa replied
that he wished to undertake that service himself -- at which

she expressed warm satisfaction, and encouraged him without

the least hesitation, that he would be supported in it. He

wished her to desist from talking, fearing her weakness, but
Ishe proceeded in a louder and firmer tone than had long
Iheard -- ' O no -- how many far weaker than                                               have praised
IHim, have resolved and determined to praise Him.
                                                                                                cannot
Isay that have ever felt rapture or ecstasy ; but there have
Ibeen times, in the night especially, when have felt very, very
I Ihappy.
               have sometimes feared, as always feel so calm and
Ipeaceful,

     and
               that my confidence was  a  wrong                                      one,  but  have sifted
               have found safe.' "
it,--In Dr. Smith's Sermon Book, in line with the datea
April 22nd, the following entry           is
    !I               it
                                                    a

                                                                    :
                                                                                     found -- " On the text
enjoined by my dear Sarah but, according to her injunc
                         ;

tion, without any allusion to her,        1                                          Cor. xv. 10." Happy

parent to have such power and delicacy in respecting the

wishes of such  Daughter, on whom so much might have

been most justly said. But he could thoroughly appreciate
the motive in which the request originated, and therefore com
pliance was not simply duty, but sacred pleasure into which
few could enter with higher zest, or with warmer approbation.
aA

               is
                   is a

                                        a

                                                                                  ;

                                           Aa
few months after the loss of his daughter, he wrote to one
of his sons on subject of great delicacy and magnitude, but

in manner which evinced his thoughtfulness and affection
beyond what
                common even among families where mutual

confidence     warmly cherished.                                                     part of the Letter may

supply hints to other Parents and for that purpose                                              it      now

                                                                                                    is

published in these memoirs.                                                                     is  on  a

  " You will probably be surprised at this Letter. It
346  DEATH OF MRS. SMITH.                                            [l,SW.

subject of the highest importance in its aspects upon your
sanctification, your usefulness, your personal and social hajipi-
ness ; hi a word, your greatest interests for time and eternity.
This subject has engaged many of my most attentive reflec
tions, and most earnest prayers for divine direction and bless

ing, during more than a year and a half. It is also one upon

which it is my opinion (derived from the word of God, from

reflection, from history, and from observation) that Parents
ought to take the lead in advising and recommending on behalf

of their Sons, when such a course is practicable, which in

Imany cases, acknowledge, it is not. Yet when the course
I Iwhich am adopting with regard to you is practicable, am

thoroughly convinced that the probability is much increased of

an issue the most blessed of God, and the most completely

happy to all concerned.
   " My oft repeated and anxious advice to you, to guard your

affections from being ensnared, and in the most important of
earthly concerns, to make me your confidant in the very first
commencement of the sentiment, has proceeded from no desire
to stretch my paternal dominion beyond its proper bounds, and
from no insensibility to your happiness. When the proper
time shall have arrived, and a wise regard to all circumstances
shall justify the measure, it is my desire and prayer to the
Fountain of all good, that you may be united to a holy, amia
ble, judicious, and every way suitable companion who will be a
blessing to you, as you equally to her, for earth and heaven ;
one that will be a worthy representative of her that is gone,

and a heart-responding sister to the dear only one that is left

to -- Such were the principles laid down by way of intro
ducing the special object of interest described in the rest of

the Letter.

A little later in the year, another bereavement occurred in
Dr. Smith's family. The following note, written to the late
I IWilliam Hale, Esq., will explain the particulars.
   " My clear Sir,--After left you last night,        found Mrs.

Smith sinking into a state of still lower feebleness, the tran

quillity of the preceding twenty-two hours broken up, and the
most distressing indications of great suffering.
                                                  vTiihi.i,s°  very  pain
ful state continued till about a quarter past                   and  then

gradually subsided, nature seeming exhausted, and in ten
JET. 58.]                   DEATH OF MRS. SMITH.            347

minutes the respiration, growing fainter and fainter, ceased

without any convulsion. Two or three days ago my late dear
wife commissioned me to express to you and Mrs. Hale her

last solemn and farewell message, deeply sensible of the many

kindnesses which you have shown to her, and earnestly desiring
the best blessings to yourself and Mrs. and Miss Hale, and all

your beloved family. . . . Mr. Bishop has kindly engaged

Ifor me three missionary students, whose services are, trust,

                            aacncdepMtarsb.leH. aleW, ithamki,nmd yredgeaarrdfsrieanndd,"he&acr.tf&eclt.
Ilikely to

thanks to
           be very
           yourself

   The College Diary contains a memorandum under date

INovember 23rd. " This evening, at viii.° 25', my beloved wife,

Mary, exchanged, trust, the sorrows of life for the heavenly
rest. My academical duty was of necessity suspended till after
the funeral, which took place on December 1st." Mrs. Smith's
                                           " very long and
idllinsetrsesssiisngs."aid   to have been  was at College   in many respects

                            A Student who                    at the time has
Iincluded this among his reminiscences : -- " the Doctor, think,

partly from a sense of duty, and partly from real affection, did

his utmost to render her last days as comfortable, as painful

and fatal disease would permit. Many a time was he called

away from his duties at the College to soothe his afflicted
Partner, and with a mournful readiness he ever went."

    Many months after all the foregoing pages had been completed

--excepting the chapter upon Dr. Haffner's Preface-- a Letter
was sent to the Editor, which the bereaved husband wrote

to a gentleman, who from special circumstances was perhaps

better acquainted with the difficulties and trials of Dr. Smith's
conjugal relation, than any one else out of the family. The spirit
and manner in which the peculiarities of the case are mentioned ;

the deep sense which the Writer evinces in regard to his own

sufferings, and the sufferings of those dear to him, from this
single cause; and then the fine exculpatory and charitable
reference to the ' permitted power of darkness ;' with the lan
guage of Christian hope for the bright future of that troubled

earthly life ;--are so much in harmony with the temper and

conduct of the man as they were developed in and even by his
great trial, that his history in that particular cannot be closed
in any words half so appropriate and healing as his own.
348  LETTER ON THE DEATH OF MRS. SMITH.                     [1833-

                                  " Homerton, Monday, Nov. 26, 1832.

" Bev. and Dear Sir,-- It has pleased the High and Holy One,
to take to Himself my late beloved wife, on Friday night, after
I Ia long and distressing illness.
                                    have a comforting hope,

venture to say a persuasion, that she has departed to be with
IChrist. . . . That the grace of Christ had place in her

heart is my belief; and had more complete means of know
ledge than any other person could have : but the actings and
habits of the Divine principle were lamentably obstructed by

that most extraordinary, indeed almost unexampled, pecuUarity

of temperament which, with inexhaustible versatility, created
its own miseries, in opposition to palpable facts and the

plainest evidence. This deprived her of happiness in the

midst of its ample means, and shed a melancholy blight upon

those relationships and circumstances of life which, duly

considered and wisely improved, would have been materials
Ifor abounding joy and constant gratitude. After the ex
perience of thirty years,  darkcnaennsso,t',   in this instance, doubt
the permitted ' power of                      as an auxiliary cause of

breaking to potsherds the comfort and usefulness of one who

Iyet clung in faith and prayer to Him who saves invincibly.

Can do other than rejoice beyond expression in the confi
dence that, when she quitted the earthly tabernacle, she

dropped the veil of till then impregnable error, and now

praises her glorious Deliverer for the glad development. . .
   " Now, the providence and authority of my Heavenly Lord

calls me to a new order of attempted services to His Holy

name, for what of years or days may be my appointed term.

IMy need is extreme of faith and watchfulness, humility,

wisdom, and sanctified activity, that may ' work the work
of the Lord ' in the ways that shall be in the most entire

Iaccordance with His approving will. Let me entreat, my Dear

Sir, your prayers that may be taught, led, disciphned, and
                                              Him on whose
made an instrument of  some  glory  to                      head  the
Crown must flourish."

   Dr. Bobert Winter, who had been for about thirty years
the highly respected Pastor of the Congregational Church

assembling in New Court, Carey Street, was removed by death
in August, 1833 : and as between him and Dr. Smith there
had been foi the same period great cordiality of esteem and
.ET. 59.]  FUNERAL SERMON FOR DR. WINTER.  349

affection, the latter was first asked to preach, and then to
publish a funeral sermon on the occasion. The text is 2 Tim.

iv. 6, 7, 8.

   Dr. Smith's discourses at such times, whether in print or in
manuscript, are distinguished by the prominence given to the

discussion of their respective texts, and by an absence of an
extended eulogy of the person whose decease they were
designed to improve. He spoke plainly, indeed, and warmly
of excellences ; but it was not his custom to dwell upon

them at any great length; and the space which was thus
saved from portraying the virtues of a disciple of Christ,
was occupied in exhibiting some or other of the great truths
which had made the departed what he was as a Christian.

Principles, in their actual bearing on character and conduct,
were the grand topics on such occasions.
                        CHAPTEE XX.

CONTROVERSY WITH DR. LEE-- SERMON, 'NECESSITY OP RELIGION TO THE
      WELL-BEING OF A NATION '-- SERMON, ON THE TEMPER OF CHRIS
      TIANS TOWARDS EACH OTHER--FIRST LETTER TO DR. LEE -- SECOND
      REJOINDER TO DR. LEE --LETTER TO DR. BURTON, BAPTISMAL REGEN
      ERATION -- LETTER FROM THE BISHOP OF LONDON --REMARKS ON
       THE CONTROVERSY WITH DR. LEE -- 'HINTS AND QUERIES', -- COLLEGE
      DIARY -- ALARMING ILLNESS --LETTER TO HIS CHILDREN -- LETTER
      FROM REV. R. G. MILNE -- FROM DR. CARDWELL --LETTER TO HIS
      DEACONS --TO THE STUDENTS OF HIS CLASS --DIPLOMA OF LL.D.

   The most extended printed controversy in which the Homer
ton Tutor was ever concerned, began in the sixtieth year of

his age. It arose unexpectedly to himself, was carried on with

great reluctance, and was, moreover, with a gentleman whom
he numbered among his personal friends, with whom he had
corresponded during several preceding years and continued to

correspond for years afterwards : --Dr. Samuel Lee, at that
time Eegius Professor of Hebrew at Cambridge, and Pre
bendary of Bristol.

   In February, 1834, Dr. Smith preached a Monthly Lecture on

The Necessity of Religion to the Well-Being of a Nation, from
Isaiah lx. 12. The preacher appears to have had in view the
effecting of two purposes : ---first, to obviate, as it were indirectly,
certain impressions and statements at that time very common,
that those persons who did not approve of the principle of a
State Establishment of Christianity were hostile to National
Beligion ; and, secondly, to suggest to his Brethren a variety
of considerations to aid them in seeking the spiritual welfare
of the Community at large, and in maintaining a temper void
of offence both towards God and man. Few passages are more
impressive than the sketch which this sermon contains of the
ffiT. CO.]  SERMON ON THE NECESSITY OF RELIGION.                       351

progress and ruin of "a nation of infidels." pp. 8 -- 14. And
                               bsayyws;a--y "ofToexmplyaihnuinmgblteheconscuebpjeticotnso, f
then, on the    other side,
the discourse,  the Author

a real National Beligion is nothing else than the sum total of
the piety or personal rehgion of the individual Christians at
any time to be found in a nation. Questions of no small
difficulty and perplexity might be associated with this obser
                               present
vation ;    but it is not  my           business  to  undertake     a  dis
cussion     of them."

An Appendix, of greater length than the Sermon, was added
to the published discourse, from which the following initial

paragraph is quoted, for the sake of clearing the way to the

commencement of the controversy :--

" The publication of the preceding Sermon was requested, unanimously
and not without expressions of kind feeling, by a numerous body of Protestant
Dissenting Ministers and other gentlemen of the Congregational Denomina
tion, who had listened to its public delivery. But it would be wrong to

withhold the statement, that some of my respected Brethren, to whose

Ijudgment pay much regard, professed that they joined in the desire only

with the understanding that a Note or Appendix would be added, explain

ing some hints of sentiment, which had been briefly expressed at the close

of the sermon. It is my duty to remove any obscurity which might rest
upon expressions ; and whether my opinions may coincide or not with those
entertained by my friends, they know too well the rights of individual
judgment and the duty of explicit avowal, and they are too much accustomed
to the plain utterance of their own minds, to be offended at my obeying
Itheir call.
                come, then, a reluctant visitor, into the crowded field of
Iecclesiastical controversy ; and resolved

delivered my short message."
                                        to retire immediately when     have

The " crowded field " here referred to, was at that time an

unusually agitated one. Extreme parties on both sides were

in a very high state of    excitement.   "Ngortieovannlycews eraendvercylamimasny"
among the Dissenters       urging their

with unwonted energy and not a little bitterness, but under the
high patronage which Mr. Gathercole had received, there was
great reason to fear lest the Church of England in her zeal to

defend her exclusive privileges, should quite lose the dignity

becoming her venerable age, her avowed character, and her

aristocratic position in the land. Language of intense vitu
peration and contempt, seemed so strangely inconsistent with a

really good Christian title, and was hkely if further encouraged

to generate such low habits in the community, that we may
352              ON THE NECESSITY OF RELIGION                             [l834.

wonder how any men who were at once scholars and Christians,

could fall into such a style themselves, or bear with, much less

patronize it in others. An earnest protest was, however, raised

against this state of things by the Tutor at Homerton ; whose

grave, and appropriate, and often touching rebukes, fell with
just fidelity on Dissenter and Churchman alike.

   In the Appendix Dr. Smith seeks to throw light upon the

question-- how the head or king of a people may employ his

great resources and influence, to diffuse throughout a nation

the advantages of the gospel. But here, although the Author

did not go nearly far enough towards the Establishment

principle, to meet the wishes of even comparatively moderate

Churchmen ; he went too far in that direction, to suit the views
of many of his Brethren. He writes :-- " My ardent wish and

prayer is, that the Establishment may be improved, delivered

from evils and defects of every kind, and meliorated, honoured,

and blessed, to the highest perfection of conformity to the

requirements of theHoly Scriptures. Whenthisis accomplished,

she will no longer be dependent on state-patronage ; nor will a

good civil government wish her to be so. When that time

arrives the Episcopal Church will have a power immensely

greater than that of any other denomination of Christians.
Her venerable edifices, her hold upon the affections of English

Imen in general, her endowments equitably distributed (for

trust that no spoliation will ever be suffered), and the unfettered

activity of her ministers upon a system of freedom in worship
ing and preaching in any barn or hovel or field,--will be likely,

under the blessing of heavenly grace, to produce effects of the

most glorious kind, in the advancement of genuine religion.

There will be joy in heaven; 'God shall bless us, and all the
ends of the earth shall fear him.' "
                                               " Admission of Dissenters
   Also on  the  thqeueUsntiiovnersoiftyt,h"e  Dr. Smith avowed in this   to the
                                                                          Letter
advantages  of

to Dr. Lee views not in accordance with those held by many of
his brethren. He says :--

  " Since my attention has been drawn to a more minute examination of

Ithe argument, my opinion has undergone a change. The end think right
and desirable in itself: no man (I almost believe) feels more strongly than
myself veneration and love to the two English Universities j or surrenders
Ihtoisweimrsa,'giannadtiotnhetoasbseocmiaotrieonesnorafptthuereird
                                               with their ' distant spires and antique
                                               history. But to attain that end, do
JET. 60.]                    TO THE WELL-BEING OF A NATION.                   353

Inot see that the means exist. The University, apart from the Colleges and

Halls, is only an idea and a name : but so far as understand the case, each
of the Colleges and Halls, in both Universities, is of the nature of a private

trust, and is an investment for purposes which imply that the membership
Iand the whole discipline lie in the Episcopal Church.
                                                                        have heard of no
Ischeme for surmounting the obstacles ; nor can imagine any, that does not
appear to involve tho committing of injustice upon the Fellows, the Tutors,
and the Members of the House generally. Disappointing and mortifying as
this cannot relieve myself from it. That the supreme government in
iIs,
        I

                    a

                                        :
every nation has right (potestas) to deal with trusts and establishments,
either by having permanent Courts of Equity, or by special enactments
upon the case, admit but the exercise of this political or legal right can

never take place, in accordance with the principles of the universal moral
law (quod jus et fas est,) unless trust have become impracticable or contra
                                           if

                                                a
bonos mores which cannot be said of any of your Academical Houses.
I
           ;
            I
Most sincerely shall rejoice the wisdom and goodness of His Majesty's
Government should be able to adjust the matter upon satisfactory grounds.
This, humbly think, could take place only in concurrence with the
University Authorities. One thing, however, am sure of that the great
                                                        I               ;

body of Protestant Dissenters (I cannot answer for inconsiderate or unjust

individuals, for some such are to be found          in  inaltlhlearsgtericcteosmt mseunnsietieMs,o) rdaesllirye

nRoigthhintg." excepting wrhat can be proved to    be

Now although there are in the Sermon and Appendix many

passages which an advocate for                                        State Establishment of
                                           it
Christianity would entirely disapprove, such passages as those
just quoted and others of a similar kind, led the Author toaa

anticipate objections from his Brethren, rather than from the    :

Church Party --hence his significant intimations at the com          a
a
mencement of the Appendix, and his determination to avoid        it
                          :
controversy should an occasion for arise in that quarter.

None such, however, did arise but there appeared on the other

side Letter by Dr. Samuel Lee, reaching to eighty-eight
pages, and entitled,-- Dissent Unscriptural and Unjustifiable,
Demonstrated in an Examination of Dr. John Pye Smith's
Sermon and Appendix, entitled, &c. &c. This, instead of settling
the question, as perhaps
                                                   demonstration should have done,
seemed rather to open in far greater width and complication

than ever for was an appeal to the public in regard to prin
ciples and arguments about which Dr. Smith could not remain
           ;

                  it

indifferent, whether from sense of duty to his own convic
tions, or from an earnest desire for the progress of truth in the
world. But the history of his first Bejoinder to Dr. Lee
                                                                           2
somewhat curious.
                                                                                        is
                                                                           A
354  ON THE TEMPER TO BE CULTIVATED, ETC.                      [1834.

  In October, he preached for the second time during this year

a Monthly Lecture ; the subject of which was-- On the Temper
to be Cultivated by Christians of Different Denominations to
wards each other. To this discourse when it was published,
an Appendix -- as in the former instance --was added ; consist
ing of a Letter by way of Rejoinder to Dr. Lee ; sixty-seven
pages in length. Dr. Smith's reluctance to enter upon the
controversy, and the manner in which it was overcome, are

best stated in his own words :--

   " Reverend and Dear Sir,-- On the first perusal of the public Letter

Iwhich you did me the honour of addressing to me seven months ago, felt

a desire to correct what appeared to me misappi'ehensions on your part, and
to show my reasons for dissenting from your principal conclusions. But a
strong repugnance to this controversy, and the fact of having for every

hour of every day a never-ending series of demands on time and labour,
for duties more agreeable and of immediate obligation, brought down my

excitement first to hesitation, and then to fixed unwillingness; notwith

standing the instances of some of my most judicious friends, who feared

that the interests of truth wrould in some degree suffer from my silence.

The being unexpectedly called, however, to preach another Monthly Meet

ing Sermon, and that on a subject (long before prescribed, as they all are,
by a committee of arrangement,) which brought into view some of the
topics on which you had expressed your disapprobation of my sentiments ;
and the request of my Brethren for its publication, which it would have

been almost a rude obstinacy in me to resist ; furnished a new opportunity,
to have neglected which might have been not unreasonably construed into
an affectation of haughty disregard, or a consciousness of having met with
Isome invincible difficulties.
                                could not say that the latter was the case;
Iand the sincere esteem and affection which have for you must make me
wish by no means to incur the appearance of the former."

The subject of the Sermon to which this passage refers,

was no doubt selected, by the Committee who arranged the list

of Lectures, with a view to afford an opportunity for urging
valuable suggestions at a time when great excitement prevailed

on   epcrcelaecshiaesrtisctarlontogplyicsr.ecoAmmmoenngdetdhethcreoenctluhdininggs:--ob"sethrveatuionniosn,
the

of ministers of all evangelical denominations in public meet
ings for prayer--their free interchange of voluntary pulpit
services-- and their sitting down together at the Lord's Table,
in the celebration of that which is pre-eminently the ordinance
of Christian communion, the communion of all who ' glory in
the Cross of our Lord
unto eternal life.' "  Jesus    Christ,  and  look for    His  mercy
JET. 60.]        FIRST LETTER TO DR. LEE.                                             355

Although Dr. Smith heartily wished to avoid this particular

controversy, yet when he was called upon as it were by name,

option was withdrawn ; and therefore, true to his convictions,

it became him to wield his resources of learning, and logic,
and courage, in their defence. Hence, his First Letter to Dr.

Lee. Nonconformity with the Church as by Law Established,

is too readily viewed by Churchmen generally, as a thing with

out any settled principles or hnes of demarcation whatever.
The human enactments and provisions by which to some

extent conformity is secured in the favoured Body, are so
visible in every direction, and are felt in many quarters so
deeply --that all persons and parties beyond the pale of these
laws are very commonly thought to be in a state of license not
to be described :--as though, indeed, there were no Bible for

any but those who think it well to use the Book of Common
Prayer. A painful sense of this grave misconception con

strained Dr. Smith, in his First Letter of Eeply to Dr. Lee,

to lay down a number of Theses, amounting in the whole to
                                                                             for " a
nineteen,   in   reeagcahrdcastoe,"wshhiocuhldhehiswacosrrperseppoanrdeednt    think  special
discussion   in                                                                       proper

to fall in with the proposal. This arrangement of topics was
adopted both to prevent, if possible, the controversy from

spreading out into a sort of waste of waters, that by keeping
it within embankments there might be a higher probability
of turning it to a good account ; and also to exhibit in detail
the principles or grounds which rendered Dissent not only
scriptural and justifiable, but according to the Writer's deep

and well-sifted convictions, a most imperative duty. Under

some of the propositions, as that relating to the two orders
of ministers recognised in the New Testament, and on Dio

cesan Episcopacy, annotations occur for the sake of showing
the line of argument by which the Author was prepared to
sustain his sentiments as a Dissenter. He then dwells at some
length on the evident want of scope in the Established Church,
for any proper development of Christian Fellowship with the
disciples of Christ beyond its own pale. That ardent love of

free intercourse with all good men, which was exuberant in his

renewed nature and had been cultivated with no ordinary dili
gence, made this objection to conformity exceedingly strong.
To be restrained by a so-called Church Order, from manifest

ing on the one side and receiving on the other those expres-

                                                                             2A2
356             SECOND REJOINDER TO DR. LEE.            [l880.

sions of Christian fellowship, which are to the glory of the

Divine Saviour and for the advancement of mutual piety and

good-will, involved such a laying aside of his obedience to

a Divine Law in deference to a human one, that he not only

could never be a Conformist, but could not avoid protesting
against the system which bore such marks of an earthly origin

and structure. And, indeed, little as it may be thought of by
evangelical churchmen, this line of rigid separation can never

be fairly defended, except on the grounds maintained by those

who deny the possibility of salvation to any who are not within

the enclosure.                                          ,>

Just before the close of the Letter, Dr. Smith exhibits' in

two parallel columns, in about seven pages, a comparative view

of the Established Church, and the Protestant Dissenting
                      Head--Rule of Faith --Modes
Churches, in their   Introduction to the Ministry.  of  Worship
--Discipline -- and

                                                                                                                                                                               , , i!

   By way of reply to the above defence of Nonconformist
principles, Dr. Lee published a Second Letter of ninety-seven

pages, with a postscript of sixteen in answer to the animadver
sions of one or two reviews of the controversy.

   This Second Letter from Dr. Lee was followed by a Second,
Rejoinder from Dr. Smith, which is dated February 26, 1835.
While this was brought out with great comparative celerity, it
is distinguished by an accuracy of arrangement and a satisfaq-
toriness of argument, in no degree inferior to the First. There

are also indications that the Author now wished to escape from
the peculiarities of the controversy as between Dr. Lee and
himself ; and this being his closing appeal, he took the oppor
tunity of laying down wider principles, and of addressing in
that way a larger class of Eeaders than would appear to have
been contemplated in the earlier stages of the discussion. In

consequence of his recent familiarity with details, the whole
subject had grown in comprehensiveness and power. The

short prefatory notice to the Letter will confirm what has been

already said, respecting the manner in which Dr. Smith was
drawn into the discussion without ever having anticipated it in
such a quarter ; it will also apprize the Eeader of the contents
of this valuable pamphlet.
JET. 61.J          SECOND REJOINDER TO DR. LEE.                                                               357

" The Controversy of the Author with his esteemed Correspondent origi
nated in the most undesigned and unexpected manner, from an Appendix,

intended  RteolighieonenttoiretlhyeoWf aepila-BciefiicngchaorfacateNra, ttioona.'  sermon upon    the '       Neces
                                                                                                  this
sity of                                                                               In writing              Second

Letter, he has been led into a length of discussion much greater than at
its beginning he contemplated : he has therefore endeavoured to put his

observations into some order, though it is a less perfect arrangement than

he would have aimed at, had he been writing without respect to the com
position of another." The following are the Principal Topics :-- " On the
Constitution of the Church of England ;-- The Demand for a Specific Pre
cept ;--On State Establishments of Religion ;--On the Voluntary Character
proper to Religious Institutions; -- On the Supremacy of the Crown in
Things Spiritual; -- On the Appointment of Bishops; --On Forms of Prayer ;
--Miscellaneous Subjects ; "--such as " Comparative Number of Dissenters ;
--Things deemed indifferent ; The Duty of Voluntary Support to Christian
              u;--poAnlleDgisesdenLteibrser;--tyCoorfreAclttieornatioofnsMisianppurseinhgentshieonLsi.t"urgy  ;-- Re
Institutions
crimination

Under the several topics, the Eeader will find the principal

heads of argument clearly specified, and sustained with an array

of evidence and of appropriate authorities, well adapted to

furnish materials for more extended service, were it necessary
to carry the discussion of any point further than the Writer
has carried it. In connection with the several branches are
replies to, or animadversions upon Dr. Lee's statements. By
                   the Rejoinder reads
such a     method   had not grouped        off more consecutively than
           Author                          his positions into classes;
if the

while at the same time, there is that sort of life and variety
infused into the whole, by what may be called the personal

element, which adds greatly to the interest, and thus to the
benefit of the Eeader of the controversy. The tone is by no
means apologetic :--nor, indeed, ought it to have been ; for not
only was this a discussion between men of learning, but that
sense of conscientious Christian integrity which animated the
Writer forbade a timid, vacillating style of utterance. Yet
while the language is felt to be firm and strong, it is so with
out the least approach to heat or excitement; the pen never
seems to have been hurried along by the temper. Hence arises
a persuasion of the Author's perfect sincerity in what he wrote,
and also, that he was urged to write rather from a sense of
duty, than      frocomntraonvyesyd.e"sire            "the crowded
ecclesiastical                             to enter                                               field of

To this Eejoinder Dr. Lee replied in a Third Letter of 194
358                    LETTER TO DR. BURTON                                            [1830.

pages, making with the two which he had before published

enough for a volume of 395 pages ;--Dr. Smith's part of the dis
cussion, if the two Sermons are included, reached to 257 pages,
or omitting the Sermons to 198. The controversy was allowed
to terminate with Dr. Lee's Third Letter, as it had begun with
his First.

Dr. Smith sent copies of the various publications above

mentioned to several prominent members of the Established

Church ; among whom was the late Dr. Burton, at that time
Eegius Professor of Divinity at Oxford, between whom and Dr.

Smith a previous interchange of Letters had taken place. That

learned man objected very strongly, not only against Dr.
aSm' iStho'usl-dDeenluosmioinna,'tinbguttheals'Boatpotihsims avlefnotrumriunlgariteos  of the Church'
                                                                                       say this solely,

as was alleged, on his own personal authority. From a copy

of the reply to Dr. Burton on the subject, some passages will

now be given :--

"As to setting up my own judgment against that of the Church of
IEngland, and the ' United

and of all the Reformed
                       Cvhouicrechoefs,t'he  Catholic  Church for fifteen centuries,
                                             am sure
                                                       you will admit that a Chris

tian and Protestant is bound to adhere to his conviction of what the Holy
If I I IScriptures teach, even though all those venerable names stood against him.
       were in that case, which do not concede, should be very solemnly
thereby called to suspicion of myself and to more jealous self-examination :

but should my conviction after all remain, and if the matters of difference,

according to my honest belief, were of vital concernment to the salvation of

I Imen, -- should have no choice left me ; should be bound to declare my

Isentiment with the greatest earnestness. At the same time should be

Ihighly culpable, if did not do so in meekness and charity. But true
Christian charity has no community of nature with indifference; it implies

the warmest solicitude for the salvation of my brother's soul, and conse
                       becoming the victim of any error on the great
                         do to be saved ? '-- need not remind you, that
I Iquently a dread of his

question :--' What must
the argument from the chances of being right between two or three private
men and-- as was assumed -- the Church, was used against the Reformation.
IfWhatever was a good
                       answer then, would be a good answer now.                        is
   " you will allow,   for a moment, the position to be put, that Baptism

Inot Regeneration, and does not (in any way that man can be assured                    of)
                                                                                       be
confer Regeneration --meaning by that term a moral state of the soul
fore the Omniscient God-- think you will admit that the way in which
Ithe Church of England formularies

dangerous ' soul delusion.' For the
                       speak, is adapted to                                            produce a most
                       truth of my premise,                                               should appeal
solely to the Holy Scriptures ; applying to the Fathers the doctrine of the
Church of England (Art. xxi.) respecting Councils. It would be absurd to
^ET. 61.]     ON BAPTISMAL REGENERATION.                                                                                359

open in a private Letter any discussion upon the use to be made of the
Fathers. Your Ante-Nicene Testimonies give a noble example of it.
IBut that they erred in
                         many things,   and how we.                                                             should  judge of their
errors,--is a wide field.   would only  say in a word                                                           or two  my persuasion,

with respect to the point between us. 1. That very early the notion of a
divine and saving influence of or in Baptism, ex opere operato, did find its

way into the Church, was spread widely, and was held with deplorable
tenacity; and the terms New-Birth, Illumination, &c, were applied to it.
2. That it is not impossible to rescue some of the Fathers, by admitting

that they distinguished, though obscurely and confusedly, between the
Regeneration of Baptism and the Regeneration of the Spirit; and that they
Iapplied very imprudently and with dangerous tendency, the terms proper
to the latter figuratively to the former.        seem to find my way to this
candid construction in those cardinal passages ; Justin. Apol. I. § 79, 85.

IBut, when consider the general strain of the theology of the Fathers on

Ithis, as on some other subjects, am filled with an approach to horror; and
am reminded of the awful passage -- 2 Thess. ii. 7. -- 3. That the Scripture
doctrine of Baptism is this. It is a sign and seal, --
" i. On the part of God. An exhibition or declaration by an emblem, of
the sinfulness of our fallen nature, the necessity of supernatural grace to

purify (=make holy) our souls, and the promise of God to give it when
sought in the faithful use of those means of instruction and devotion which
He has appointed.

  " ii. On the part of man. 1. Adult Baptism. A credible profession by
the person, analogous to the executing of a deed of contract or covenant,

that he believes those truths and with his whole heart embraces that pro
mise, dedicating himself to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit ;
a profession which would not be credible or admissible unless the person
had given previous rational evidence of holy faith, which implies actual

regeneration by the Divine Spirit. --2. Infant Baptism. A solemn acknow
ledgment on the part of the Parents (or, in the case of orphans, those who
take the place of parents,) of their own true faith and renewed dedication to
God, and of their pledged resolution to use all the Divinely-instituted means
(= instruction, prayer, and example,) to inculcate truth and holiness on

Ithe minds of the children whom they thus

up in ' the nurture and admonition of the
                                                 dLeodricda.t'e,                                                and so  to bring them
                                                                                                                Hence      do not feel

myself at liberty to baptize a child, unless one at least of the parents
be a person who gives satisfactory evidence of true, vital, practical piety.
I" The doctrine which your words appear to maintain (-- O that may be
                                 a refined form  of the error, so natural to man,
mistaken !)   seems to me to be  the tendencies  of our depraved hearts,--that
so pleasing,  so congenial with

God has, by a stupendous and perpetual miracle, annexed salvation (which
in its essence, state of mind, consisting of certain moral feelings to
is,
                                a
                                                    i.

                                                                                                             ;
wards God, &c.) to an outward or mechanical act. Against this fatal
error, even under the Mosaic dispensation which comprehended so many
outward rites, the Spirit of God often and most awfully gave warnings: e.g.
Jer. vii. 21---23; Hos. vi. 6; Isa. 11 -- 14. This also appears to me very
plainly to have been the great source of the corruption of an originally pure
religion, patriarchal, Israelitic, and Christian --the source of heathenism,
Pharisaism, and all the forms of dead Christianism, --in all times and coun-
360 LETTER FROM THE BISHOP OF LONDON. [1885.

tries j-- the trusting for spiritual and eternal blessings in names, professions,

out"wMarady  forms, or visible acts  of any kind,   Rom.   xiv. 17, 18.    and      lead  us
              God in His infinite    mercy save us   from  error and sin,

into  all truth  and  holiness ! This is the   sincere prayer   orfe, spectfully,"
                              " Rev. and dear  Sir, yours most
                                                                                    &c.

Among many acknowledgments which Dr. Smith received
                                                          Beligion to the Weil-
for his  ofSearNmaotniono,'n   the 'Necessity        of   read with interest :--
Being                         the following will
                                                      be

        I "Fulham, 30 June, 1834.

   " Sir,-- am quite ashamed of myself for having suffered so

long a time to elapse, without thanking you for the very able

and truly Christian Discourse which you were so good as to
send me. For the sake of Christianity itself, as well as of the

IChurch which is only an instrument to uphold and diffuse it,

wish that the spirit which pervades your sermon animated the
great body of our Dissenting brethren --but alas ! moderation

is scouted on all sides : and at a time when the political state

of the country renders it pecuharly desirable that pious men of

every denomination should unite their efforts to allay a too
prevalent excitement and thirst for change, the ministers of
Ithe Gospel are now engaged in endeavouring to foment and
extend it.       trust that your advice may have all the weight

which is justly due to counsels proceeding from such a quarter,

and that all those who love the Lord Jesus in sincerity will
unite their prayers for the growth of a more Christian spirit in

      branch     of his       Church.
Ievery                         " remain,
                                               Sir,  with  much  esteem,
                                        " Your
" The Bev. Dr. Smith."                               very  faithful  seLrovnandto, n."

                                                            " C. J.

   From a learned Professor             of Oxford,         the following            was

received :--
  I" My dear Sir,-- Pray accept

your Bejoinder to the Second
                                        my best thanks for           the copy of
                                        Letter of Dr. Lee,           which you

have done me the favour of sending to me. have read it with
much interest, not indeed agreeing with you in all your
opinions and conclusions, but fully appreciating the skill and
learning displayed in
                 I                      and the calm and Christian temper
                                   it,
which pervades it.
                 " am, my dear Sir, very sincerely yours," &c.
.ET. 61.]  ON THE CONTROVERSY WITH DR. LEE.              361

Besides the passages already quoted, showing Dr. Smith's

           engage in the discussion                      Dr. Lee, he says
                                                         brought into the
           to Mr. Bickersteth, --"
Ireluctance to                                     with
                                                    was
when writing
contest sorely against
an indefeasible call    omf yduintyc.l"inatIionn,    and from what seemed
                                                   one important aspect of

Christian character, his aversion to enter ' the crowded field of

ecclesiastical controversy ' shines as a virtue, and is highly to

his credit ; but no less honourable was it in him to overcome
that feeling when the circumstances appeared to require action.

Both are in well-known harmony with the whole history of the
man, in whom there was a singular power of being silent, in
connection with a singular capacity for speaking with precision
and force :--placid often, unmoved, as the surface of a lake

reposing calmly on the very depth of its own waters ; yet
capable of being acted upon so as to show, that mere stillness
was not for a moment to be mistaken for stagnation or want of

depth.

   His learning and urbanity had brought him into an amount
of intercourse, with several leading members of the Two

Universities, quite perhaps pecuhar to himself as a Dissenter.

Looking at the chief topics of their correspondence, the points

on which they differed rarely found a place ; and it is not un

natural to suppose, nay, there is evidence to sustain the belief,

that some of their number were ready to consider him as a

Nonconformist rather from position than principle. It was

not, therefore, without surprise that in the progress of this con
troversy, they saw one who was thought to have scarcely a man
ready for use in such a service, deploying--with infinite calm
ness -- column after column, as though there was to be no end

of his resources ;--and these marshalled in such order, and

with their appointments so complete, as to show plainly that
they were neither hurried into the field on the spur of the

moment, nor had been left without having been carefully
trained, and often vigilantly reviewed long before. But in all
such cases, the completeness of the arrangements is one of the
results of that patience, which can wait until the proper time

for action has come.

  It cannot pass unnoticed, that the Letters are models for the

spirit in which they are written. Without asperity--without
dogmatism -- even without that milder form of dogmatism

which consists in tacitly assuming the truth and certainty of
362             "HINTS AND QUERIES."                       [l835.

some of the positions advocated --without any airs of triumph
--without the faintest tinge of conceit or vanity, they are dis

tinguished by the manliness of the real scholar, the courtesy

of a gentleman, and the simple, earnest, truth-loving zeal of
Ifan eminent Christian.
                         it is well not to have been left without

such matter on a question, or indeed knot of questions, whieh
will long continue to excite inquiry and provoke discussion,

still more important is it to have so good an example of the

way in which the force of an argument shall be seen to depend

more on the exquisite temper to which it has been brought, than

on the mere physical strength of the arm that uses the weapon,
much less on the vindictive spirit of the combatant, who per

haps rather haggles than slays. Here and there an intimation

may be detected of what the Author could have done, had he

chosen to employ irony or sarcasm. His abstinence is noble,

arising from no want of power, but simply from a wise and
vigorous self-controul :--the more memorable for the ardour of

his temperament, the keenness and quickness of his mental

perceptions, and the copiousness of his early draughts from
the classical fountains of sharp and pungent words. Truth

had become so thoroughly native to him, that he seems to have

nearly lost all disposition to serve it except in a spirit of pure

and holy love.

When Dr. Lee and Dr. Smith had ended their controversy,

their Christian Friendship was happily found unimpaired ; and

their correspondence reverted to its early channel, without the
trace of either a ripple on the surface or any decrease in the

depth of the stream.

   A paper written by Dr. Smith, with the heading Hints, and

Queries, and designed for the use of a friend, but in no way
connected with the foregoing discussion, may serve to show in
a few words his views on Ecclesiastical Establishments.

" I. It is a first principle that all true religion must be founded in Revela

tion from God, and that the Revelation is     contained    perfectly and exclu
                                              follow that   sentiments received
sively in the Scriptures. --Does it not then

and practices observed as religious, hut which are not founded in Divine
Revelation, are not acceptable to God ?

   " H. In any human government, the admission of any authority in
matters of state, (making laws, requiring obedience, and punishing non
compliance, or in any other way exercising legislative powers,) besides that
JET. 61.]  "HINTS AND QUERIES."                                     363

of the known and legal sovereign power, would be a high crime, and if per

sisted in, would amount to treason. But the Ecclesiastical Establishment
of England is built upon an authority extraneous to and independent of the
Holy Scriptures ; namely, the civil authority of the realm, the King, Lords,
and Commons in Parliament assembled. By this authority were enacted

its articles of doctrine, its ranks and orders of ministers, its mode of celebra

ting worship and all other religious ordinances, even down to the very words

to be used in the solemn acts of devotion, without allowing the smallest
deviation, however called for by reason, conscience, or scripture. As the

whole frame, constitution, and services of the Established Church stand

upon this foundation, so the whole might be altered, or altogether repealed

by the same authority. It is truly a parliamentary religion, hedged in by

a parliamentary church. . . .

  " III. The New Testament contains no precept or example for the estab
lishment of Christianity by the enactments, immunities, or penalties of
human government ; it gives no description of the form and operation of
such establishments, except in the awful predictions of the Antichristian

power ; it gives no instructions for their creation and management ; it fur

nishes no rules for the conduct of their officers. Such an establishment

was, in fact, unknown till the fourth century, when it was formed upon the
model of the Roman imperial authority. --If, then, such an Establishment

be held to be right, and a valuable mode of supporting the true religion,
it must follow, --that the Lord Jesus Christ omitted to make so important a
provision for the promotion of his kingdom in the world, --and that other
persons, long after, even persons notoriously worldly and irreligious, were

Ifby Him authorized to introduce this  supplement, in order to make up
                                       this consequence be not admitted,
the defects of the Saviour's work. --

it must follow that an Establishment is no part of the Christian religion, as

it was constituted by its Divine Author, and that it is an invasion of His
Sole Sovereignty and perfect wisdom.

   " IV. The great good which Providence has effected by the Established
Church of our country, furnishes only a fallacious argument for conforming to

it. The Word of God, and not the Acts of His Providence, is the rule of our

Ifduty. . . the Acts of Parliament on which the Church rests were repealed

to-morrow, there would not be one faithful minister of Christ the less ; but
all such now in it would be freed from disgraceful and injurious fetters of

restraint. Such a shaking would only bring down the dead branches and
rotten fruit from the tree : the good fruit and the living leaves and boughs

would all remain, and the tree of the true Church of Jesus would flourish

the more for being rid of the noxious incumbrance.                  We have
   " These hints refer only to a few great and general principles.
many other reasons why we deem conformity to the Church of England
incompatible with a full and faithful obedience to our Holy Redeemer and

Lord. J. P. S."

   The theory held by many excellent members of the Estab

lishment --that if Evangehcal Dissent were merged in Evan

gehcal Churchism, there might then be a power against

Eomanism with which the latter could scarcely be able to
364            COLLEGE DUEL ALARMING ILLNESS.                     [l835.

cope -- promises more in appearance than the reality would
justify. For by such a union the leverage against Eomanism
in all its forms and entrenchments -- within the Church and
without -- would be greatly shortened ; and the time would

come when either a secession must take place in the direction

of Protestant Nonconformity, or Protestantism itself would be
little better than disguised, nay, might even be absorbed by
real Popery. Pure religion, then, no less than human freedom

in all its bearings, is greatly hidebted to the wisdom, piety,
and conscientious zeal of such disciples of Christ as Dr. Pye
Smith. Neither his position nor his principles are to be regarded
as accidents; far less as subjects for a moment's regret or dis
approval, by any one whose views of God's providential and
gracious government go beyond the limits of a party and the
prejudices of the passing hour.

   The year after the death of Mrs. Smith, Dr. Smith adopted
the plan of inviting the Students to his house, that he might
cultivate intercourse with them beyond that of the College
routine. His solicitude for their welfare is also evinced by
the following entry in his College Diary : --

" 1834. June 20. Propose to the Committee to allow each Student who
honourably passes trials, one year, or half a year's subsequent enjoyment of

the house as a domicile if necessary ; with the condition of an observance of
the Laws like any other Student, except being excused serving offices.
This indulgence would very rarely be needed; but the knowledge of its
provision would have a very tranquillizing effect on the mind of the
Students who cannot help anticipating the future. The grants might be
called Fellowships. It should be attended with an evident
employment                       the Fellow was residing."-- The   and exemplary
occurs, under  of time,  when       March 23. In the afternoon,   following entry
                date--"   1835.                                   the Right Rev.

Chas. P. Mac Ilvaine, D.D., Bishop of Ohio, delivered to us in the library a
most faithful, judicious, and affectionate charge ; and offered up a prayer, of
which the first few clauses were derived from the Liturgy, and the rest, toa
considerable length,     swoalesmenn.t"irely
suitable, tender, and                         extemporary,  but both parts peculiarly

   Within a space of a little more than a year, from the pub
lication of the Sermon on the ' Necessity of Beligion to the
Well-Being of a Nation ' to that of the Second Letter to Dr.
Lee, Dr. Smith had carried through the press nearly 250 pages;
on questions which at that time, and for one in his position, were
more than commonly exciting. He also prepared a preface for
JET. 61.] LETTER TO HIS CHILDREN ON HIS ILLNESS.                   365

Seeley's edition of Jacob Abbott's Corner Stone, which was

published in 1835 ; a work which he had to examine with great

care, in consequence of the novel manner adopted by the

American Author in stating his sentiments. Yet with all this

extra labour, the College Diary and his Sermon Book show

that his official duties, as a Tutor and a Pastor, were carried

on with his wonted regularity. At length, however, the effect

of such a constant strain upon his powers made itself visible,

in an illness more sudden and alarming than any of which

the records of his whole life make mention. He thus refers to
this event in his College Diary, under date, " 1835, Sep. 2. --
June 5. Succumbed under continued fever; -- solemn admo
Inition. ' that
                       may  be  spiritually  benefited  '     After three
                                                           !
Imonths, convalescence not yet complete. -- O that may live
Ito God in Christ, pleniore corde !-- This day, Sep. 2. Our
commencing   Prayer Meeting. --     am yet under debility      and
my deafness  distressing." The   warmest wishes and the       most
strenuous entreaties of Dr. Smith's numerous friends -- whether

of his family, or of the College or Church, sustained by the advice
of his medical attendants -- all took a direction the reverse of
the active one which he was endeavouring at this time to pur
sue. But unless absolute prostration prevailed, inactivity was

very irksome, indeed peculiarly unnatural to him ; so that on
occasions like the present he suffered less probably from these

comparatively slender exertions, than if he had subjected his
desire for occupation to a rigid restraint :--his long course of

generally good health, and his unceasing diligence, had supphed

neither opportunity nor motive for acquiring the conservative

habits of an invalid.

The following passage from a Letter to Mr. and Mrs. John

William Smith, written at Hastings, when his prospects for the

future were overcast by the shadow of this sickness, is a fine

opening out of the character of the man. The Letter is dated
Aug. 7, 1835 :--

" My very dear Children, -- . . . Your dear Sister and I, with a ser

vant, came here on July 22. Next week they will (if the kind Providence
Iwhich has so befriended us, grant the fulfilment of our intention,) return

home ; and spend a week longer on the Kentish Coast, upon the higher
Iand more bracing lands, hoping to arrive at home about the 21st.
                                                                   have
Igreat reason to be thankful for the great benefit received by this air, bathing,

sailing, and chaise-riding. When left home, to walk at all was difficult
366  LETTER FROM REV. R. G. MILNE.                                     [l83S.

I Inow can walk a mile.   feel my general strength greatly improved. One
point is a matter of serious anxiety ; the great increase of my deafness oc
casioned by the fever (and, in that view alone, it was a favourable sign,) and
which does not yield in any approach to a proportion to the improvement
of my nerves and muscles. But this is my privilege and joy, to be in the
Lord's hand, to lie wishfully and absolutely at the disposal of unerring
                            mercy. He doeth, and ever      will      all things
wisdom, righteousness, and  ' seemeth good in His sight '        do  good ; not
in the best manner. What                                   must  be

only good, but the best.
  I" Yet with regard to this great deafness (which is such as to render me

unable to estimate the pitch and tones of my own voice) cannot be with
out solicitude. Pray for me that it may not be a sinful solicitude, violating
If Ithe divine precepts ; Mat. vi. 25, 31, 34. Phil. iv. 6.
                                                           it continue, fear
Ithat shall be incapable of preaching and pastoral duties. It would be
very sinful in me to begin and continue a course of performances, in and
out of the pulpit, of which the feebleness and gross deficiencies, would pre

vent edification, produce coldness in the Church and Congregation, gradually
waste and wear them away, and prove that the healthy and vigorous state
of my people in spiritual things, the honour of Christ, and the advancement

of His Kingdom, were in my estimation to be made subordinate to my
gaining the stipend. No terms could adequately express the wickedness of
I Isuch a state of mind in me.
                            hope (-- but let us all pray,) that may
never be given up to it. With respect to my academical duties, the case is

Ivery different, though the inconvenience would be not inconsiderable.
I Icould deliver my lectures to 12 (my average number) or 30; and by the

help of the best hearing trumpet that can get, could hear the examina
tions, recapitulations, and frequent inquiries of the Students. At least I

Ishould like (Deo opitulante) to finish the existing term of my Divinity course,

which will take about three years. believe it would be the most informing,
practical, and in every way profitable, of all past terms."

   The Bev. E. G. Milne, A.M., of Tintwistle, in a Letter to
Mr. Ebenezer Smith, dated February 13, 1852, mentions a cir

cumstance which came under his own observation during

Dr. Smith's illness :--

"When convalescent, Dr. Smith was removed to Walthamstow, where

Ihe spent a few weeks under the roof of your excellent and lamented father-

in-law. During his stay there, my brother * and had occasion to visit
Mr. and Mrs. Foulger. On hearing that we were there, our beloved Tutor
requested that he might see us for a few minutes. We were at first some

what reluctant to comply with this wish, as his medical adviser had pro

hibited his seeing any friends save those of his own circle. Dr. Smith,
however, urged it. On taking farewell of him, he grasped our hands
together ; and said with faltering tongue, while the tears rolled down his
Icheeks, --' There                                         friends, I

reaped from this                                           that lean
     is one signal benefit, my beloved    young                        have
                                          taught                       come
     protracted affliction. -- hare been
to God in no other character than that of a sinner.' To us in the novitiate

     * The Rev. W. C. Milne, now a Missionary in China.
JET. 61.J          LETTER FROM DR. CARDWELL.                                             367

of the ministry, the whole scene was very touching ; and though sixteen
years have elapsed since we saw yom' beloved father in so lowly an attitude,
and heard him utter language so self-humiliating and Christ-confiding, --
we have daily reverted in thought to that interview, and trust that the ex
perience subsequently acquired, has enabled us personally to adopt and act

out the sentiment which was then so feelingly and unostentatiously ex
                                                            the reputation
pGroedss,'edanbdy  one who had    Cahlrreisatd.'y"  earned                  of being  a  ' Man of
                   ' a Father in

   Although departing from the immediate subject, it can

scarcely be out of place to introduce here the next passage

from Mr. Milne's communication.

" In the last Letter I received from my brother William, he alludes to the

responsible work in which he has been employed in conjunction with Dr.
Medhurst, and Mr. Stronach, viz. :--the retranslation ofthe Holy Scriptures
into the Chinese Language. By the blessing of God on their joint-labours,
they had proceeded as far as the middle of the Book of Job. In his Letter
William makes grateful mention of the Educational influences which had
I I Iqualified him for taking his part in that work ; and concludes by observing --
' If had time,     could dilate on the benefits             have realized in my

Translatorial duties from the training and truth-seeking discipline of my
venerated Tutor now in heaven, Dr. Pye Smith. The principles of transla

tion and interpretation that he inculcated, have been of infinite value and
assistance, especially in the Old Testament version.' "

The same sentiment as the one mentioned in Mr. Milne's

Letter, was expressed with a slight difference of phraseology to

another of the Students when he saw Dr. Smith for the first
                                  :----""Mhyavdeeaforunyodutnhgatfriitenwdo"u--ld
                   illness
                   Wright
time after his                                                                        he said  to
                                                                                       not do  to
Ithe Eev. A. C.
Icome to God as a saint;                            have had to come just as a poor

unworthy sinner."

Among other Letters of sympathy addressed to him during
this season of affliction, one came from the Eev. Dr. Cardwell,
the present Principal of St. Alban Hall, Oxford. The passage
to be quoted is so greatly to the credit of the Writer as on that

... Iaccount to deserve insertion :--" My dear Sir, --
grieve most sincerely at the affliction with which it has pleased
IGod to visit you ; not only because it has been the cause of much

pain and suffering to yourself, but because it will, fear, be the
occasion of withdrawing you in great measure from the im
Iportant station in which your services have been so valuable to
the cause of truth and good order.                          refer to the part you
368                    LETTER TO THE DEACONS.                                [188S.

have taken and the influence you have exercised in those dis

putes, which have in many instances tended to widen the
distance, and to exasperate the jealousies already subsisting
Ibetween different parties of professing Christians. But when
I I Isay grieve, speak ' after the manner of
                                                          know that

the visitation, coming as it does from the Father of Mercies
Iand God of all Comfort, is not without its purposes of good ;

and believe that in your case its purposes, though we may
not be permitted to trace them, will be accomplished to the
uttermost."

   A few days after, and while he was still at Hastings, Dr.
Smith wrote to the Deacons of the Church at the Gravel Pit a

Letter, a copy of which has been sent for use in this place by
one of the number :--·

   " My dear Brethren, -- The cause and the serious duration of my separa
tion from the flock, which the Chief Shepherd, thirty-one years ago, com

mitted to my trust, cannot but make a solemn impression upon my mind.

I am at no loss to account for it as a dispensation of GOD. Such a rebuke
I greatly needed. The coldness, the dissipation, and distraction from

extraneous objects, the formalism, the sad deficiencies in unction, tenderness,

Iand sympathy, and many other reasons loudly demanding a chastising rod,--

have been brought powerfully to my perception ; and not, hope, without deep

humiliation and brokenness of heart, nor without hope, should it please the
All- Wise Disposer to restore me to a capacity for the attempt, that my
future endeavours will be more carefully and watchfully put forth, to feed

the sheep   and the lambs of Him who laid down his life for them.            But,
alas ! who  is ' sufficient' for such a discharge of duties, ' watching for  souls
as he that must give an account ?' -- Christ maketh sufficient, so far as we

dare apply the gracious assurance, 2 Cor. iii. 5, 6. For that declaration has
its just and well-founded application to all sincere ministers of the Word, as

well as primarily to the Apostles : and the experience of Paul is also that of
others who seek to follow him, though at so vast a distance and with such a
Ifslower pace ; Phil. iv. 13.  HE be pleased to capacitate and support me,
I shall have still greater comfort and assurance in the fact that HIS grace

is sufficient for me.
" But in order that the ministry may be profitably exercised, duties of no
little weight and importance lie upon those who sit under it. The first pro
duction of the spiritual life in the soul of a child of man (-- for we are all
by our fallen nature, full of artfully disguised enmity to God, dead in sins,
unfeeling and hating to feel aright, --) is of free, absolute, undeserved,
sovereign, unconquerable grace. Afterwards, the sosl being made alive to
God has a principle of activity which Christ has put within it; and which,
therefore, it is our duty to cherish and strengthen. All the means which
are appointed for that
1 grieve the Holy Spirit  poufrpGoosde,,'  the  believer  is bound to use ; else he will
                                           and   involve  his soul in darkness and per-
JET. 61.] LETTER TO THE STUDENTS OF HIS CLASS.                                                     369

plexity out of which deliverance is very difficult. It is upon this principle
that the Lord Jesus and His Apostles are continually pressing upon be
lievers the obligations  oafbpideersoinnalHwimatc:h--fuHlneestshaatndhaadthvanthciinsghionpethien
                                                                                                   Divine
life. 'Little children
                                                                                                    HIM,
ought himself also so to walk even as HE walked :-- Giving all diligence,
add to your                     &c.-- only         your   coofnCvherrsisatt,'ionand(yhoouwr
conduct and  faith fortitude,                let  gospel                                           entire
             character,) be as  becometh    the                                                    many

other instructions of a similar kind fill the pages of the New Testament.
They are essential parts of the gospel of Christ : if they be neglected, it is

mutilated and deformed.
Ifpra"yEevrse' r
also must Pastor,         Deacons, and People             '  strive   together in                  their
(secret, above all)      to God for each other.                   on   either side                  that

duty be neglected, or be performed in a cold and formal manner, the bane
ful effects will be manifested in many ways. For the sympathy, the tender
Ifellow-feeling, the affectionate prayers of my beloved people, am indebted
Ibeyond my power to express.
                                humbly pray them to continue this course
of love and piety ; for whatever may be the result of my personal affliction,
it will assuredly bring a rich magazine of blessings into their own souls.''

   With the following note, the account of his illness comes

to a close. It was addressed " to the Body of Academical

Students" --in other words, to the members of his class --
superscribed to the Senior of that day :--

  I" Homerton, Monday Morning, November 30, 1835.

" My dear Friends, -- The pain which have suffered and still suffer in the
Itongue, palate, and gums, has led me to try the effect of a rigorous abstinence
from speaking.  have observed this since yesterday noon, and with some
success : so that it appears my duty to keep it up all this day. It would

seem better to use the means promptly for getting rid of so severe a dis

Icomfort, than to encourage its duration by speaking. On this account, am
induced to shut myself up all this day. The course of the experiment must

I Idetermine whether ought to continue it to-morrow : but trust that at
Ifarthest, shall be enabled to resume my public duty, and have what is
Ialways to me a cordial gratification, the pleasure of meeting you on
Wednesday morning.       shall feel much obliged by any of my brethren
officiating for me at the Pra"yeMryMdeeeatringPu;pialsn,dyroeumrsaina,ffectionately," &c.

   Although great debility continued for many months, of which
notices will subsequently appear, and although in particular

his painfully increased deafness remained undiminished to the
last, God was pleased to confer not only many years of life, but
years of great and varied usefulness, far beyond what he or his
friends might have anticipated even had this affliction not

occurred.

   Among the Literary honours conferred upon Dr. Smith, he

received in March this year the Diploma of LL.D. from

Marischal College, Aberdeen.                                          2b
                       CHAPTEE XXI.

 MR. WALFORD'S RECOVERY-- LETTER TO A LADY ON THE DEATH OF HER
       MOTHER-- LETTER TO REV. JOHN CLAYTON, SEN. --MONUMENTAL IN
       SCRIPTION FOR MRS. CLAYTON --LETTERS -- CONTEMPLATES RESIGNING
      THE PASTORAL OFFICE--PASTORAL DUTIES AND COUNSELS --THOUGHTS
       RESPECTING A CO-PASTOR --LETTER TO CHARLES LYELL, ESQ., F.R.S. --
       LOVE OF ACCURACY -- LETTER TO A STUDENT -- TO HIS DAUGHTER.

   A bkief notice in Dr. Pye Smith's Sermon Book at the

beginning of 1836, shows the gratitude and joy he felt on the
restoration of his former colleague to a capacity for ministerial
service. On Lord's-day, January 10, the Eev. William Wal

ford preached at the Gravel Pit Chapel :--" to the astonish

ment and delight of all, after his distressing illness of six
years and then a reference is added to Psalm cxviii. 25, as
expressing the Pastor's wishes for the future.

    The following Letter, dated January 19, was written to a
Lady on the decease of an aged mother : --

   " My dear Madam, --The great and solemn event which you have been so
long expecting, has now arrived. The wise and holy purpose of God is
declared by the event : and equally does the gracious Sovereign declare
what is human duty. In all cases of bereavement, that duty is a reverential
and adoring acquiescence. But how great is your happiness, that your
duty and privilege rise to a much higher point ! You have every great and

commanding consideration to allay distress, and to diffuse a pure and sweet
calmness through your mind. You have enjoyed the affections and the
society of your late honoured parent, to a period with which very few of

the followers of Christ are indulged. Nor only has it been so unusually
protracted, but the degree and manner of the enjoyment have been equally
remarkable. Separation or interruption has been by you scarcely known ;
and when the inevitable decay of bodily powers, and consequently the
obstruction of mental faculties have taken place, the period of painful
sympathy has not been greatly prolonged. Your dear mother has not been
detained a helpless sufferer, and incapable of holding communion with those
.ET. 62. J LETTER TO THE REV. JOHN CLAYTON, SEN.                          371

whom she loved, to a length of time comparable to that which many endure.
Most abundantly have you shown the strength of filial love, to the sacrifice
of your own health. God has graciously interposed, lest that sacrifice
should be rendered too great : and most clearly He sets before you reasons
for not mere resignation, but for thankfulness and sacred joy.

   " Now you have to reflect that she whom you so long and affectionately

tended is raised above all need of the best efforts of the warmest mortal

heart. She resteth from her labours in every respect; absent from the
body, but present with the Lord; walking by faith no longer, but having
the most near and spiritually sensible communion with the Redeemer in
His glory. Surely you are called upon to distinguish yourself from those
who sorrow as persons destitute of hope. What a mercy beyond descrip
tion is that hope !-- the confidence of those who were partakers of like

precious faith, resting upon the foundation of God's unchangeable covenant;

in each of whose breasts the same hope lived, and when divided by the veil
of death is, in the one case, refined into the celestial blessedness yet waiting

for reunion, and, in the other, is blessed with an additional infusion of life

from Christ. Bless God that you have had such a Parent, that you loved

her, and she you so much, that you enjoyed her so long, and that you were

enabled to contribute so essentially to her happiness. Surely your peculiar
                                                                     of every pure and devout
duty is  itnhafonlklofuwlninesgs,yoaunrdLaorsdac."red  invigorating
feeling

   The next Letter is also one of condolence and Christian

sympathy. It was addressed to the late Bev. John Clayton,

senior, on the death of Mrs. Clayton. The venerable Lady
had attained the 91st year of her age; fifty-seven of which

had been passed in that relationship with Mr. Clayton which
was now dissolved :--

"Rev. and dear Sir, -- The disruption of a union which has subsisted,
with happiness so peculiarly great, during a period of such unusual con
Itinuance, cannot but have inflicted a pang upon your heart, of unspeakable
aserevenroitty.smaBlul twitthruysto,uo.'n  no slight    grounds,   that ' the consolations of God
                                           To very     many of    the strangers and pilgrims in
the vale of tears, you have been the instrument of administering supports
and considerations promotive of sanctification : and now the Great Disposer
calls you both to a feeling of human need, and a renewed elevation of the

heart to the Comforter, who abideth with you. It is impossible that this
stroke of bereavement, though of necessity long expected, should not be the
cause of pungent distress. This it must be, upon the principles of our
common nature. Man is made to mourn. Even cold justice calls us to
mourn, when the excellent, the beloved, and the valuable are taken from
us : how much more when that union is dissolved which God ordained and
blessed in Eden, and which nature, religion, and habit have wrought into
almost our own identity !--Yet how many topics of holy encouragement
and comfort are placed before you ! The God of all grace has wise ends in
Iview, from having ordained you to be the survivor. The new and strange

feeling of solitariness will, trust and pray, be happily lost in the higher
                                                                     2b2
37 2 MONUMENTAL INSCRIPTION.                                                          [1838.

degree of Communion with the ever-present God, with whom is the Foun
tain of Life,-- pure, undecayed, ever active, heavenly life. The hours of
fellowship with this Divine Friend, can never be lonely. What also must
be the joy of reunion In the mean time, ' Blessed are the dead, who die
in the Lord ! ' They need no more our solicitudes and attentions. They are
present with the Lord. With regard to them, sorrow and sighing have fled

away ¦ their liberated spirits  nairgehtbeinforHe isthteemtphlreo.n"e  of God  and the Lamb,
and they serve Him day and

Dr. Smith was applied to by his friend and brother in

the ministry, the Bev.          LaGteinorgeinsCcrlaipyttioonn,"        of Walworth, "to
assist in preparing a                                                   for a monument

which he wished to erect to the memory of his revered

mother, who had passed the last nineteen years of her hon
oured life at Gaines' Park, in the neighbourhood of Bomford.

A pillar, surmounted by an urn, was erected in the Park;
and the following inscription was supphed by the Doctor,

which was forwarded to Mr. Clayton with the characteristic
note which is subjoined :--

                  "AD MEMORIAM
                          MATRIS

                   PRUDENTISSIMJ3
                    BENIGNISSIMJE

                         OPTIMA

                     CONSECRANDAM
               MjESTUS AC GAUDENS

                          POSUIT
            FILIUS natu SECUNDUS."

                I " Homerton, March 16, 1836.

" My dear Sir,-- cannot think of any epithet that will
Iexpress that kindness of heart which produces never- tiring

assiduity, so well as Benignus. And though can find no
example of the superlative degree in Cicero ; yet that he
Imight                          --it )(--

as you
rightfully  have     used                  he never                    had   such occasion
            blessed    ivith,                                           may    safely argue
have been                                  think we

from his having used the adverb Benignissime, and that Seneca

has the masculine Benignissimus,           and    the elder                    Pliny    the
                                            to  say that for                   this   kind
neuter Benignissimum. --Permit me
of composition, it is not considered a disadvantage that a

school boy may not be able to construe it : that without some
habitude and tact in the best Classics, an Englishman is sure

Ito blunder in his attempt ; only provided that the composition
be simple, pure, and unaffected.           fear that nine out of ten
JET. 62.]              LETTERS.                                         373

Iwill stumble over the Ad consecrandam memoriam ; but

cannot invent anything" so proper. The best way in my power
of expressing it in English would be something like this --
' To cherish the remembrance of a dear object by making
it sacred.' "

Writing to the Eev. Edward Bickersteth in February, Dr.
               --Po"pMeryy.'corWdiaitlh  thanks for your '
ISmith says :                              its stamina, all  Bemarks    on the
                                                             its great   senti
Progress of
ments,        cordially concur ; above all, with the prominence

given to the Doctrines of Grace, the 'Articuli stantis vel
Icadentis Ecclesia?.'
                       But there are a few things in relation
to which, that         could converse half-an-hour with

IAnd in a Letter to the same estimable correspondent in the

preceding May, he writes :-- " return my best thanks for
your very kind Letter, and your ' Discourses on Prophecy '

Iwhich accompanied it. Their holy tendency is the same as

that of all your other writings : and therefore should have
              inclination to dispute with    you upon        otfhefutpuarrittiyc.u"lars
Ivery little  fear we must differ, on the    prospects

wherein

   The following passage is from a Letter to his daughter, the
date of which is not given :--

" You are called to a continuity of severe trials ; but despond not. That
you have been enabled to show so much affectionate and unwearied labour

Iof love to your dear friend, is not only a pleasure which am sure you have
Ia heart to feel, but God will, doubt not, mark it by tokens of His gracious
approbation. Yet we are not permitted to know or prescribe, or in the
Ismallest degree conjecture, how He will do this. It may even be by train

ing you to the happiness of greater services --shall say, greater sufferings ?
--for the Redeemer's name. My heart's wish and prayer always has been,
that you might enjoy much and suffer little : but this has been, though right
Ifor me humbly to desire, yet the effluence of a low and poor state of mind,

too much attached to sensible and temporal objects. But am persuaded,
my very dear Child, that you have been       led by sufferings to
heights in experience and devotion than you  could otherwise have    sublimer
                                                                   attained."

   Although the Letter which is now to follow was written
about two years earlier than the one just inserted, the accord

ance of each in spirit and style may justify the placing of it
here : it was addressed to a young friend :--

I" love you very much, and humbly offer my unworthy but earnest
Ifprayers on your behalf, to the God of all grace and power.
                                                              it be for the
374 CONTEMPLATES RESIGNING                                       [1886.

grand purpose of His wisdom and love, He will expel your complaint, and
Ifgladden so many praying hearts by your restoration to health.  He do

not immediately grant our requests, be assured that it is for the most holy
reasons. There is nothing arbitrary in the Divine Will : ' God is love.'.--
trust in Him, my dear suffering young friend ! Trust, through the Re
deemer, will not be disappointed ; though your faith and patience may be
long tried. O reflect on the generous sympathy of that Divine Redeemer ;
one with you in his humanity, and having all the gentle compassions and
p'daranigodlnlteiptfchiretee,d-esfaxuloinlsnvcteeteislnfisnyte, osncsfaotmtouhfrfeeohrut'Gm,oovsaduenhsretnaaaalidlnt,,u,' Grdeaoeldllsivitnbehlleree,ssssaienndafdinnfdieotevrpeeerrvayfetetrwcr,'itabay;untbbedulsettshsioenrfyeHoJfeoiushr.e"osvuhapahev,riniotgor

In consequence of great debility and his distressing loss of
hearing, the Pastor had very serious thoughts of giving up his

charge at the Gravel Pit, both in 1836 and 1837. Communi

cations in relation to this contemplated change will be laid

before the Eeader. They will show the state of his mind

under these new circumstances, the purity of his motives, and

his open course of conduct towards his people. The first inti

Imation occurs in a Letter to his daughter, dated June 24, 1836 :

--" Through God's great mercy feel quite well, though feeble.
My deafness is very distressing. My proposition is to resign

my pastorate, as soon as the Church can find a suitable suc
cessor. And now is a proper time, when we are not declining.

I IThus conceive it probable, under the Divine Will, that may
Ibe useful as a Tutor for two or three years longer : but if go
Ion without remitting in the two departments, regard as the
probable result a rapidly fatal illness, or a melancholy prostra

tion of useless incapacity. But by thus gradually retiring from
Ithe solemn labours of life, may be preserved
Iburden to those whom love."                   from          being a

The next day he wrote the following to his Deacons :--

   " My dear Brethren, --In looking back upon the period of more than
thirty-two years, that we have walked together in the faith and fellowship

of the Gospel, we cannot but perceive a remarkable abundance and cogency
of motives for humiliation on our own part, and for admiration and thank

fulness with respect to the Blessed Author of our mercies. From a very

Ismall beginning, our number has gradually increased ; and we have scarcely

known an interruption of our peace and harmony. But apprehend that
the time is come, at which it is my duty to make to you and to our beloved
Iassociates in Church communion a very solemn announcement.
                                                             have now
entered on my sixty-third year, and the experience of the last twelve
months leads me to expect rather a diminution than an increase of natural
.ET. 62.     THE PASTORAL OFFICE.                                                      375

Istrength. After much reflection and prayer, and advising with you and

other confidential friends, am brought to the conviction that it is my duty
Ito resign the Pastoral Office, at as early a time as shall be satisfactory to
you.      bless God that this sentiment is not in the smallest degree con
nected with any unpleasant feeling. It is altogether the contrary. Our
present position as to union and comfort, and the hope of increasing spiritual

prosperity, is encouraging. Such a time is much more favourable than a
season of apparent declension would be, for the exercise of your prayers and
endeavours in order to the obtaining of a devoted, judicious, zealous, and
faithful Pastor, in the vigour of life, and possessing talents both solid and

attractive.
  " With regard to myself it appears not an unreasonable hope, that by

Icontracting my circle of exertions, may be enabled for a small number of
Iyears longer, to serve the cause of Christ in the Academical department.

lay these views before you, requesting your continued prayers, the free
imparting of your counsels singly or collectively, and the communication of
the purport of this note to the other members of our Church, at such time
Iand in such way as you may judge proper.
   " have the happiness to remain,             and obliged Servant, J. P. S."
        " My dear Brethren, Your affectionate

  It does not appear that any proceedings were adopted to

carry out the design of this communication. To part with

such a Pastor was no easy thing for such a Church. The next
paper shows a favourable change in his health and prospects ;
it is thus superscribed : --

       " Read at our Church Meeting, November 3, 1836.
   " About three months ago, under discouraging apprehensions of increased

Idebility and deafness, addressed a Letter to the Deacons of this Church to
Ithe effect, that whenever it might appear to them proper, should be ready
Ito resign, either wholly or in part, my pastoral charge. This was not from

any diminution of affection for the Church to which am bound by so many
powerful ties, and which has shown so much attachment and kindness to

Ime during the period of more than thirty-two years. But my motive was

an apprehension lest, on the one hand, should injure the prosperity of the
Redeemer's cause among us, by a too long retention of my office ; and on

Ithe other hand, lest should too timidly and too hastily abandon my post.
I Ifelt, therefore, that next to prayer and supplication for Divine guidance,
was taking the proper step for ascertaining the path of duty, by submitting

Ithe question to those friends upon whose judgment and fidelity could so
happily rely.
   " Since that time, my state of health and feelings of strength and com

fort have so much improved, as to lead me to think that the subject

Imay safely for the present be dismissed from our minds. At the same time,
  earnestly request my dear friends, the Deacons and the Members of the
Church universally, to continue their affectionate and earnest prayers for
the enlarged blessing of the Holy Spirit upon the means of grace among us,
and that we may be guided in            path
the edification of the Church and  the  own   gwlohriych.'  shall  be most  conducive  to
                                   His
H76                PASTORAL COUNSELS.                         []837.

  IWith the new year the Pastor     had to commence a new book

as a record <5f his pulpit duties;  he begins thus :--" 1837. In

the infinite mercy of God, have filled two of these Entry
Books, each comprising a term of 18 years. This third book,

which has but half the number of leaves, will probably be

Ileft unfinished by me. My present debility and infirmities

sufficiently warrant that anticipation. O that may be made
                                 "
and kept faithful  unto  death      January 1st, he took the two
                                !

services on the Lord's-day; the subject in the morning being--
" Our appointed time and its duties. Job xi. 14." And in the
afternoon, " Christian diligence and circumspection. 2 Pet. iii.
14." But this was all that he could do with any regularity for
                                               :--" All
many weeks ; he adds, therefore, after Jan. 1            the  sub
sequent interruptions are from my failures of  health."

Not being able to be present at the Church meeting, Febru

ary 2nd, the pastor sent the following Letter to be read on
the occasion :--

   " To the Church of our Lord Jesus Christ of which it has pleased HIM to

make me overseer, grace and peace be multiplied.

   " My dear Brethren and Sisters, -- It is a disappointment and grief to me

Ithat though my state of health is greatly improved, must yield to the

Ipropriety of being absent this evening from your sacred assembly : and

Iapprehend that for some time to come must be very cautious in exposing
Imyself to the evening air. But trust my heart will be with you, and that

we shall have some reciprocal communion in prayer and praise. Unspeakable
is the privilege of secret devotion ; for in it we are especially called to open
our hearts and spread our wants and feelings before God, with the most

minute particularity of that which is intimately personal, and which would
not be often proper to be brought into our social adorations. Family
worship has also its proper character, for affecting our own hearts and those
of our children and inmates with the various blessings and duties of

domestic relationship, that they may keep the way of the Lord, and may
experimentally find that ' godliness is profitable for all things, having the
promise of the life that now is and of that which is to come.' Yet both
these great classes of the Christian's privileges are adapted to excite and
direct our minds to a higher sphere of holy sociality. Universal experience

has shown that Prayer-Meetings, when judiciously conducted, are most
valuable auxiliaries to the vigour and comfort of religion in our hearts. The
spiritual life becomes as it were more vital by contact. The united flames
burn with a greater warmth and brightness, than each can ordinarily attain
in a detached state. Sympathy in the trials and temptations, the sorrows

and comforts of each other, is far more likely to become lively and tender,
when we see and hear each other, than when we only call up the solitary
creations of meditation. Hence new energy is acquired to ' the work of
faith, the patience of hope, and the labour of love and believers are
quickened and strengthened for the bearing of all burdens and the practising
JET. 03.]                   THOUGHTS RESPECTING A CO-PASTOR.                           377

oenf liaglhltednuetides.'.  To Him whose grace is all-sufficient ' we look, and are
                            He shows himself to be continually with us ; He holdeth

us by the hand ; He enables us to walk in the way humbly and therefore

safely.
" But all these and other advantages are in a way and measure still
higher, the attendants and consequences of Church-Meetings.                       Here the

union of believers with their Lord and with each other is presented in the
most pure and engaging form that we can expect to enjoy on earth,
excepting that ordinance which is in fact a part and parcel of Church-
Meetings, the celebration of the Lord's Supper. To that                      divine and
delightful institution we look forward at every Church-Meeting.
                                                                               It is kept

in view by the whole plan and texture of the service ; and our exhortations
and prayers and hymns of praise have an express relation to it. Thus, my

Idear Friends, are you to be employed this evening. Thus, trust, our
                                                                             all
relation to the Blessed Saviour and to each  other, yes, and             to       who  love
Him, will be brought into deeper impression  on our hearts."

   As the struggle continued between debility and an effort
to recover full strength for Pastoral duties, the following paper

was prepared :--

"Read at our Church Meeting, May 4, 1837.
I"It is now six months since, in concurrence with my brethren the
Deacons,                    submitted to you the idea that any change in the pastoral

Irelationship, or the mode of adjusting its duties, was not at the time of
immediate urgency.          had then some experience, by Divine mercy, of
Iimproved health; and cherished the hope of being enabled for a some
what longer period, to discharge the duties of my station in such a manner
as might not be wholly unsatisfactory to my brethren and sisters in Church-
fellowship, nor without some tokens of the Divine approbation. But in the
period that has since elapsed, my health was for a season impaired by the
epidemic which prevailed in the winter, my medical advisers have not
Ijudged me capable, even after recovery, to resume the full exercise of pulpit

duties, and that which feel the most disqualifying and distressing of
all is, the extreme failure of the sense of hearing. This latter affliction

Idisables me from the performance of pastoral duties to a degree which feel
Ito be extremely trying to myself and disappointing to my friends.
   " dare not now hope for such a restoration of the power of hearing, as
will render me adequate to the discharge of pastoral duties by private con
versation, which is so important a means of ministerial usefulness. It is my
Ihumble and earnest desire that the cause of our Lord Jesus Christ may
sustain no detriment among us through my infirmities.                    anxiously desire
that the labours of pastoral visiting and oversight may be performed in the
most lively and effective manner, still remembering that the power which
Imust give success is of sovereign grace. . . . Having communicated

these sentiments to my brethren, the Deacons, am authorized on their part
to say that they recommend the appointment of a co-Pastor, as soon as God
                                  sjuuidtagbmleenptersaonnd."affections
may be pleased to lead       the                                         of the Church to the
discovery and selection
                            of a

Whether steps were taken to comply with the suggestions
378  LETTER to C. LYELL, ESQ., F.R.S., ETC.                     [18S7.

expressed in this communication, cannot be ascertained from
any papers in the handwriting of Dr. Smith ; but the facts,
as they became apparent in the progress of time, show that
nearly nine years had to pass, before a co-Pastor divided with
him the duties and responsibilities of the ministerial office.

So far was his work in future from being confined to the
College --to which in these appeals to his Church he ap
peared to cling with all the ardour of a first love --he was
destined a few years later to bring the attainments of a

long life of study into a form to be valued highly not only
by enlightened and firm believers in Divine Bevelation, but
scarcely less by men of Science. Not a trace of the lingering
illness of 1835 and 1836 can be detected in the Congrega

tional Lecture of 1839.

   The Beader will not be insensible to the generosity of Sir
Charles Lyell, for placing at the service of this memoir a
Letter so truly characteristic of Dr. Smith as the following :--

   " To Charles Lyell, Jun., Esq., F.R.S., &c. &c. &c.

        I " Homerton, April 3, 1837.

   " Sir, -- assure myself that your candid disposition will deem unnecessary
any apology for giving you this trouble.

  I" Thinking it more than probable that a fifth edition of your ' Principles

of Geology ' will soon be called for, submit to you the question, whether it

would not be desirable to alter the terms Eocene, Miocene, and Pliocene,

into Eoccene, Mioccene, Pliocame ? My reasons for wishing that you may
approve of this change are these :--i. The putting of a mere e, though pro

nounced long, to represent the diphthong at, leaves the mind of a reader,

supposing him to be ignorant of the intention of the terms, uncertain
whether the compounds are formed with icawbs or kow6s.' --ii. Though

writers of the seventeenth century very generally expressed at and ot, aj

Iand ce, in proper names and other words used in English, by the simple

long e, the practice has, for think nearly a century, been abandoned by
the best writers, excepting in a very few words which had got into such
Iextensive use that a reformation could not reach them.
     ce JE JE                                            can recollect

               a; ce                                            I doubt
of this kind, only economy, Egypt, Ethiopia, penult, celibacy.
whether eolian has not given way to molian. Few persons now write
ICesar, Etolia, Phenicia, anacenosis, epicene, encenia, cesarean, egis, Eneas,

Eneus ; but humbly think that those authors who rank as good authori
ties make a point of distinguishing at and m in all English derivatives, as
Caesar, Ca3sarea (in which the penultimate diphthong is ft, which is legiti

mately Latinized by e in some cases, and by i in others, but cesarean, or

better caisarian has the penult a short vowel, being from mere Latin adjec
tives ;) epiccene, anaccenosis, encomia, cegis, JEneas, (Eneus, &c.
iET. 63.]               LOVE OF ACCURACY.                                                                                                                                             379

I" take this liberty from a belief that the ' Principles ' are and will
remain a standard work on the Science ; and that therefore every reason
able objection, however of minor importance, ought to be precluded. . . .

I apprehend also, that it is now more than ever incumbent upon our leaders
in science to watch over the use of technical terms, for there is always a

Idanger of improprieties which no circumstances can justify : . . . the

use of Pliocene, SfC, is not an impropriety, object to it only as a less
eligible mode than the other. But for such instances as Plagiostoma spinosa,
Ifor spinosum, -- Trionix for Trionyx,-- Lymnea for Limneea (Xt/iiWa) and
similar oversights, one can make no defence.      have somewhere seen idio-

repulsive. Hybrid compounds ought not to be allowed, any farther than as

Ia small number have, fear, got established in our language ; for instance
terminology. Termatology would be the proper form (taking repfia in the

sense of terminus, which it would not indeed very well bear,) if we were

I Iobliged to multiply such words ; or rather would take Onomatology.
wish that our good writers would incline, with wisdom and moderation,

rather to imitate the Germans, and adhere, as far as elegance will permit,
to compounds from our own Anglo-Saxon.
                                                                                                                                                                            have the
 I" Intreating your kind indulgence for taking this liberty,

honour to be,                          and obedient Servant,"  &c. &c.
                 " Sir, Your faithful

It will not be out of place to introduce here other examples
of the same habit. Thus in a Letter to Sir J. B. Williams
Iin 1835, this passage occurs :--" On arriving at home on Wed
nesday,      found yom- kind Letter, accompanying a copy, as

a present from yourself, of your Life of Sir Matthew Hale.
--Why did he write Mathew,              as if
Mardaws ?"--Dr. Smith then                        the  word had not been
                                        gives     the  Hebrew characters

to justify the use of a double t.

The following was to an Author in Scotland :--

I" would recommend a more minute system of reference to the works
                  may be able to go to
cited, that  one                         the passages . . . with the mere
mention of   the  name. --Retractions.  Augustine's ' Retractationes ' are not re

ttthoraecoteiuolirnssiro,enviinsiniotnhGse,ramvroeedesex' airsnmasineacntlsuioemn, sst,hyoauinmgdhpriosnvoeemlmeegeaonntfstt,hmecomodrera.ere--ct;iTobhnues.t"ft--ahuel"yt  correspond
                                                                                                                                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                            Graves's
                                                                                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                                                                                                            is common
in some books, to put the name of an Author in the English form, and then
follow it with a Latin construction ! E. g. Horace, de Arte Poetica. An
egregious impropriety ; but we often see it in good divines ; as Jerome, in
Evang. Matt. -- As the Greek accents are intended to be used, consistency
should be maintained ;  the place of the accent,  its form,
iota subscribed."                                              the spirits,                                                                                                 and the

Not only in the circle of his private friends, and among the
380  LOVE OF ACCURACY.  [l837.

young people of his Congregation and the Students, did this
love of accuracy even in the smallest things show itself as
though it were ever active and vigilant ; but in very many
communications in Eeviews, Magazines, Newspapers, as well

as Letters, the same quality was strikingly visible. To some

persons, especially if their knowledge of such peculiarities

were confined to only a few, and those the more minute
specimens of the habit, Dr. Smith's conduct may have ap
peared pedantic. Not so, however, to those who had a wider

range of instances from which to deduce their estimate of his

character and motives. There was a meaning, and therefore
an importance attaching to very many of the corrections on
which he insisted; for words rightly formed from Greek or
Latin, showed in their English dress not simply their country

but their purport at once ; while if not so formed, they ap

peared aliens, or perhaps for the moment they led the mind
astray. And even the smaller specimens are not to be con
templated in an isolated form, suggesting the impression of
a mind on the look-out for what some might call trifles ; but
they are rather to be included as integral parts of a sym

metrical whole, the real foundation and source of which can

only be discovered in that intense and ever active love of truth

which would not allow him to be satisfied unless an attempt

was made in all cases alike -- whether great or small --to secure

obedience to her laws. Hence his accuracy in matters of fact;
in dates and names; in stating the opinions which he had to con
trovert ; and in minute points of criticism. The good and the

true alike demanded and had his allegiance ; and as he was con

stituted, fealty to the one involved the rights of the other also.
At times it was not only instructive but was adapted to touch

the conscience, to witness the moral feeling with which he
would apply a correction to a verbal error, as though more

than his taste had been wounded by the mistake which had
been committed. No doubt, he was right ; nor can we con

ceive of the perfection of human culture if his standard of

excellence is slighted. -- The servile motive of exposing his
learning for the sake of show, and the cruel one of doing it
for the sake of triumph, are refuted no less by his whole
character, than by the conduct which he pursued on such

occasions.
       JET. 68.]           LETTERS TO HIS DAUGHTER.                           381

          To one who had completed his course of study at Homer
       ton, but who was not at the time in a situation which promised
       to be permanent, the kind-hearted Tutor thus wrote :--

        I" My dear Friend, -- return my sincere thanks for your welcome Letter.

       It is indeed a subject of much gratitude, that you find so much comfort and
       encouragement in this early part of your ministry. May the Lord of peace

       himself, the Author of all consolation and success, increase those favours

       manifold ! At the same time, 1 cannot but agree with you in the apprehen
       sion that your situation does not promise to be a settlement for life. De

       sirable as such a kind of ministerial engagement  it is,when all the chief requi

                                                                  a
       sites unite in one tendency, we cannot look upon as thing absolutely to
       be desired, nor very often to be expected. In many cases, probably the
       larger number, our great Master sees
                                              it  meet to form his servants for a

       wider sphere of duty, by training and disciplining them in one of much

       smaller extent. Our unspeakable mercy is, that He knows what the best,
       and that He will grant to those who wait upon him in his own way.
                           1                                            is
                                                                                     is ;
                                it
       Very encouraging, as well as monitory and awakening, are the words of
       inspiration, Tim. ii. --15, 19.

         . . " It will always give me much pleasure to hear of and from you
         .
                 2

       especially that your joy in the Lord, --in His dominion and grace, -- is full.
       Life --how short Eternity at hand. O, let us pray for each other, that
       each may be faithful unto death --Fear not, my dear brother, Christ
                        !     is

                                         !

       with you.           " am, my dear friend, Yours affectionately,'' &c.

                           I

          Dr. Smith spent part of the vacation           this year at Belper, at
       the hospitable mansion of Mr. Strutt.             While there he wrote

       thus to his daughter --
                           a :I
   " My very             dear Ruth,-- Amidst the remarkable number, and I     may say
hurry, of my            engagements at Sheffield, --for my time was much tooit
                                                                              short,--
                                           is

                                     it I
it it Istruggled hard to get Letter written to you, and at last succeeded
                                                                     II
       yesterday. But how was pained when the thought arose, that had put

         into the post-office not addressed!   went there as soon as possible, but

         was gone to London. There            by this time, opened, and on its way
                                                                     it, is

                                                                         I
back to Sheffield. Your Brother or Sister will then direct and hope
that by Tuesday or Wednesday next, will come into your hands. Learn
from this, that we should never imagine ourselves exempt from the necessity
of care and watchfulness. In such matters my habit                   to he perhaps
                                                  it

                                                      is

                                                          I is
superabundantly anxious to prevent errors; yet here                  have failed so

egregionsly The greatest kindness has been shown me hy Mr. and Mrs.
         ;
                     !
Strutt but thereby my time so taken up that              now late and this Letter

unfinished. Mrs. Strutt,          and have to-day been      to Matlock  caavnedrnDsa."rley
Bridge, twelve or thirteen  miles and hack, exploring       rocks and
                              :,

                                  I
         Again few days later --
                  a

   " Now, on the eighth day of manifold mercy, am taking leave of thisI
hospitable mansion, and the more than kind friends who have been assiduous
382 LETTER TO HIS SON.  [1837.

in every way beyond what you could well imagine, to benefit and gratify
me. The only drawback to my enjoyment, setting aside my own infirmities,
has been to be the object of Mrs. Strutt's unwearied assiduity, loading me
with kindest and delicate attentions, and not merely supplying but constantly

anticipating every want and wish. But you shall hear particulars, if we

Iare spared to meet, and praise God for His gracious mercies. Yesterday

had a Letter from Ebenezer and Mary Anne. They are both well, and the
dear babe of which they write as might be expected. O, what have we to
be thankful for! My visit to John William and his Caroline was very
delightful to me. The shortness of the time and the many occupations and
engagements, did not allow me much free intercourse with them."

mab' lsbeawoTnsuseh,itanewgrthehftifooshrlol'do--'mawsthiie.natghl:l--ee.nc"LeelaonvLurteeesdrert,s'biteisiinsnmetfovrooeonvrmeeendbg,we'aahglaooLensemdtwtetsinetwihgtrhshoo--ttotoh'tfeo,sorhnthhaceihalslatorrtaefohccwehteneiiusvripeshrtsiiugoctrhhsntets,

and changeth not. See Psalm xv. and xxiv. O, infinitely better
to have this blessing, this Divine preservation from being
lmeaovset dvioblyataiodnveorsfehostloyrmprsi,nctihpalen."to gain the whole world by the
                    CHAPTEB XXII.

GENERAL ELECTION --ELECTION FOR MIDDLESEX -- SPEECH AT THE MER

       MAID TAVERN-- ATTACKED IN THE NEWSPAPERS--HIS VIEWS OF THE

      DUTY OF AN ELECTOR --HIS LOYALTY -- LETTER TO THE BISHOP OF
      NORWICH --LETTER TO HIS SON-- VISIT TO MORPETH AND NEWCASTLE
      --PAPER 'ON A FAILING IN SOME BOOKS OF SCIENCE '--LETTER IN
      RETURN FOR A PRESENT OF WINE-- SCHLEUSNER'S LEXICON--PRE
      SENTED WITH A SILVER SALVER --LETTER OF ACKNOWLEDGMENT --

       LETTER OF CONDOLENCE.

   The accession of Queen Victoria in June, 1837, was followed
in the next month by a General Election. On this occasion

the struggle of parties was more than usually vehement, arising
from the fact that the youth and sex of the monarch afforded a
kind of promise of increased ascendency, and perhaps for a
long term of years, to those principles, Whig or Tory, which
might happen to obtain the largest number of partizans in the
New Parliament.

   Dr. Smith was not among those persons to whom political
questions ever had been, or indeed could be, matters of even

comparative indifference. Directly concerned as such questions
are with the weal or the wrongs of our own, and more or less
of other countries, he well knew how often they had interrupted
or distorted the healthful development of Christianity, and
had besides in many ways cramped the commercial hfe and

the social comfort of nations. His sense of obligation to
God, therefore, united with his love of mankind, compelled
him in cases of pecuhar emergency to put forth a measure
of activity in the political arena which could scarcely fail to
attract notice, and if notice censure, in directions where his
course of conduct and the use which he made of his influence
384 THE MIDDLESEX ELECTION.  [l83T.

were viewed as objectionable on party grounds. Speaking
generally, his habits and his specific engagements ahke kept
him from taking a prominent place either in speaking or can
vassing at Elections ; nevertheless his political principles and
sympathies were as decidedly formed, and on fitting occasions
were as firmly and fearlessly avowed, as his religious convic

tions ; to which, indeed, they belonged, and by a relationship

far more rational and intimate, and therefore more commanding
than any which could arise from merely personal fancies and

predilections. At this particular crisis, for example, as he was
an Elector for the West Biding of Yorkshire --North Derby
shire --North Staffordshire --the Tower Hamlets --and for Mid
dlesex-- such was his sense of duty that having the means, he

was not only willing to bear whatever inconvenience was in;
volved in the use of his right in each of these five cases, but he
did this without putting any one of the candidates to the slight
est expense for his support.--Nor should that man be thought
the least virtuous and patriotic among his fellow-citizens, who
makes it a point of conscience to express and embody his trust
in a particular Bepresentative, for services to be rendered to his
Country and the world in the House of Commons, in the shape

of a vote, free in every sense, instead of allowing his aid to be

encumbered with that tax which is inflicted on the Candidate's

purse --often in cases where it might easily be avoided --by the
cost of bringing the Elector to the poll.

   The election for Middlesex was at this time marked by a

sort of preeminence of acrimony. It was not practicable to

disturb the balance of parties in the City of London; but
since, by a pecuhar species of management, the Metropolitan
County might perchance be made to yield a result unfavour
able to the Whig Ministry then in office, this was selected as
the great battle field of party; where --per fas aut nefas--
Mr. Hume was to be harried out of the representation --an

honour which he had shared with Mr. Byng in the preceding
Parliament. The rival candidates were found in two gentlemen,

boCnereioncgokffionwrhdnoo'sm"w,;aytwhdheiinsleinacthliveneerodythyteooru"anpegpnemjoaayrsnh, timoThsheealvfeTaimbteAeeslnmspapucotkk'feso,rwoofarraadst

as likely to enlist the sympathies of that large portion of the
Middlesex constituency, to whom the benevolent and religious
.ET. 63.]  SPEECH AT THE MERMAID TAVERN.                           o85

Institutions of the Metropolis owe much of their support.
Thus while the new candidates agreed perhaps very closely
in their attachment to Tory politics, the wide difference between
their personal tastes and habits fitted them the more thoroughly
to achieve the success of that scheme which was to end in the
defeat of Mr. Hume. The grave and the gay could be equally
well suited in one or other of the two ; and it did so happen,
                                             of the hallowed name  of
notwithstanding     the lavish   use made   bore away the prize.
religion, that the  fashionable    captain

In the course of his canvass, Mr. Hume met a number of
his supporters at the Mermaid Tavern, Hackney. This being
in Dr. Smith's immediate neighbourhood, he attended the
meeting, to show by his presence his attachment to those
liberal principles which were-- as he feared-- endangered by
Tory efforts to carry the elections against the government.
                                            and with his con
He was     asked to speak on the occasion;  duty, and his just
victions   of what he considered truth and
courage in avowing his sentiments, he could not refuse. The
following is part of his Address, as given in a printed copy
which was soon after circulated :--

   " That though his being now called upon was most sudden and unex
pected, and though to step publicly forward on such occasions was far from
according with his feelings and habits, he could not but yield to the demand
just made upon him. He was desirous of declaring himself ready to submit
to his full share of the reproaches which, in some extremely bigoted and
unjust periodical publications, are cast upon many religious persons for the
part which they have deemed it their duty to take in reference to political
measures. An assertion has been often made, and urged with as much

confidence as if it were a maxim of self-evident truth, that religious persons
ought to have nothing to do with the politics of this world. With equal
reason might it be said, that men who fear God and keep His command

ments, should never concern themselves with the provision of food and
raiment for their families, the means of preserving the public health, agri
culture or merchandize, the liberal or the mechanical arts, or any acts or
proceedings which are intended to prevent or diminish evil, and to increase
good in the communities of mankind. In his view some attention to politics
was the duty of every man of cultivated mind; and in a most especial

manner, if he be a man of Christian piety. For what are politics ? They

are that branch of moral science which investigates the rights and duties
belonging to men in their several stations and relations in civil society. Is
not this an essential branch of morals ? And are not morals, in their entire
comprehension, an essential part of religion ? Only our attention to politics
should be serious, just, and in harmony with a due regard to all the other
parts of Christian faith and practice.

                                                                                                    2C
386  ATTACKED IN NEWSPAPERS.  [1887.

   " Further opprobrium was cast upon a numerous body of persons professing
serious piety, when they declined to support certain professedly religious
candidates for seats in the House of Commons ; but whom, with all their
religion, and many estimable qualities with which they may be adorned, we
cannot but regard to be men lamentably destitute of the mind, knowledge,
and principles requisite for legislation and the conduct of national affairs.
Should we put our persons and families under the medical direction of a
physician, who is a truly pious and well-meaning man indeed, but who is
the slave of mischievous theories, and is utterly destitute of the science and
skill necessary for sound medical practice ? Or do those who are per
petually harping upon this objection, select men to be their agents, clerks,
and managers of business, to be their law advisers, and to conduct their suits,
or even to be their cooks, grooms, or gardeners, who are ignorant and pre
judiced persons, devoid of the penetration and prudence which the business
requires ; but whose qualifications lie solely in their being religious persons,
and their thinking themselves fit for any important and responsible station ?
No ; verily : those reasoners understand too well the right course of cultiva

tion and improvement for their farms and their merchandise. It is our

earnest desire that all men should be religious in the truest and best sense ;
and thus they would be infinitely better qualified to fill every situation in
life and society, provided that they also took the requisite pains to inform
themselves of the indissoluble obligations to do every thing that is right and
just, and of the manner in which those obligations are to be discharged.
This is the great object of our efforts as Christians, and in the exercise of
the Christian ministry --to make men truly holy, and then they will most

assuredly be virtuous and happy. How should we rejoice if all around us,

rulers and subjects, statesmen and men of all Other descriptions, were thus
religious ! But, unhappily, this is not the case. W hen we cannot have all we
would, we must accept and be thankful for those measures of valuable qualities

which we can obtain for the benefit of our country and mankind universally,
since the influence of this favoured and powerful nation may be said with
out exaggeration to rule the destinies of the world. Further, Providence

has distributed talents among men with a wise diversity. All men are not

adapted to all employments, nor are capable of them. We must look, then,

with apuvriepwosetso."obtaining specific objects, to instruments fit and likely for

 those

   Such were the general principles of Dr. Smith's address.
Their soundness and pertinence will not be seriously called in
question by any one who is .competent to form an opinion of
the whole subject; and yet the part which he took procured

for him a most severe attack in the Times, the Standard, and

the Record. The first of these papers in particular, contained

an article of great virulence ; but which by the power infused
into evinced the position and weight of the man who was,
possible, to be put down and by the flimsiness of its charges
against him, showed how perfectly unassailable he was in char

acter and conduct. The object, however, was not really to
     it,

                                               ;

                                                                                if
JET. 63.]  VIEWS OF THE DUTY OF AN ELECTOR.                  387

injure the Doctor,   but  simply to defeat  Mr. Hume's election
for Middlesex; so   that  when the writers  of these papers had

effected their purpose, they probably  would not be unwilhng
to render homage to the talents and    virtues of the Tutor at
Homerton. On- his part, there would     be pungent regret that

sweousfhcpithechchetiaestlemhlyepoerwNgrsoaa,numsloedrooahf tefplteudhaebespltilcDosrieuovcpinhitnhelieaonnEgueundhaheagaedepm,pveyehrnaltidcuwerbeanedsceenbtaoiennldiicnwiiedthdeuidclgh;aeb,aoonnmuedt
with all the offensive levity of a profane jester.
   Nearly all parties without exception, act upon   the  principles

stated and defended in the speech.   A collusive use has indeed
often been made, particularly of
                                    late years, of the religious
element in the character of a Candidate. This is paraded in
the foremost rank, and is set off with the most attractive
colours, until many are induced to enlist under the idea that
they will thereby promote the highest welfare of mankind.
But the leaders of party are as thoroughly convinced as
possible, that if the champion whom they usher in with so
much ceremony had not been as deeply imbued with certain
political opinions as he is said to be with rehgion, he would
never have been invited to undertake the responsibilities of
parliamentary life, even if his piety had been angelic. How
                                            to adopt the plain
           is

                            a

                                                      it,

                                                                                                      a
much more manly and Christian-like is

method recommended in the speech, of avowing the real
                          certain line of public conduct; --
motives for pursuing

course which not only demanded by loyalty to the King of
kings, but which can never be incompatible with the best

service of our country.

As an Elector, Dr. Smith did not consider himself such

simply nor even chiefly, with view to his own interests nor
           :
                       ;

                                                       aa

                                                                             is

                                                                                                aa
                                                                                                         2;

                                                                                                         a
was the Candidate to whom he gave his support regarded as

sort of personal friend, whom he was to gratify at whatsoever

cost to other parties. No one valued religion more highly

than he did perhaps no one better understood its nature and

claims yet in his estimation, religious Candidate ought no

more to expect much less to demand the support of religious
Elector, simply on the ground of their common Faith --while

he knows that far from representing the opinions or principles
                                                         Bepreseri-
of that Elector, in the very matters for which he

                                                         2c
388  VTEWS OP THE DUTY OF AN ELECTOR.                    [l887.

tative at all, he represents the directly opposite principles and
opinions --than a religious Barrister has. a right to a fee from
a religious Plaintiff, that he may forthwith go into Court and
plead the cause of the Defendant. These were Dr. Smith's

convictions as really as his learning or piety was his ; and were
only less frequently manifested, and might therefore have been

less widely known, simply because the occasions for their active

exercise were not of every day occurrence. Whenever they

were called for by fitting circumstances, they were not only
ready for service, but were actually used as under a high sense

of duty, which could neither suffer them to remain in abeyance,

on the one hand, nor place them at the mercy of mere party

feeling, on the other. Indeed, if the same conscientiousness,

the same knowledge of great principles, and the same regard

for universal equity prevailed among Electors generally, all
complaints respecting the partial limitation of the suffrage

would before long pass away ; for such a Eepresentative Body
would then be secured, as would concede rights of all kinds

with a readiness quite equal to that of the community at large
to appreciate and employ them :-- and to advance faster than

this, would be neither wise nor generous.

While however all his leanings were in the direction of an

ever-expanding liberty, he could not be impelled at any time
Ifinto what might be deemed extreme views on that side.
                                                         no

one was more prepared to hail every addition to the general

sum of self-government which might be accorded to the
growing maturity of the people --his intimate knowledge of

history forbidding him to interpose a limit to future progress

--yet as progress had been secured hitherto, not in the way

in which a flood may sweep away obstacles, but rather as irri

gation may be carried up through a country by a series of locks,

each doing its part to raise the water higher and higher, and

thus spreading fertility on every hand-- so would he help on

the national development. When quite a young man, indeed,

he strove --not an uncommon thing with the young in many
respects --to realize the future at once ; but as he grew older,

he saw and felt the wisdom and love of that Divine arrange

ment, by which the future is only to be arrived at through a

diligent improvement of the present. And yet it must not be
unnoticed, that the entire superstructure of his political prin
ciples in mature life, rested on the foundation laid in his early
.SIT. 63.]  HIS LOYALTY.                                            389

years. He never seems to have had a quarrel with his early
love of liberty, as though in his age he could repudiate the

companion of his youth. Writing to his son at Sheffield at

Ithe close of 1835--he says :-- " In all things, so far as can

perceive or understand, the Spirit of True Eeform is to

preserve and improve all that is good, never to change for

the sake of changing; and while never compromising with

Ibadness, yet eradicating as a wise gardener does the weeds,
taking care not to injure the garden.               would not break

down the hedge, and bring in the wild boar of the wood to
                           " Almighty Mercy
regulate the Eden. May     the good and right       direct     our  govern
ment and our country hi '                           way.'      "

Dr. Smith's Loyalty was a most conspicuous feature of his

character. To the House of Brunswick, as an embodiment

both of a purer creed and a far more generous civil polity than

distinguished the Steuart dynasty, he was ever ready to express
more than his individual share of obligation for national benefits.

In the prospect of the General Election of 1837, he thus wrote

Ito his son at Sheffield :--" The struggle will be very severe ;

but trust that genuine Whig principles will decisively triumph.

It is of unspeakable importance, as it will probably give a

character to Her Majesty's entire reign. Never, not even in

1547, was there such a blessed prospect for the nation, and con

sequently for the noblest interests of the whole race of man.

How should we pray--without ceasing --for our lovely Sove

reign, that the grace of Christ may be mighty in her and for

her, that by the power of simple goodness she may drive away
all the men of serpentine policy, who may try to wriggle them

selves into her councils ; that she may carry out her Father's
principles and the education which her admirable Mother has

given her ; that she may be led to form the happiest marriage,
and that her reign may be peaceful, glorious in every sense
that will abide the trial of eternity, and (the reverse of that

unhappy King of Israel who began so well and ended so ill, the
awful apostate, though a son of David) growing in the noblest
honours to extreme old age. By what perils is she surrounded
--what difficult duties has she to perform --what consequences

depend upon her wisdom and firmness. Then pray, and let all
the people                                youthful
            omfunGdoideptramyafollr" the            Victoria,  that she may
be victrix
390           letter to the bishop of Norwich.                         [isst.

   And during the progress of the election, he thus wrote from

Belper to his son in London :--"If, as is but too probable, a

larger number than we like shoald be returned of opponents to

the Queen's noble and righteous inchnations, and tp the

ministry of her spontaneous choice, the proper inference is,
that we should be the more earnest in prayer for our country

and our Sovereign, that her throne may be established in

righteousness, and that in all respects the good cause may

prosper, for we really want nothing but what is good and

righteous. For our trial, and for a chastisement of our manifold

national and more private sinfulness, which is indeed very
great, these disappointments may be appointed. O that real

Christians were more deeply affected with this consideration !
Lthaibsoiumr,premsysiodne.a"r son, all that you can to produce and deepen

What copiousness, variety, and fervour distinguished his

prayers for the Queen and the country, is top well known to

his Church, and to very many other persons in the large circle of

his friends, to need extended notice. Those who heard him

for the first time on these occasions, could scarcely avoid feeling
surprised at the great earnestness, and often the great length

of his intercessions ; as though there was infused into them the

warmth of feeling and the minuteness of detail, which are
generally confined to the members of a man's own family. His,
indeed, was just such patriotism as may be supposed to have
characterized some of the best men of the best periods of the

Jewish monarchy ; such, for example, as Zechariah manifested
                                                               that " as long
on behalf of  that young king, of  whom    iptroisspsearid;,"  --a patriotism
as he sought  the Lord, God made   him to

which has the Divine Word for its rule, and the Divine glory.
for its chief end and impulse ; enlightened, just, and --by his
allgreat care to      men -- expanding

the God-like
              honour                           moofrpeerasnodnsm."ore  into
              quality of being no " respecter

The following passages from an imperfect copy of a Letter, in

Dr. Smith's handwriting, will still further illustrate the features
Itof his character here mentioned.
                                    is dated Sept. 5th, 1837,

and was addressed to the late Bishop of Norwich, who was also

Clerk of the Closet to the Queen. The Writer's impression

was, that in virtue of the latter office, Dr. Stanley might be
able, without any impropriety, to bring under her Majesty's
.ET. 63.]  ON THE OBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH.                                               391

notice the particular subject to which the Letter refers. In this,

however, Dr. Smith was mistaken, as the ' good ' bishop in the
kindest manner assured him ; but the spirit in which the whole
is written--tbe motives of the Writer --the blended courteous-
ness and fidelity -- and especially the sentiments expressed --
render its insertion a duty to his memory :--

 I" My Lord,-- Recollecting the kind attention with which your Lordship

favoured me two or three years ago, have frequently felt the desire to
offer my respectful congratulations on your accepting the episcopate (I do
not call it elevation ;) and the assurance of my sincere prayers that the
event may be productive of the greatest benefit to the cause of true religion,
and to your own noblest honour and never-fading happiness. This will be
the case if your Consecration Promises be faithfully regarded. Solemn and
                                                 ' Who is sufficient for these  things ?' Not he
iwmhpores'stirvuestsinhdiesedowthneyheaarert.,'  and depends upon his own       resolutions. The

obligations of pastoral duty are unceasing and immensely great, but they
are indispensable, both to the primary pastors of your splendid hierarchy,
and to the shepherds of our little, and, as we believe, Scriptural flocks,

which are but single congregations. What then is the weight of a diocese !

To whom can we look for grace and constancy but to the Supreme

Shepherd (Heb. xiii. 20 ;      1 Pet.            Itv.wa4s.)   who invites our confidence,  and
whose grace is sufficient for   us ?                         the apprehension of assuming  and
Iintruding that kept me back from earlier addressing your Lordship ; but
Iam now urged by a reason which will unreservedly state.
" Under the affectionate loyalty which fills millions of hearts towards our

lovely young Sovereign, there is a circumstance which produces deep afflic
tion in the minds of very very many who regard her Majesty with the
warmest affection, and who in their closets and families daily pour out their
hearts in prayer that the God of all grace may confer upon her the greatest

possible blessings : and such as these are the Queen's best subjects. That
afflicting and heart-wounding circumstance is, Her Majesty's having been
induced to follow the custom of her Royal Ancestors in the Sunday's
exhibitions on the Terrace of Her castle at Windsor. The accession of a

Sovereign so beloved, and so inspiring us with the best hopes, furnishes a
Inoble opportunity for abrogating that unhappy old custom.
                                                                                am not one

of those who entertain Judaical notions of the Sabbath, and transfer them
without discrimination to the Christian Lord's day. My reasons for the

sacred observance of the latter day, and the manner of such observance, are
drawn from considerations rational and moral, and quite independent of the
Hebrew positive law, though that involved the moral. In earnestly wishing

that Her Majesty would command the absence of the military band, and

Iwould take her own Sunday walk in some delightful privacy of her magnifi

cent domain, inviting to meditative piety, am governed by such reason
ings as the following.

   "i. The grand design of the weekly day of religious institutions is to
bring the mind and the best susceptibilities of the heart, the most com
pletely that can be under the influence of revealed truth and pure devo
tion.-- ii. Such is the constitution of our minds, that a whole day, recurring
392                           LETTER TO HIS SON.                                                   [l838.

Ifregularly, is necessary to answer that design.                                 either before or after
religious exercises, we open the mind to trains and associations of thought
derived from worldly employments and recreations, and for which God has
given us the ample time of six days, it is next to certain that the most
valuable, pure, and sublime order of thought and feeling will be destroyed; --
a loss infinitely to be deplored. -- iii. Not only the morning service, hut that
of the evening, is of religious obligation. -- iv. Tranquil retirement after the

public worship, is essential to reflection, self-scrutiny, and secret devotion,
without which the sweetness and power of piety cannot be maintained. --
Iv. The expectation of seeing the Queen on the Sunday afternoon tempts

many, fear, thousands from London and other parts to profane the whole
day, travelling all the forenoon, and making jocund, often one may fear,
Ifintemperate parties in the evening. Her Majesty knew those criminalities
-- (God ever   aovccearstiosnuchfokrnothwelmed.,g--e vfi.romTheheer)x--amsphlee
                                                                                 would shudder at  giving
the slightest                                                                    of Her Majesty    and of

her august Mother will be pleaded by countless multitudes of her subjects,
for habitual disregard to the right observance of the Sunday. Fallen human

nature readily draws examples to the worse application, but is dull and
slow to apply them in the good direction. --vii. After devoutly reciting the

fourth  'cIonmclminaendoumrehnet,aratnsdtothekenepprathyiisnglatwo,'  the Omniscient and Most         Holy
One --                                                                                                 rush
                                                                      -- how tremendous it is to
into the violation of -- or to become the instrument of leading others to
that violation. It  is
                       a it,  melancholy and alarming reflection that neglect of

the Lord's-day and its appropriate duties in all ranks of society the usual
                                                            I
commencement of course which in myriads of instances terminates in     is
                    a

dead formalism, or profligacy, or cold-hearted infidelity, and as the sure

result wicked lifea in this world, and eternal misery                            in the next.
   " Now, my Lord,                                                               considerations
                       do most earnestly submit these                                             to  your
               I

Christian judgment and fidelity, and humbly implore that in the discharge
of your high office near her Majesty's person, your Lordship would use
your best influence to lead our beloved Sovereign's mind to those views

and that course of practice, which you                      approve        as    part of the holy and
acceptable and perfect will of God.' "                                           a
                                                                                               ;
     In the course of 1837, the Author of the Scripture Testi

mony saw the third edition through the press of which he
says in prefatory note -- " The present contains an increase
         a

            is
                                                         :

                                        a
of new matter scattered throughout the work to the extent of

about one hundred and fifty pages. But in consequence of                                              a

much more condensed mode of printing having been adopted,
               brought into smaller compass than in the former
the work
edition."

   The following Letter was sent to Sheffield, under date
"Morpeth, August 18, 1838:--

"My very dear Son,--How remarkable, that                                         should be writing to
         a

                                            I
you from region so far north of you, and in the exceedingly pleasing
JET. 64.]    VISIT TO MORPETH AND NEWCASTLE.                     393

domesticity of a dear old townsman, friend, church-member under my pas

Itorate, pupil, and brother-Pastor -- the Rev. William Froggatt !-- had long

ago renounced the idea of attending this year's Meeting of the British Asso
ciation, under an unreflecting and vague impression that its great distance

was a determining objection, added to the diminution of motives occasioned
hy my incapacity for learning by the ear, except in private intercourse. Yet

I should not have allowed these objections to be decisive had the Meeting

been at Norwich or Birmingham, Sheffield or Leeds. An invitation, how

ever, from the Rev. Alexander Reid to preach at Newcastle for the Missionary

ISociety, put a new element into the question ; and saw it to be right,
Igood, and prudent to go. Besides, had not before adverted to the fact,
Ithat the geographical distance is in a sense quite altered by the new modes

of travelling. By the steam-vessel, have come to Newcastle with the best
accommodation for little more than two-thirds of what it would have cost

to go by land to Sheffield. After a very pleasant voyage, though an adverse

wind produced much rolling and consequently the sickness of most, and

Iabout five hours of retardation, arrived at Newcastle yesterday afternoon.
IAs my engagements there do not begin till Monday, gladly embraced the

opportunity of coming here before breakfast this morning, to remain till

Monday forenoon.

  I" From July 3rd to the 25th, had a most instructive and gratifying

peregrination : a week at Mr. Addington's near Bristol ; another in Devon

and Dorsetshire, making Axminster my head quarters, and extending west
Iward to Bere, and eastward to Portland Isle : thus comprehending Lyme (to

which interesting town went three times) Charmouth, Bridport, Dor
chester, Meleombe Regis, and Weymouth. Then three days near Glaston
Ibury, nearly four at Heytesbury, and parts of two at Bradford.
                                                                 cannot

Inow detail the many very gratifying and some singular adventures of my
travelling.  hope to go, to tell them to you and dear Caroline, if our

gracious Lord and Saviour will, --in about six weeks or two months. The
time, as well as the hoped-for event on which it depends, is in His hand ;
and could we wish it to he otherwise ?"

   The Bev. William Froggatt has kindly supphed the follow
ing particulars, which will add much to the interest of the
preceding Letter :--

I" have a very vivid remembrance of Dr. Pye Smith's visit to Morpeth, in
the month of August, 1838. An opportunity of serving the London Missionary

Society, and the meeting of the British Association at Newcastle-on-Tyne,
in that year, brought him into the north, and afforded me the honour and
happiness of having him three days under my roof. He arrived from
INewcastle early on Saturday                                     the
                                                                 our
pleasure of conducting him to
              morning, and after breakfast, had
             certain interesting geological points in
neighbourhood; taking with us, at his suggestion, a hammer. He was
quite at home amidst the sandstone, and its related strata, of Northumber
Iland, and made many instructive observations. We turned aside to survey

the botany of the neighbourhood ; and must confess that to me who had
never before stood in any relation to him than that of an humble and
394         VISIT TO MORPETH AND NEWCASTLE.                            [l888.

admiring learner, it did afford a somewhat peculiar gratification in being
able to call his attention to two or three species of plants which he had not
before seen. And never did pupil receive the most valued instructions of

his Tutor with more humility and thankfulness than the venerated Doctor

showed on that occasion.
   " The latter part of the day was spent in the house. Theology and

Igeology, in one connection or another, were the principal topics of conversa

tion ; and refer to this for a characteristic incident which arose out of it.
Mrs. Froggatt happening to observe that she sometimes found a difficulty
in understanding books on geology, through want of some pictorial repre
sentation of the order and distribution of the materials treated of, he in
stantly asked for paper and water colours, and commenced the production
of one, which he executed then and on the following Monday. The centre
of the paper is occupied with a coloured representation of the succession of

strata from the most recent to the most ancient ; and on the sides are their
names, with various descriptive remarks, as to locality and organic remains,

written in his remarkably neat and legible hand. It is highly creditable
for the degree of artistic skill displayed in it ; and, as it was done on the
                                           single book, the minuteness
spur of the moment, and without reference
            a
                                    to,
                                    a
and accuracy of its details strikingly exemplify his almost faultless memory,it,
and his ready command over his various knowledge. We carefully preserve

    as an interesting memento of visit which we had reason to regard as
one of the most precious of the providential kindnesses granted to us by our
God and Father. Mrs. F. had not seen Dr. Smith before, and was struck

with his perfectly polite and gentlemanly manner, pervaded by that serene
and placid piety, which no one privileged to be in his company could fail

to notice.
     " On the Lord's-day, he preached morning and evening in my own
chapel, and in the afternoon in the Presbyterian chapel. His fame as
                                                                                aa
theologian drew many of all denominations to hear him and he preached
                                           a
with great animation, and certainly with
                                                           :
                                                                    ;
                                           most comprehensive and

thorough mastery of the subjects which he discussed but, through lack of
the physical energy and ardour possessed by some preachers, the hearers
were less impressed with his oratory, than with the amplitude of his know
ledge. A circumstance, illustrative of his eminently Christian spirit,

deserves to be mentioned in connection with these Sabbath engagements.

Owing to my congregation having originated in separation from the
            a
Presbyterian, and to some other matters arising out of the infirmities ofa
even good men, there was not good understanding between me and the
Presbyterian minister. The conciliatory and loving nature of Dr. SmithI
was grieved by this, and longed to he the means of reconciliation. He;a a

tried, but was unsuccessful.
   " Although he had preached thrice during the day yet, after taking

very slight and simple refreshment, he was quite ready for the pleasures of
private intercourse, or rather for delighting us withjiie strain of affectionate

and hallowed remark so habitual to him. Sitting, on the one side of his

chair, and Mrs. F. on the other, we had no difficulty in conversing with
him; for he had great facility in the use of the ear-trumpet, which was
instantly raised on the slightest intimation of wish to speak to him. How

kindly did he interest himself in all that related to my then ministerial
JET. Si.] PAPER ON A FAILING IN SOME BOOKS OF SCIENCE. 395

position, while the benignant lustre beaming in his eye and countenance,
as he uttered words of congratulation, or sympathy, or counsel, showed that
he felt scarcely less pleasure than he was conferring. And when he had
retired to the solitude of his bed-room, we could distinctly hear those fervid
and piercing tones of supplication, which his deafness rendered inaudible to
himself, but which had a singular power of arresting the attention of the
casual and undesigned hearer.

   " In the afternoon of the following day, Dr. Smith was disappointed of a
place in the only coach by which he could reach Newcastle in time for the
evening sitting of the British Association. This secured me the enviable

pleasure of driving him that distance in a friend's gig. As conversation
was impracticable in these circumstances, he kindly suggested that he
would take all the speaking, and at once resumed a subject which he had
touched before. This was an account of a Geological excursion which he had
been recently taking in some of the south-western counties of England. The
particulars which he related were deeply interesting; and by those who

Ishare in my love and admiration for him--and who that knew him does

not ?-- shall be pardoned for mentioning two or three. He had met, at
one of the places which he visited, a former pupil there settled in the

ministry, but belonging to a race of Students earlier than those of my own
curriculum ; and he now dwelt with evident delight on his moral qualities,
and the ripening of his attainments in various branches of knowledge. --In
one of the quarries of the Isle of Portland, after surveying what was of

geological interest there, he solicited the attention of the workmen while he

read and expounded Scripture, and offered prayer ; and these rude artisans,

little accustomed to such visits, reverently uncovered, and seemed favourably

impressed.

   " Dr. Smith had much satisfaction in the society and hospitality of a
gentleman eminent for his researches and labours in the Saurian department

of fossils ; and in returning from Glastonbury, whither they had gone to see

the remains of the celebrated Abbey there, this incident occurred. Being
a short distance behind, he perceived that his companion unconsciously trod
"on a serpent* lying in the path. On overtaking his friend, he mentioned
the circumstance, which elicited the remark, (how grateful to Dr. Smith

from a man of science !) that he should esteem himself happy, if he might
trace in it any analogy of his belonging to the spiritual seed destined to

Ibruise another serpent.
   " should add, as illustrating another striking feature in Dr. Smith's
character --his scrupulous regard to what he deemed pecuniary justice --that,

on reaching Newcastle, he                would   insist on paying  for the accommodation
which the horse must have                before  its return."

at  " The following             Paper "--says Dr.     Smith         in a note  prefixed
     a later date to             the manuscript --    " was                    with the
                                                                   composed

intention of being delivered at the Eighth Meeting of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science, held at

   *  s"erDpern. t.S"mith  was  careful  to  mention  to me both the genus  and the species of
the
396                  PAPER ON A FAILING                   [l838.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in August, 1838. But upon a closer

consideration, it appeared impossible to introduce it with pro

priety at any of the assembhngs. To no one of the Sections*
could it be supposed to .belong more than to another : and

it would have been scarcely less compatible with the design of

the General Meetings, which is to receive universal Beports,
and particular abstracts of the labours of the respective Sec

tions. The request was made by the gentleman who arranged

the details of the Meeting, that the Paper should be published

as a separate pamphlet ; but in consequence of the Writer's

other occupations, it has lain without being opened until this

day.                                     " J. P. S."

   " Dec. 12, 1840.

   " On a failing characterizing some Books of Science, and greatly to be
deplored.

   " It will not be deemed an intrusive, or in any way unsuitable occupying

of the time of the British Association, to submit a few, and those very brief
remarks, upon a topic which all must admit to be important, the character

of collateral sentiment and the manner of expression, which ought to be
adopted in compositions, whether ample dissertations or occasional papers,

upon scientific subjects, in relation to the Author, Proprietor, and Supreme
Agent of all nature. The attention which was given at the last Meeting of
the Association, to the paper read by an honourable Senator upon a most
Iimportant branch of Moral Statistics, besides other indications of mind and

feeling, assure me that am not unwarrantably trespassing upon the

attention of my friends.

  " It cannot have escaped observation that many of the writings which
have of late years been contributed to Science, especially Natural History
and Geology, have been marked with the striking character of a design and

study, effort and contrivance, so to discuss philosophical themes as to escape

from any reference, or deduction, or  association of thought whatever, that
might lead the mind to a recognition
                                       of the All-Perfect Deity. It would

be curious and amusing, were not the occasion too painfully serious, to
observe in some Authors who have conferred great obligations upon Science,

the studied evasions, the difficult management, the troublesome circumlocur

tions, to which they resort, in order to escape some inference to which the
course of their argument had directly led, but which would contain an
indication of admiration, or gratitude, or homage in any way to the Being
of infinite intelligence and greatness, and upon whom all inferior beings
depend for their preservation, action, and happiness ;

     ' Who changed through all, and yet in all the same,
      Great in the earth, as in the a3thereal frame ;

  * " They are, Mathematics and Physics, Chemistry, Geology, Geography,

Zoology, Botany, Medical Science, Mechanical Science, and Statistics."
JET. 64.]               IN SOME BOOKS OF SCIENCE.                              397

             Lives through all life, extends through all extent,
             Spreads undivided, operates unspent.
             To Him no high, no low ; no great, no small ;
             He fills, He bounds, connects, and equals all.'

  I" decline to adduce or allude to any instances of the irrational habit

which has occasioned this paper ; for the object is not to disparage any
production or to wound any mind ; but with all respectfulness and candour
to invite the attention of reflecting men to an existing evil of great magni
tude find most injurious effect ; and to engage those illustrious minds which
form the glory of the philosophical world, to resolve upon a steady pursuit

Iof a wise and temperate course of counteracting that evil. --May be

allowed to imagine a case ? Some weeks or years hence, a person under
takes to write a narrative of the present Meeting of this Association, for
the information of the millions through the civilized world who cannot have
the happiness of beholding it. He takes commendable pains in collecting
methodizing, and detailing his materials : he describes the congregated
votaries of universal knowledge and unwearied research; the variety of
objects to which they attach themselves; their different temperaments,
inclinations, and talents ; the literary or mechanical productions of their

genius and their skill; the exhibited specimens of natural objects, the

models, apparatus, and other works of art, forming the splendid combination
which has filled us with admiration and delight : he dilates upon the char
acter and properties of each object ; he points out their beneficial uses, in a
variety of astonishing applications to the service and comfort of human life ;
and he fails not to observe that a vast amount of such materials, applications,

and uses, are left without description, because space and time absolutely
failed him. Yet with all this information, which the world would receive

as exceedingly valuable, our supposed narrator takes especial care to avoid
any mention of the prospective wisdom, the convenient provisions, the

comprehensive arrangements, by which the Council, and the Secretaries,
and the Committees of Sections, have anticipated our wants and wishes,

and have secured so much enjoyment for every attendant upon this Anni
                                 betrays
versary ; and above     all, he           Paredseiedpelynta;n*xiohuesdraonpds  uneasy solicitude
to avoid all mention    of our   Noble                                         not a single hint

of our obligations to His Grace's deep interest in the Association and
munificent care for our satisfaction and happiness : this supposed writer
,even bends himself to the meanness of exhausting language for the con
trivance of forms and turns of speech --be they never so far-fetched and
awkward, or even contemptibly absurd--that he may skulk out from
gratifying the feelings of an upright heart, in paying the tribute of honour
Iand thankfulness.-- In what light should we regard such an historian ?
" But--let us be guarded against misapprehension.                              ask not that

Iscientific compositions should deviate from their proper unity of object and

simplicity of style. plead not for bringing in the name and attributes of
the Deity on every occasion that may even seem inviting ; nor for putting a
                         upon physical descriptions ;   nor for drawing formal
theological   clothing  down doctrinal positions ; nor  for interposing rhapsodi-
inferences   or laying

             * The Duke of Northumberland.-- Ed.
398  PAPER ON A FAILING                      [1888.

Ical meditations or interjections ;--nor for anything in substance or form,
that would partake of force or affectation.  ask for only what it requires

some effort to avoid ; and that no restraint should be put upon the dictates

of nature and just feeling :--that in the texture of thought and the style of

expression, there should be such an affectionate readiness, when the subject

demands or in reason invites, to speak frankly and gratefully of the
Adorable God, as would be shown by a duteous child towards a wise and
liberal parent, who had furnished him with all his means of knowledge and

improvement.

  If" arguments be needful for the enforcing of this object, they may he

found in such considerations as the following :--

  " 1. It would infuse into scientific disquisitions a character of elevation

and dignity, promoting an habitual seriousness in the investigation of
phenomena and reasoning upon them, and serving materially to counteract
that inaccuracy in laying down facts, and that precipitate levity in arguing
from premises, which sometimes degrade what is professed to be philoso

phical inquiry. Such a habit of contemplating the manifestations of the
Supreme wisdom, power, and goodness, would transfer into all physical

inquiries a pure, penetrating, sagacious spirit, greatly favourable to the

sifting of evidence and the discovery of truth ; and which would conduce
much to fortify our minds against causes of error in collecting data, and of

mis"ta2.keItinwoduraldwincgontcroibnucltuesioinns. a very advantageous manner, to enlarge our
views, and confirm our assurance of the connexion of all knowledge and the

harmony of all truth. It brings a sublime pleasure to the mind to know

even a little of the works of the Infinite One ; their indefinable antiquity,

their overwhelming vastness and not less astonishing minuteness, their

extent defying all our measures of space, their comprehension and variety,
their mutual adaptations and influences, and their ever opening benefits. Yet
the character of the diverging rays cannot be known, unless we not only

compare them with each other, but trace them to their common centre : and

if the mind be checked in its aspirings to that centre of all grandeur and

beauty, this pleasure must be repressed and subdued to a frigid indifference,

and we shall he abandoned to a low-minded and miserable inconsistency.

The rational delight which the mind of man is capable of receiving from the
studies of nature, can be obtained in its proper and pure essence only by

ascending from the works to the Workman, from the marks of design to the
Designer, from the ascertained laws of dependent existence to the Indepen

dent Author of those laws, from the sensible world in which we are transient

beholders to the contemplation of that into which we shall soon enter, and

of which the importance to ourselves personally surpasses all our present

power of comprehension.
   " 3. The cultivation of the habit which is so earnestly recommended,

would bring to light in the courses of investigation, and frequently in

unexpected disclosures of fact, many beautiful and instructive cases of
analogy between the physical and the moral parts of the Divine dominion.
The perception of such analogies is far from being an arbitrary assumption
or a play of fancy : but it rests upon a principle which the closest and most
powerful thinkers, in both ancient and modern times, have recognised as in

itself so reasonable that it might be anticipated, while yet it is demon-
JET. 64.]            IN SOME BOOKS OF SCIENCE.                                                399

strated by instances without number :--the principle that all the works
of God, however boundless in extent, and diversified in substance, form,
                   thchearsaacmteersOorfigainffainlityP, erafsecbteiiongn,
and  mode, have                                                             universally and equally
the                                                                           a perfection which in
     offspring of

cludes in itself every kind of grandeur, beauty, and harmony.

  " 4. It would protect the pursuits of Science from much opprobrium, or

at least suspicion ; which are attached to them in the opinion of many
excellent persons, from no other cause than the spirit and tendency,
scarcely less than atheistical, which have appeared in many philosophical
treatises from the hand of men who have enjoyed high and not un
deserved celebrity.
" 5. Finally, if there were no other reason to be urged, there is one

which is alone decisive ; the fact of an indispensable moral obligation

derived from the infinite excellence of the Deity, and the greatness of

our obligations to Him. It is upon the plainest grounds of reason and
justice our DUTY to proceed in the way that has been now, humbly and
respectfully but with the strongest conviction, recommended. That a

moral principle, or a course of action, is right in itself, even if we could

not immediately discern its beneficial results, is a consideration sufficient to
determine the assent of every mind that is sound and upright. Lord
Bofackonnowwleadrngse,u' sasagleaaindsintgwthoata            ' the ambitious and dictatorial
                                                   he calls  notion of independence, but        desire
                                                   delusive                                   involv

ing the mind in real misery by its departing from God : and he sets us the
example of a fervent and pathetic prayer, that ' human attainments may
be no prejudice to our Divine knowledge ; and that from the opening of
new paths of sensible discovery, and a more abundant accession of infor

mation  upon the things of nature, our minds                  may           not be thrown into any
degree  of infidelity and moral darkness.'                   Nov.           Org. Scient. Prsef. p.

12, 13.

  " It will not be denied me to make another citation from the same illus
trious man, if it were but, to protect us from evils of an opposite descrip
tion. ' As for those who think that great attainments in science dispose
Ithe mind to atheism, and that to be unacquainted with second causes is

a help to a pious veneration of the First, would freely address them in the

question of Job, Will ye speak wickedly for God ; and talk deceitfully for
Sim ? It is perfectly plain, that the ordinary operations of God in nature,
take place only through second causes. To pretend a different belief from
this, is to set up a mere imposture under colour of doing honour to -the
Deity ; and is nothing else than to offer to the Author of truth, the unclean
sacrifice of falsehood. In the contrary extreme, it is a most certain fact and
proved by abundant experience, that slight tastes in philosophy perhaps
give a turn towards atheism, but the fuller draughts bring back to religion.

On the mere threshold of philosophy, when second causes, being the closest
to our sensible perceptions, work themselves into the mind; and it is
                                                             them ; it is then a too  probable
attracted by them and rests satisfied in                     But if a man proceed      farther,
effect that the First Cause is forgotten.
and consider the dependence, succession, and connexion of causes, and the
operations of divine foresight, then he will readily believe that in the
language of mythology, the first link in the chain of nature is fastened to
the footstool of Jove. Let no man therefore, catching at the vain repute of
400                    PAPER ON A FAILING                                            [l88S.

religious humility and submission, think that we can proceed too far either
in the book of Scripture or in that of creation, in theology or in philosophy.
Bather let us stir up every faculty, pressing on and pursuing with the
noble aim of boundless proficiency, only guarding against using our know
ledge as an incentive to pride, instead of pure benevolence, or for the pur

pose of ostentation, instead of usefulness : and further, let us take care that

we do not absurdly mix and confuse the distinct provinces of divinity and
natural science.' De Augm. Scient. lib. i. p. 10, 11.
I" Though in reading this Paper
                                                       have sought the attention of the
I IAssociation for a longer time than intended, am confident that this
Iindulgence will be extended one moment longer, while
                                                                 repeat the
admirable words of Dr. Abercrombie, at the Edinburgh Meeting of this

IAssociation.
   " ' am none of those who anticipate from the researches of physical
Iscience, anything adverse to the highest interests of man as a moral being.

On the contrary, am convinced that those who have made the greatest
advances in true science, will be the first to acknowledge their own insignifi-:

cance, when viewed in relation to that Incomprehensible One who guides

the planet in its course, and maintains the complicated movements of ten

thousand suns, and ten thousand systems in undeviating harmony. In
fidelity and irreligion -- are the offspring of ignorance united to presump"-
tion ; and the boldest researches of physical science,-if conducted in the
spirit of true philosophy, must lead us but to new discoveries of the power
                                                                 all the works of HIM
and  wisisedtoemrnaaln.'d"h*armony  and  beauty, which  pervade
who

   To the merely scientific or literary, the above Paper would
wear the aspect of an attempt to introduce a homily in the
wrong place. Among many who are regular in observing at
set times the ceremonies of rehgion, it might be viewed with
coldness and shyness, as requiring a larger measure of open
and uniform Christian bearing than they are prepared for. A

third class, with more of warmth than the preceding, would sin
cerely approve of the design and perhaps of the matter of the
document, but they would hesitate or perhaps even decline to

commit themselves to it by any overt act, such as that of
advising it to be read in public. Yet what really Christian

mind can be insensible to its high merits ? It is plainly,

forcibly, but without the slightest air of intrusiveness or
vanity, stamped with the evidences of a piety which all good
men must venerate:-- genuine, ardent, enlightened; -deeply
reverential towards, the Great Object of all true reverence,
and at the same time respectful and conciliatory in its plead-

  * " Report of the    Fourth       pM. exextiiini.g"  of the  British Association,  held  at

Edinburgh; September,   1834 :
JET. 64.] LETTER ON RECEIVING A PRESENT OP WINE.                            401

ings with man. Had the Paper been read by its Author, it

could scarcely have failed to derive new claims on attention

from a manner at once firm and modest. In his case, the

absence of those glowing and impetuous appeals, by which the

eloquence of some of our greatest Christian advocates has

forced a way for unpalatable, or at least unseasonable truths,

would have left him open to the full consciousness of the

dehcacy of his position, against which he would have been
sustained by no roughness of nature, by no airs of superiority,

by  no pedantry,   but entirely  by a humbling yet profound sense
of  obligation to                probably the secret of that failing
                   God. --But

in some books of science, which he so deplored, and desired to

prevent for the future, lay in many instances deeper than the
language :--and where that was the case it might be very

questionable how far the changes he recommended would be

to, the advantage of such Authors, or even to their Eeaders.

It cannot, however, be matter of surprise to any who knew

him, that his self-diffidence kept him from tracing his own

habit of referring to God as he has done in all his writings, to

that constant, affectionate, and profound worship of the Deity
        thweasmhoiusthdsapileyakdeethli.g"ht. -- "
which                                               Out  of the  abundance  of the
heart,

   To a friend from whom he received a present of wine,
intended to invigorate his health, Dr. Smith addressed the

following Letter :--

  " My dear Sir, --It would be rude and ungrateful in me to decline receiv

I Iing your very kind present, for which return my respectful thanks ; and

assure you that if the time should ever arrive when the use of wine shall

be prescribed to me, as a tonic or upon any other sound medical principle,

I shall employ this Sherry of extraordinary excellence, with an especial

recollection of your generosity.

I " But this your kindness lays me under a necessity of acknowledging that
  have, for more than seven years, seen it my duty to abstain, not only

from spirits, but from wine and malt liquors, for several reasons, among

which are the following.-- 1. It is not spirits only, but other inebriating

beverages, which work such awful ruin upon all classes of the British popu
lation, bringing down to temporal and eternal ruin countless thousands of
oppuoarsretca; okfuionnrgttrhyoamftetlnhime.--seit2.wdTaonuogldeerxboheuo"srdtraartwhtioncsleews,itphiesrmsnouonctshatodimeaqpuetaertmfeepcettriooatneanasanwnddeprmatrohtdeiaelrpiatutyer,

and even the men who attempted it would be perpetually and probably

2din danger of falling over the precipice.-- 3. To bear a practical testimony
402 schleusner's LEXICON.                                       [l8S9.

against this usage, is a duty which we owe to God and to our fellow-
creatures. Our drinking wines, &c., though temperately, gives countenance
to the intemperate, and encourages them in sin. See 1 Cor. viii. 13.--
4. Health and strength and length of life are more probably maintained by

totally refraining from these substances, than by any using of them. Of
course, where they are medicinally needful, they ought to be used ; bub as

medicine, and not habitually. --5. Many examples demonstrate that many

persons are supported for labour, hard and long-continued, much better

without than with stimulating drinks. --6. The moderate use of them
diminishes a sense of the evil and danger, and prepares the way for diseases
and moral dangers, in a slow but insidious manner.-- 7. We owe it to our
country to labour to arrest the ruin, which intemperance is bringing upon

its manufacturing   and shipping interests. The destruction     yaenadr." loss  of
property from that  cause, amounts to many millions sterling a

   Dr. Smith supplied two articles to the Eclectic Review
during 1838 ; one on Dr. Edward Eobinson's Greek and
English Lexicon for the New Testament, and the other on
Professor Moses Stuart's Grammar. In the former, speaking
of Schleusner's Lexicon, he says :--

   " We owe him much, and we should not forget our obligations. After
about twenty years, during which the work met with extensive approba
tion, and passed through four editions, it began to be perceived that this
great performance was not perfect. It would have been a miracle if it had

been so. . . . The complaints made were, that the work was too large

and prolix, that it failed in precision as to the laying down of meanings,
that in thatrespect it was sometimes erroneous, that the multiplication of
meanings was extravagant, especially in the prepositions and other particles,
and above all that there was not a philosophical spirit reigning through
the entire process of deriving and classifying the significations. Wahl and

Bretschneider, standing upon Schleusner's tower, have been more successful
than he in those points which their more advantageous position enabled
them to descry more clearly and explore more completely : yet we think it
highly probable that impartial judgment, the fruit of longer experience,

will bring back to Schleusner's Lexicon a considerable portion of the
estimation which it seems to have lost. Apart from all other consider^
tions, the single circumstance of his frequently inserting at due length the
passages cited from Philo, Josephus, the Greek and Latin classics, and other
authors, instead of merely referring to them by figures which are extremely
liable to be erroneous, confers upon his Lexicon a distinction of abiding
honour."-- Ec. Rev. 1838, voL L p. 272.

   In order to confine the ensuing chapter of this memoir
to one subject, it may be permitted to introduce in this place

two or three incidents belonging to the year 1839.

On the thirty-fifth anniversary of the formation of the
JET. 63.]  PRESENTED WITH A SILVER SALVER.                       403

Church at the Gravel Pit, the Pastor received from his

affectionate People a valuable silver salver, as a memorial

of the past, and with a view to perpetuate the memory of
a long and happy union. The present was accompanied by
a Letter signed by the four Deacons : and is dated March 6,
1839:--

" Bev. and dear Sir,--It is with sincere pleasure we forward

to you, on this day, the accompanying token of affection, refer
ring you to the inscription for its design and intention.* --

Though aware that the inclosure itself would be of little

intrinsic value to you, the Church and Congregation were

desirous of embodying this expression of their feelings in a
form that might show to your children's children the esteem
and regard in which you are held by those who have known
and loved you longest and best.

   " Praying that every blessing may still attend you, we

beg to subscribe ourselves, on behalf   orfestpheectfCulhlyurcyhourasn,d"
Congregation, dear Sir, most truly and

&c. &c.

  A copy of Dr. Smith's reply has been furnished by Mr.
Underhill, one of the Deacons : --

I"My dear Brethren, --This morning was favoured with your Letter,
Iaccompanied by a magnificent present from the Church and Congregation

which you represent.--Astonished indeed was at such a token of affec
tion. The delicate kindness breathed in the Letter, and the value of the

present as a perpetual possession to my family, but still more as the ex
pression of the generous sentiments entertained by the body of my Friends,
Iare such as cannot meet by any equivalent in language. The reflection
Ioverwhelms me                        privations and sorrows of
                                      of whom the world was not
the Redeemer's
           when think upon the                                   wmoarnthyy.o' f
           most faithful servants, '
It seems almost incredible that my providential lot should be such a con
Itrast ; that should be favoured with the Friends and Children whom the
ILord has given me.  dare not hold forth to you, or to my own mind, any
expectation of being able to show love and zeal corresponding to the degree

Iof your kindness. My only refuge is the footstool of mercy. You will,

  * The inscription was as follows: -- " This tribute of affectionate regard was
presented by the Church and Congregation assembling at the Old Gravel Pit
Meeting House, Hackney, to the Rev. John Pye Smith, D.D., LL.D., on the
thirty-fifth anniversary of the formation of the Church and his acceptance of
the Pastoral office-- As a memorial of their high esteem, and their unfeigned

gratitude to Divine Providence for having so long continued to them his
invaluable services."

                                                                         2D 2
404 LETTER OP CONDOLENCE.                                                          [l839.

am assured, unite with   me   in renewed supplication that, whatever days it
                         add   to this memorable one, the thirty-fifth of our
may please our God to   they  may be more distinguished than any part of my
existence as a Church,
life has been, by devotedness to His service, love to the Sacred Community
in connexion with which He     has granted me such peculiar mercies, and                          a
renewal of consecration more   earnest and active to your highest welfare. :
" That the richest blessings of the everlasting Covenant may rest upon
                               and every person in the Church and Congrega
you,   and upon every family   earth may be exalted into the perfect holiness
tion,  so that our union upon                                          prayer   and hope of,
                                                                       Pastor,  John Pye Smith."
and    happiness    of the Redeemed in glory, is the
                    My dear Brethren, your grateful
                 "

   Part of a Letter written this year to a Lady who had been
early bereaved of her husband, will not be without its use to
other mourners of that class, and indeed to Christian mourners
generally : --

   " My dear Madam, . . . The torrent of affliction has flowed so deep

and high, and has overwhelmed your soul, so that it is no wonder if you

feel a prostration of mental power, a kind of inability to summon up and to
apply the obvious considerations which your Heavenly Father has provided
for your support and consolation. But perhaps there is danger of your

yielding too much to this order of feelings. You may entertain a kind of
mysterious delight in them, a disinclination to their being in the smallest

degree abated,      alTmhoesrtereisgaard' ilnugxuirtyasofangraiecft,'  of impiety  to counteract them
                                                                       which the   deeply afflicted are
in any degree.
prone to indulge ; but which is really injurious to the Christian's own mind,
Iand is sinful in the sight of God. He has endowed you with a mind of

large capacity, happily cultivated, and-- am persuaded -- governed by the
grace and Spirit of Christ. He has seen it right that you should be

exercised with this severe     trial, in order to                      give you  hethaert,'oopfpohrotunnoiutyrinogf
deeper self-acquaintance, of   ' knowing what is                       in your

HIM by a duteous approval of what He has done, of proving the strength
of your devotedness to Him by those higher exercises of love which omit the

creature and pass directly to the sovereign dominion of the Creator. HE

needs not such a test for His own information. He fully knows, and from
eternity has known, every thought and motion of your mind, and how you will
direct your thoughts and affections towards TTitn under this heavy affliction.
The object of the trial is to promote your own satisfaction, in the evidences

of sanctification and the reception of consolation from Himself. By inspired
authority, they are ' accounted happy who endure.' You are called forth to

that discipline of endurance. It cannot but be unutterably painful : but in

that very proportion its benefit is to be sought and humbly expected. Thus

early in your course of life has the Lord laid this trial upon you j and this
very circumstance confers a higher interest upon the dispensation. Those
who partake of the saving benefits of the sufferings and righteousness of

Christ, must also in some way taste the fellowship of his sorrows. In their
                                                   Him in this respect -- that ' He was
humble measure, they    smufufesrtinrgesse.'m"ble
made perfect through
JET. 65.]                ADVICE TO ONE OP HIS SONS.                               405

The chapter may close with a brief piece of advice given
to one of his sons : -- " Diligence, wise economy, and perti
                                   --pr)aypeerr,se--vemrauncset ,
nacious (sit venia verbo                                             in subserviency to
spirituality of mind and                                           be your character

istics  :heaanrdt,h,"be  assured,  we never forget                 you and those  at
your
            CHAPTEE XXIII.

PROGRESS OF GEOLOGY--MOTIVES TO STUDY GEOLOGY -- RELUCTANCE TO
      ENGAGE IN CONTROVERSY --RENEWED ATTENTION TO GEOLOGY --LEC
      TURE TO YOUNG MEN ON THE CREATION AND DELUGE-- INCIPIENT
      CONTRIBUTIONS TO GEOLOGY -- LETTER TO THE REV. INGRAM COBBIN

      ,--BECOMES A FELLOW OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY -- HIS SOLICITUDE
      FOR THE PROGRESS OF GEOLOGY --DEFENCE OF THE SCIENCE AND
      ITS PATRONS --PROGRESS OF INQUIRY -- CONGREGATIONAL LECTURE OF
      1839-- ' SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY* --LETTER TO CHARLES LYELL, ESQ.
     --TESTIMONIES RESPECTING THE ' SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY '-- PERMA

       NENT VALUE OF THE WORK.

  It has been noticed in an early page, that at the commence

ment of his office as a Tutor at Homerton, Dr. Smith in

cluded among the duties which he avowed himself ready to
                                          ' on the principal subjects
undertake,  aHicsotuorrsye;' of Lectures
of Natural                    explaining  that term as it was then

understood of the Natural Sciences, among which he parti,:
cularized Geology and Mineralogy. His Note Books, and

the recollection of successive races of Students, bear ample

testimony to his fidelity and zeal in keeping his engage-,

ment. The course on mineralogy was at the outset more
extended, and perhaps in the whole more complete than

that on geology; chiefly because the latter had not then

arrived at sufficient maturity and definiteness, to allow the

Tutor to dwell upon it with that confidence which he seemed
to need upon all subjects which called for discussion at his

hands.

As time went on, the wide fields which the new Science

disclosed added greatly to the number of very able investi
gators, the results of whose labours, and whose sagacious con-
JET. 65.]  PROGRESS OP GEOLOGY.  407

jectures, were given to the world in volumes replete with learn
ing and eloquence ; imparting to Geology an attraction, we may
indeed say a fascination, almost unprecedented. Few com
paratively, even of the class of persons inclined towards scien
tific pursuits, have strength of wing to follow in the upward

track of the Astronomy of Newton and La Place ; few have
the patience or the tact to verify for themselves the discoveries

of the Modern Chemistry ; and to succeed in either of these
departments there were expenses to be incurred for apparatus,
an amount of mathematical training was needed, and much

time would have to be consumed in the closet :--but Geology,

in the popular estimation, could be carried on as a healthful

exercise, or even as a mere recreation in the open air, with the
fewest and plainest tools, and to a limited or a large extent

according to every one's means and inclination. The Curious

or the Indolent, as well as the Scientific, could pick up fossils.

A Cabinet of any size, as well as a Museum, might be fur

nished, and often with   no other cost than that of a little per
sonal toil,' from a new  and seemingly inexhaustible storehouse

which the Eternal One had long ago filled with His hidden

riches, but which was only beginning to be unlocked. Each
explorer, according to his particular taste, could gratify his

love of Botany, Conchology, or Natural History; for the strata

were stocked with treasures suited to each. To all this must

be added, that laudable desire for becoming acquainted with

the Science, which arose from its capabilities of application to

the useful or profitable purposes of human life. There was

also a peculiarity which drew general and particular attention

more powerfully than any of the motives above-named. In

the earher stages of its history, Geology appeared to stand

in direct antagonism with the received views of the Mosaic

account of the Creation and Deluge ; and as these views were

deemed not only the fair but the only possible exponents of

the1 Sacred Text, if they were disturbed or displaced, their
basis (it was thought) must be endangered. This was seen

and seized upon with no little avidity, by a very considerable

number of persons, of widely different degrees of culture, but
who agreed pretty closely in an aversion to the Scriptures :
and as such an aversion rarely exists without drawing much of

its nutriment and zeal from the passions, Geology was studied

by some, and paraded by many, chiefly--as might be inferred
408                    PROGRESS OF GEOLOGY.

from the prominence of their sceptical inuendoes--with a view

to undermine the authority of Bevelation.
   Such a state of things could not fail to attract the notice of

very many, whose faith in the Bible was never likely to give
way before the discoveries of any science, new or old. Of
these there were at least two classes, --leaving out of sight
altogether those who went on their Christian pilgrimage just

as they would have done if Geology had never dawned upon
the world.--There were some who would look at the alleged

facts, perhaps with a keen but not with an impartial eye :--

their vision could scarcely be said to be an ' open ' vision ;
they had their theory of things, complete and rigid in all its

parts, and the chief if not the sole object of interest was, the

strenuous reduction of any new facts or principles to the in

flexible standard of belief in their own minds. This, however,

was a hazardous method of proceeding : for unless a man's
faith in Bevelation were to be directly subservient to his

inclination and will, he could never rest satisfied with an expo
sition of Moses, founded either upon a voluntary ignoring of
a very large part of the Creator's works, or upon a perversion

of the facts far more misleading and delusive than silence
itself. Hence, whatever strained attention this class of persons
might pay to the phenomena of which the Sacred History is
supposed to treat, real relief from the sceptical difficulties

which had arisen, was clearly not to be expected in that
quarter.

What, then, could be anticipated from the other class ; con
sisting as it did, of
                       persons fewer in   number than the former,
and perhaps more                          who looked at the New
                       select; --persons

Science with the deepest interest ; who read its literature ; and

who added to their reading the important aid of an, actual
examination of strata, not picked for a specific object, but
general and diversified for a wider and truer result ? In the
minds of these   men-- behevers in
kind--there was  not, in truth, any   Bevelation of the firmest
                                     theory of the earth which
they were commissioned to estabUsh on the authority of their
interpretation of the Divine Word. And if the theories which
had been most widely received, or which had been longest held
in honour, were disturbed or endangered by recent observa
tion, these men set themselves all the more diligently- to. learn,
to explore, to think-- they were Students rather than Masters
ffiT.65.]     MOTIVES TO STUDY GEOLOGY.                            409

--they sought, first, an intimate knowledge of the newly re

vealed phenomena, and then they patiently compared these

with the statements of the Bible, in the hope and with the

conviction, that some time or other the harmony of the two

would be both discovered and confessed.

   Dr. Smith  held no  inferior position among                    this latter class
of persons.   With' a  "belief of the truth and                  Divine Origin of

Bevelation, as widely and deeply founded as that perhaps of

any man who ever lived, and with a very strong inclination,

seconded by ample means, to discuss and refute the suggestions

of ignorant or of learned scepticism, it is instructive to trace
how wisely he kept from hastening into this field of conflict,
and indeed from meddling with it at all, until he had made

himself familiar with the varied, and at times apparently hetero
geneous materials which craved examination and judgment.

He saw that the Deistical and sceptical inferences which were
at One time annexed to Geological facts with an air of great

plausibility, and which almost overthrew the faith of some,

could never be satisfactorily met by any method of evading or

disguising the facts themselves ; the number of which speedily
outgrew every attempt to stifle or pervert their testimony.
But besides this regard for equity in argument, and for a

cautious weighing of evidence, he had a strong personal in
terest in these inquiries. His religious faith, out of which

sprang 'his hopes, his purest joys, and his fine character, could

not afford him the confidence it had done, as the condition
              ;
of its safety, he must either avoid examining the Divine works,;a
or look at them with partial and prejudiced eye. And as he
                                                              if,
knew there could be no actual inconsistency between these and

what the Bible really taught, we may be sure from all his

previous life and labours, that he was no less devoutly than
             " feeling after  " the
diligently                    might  solution of                 the apparent incon
sistency    "if haply he               find it."                 But here, also, he

showed that power of being silent, which was of great service

to him and his design, when the time was fully come to avow

his sentiments for by not speaking prematurely, he spoke at
length conclusively.

   He was nevertheless reluctant at first to enter upon the
questions which had arisen to set the Sacred History and
Geology at variance for he was fully aware that what he had
410  RELUCTANCE TO ENGAGE IN CONTROVERSY.

to say, would be very imperfectly understood by many persons
whose esteem he highly valued, and that both his exposition
and his motives would be liable to great misrepresentation and

censure. He did not indeed want courage, but he wished to
avoid controversy, and to avoid it especially with persons with

whom the chief difficulty would be, their own absolute or very
great ignorance of an important part of the inquiry. Yet this
impediment turned out advantageously in the end. The fresh
scope and motives and materials which were constantly arising
to direct and modify his convictions ; the light which was con

centrating not less on the critical than the scientific branch of
the subject; the new suggestions wbich were coming under
public notice, and which were being sifted and weighed, and

then set aside or confirmed, -- all bore a large share in pre

paring the way for that theory which was in future to send
forward Bevelation and the new science as companions and
even coadjutors to each other : whereas until now, one party
was much disconcerted at their seeming incapability of recon
ciliation, while another was disposed to exult in the

that the schism could never be healed. Evidence will be forth

coming to show, that as Dr. Smith did not too long delay the
publication of his views, they were not, on the other hand,
given to the world too soon ; their present complete form was

not attained until within a very short time when their Author
made them known to the world :--the fruit was not gathered
before it was fully ripe.

As the work to which this chapter relates consists of eight

Lectures, which were first of all read in the year 1839 at

the Library  of the  Congregational Body,   in Blomfield-street,
London, it
             may be  well to premise--that  the Congregational'1

Lecture was instituted in 1833-^-that every year a new Lecturer
was appointed--that the subject for every course was suggested'1
by the Lecturer for the year--that every series of Lectures was
sufficient to make an octavo volume --and that the printing of
the whole formed a more important part of the primary design
than the oral delivery. Apphcation appears to have been made

to Dr. Smith to be the Lecturer in 1837, and the subject sub

mitted by him for that occasion was, On the Divine Attributes.

When, however, fears were expressed by his ever-watchful son,

whose profession gave him the knowledge requisite to guide
*T.,65.]  RENEWED ATTENTION TO GEOLOGY.              411

his filial solicitude on questions of health, that Dr. Smith was

npfc sufficiently recovered from his long illness in 1835, to
warrant such an addition to his regular duties as the prepara-
tioni dehvery,- and printing of a number of elaborate discourses

would be sure to involve, he was induced, with the consent of

all ,the parties concerned, to decline the proposal, and Dr.

Bedford became the Lecturer that year in his stead.

  This relief proved of considerable service. His enfeebled
powers, freed from extra pressure just at that time, began to

rally; and the thought of undertaking the Congregational
Lecture in any future year either did not occur, or it was left

in that state of utter indefiniteness which the great uncertainty

hanging over his life would naturally suggest, when his health

and his advanced age were considered. To those however

who knew him intimately it will not appear at all strange, that

almost as soon as he felt himself at liberty from the cares and

claims of the duty above mentioned, he found a salutary

stimulus for both mind and body, in going along the track of
the now rapidly increasing discoveries of Geology. And,

indeed, little as it may be imagined by sceptical thinkers on

the one hand, and by a certain class of estimable religious men
on j;he other --the profound views which, from the outline of

some of the lectures as addressed to his own congregation,

Dr. Smith had been lately conversant with in relation to the

Divine Attributes, led by a most natural sequence in his case

to that augmented interest in the Creator's Works, which

began more and more to show itself in Geological pursuits and

inquiries. Knowing, moreover, as he so well knew, that in

regard to the Attributes of the Deity there existed already a

very large amount of the very best kind of instruction, he

might justly allow himself to feel less desirous to go over that

ground when once the subject had, as it were, passed out of his

hands ; and as he knew also by a variety of signs, not a few of
which were sinister, that on the other subject which novelty

had made widely  there was both a great scarcity of

what he deemed the true principles of exposition, and no small
amount of false and even pernicious teaching: -- the latter was

the subject on which --should time and strength be given --he

would seize . every fitting opportunity to speak ; and in the
meanwhile he was striving, unobserved, to complete the num
ber, the order, andthe efficiency of his equipments. Nor was he
412     LECTURE TO YOUNG MEN                                                               [1889.

on this occasion, entering upon what might seem  to, be a really
                                                 apprehend or
new line of things ; he was not--as some might

assert^going out of his way at all, but was simply fulfilling
the great vocation of his hfe :---which was, in every respect and
to the utmost of his ability, to clear away difficulties, to ob

viate objections, to produce confidence, veneration, and ,lpve»
in regard to the whole of Divine Bevelation,
                                                                                           ,, . s

The earliest public expression of this renewed study , of

Geology was a Lecture to Young Men, delivered at the Weigh

House Chapel, the Eev. Thomas Binney's, November 21,

1837; on The Mosaic Account of the Creation and the, ,Deluge,

Illustrated by the Discoveries of Modern Science. A copy of

what is called a new edition of this Lecture, shows it to have

had a considerable circulation, in the cheap form in, which jt

was printed. From the text, Gen. i. 1, the Author, took

occasion to repeat his views of very long standing, and not his

Ionly, respecting the meaning   of these  singularly striking initial
                                          passage which has been
words of the Divine Book :     -- " The

read regard as a grand universal assertion, the first axiom
of natural and religious knowledge. 'In the beginning, God
created the heavens and the earth.' But it does not tell, us
when that beginning was. It assures us that at a point,
                          is
                                                   a;

                                                                                                       i

                                                                                          in,
duration past, which we cannot ascertain at that point in

infinite duration which to the wisdom of the great God seemed

best, He was pleased to give existence to dependent world;

unfolding the majesty of His attributes, and creating intelligent
beings capable of contemplating and enjoying them." --Lect.,
pp. 14, 15. This .position briefly illustrated by arguments,

drawn from scientific sources, and also from the condition of
the first human pair. The six days of the following verses,!
are treated as natural days of about twenty-four hours in

length and intimations are given, respecting the antiquity of
     ;

the strata of the earth's crust with their embedded fossils,

tending to the conclusion that hfe and death, in connection
with our globe, must have been pre-Adamitic.

Here, however, the coincidence between this Lecture, in

November, 1837, and the course delivered at the Congrega

tional Library in March, 1839, at an end. At the earlier
                          i.

                                2,

                                 is

                                                                                       .,
date, Dr. Smith held the then widely prevailing opinion that

the chaos mentioned Gen.       was universal at the period
JET. 65.]  ON THE CREATION AND DELUGE.                                              413

immediately antecedent to the six days: -- "so that, we have

here presented to us in very expressive terms this globe in
the condition of ruin and desolation from an anterior state."; --

ILed. p. 16. Again also on Gen. i. 14 -- 16: --"The true

meaning, conceive, is this, that now the atmosphere was

so far cleared, that on the side of the earth next to the sun,

had there been a human beholder, it would have been seen

shining brightly in the blue sky ; and in the opposite hemi

sphere, the moon  thaenddtahreknoetshse,"r  heavenly bodies would                   have
been penetrating                            p. 18. But perhaps the                  most

remarkable disparity in the Author's views is in relation to the

Noachian Deluge. In the Lecture, indeed, he states not only
the common arguments in favour of the universality of that

catastrophe, but also some which had been recently adduced

oh the other side ; especially by Dr. Buckland and Professor

Sedgwick, whose avowal of a change of opinion in regard to

important points of the question, Dr. Smith commends both as

highly honourable to those gentlemen, and as entitling the
subject itself to renewed inquiry. Yet his own inclination at

the close of 1837 was plainly in favour of the popular belief: --

" The record of the universal deluge needs none of these

distant, precarious, and uncertain arguments : it stands upon
impregnable evidence ;--the evidence of Sacred History, the

earliest history in the world, where it is stated in the most

bclyeaoruranBdlesssaetdisfLaoctrodryanmdaHnniserA; poasntdlesit,"  is   explicitly  confirmed
                                                                        25.
                                                                    p.

This contrast between the Author's views at two periods not

widely remote from each other, may be turned to his disadvan
tage :-- only, however, by those who did not know the man, or
who are strangers to the strong light poured upon the question

by modern researches. On a fair estimate, great credit is due
to him for not yielding early and hastily to impressions con

trary to those which had the sanction of ages in their favour,

when as yet discovery was either asleep, or purblind, and

therefore not to be trusted. And is he entitled to less credit
for holding his long cherished opinions on these points, in
a state of subordination to whatsoever principles or facts might

demand credence, as the legitimate issue of an awakened zeal

and diligence in examining the works of the Creator ? Indeed,
just in proportion to his capacity, both of materials and judg
ment, for weighing all the evidence --in support of the early
414          INCIPIENT CONTRIBUTIONS TO GEOLOGY.                 [l889.

belief on    the  one hand, and of the     modern     views on   the
             the  value to be attached to  his final  decision.
other, --is                                                       In

an important sense, therefore, that decision would have been

given too early-- excepting by way of instalment --had it not

been delayed until the time, or within a little of the time,
when his course of the Congregational Lecture was delivered.
The providential interruption of his purpose early in 1837,
seems like an essential part of his training for the work to be

done by him in 1839, and not before.

Through the medium of the Congregational Magazine, for

the  same month in which     Dr. Smith   inadGdreeoslsoegdicaylourensgeamrcehneson"
     Creation and Deluge, "  a beginner
the  the inquiry :--" Could
put                          there be death by violent and pain

ful means, before the entrance of sin had deranged the order of

a holy world, or had given occasion for bringing into action the

instruments of violent death ? Comp. Isai. xi. 6-- 9." A reply

appeared the next month, consisting of a Letter of eleven

pages bearing the well-known initials of the Tutor at Homerton.*

A very considerable amount of evidence is adduced to shovy

the extinction of countless myriads of organized beings, whose

remains occupy positions in the earth's crust which cannot be

fairly accounted for except on the principle of their having
lived,-- species after species, and even genus after genus, --on

what must have been once a succession of surfaces, but which is

now a series of strata, more or less deeply entombed. And the

Author shows, how the admission of the above facts may not

only be reconciled with, so as to give new and valuable light to

what he deems the import of the threatened penalty of death

upon the first human pair; but how also some other parts

of Scripture, commonly supposed to militate against this
assumption, may be cited in its favour. --Whether this Letter
did or did not satisfy the Inquirer whose question had

occasioned Dr. Smith to write it, or how far it produced

conviction among the readers of the Magazine generally, can

not be ascertained; but no attempt to refute its positions

ever appeared in the same publication. The large and com

pact array of facts could not be set aside, for they were open to

   * This was subsequently reprinted, as the first of the Supplementary Notes,
in every edition of the Scrip, and Geol.--Ed.
JET. 65.J              LETTER TO REV. INGRAM COBBIN.                   415

the observation of all who were not disinclined to look at them,

nor were the inferences fairly assailable except through the

medium of the facts, or by an attempt to reason independently
of an important part of the subject of inquiry: and both the

facts and the inferences--instead of being really out of harmony
with Divine Bevelation --were shown to impart such new force

and beauty -to many passages as could not fail to awaken fresh

feelings of admiration, delight, and gratitude in the devout

mind.

   Viewed in relation to their Author, the Lecture to Young
Men in November and the Letter in the Cong. Mag. in the

following    month, may be considered            as marking    the turning
point in                                         convictions,
           the history --not indeed of his                     but--of his

readiness and purpose of heart to avow his convictions, respect

ing what may be called the new method of interpreting the
early portion of the Mosaic records. He had now spoken out

plainly ; and time and circumstances favouring, there could be

no doubt that sooner or later he would speak again. Here

it is right to insert a Letter, which Dr. Smith wrote in reply
to one from the late Bev. Ingram Cobbin, both as a link in the

chain of incidents, and as containing some personal remi

niscences, which are so seldom to be found in his communica
tions, printed or in manuscript :--

                                           " Homerton, Nov. 15, 1837.

 I" My dear Sir, --At the time of receiving your Letter, had either begun

or was proposing a reply to a question at page 710 of the last Congregational
Magazine. You thus impressed me with the propriety of offering some sug

I Igestions on the mode of beginning and prosecuting the study of Geology,

and thought that whatever could say upon that subject would be suitable

Ifor my paper ; especially as similar inquiries have been addressed to me by

others. Permit me then to refer you to that paper. have sent it to the
Editor, and hope it will be in the next number.
'¦ Admission to the Geological Society is effected by a process which affords
a striking example of the workings of good sense in relation to secular
affairs, so as to produce a plan which has a perfect analogy to our mode of
                            -- 1.           evidence of qualification from previous
admitting church members.           Some   The recommendation of two or more
studies, or labours in the  field.         at a meeting ;--Then the name of the
                                    -- 2.
Fellows of the Society.-- 3. Proposal
                                                   hung up in an appropriate
candidate and those    of his recommenders, are    of the society.-- 4. Election
                       or third following meeting
room, till the second
Ifby ballot.-- 5.  elected, the candidate attends at the ensuing meeting,
signs a Declaration that he will do all he can to promote the objects of the
Society, pays the Admission Fee (£6. 6s.) and gives a guarantee for the
416 BECOMES A FELLOW OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY. [l839.

Ifannual payment of £3. 3s. on the first of every January.  a candidate he

admitted at any time before November, there is an addition to the admission
fee, at the rate of 10s. 6^. for every two-month period. -- Then the President

Igives him the right hand of Fellowship, with a little form of speech.
   " applied myself to Mineralogy, and in part to Geology, more than thirty-
Ifive years ago, and then collected above 300 specimens. At the formation of

the Society was invited to join it;--circumstances put it then out of my
power, and the being appointed in 1805 Divinity Tutor in this College drew
Ime away from the pursuits of science, and absorbed almost all my time for

many years. Subsequently began to retrace my steps, particularly after
the formation of the ' British Association ' in 1831. After joining that Body
Iin 1833 or 4, had much occasion to regret the having declined the invita

Ition to the Geological Society, 31 or 32 years ago ;-- sought admittance,
I Iand was received., ---I should have said that in fact before was admitted,
Ifound could not do without the Transactions, and the    Proceedings    of
ISociety, which therefore cost me about eighteen guineas.    remain,"  &c.  the
                                                                            &c.

   Dr. Smith became a Fellow of the Geological Society in

November, 1836 : and, notwithstanding his advanced age, his

then enfeebled health, his deafness, the distance of his resi

dence from the Society's rooms, and the lateness of the hour
at which the Meetings were held, he was a very frequent
attendant. One or more of the Homerton Students generally

went with him on these occasions ; partly for the sake of their,,
company, partly that they might supply in some degree the loss
which he sustained by a want of power to hear;* but also to
place them in a position of all others the most favourable for
implanting and cherishing in their minds an enlightened love

of science. In these respects, he was ever like a kind-hearted.

parent, who, when there is anything valuable to be learned,
puts his son where he may see and hear to the best advantage.

One of the earliest results of Dr. Smith's membership, was
the knowledge which he obtained of several of the prominent
Geologists of the day. He had learned much of them through
their works, and he had a high estimate of the probity and

* On one occasion when Mr. Thomas Priestley, for many years the Head
Master of Mill Hill Grammar School, attended a meeting of the Geological
Society, Dr. Smith saw him come in ; and taking him aside, he entered into
an elaborate statement of .his reasons for being present at a Lecture which his
deafness would prevent him from hearing. ' He feared it might be thought
ostentatious and hypocritical ; but there were the diagrams, and a long stick
was used in explaining them--this he could follow with his eye ; and then his
son, Ebenezer, kindly provided for his sleeping at Billiter Square ; and the
next morning at ten o'clock, he could come to the Society's Booms, where the
          poefruthseal.p' --reEvido.us           had kindly left his manuscript for his (Dr.
Lecturer                                evening
Smith's)
JET. 65.] HIS DEFENCE OF THE SCIENCE AND ITS PATRONS. 417

trustworthiness of the atithors ; but when to this was added
the advantage of a personal acquaintance ; when he saw how

frank they were in their communications with one another ;
how careful as well as ardent in the pursuit of truth ; how im-
·pwtial in the investigation and conscientious in the detail of

facts, his warmest admiration was called forth. He identified

himself fully with the interests of the Science, and with its

foremost defenders and advocates. This new position, there

fore, does much to explain his movements for some con

siderable time after the. date when he became a member of the

Geological Society. For as, in regard to very many,persons,
Geology might be said, just at that stage to be clogged with

difficulties which the mere Geologist could never overcome ;

which, in truth, some would not deign to look at, and others
could not, with any hope of succeeding :--it was scarcely to be

expected that the Science should find full credit among

Christians, or that Bevelation could be disentangled from the

objections bf Philosophers, unless the alleged difficulties were

fairly met, calmly discussed, and obviated upon principles in

which a majority of competent judges of various classes

would be prepared to acquiesce. Now Dr. Sanith, perceiving

this to be the case, and appreciating the greatness of the

emergency, placed his varied attainments as a Christian and a

Scholar, in direct subserviency to that part of the subject

which at that time stood in need of the most searching exami
nation. " Here it may not be superfluous to suggest, that if--

on the one hand-^-faith in the Saered Scriptures is constantly

exerting a restraining influence on the too rapid generalizations

of scientific discovery ; and thus induces a more patient, exact,

and penetrating  course of research than would be secured
among a nation   of atheists; so,. -- on the other--no sooner

has Science verified and established her positions, than she

sends the Christian to his Bible with new motives and means

to bear upon its language.

   But besides the interest which Dr. Smith felt in the relations

of Geology to Bevelation, he could not be contented without
trying to stem that torrent of accusation and censure, which at
one period set in very freely against a number of estimable

persons whose chief fault was --that they were unable to shut

their eyes against innumerable facts, or to compel their

                                                                                  2?.
418 HIS DEFENCE OF THE SCIENCE AND ITS PATRONS. [l839.

judgment to give a verdict which in their conscience they did

not believe. Towards the close of 1838, he was already

making preparations to defend the Science and its chief Patrons

from the complaints and invectives of very ill-informed or

prejudiced opponents. The Declaration which Dr. Smith had

signed on becoming a Member of the Geological Society, that

he would do all he could to advance the objects of that Insti

tution, not only acted powerfully on a mind hke his to secure
his personal attendance at the meetings, but also stimulated

his subsequent efforts with his pen and by the press, to

vindicate the Fellows and their Pursuits before the public.

                                of a Letter from       Professor John
                               October, 1838 :--        look with the
IPHheinllcipes,thedaftoedllow"inYgorkc,lau2s0e
greatest anxiety for the appearance of a considerate Essay on
the Theological part of the argument, and your eminent

position and enlarged views will give to your remarks on this
subject a force not in the least inferior to that due to Sedgwick
Ifor Conybeare.
                   therefore we can aid you in any respect, it
is our duty, as
exert ourselves   lovers of Geology and    followers of Christ,  to
                 to the utmost." Acting    with as little delay  as

possible on the offer thus made, in December, 1838, and

January, 1839, Dr. Smith wrote a very long Letter on a sheet
of extra-size folio paper, laying down the plan, the principles,

"pthopesesrlihebaalpydsins--gmAfaalclVtsibnodaonickda,"taiorgtnhuemoeftnittGsleeooolfofgayw"haipncrdhojeGwceatoesldogtopi.satmbse.p"htlheitTs, h--iosr
Letter had a broad margin, purposely left for the reception of
any remarks which Professor Phillips might think it desirable
to make, in order to correct, to confirm, or in any way to
improve the value of the adjoining text, and with these remarks,
the Letter came back to Homerton. At a somewhat later date,
Professor Sedgwick also supphed
Smith's use. --Is                          important   suggestions for Dr.
                   it needful  tthoatsa"y  that while  oafpwlainsdloikme,"thwishwicahs
singularly to the  credit of               meekness

is not perhaps often found in a Tutor in the sixty -fifth year of
his age, it was not less to the advantage of the object the
writer had at heart; for by securing the truth of his data, his
arguments and appeals rested upon a firm foundation. Ad

mirably does he close his Letter thus :--" Our cause is one,
impregnable and immortal, the cause of GOD and truth."
JET. 65.]       PROGRESS OF INQUIRY.                                        4L9

   Although the time was now near at hand when the Congre
gational Lecture was delivered, there is no reason to believe
that Dr. Smith was at this period anticipating such a duty, or
even that he would be permitted to plead the claims of

Geology, should he be asked to undertake the course for 1839.

The pamphlet or small book of which he speaks in the Letter
to Professor Phillips, would probably have entirely superseded
the Lectures on Scripture and Geology : for though the two
works might have kept clear of one another in some points,

they must have interfered too closely at many others, to render
it expedient for the same author to discuss the two subjects on
occasions so little remote from each other. But the " Vindi
           BGeecoelnotgyAaunthdorGse,"olowgoisutlsd
cation of                                            against the  misapprehension
of some                                               have been    wanting in that

grand recommendation of the volume actually published :--the

subordinating of all the facts and principles of the Science to

an equitable method of explaining the original text of the
Holy Scriptures. The ground in the one case would have

been local, limited, and in a sense narrow and partial ; while in
the other, it is high and wide and sacred : -- in the one, as the

chief prominence would have been assigned to Geology, the

chief interest would be confined to Geologists ; but an innu

merable succession of persons who feel, and will continue to

feel, the importance of maintaining the truth of Bevelation,
have an interest--direct or indirect --in a work designed to

show the harmony between Scripture and the new Science. In

the latter work, moreover, not only has the Geologist his share

iii common with all men, but from the peculiar character of

his studies, he has the deepest concern in the solution of the

difficulties, and may in every way reap the richest benefit from

the manner in which this has been done, as well as from the

result itself.  Yet so obviously was                 lDonr.g' Smith    being led on
step by step,   without being aware                                     of the final
                                                               before

direction of his pursuits, that at the close of 1838 some

solicitude was expressed by his affectionate children, lest his

contemplated vindication of Geology should not only be
inadequate for the purpose, but should tend to disturb his just

ItianrsufltuahesnsceoerfvicCaenhdrtisorteiarpneuilttiyag.tiioonnT, oaasnthdainsthhaaibstleroefpelhxyipgwohsaistimo:r--po"ortfantrhceeeg.a"grdreIanitt

                                                                       2e2
420         CONGREGATIONAL LECTURE OF 1839.                    [l839.

January, 1839, he gave a few familiar Lectures on the subject
in the vestry of his Chapel. These in the brevity of their
preparation as well as their delivery, might be truly called
extempore. Still, they were adding to his familiarity with: the
various branches of the question ; and served to keep 'his
attention more than ever fixed on the Scriptural difficulties.

No evidence is at hand to account for the delay and the non-
publication of the projected pamphlet or small book; but it is
not improbable that the Author was coming to perceive with

rapidly increasing distinctness, that the very best and surest

Vindication of Geology and Geologists must be found, if found

at all, in showing the harmony of Bevelation with modern

discovery. All else would be but little better than an apology,

which could not have given entire satisfaction to a very large
class of upright and inquiring minds ;--to say nothing of the

multitude.

It was not until February, 1839, that the proposal was tnade

to Dr. Smith, to undertake the Congregational Lecture for the

year; and, as his thoughts had been long engrossed by the
subject to which this chapter of his hfe refers, he was led to

suggest for the approval of the Committee of the Lecture a

course, on Revelation and Geology, or the Relations between" the

Holy Scriptures and some parts of Geological Science. This
suggestion
            theha"viVnigndbiceaetniona,c"cep&tce.d,&cf.rofmor  this date n6 more is
heard of
                                                               it was, in truth, ren

dered unnecessary by the new work. When the Lectures

began, the Author's papers were  ;  fanrorfroismthbiseinsgurpsoriscinomg,p' lfeotre   in
their arrangement as he desired
                                                                                     the

course was not determined upon, perhaps not even thought 'of,

until February, and in the following month--March 12th-- it

Iwas commenced, at the rate of two lectures a week for four

successive weeks. "Well do remember"-- says one or Lis
family --"how hardly he strove to gain a more Suitable

preparation, and. that the brief space of a month, with attention
to all other duties, was quite insufficient." And, indeed, on

comparing the list of topics of each lecture, published by way
of prospectus in the Congregational Magazine, with the

contents of each as given subsequently in the printed volume,

considerable changes are seen to have taken place between the

time when the course was announced -and their dehvery.
JET. 65.J  CONGREGATIONAL LECTURE OF 1839.                421

i. No small responsibility attached to his position on this

occasion. His fertile memory would suggest a comparison,

in so far at least as the object was concerned, between the
Boyle Lecture and his own. And as none of his predecessors
at 'the Congregational Library had entered at any length upon

questions connected with Natural Theology, he would be the

mpre anxious to take the initiative in such a way as neither to
discredit the subject itself nor the Body to which he belonged.

But the branch of natural theology on which he was about to
d.well, was in an important sense new ; emphatically might this

be said of the method in which he was to treat it. Nor was

it at all popular, speaking generally, in his circle of connec
tions. A failure, therefore, must have been exceedingly dis

tressing to a heart like his ; not, indeed, on the narrow ground
of personal, or even professional considerations --though neither
ought to be overlooked-- but for the sake of the truth of Science

on the one hand, and the Divine authority of Bevelation on the

other. Nay, more ; so prone are we to look for unity in the

character and achievements of public men, that Dr. Smith

might justly have anticipated some falling off in his usefulness

as a Tutor, and in the value attached to his works as an

Author, had he failed to sustain the credit of his former

labours; -- while success here, would extend the weight of his

influence in other directions. He was about also to, make

the attempt, in the most conspicuous manner known in the

influential Denomination of which he had been all his life an

attached member ; no higher standing place could have been

found in his country for one of his beliefs: and then, finally,

as the Lectures were to be printed, every fact, every principle,

every exposition, every shade of sentiment and turn of expres
sion, would eome under the widest and not always the kindest

scrutiny, through the medium of the press. This is said, not

as.; though there were any difference between his eourse in
         and that of any of his coadjutors in earlier or
.1,839,   mere matter of prominence and publication       later years,

in -the                                                   ;-- but the

reference is simply to the bearing  of these upon   the novelty,
and it may be added the dislike,    attaching-- as  he was well
           to the whole or nearly the whole of his leading prin
ciples. In this particular, not an insignificant one^ he had as a

Lecturer to occupy a place by himself.
422 ' SCRIPTURE AND                                                          [l889.

Taking up the printed volume, it will not be necessary to* do

here than to mention its characteristic distinctions,

comprised in the third and fourth Lectures, containing a
" Becital of opinions which are by many assumed to be

asserted or implied in the Scriptures, but which are contrary
to geological doctrines." Dr. Smith enumerates the follow
"I. II.ing :--                                                           A previous
The recent creation of the world.
III.universal chaos over the earth.
                                     The creation- of; the

heavenly bodies after that of the earth. IV. The derivation

of all vegetables and animals from one centre of creation.
                                were Dneoltugseu.b" ject                 death till
V. That the   inferior animals   the                      to                         the
fall of man.
              VI. Concerning

The Eeader, not otherwise familiar with the work, will

understand that in every one of these six questions, the
Author deemed the commonly received opinions incapable

of being sustained by satisfactory evidence; and the design
of these Lectures is to show in the several cases proof to the

contrary. In regard to some of the number, objections were

entertained by learned and pious men from an early period in

the Christian sera down to modern times ; and even among Dr.

Smith's own friends, there were some who had little: if any

difficulty in departing from the general belief , in one, two,i or

more of the particulars : but scarcely any were at that time
prepared to admit his views respecting the whole ; and; yet the

several links, how slowly soever formed into the chain of his

positions, possess such an amazing strength and power of

concatenation, that first to force, and then to hold them fairly
asunder, seems all but impossible. Astronomy having grown

up into wonderful stability and amplitude, was in every sense
fitted to be the grand pioneer -to the discoveries which have

followed. Natural History, by becoming more and more

conversant with the species and genera, the habitat: and. limits

of vegetables and animals, suggested the difficulty of confining

the creation of all these to one centre. By an easy transition
from the productions on the surface of the earth to: those lying

immediately beneath, a way was opehed to deeper, and still

deeper recesses. The more obvious and easily reached, quick
ened to greater labour and cost in the work of inquiry, A hnjt

that offered  itself  asexbpylanaacctoidreynt^lamwi--ghptrobveidcoemd e   a  theory, a
principle, a                                                                 could /be
               great                                                     it

carried far enough1 to be fully verified. --Hence, by a process
JET. 68.]  ' SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.'                 423

not calling for detail here, proof upon proof arose to confirm

the impression --that the earth refused to supply the traces,
either of a single Deluge, or next of a single chaos, which had

covered the entire surface of the globe at one and the same cera ;
while, on the other hand, the traces of death, prior even to the
hfe of man, were thought to be innumerable.

   Now (although, ~as we have seen, Dr. Smith was not prepared
to dissent from the general impression concerning some of the
six particulars, even at the period when he had relinquished

others ; yet in truth, precisely the same kind of evidence --the

evidence of geological facts -- and the same class of authorities,

namely, men of integrity and research who had examined the
facts with the utmost care -- constrained him before long to

adopt all, if he did any, of the new positions laid down in these

Lectures, in opposition to the prevailing belief. This quality

of completeness constitutes the rare merit of the volume : for
while great penetration was evinced in clearly perceiving the
whole exigency of the case, there was also high moral courage

in meeting that exigency without hesitation or reserve ; and
how, indeed, can one part be taken and another left, without
betraying a disposition to violate requirements in one direction,

which in another are not only acquiesced in but vindicated ? --

a method which, instead of upholding the harmony between
Bevelation and Science, seems in turn to subject both to
mutilation and injury.

   Geology having raised objections-- or rather having accumu
lated facts-- against the above six points, of the common belief

respecting the Creation and Deluge, the learned Lecturer, who
admitted the integrity of the objections on the authority of
the facts, had next to show how the new opinions were to be

reconciled with the Scriptures. He begins by enumerating

four different methods to set aside the alleged contradictions
"I.between the observed phenomena and the Bible: --
                                                     The

denial of any difficulty,   by shutting  the   eyes to the evidence
of geological facts, and   representing  the
                                              inquiry as impious :--

III.II. Sacrificing the Mosaic records as unintelligible, or as being
the language of mythic poetry: --        Begarding the Mosaic
six days as designed to represent, indefinite periods: --
IV- Attributing stratification and other geological phenomena
to the interval between the Adamic creation and the Deluge,
424      'SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.'

and the action of the Diluvial waters." Each of these is

examined in order, and is shown to be either untenable, in
itself, or inadmissible in principle. Against the first, there is

the practical objection that inquiry cannot be prevented, and

the moral and rational one, that it ought not. The second,
rather evades the text than explains it; or if exposition is
                                                                                         a myth --
awthteicmhpteisd,nothbeettseurpethrsatnrucatumreistc--anfonrevae'rfobuendsaotiolind.,on  To, make,
according to the third, the six days io represent periods, of

vast but undefined duration, seems like an attempt to carry
back the historical details of the creation to a point in the

infinite past, beyond all calculation remote from the subsequent

portions ofthe Mosaic narrative. The axiom in the first verse

appears to stand quite apart from the iiest, in a sort of isolated

simplicity and majesty; as though it proclaimed fhej only
communicable fact which mortals could either need or receive

from that boundless period of duration which was anterior to

the birth of the human race. With the second and following
verses, history begins ; but that could scarcely be the case, if

these verses relate to events which transpired at an immea
surable distance, prior to the time when man was; created.

The fourth and last method of accounting for geological

phamomena, is never likely to find support, except from persons

who either know nothing of them, or know them in a very
partial form.

After having thus cleared the way, the first part of the

seventh    Lecture is devoted to   an                        exposition of   the Author's
views                                                        Bevelation--   the principles
         on--the Divine authority    of
to be applied to ascertain the sense of Scripture                           --the duty
carefully using those, principles--the forms of                                          of
                                                                            expression   to

convey to man a knowledge of the Nature, the Perfections, and
the Works of Jehovah--the condescension and benefit of such

forms. In the second part ,pf the Lecture, the principles

established in the first are applied to the narrative concerning

the creation. , Here, as before, Gen. i. 1, is shown to be an

independent position, laid down as the basis of all the Divine

communications to mankind, whether Patriarchal, Judaic, or

C" htorisatialinm. itedThreengiotnheofsuthbeseqeuaerntht  ;  description is said,        to refer
                                                                                          of was
                                                             "--the chaos spoken

not universal ; nor was the act of creative power at that

period, exerted over the whole earth at once, but was confined
Ml. 65.]  ' SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.'        425

within those limits of which the newly-formed human pair

might be said to be the centre. All this is consistent with
what is suggested by innumerable phamomena --including the

evidence of the wide prevalence  of death  before the fall of man.
In like manner, the Deluge is    " shown   to have been universal

as to the extent of the human population, but not geographi

cally     The Lecture concludes with a "vindication of

the principle, and its applications, as irrefutable, and absolutely
necessary for maintaining the honour ofthe word of God."
¦ According to this plan of exegesis, there is not only a com

plete unity in the several parts, viewed in their relation both

to one another, and to the human »race as the central objects

of interest in the narrative, but the unity of the whole with

the prevailing design and scope of the Sacred Scriptures is
equally apparent. The inspired Writer goes into no details

whatever beyond the range of circumstances, in which the

newly-formed rational creature is personally concerned. This
singular abstinence may be justly thought to evince the inter

position of a Divine hand; for if only human invention or

sagacity had been here, the occasion for launching out into
wide and perhaps extravagant description would have proved

too strong to be resisted. The very attempt, therefore, to
bring back the exposition of the narrative, within almost the
narrowest limits compatible with a full view of the creation

and early history of the human race, is so much in accordance

with the grand design of Bevelation, and with the development

of that design in the Scriptures as a whole, as to afford very
strong presumptive evidence in its favour.

   The last Lecture in the volume, is a deeply interesting one

on grounds peculiar to itself. It is distinguished by the

Author's profound reverence for the perfections, the works,

and the word of Jehovah ; by fervent desires for the good of

mankind ; and especially by earnest appeals to men of science
to consider the claims of religion. There is probably no one
of Dr. Smith's printed discourses, nor any lengthened portion

of his larger works, marked by a style so glowing, and sus

tained at such a high pitch of eloquence as this. He shows

that there is an intimate relation between all true Science and
the great discoveries made by Christianity :--that the latter is
in reality the Divinely appointed sequel, the crown, and glory of

those very works which afford a wide and diversified field of
426           ' SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.

research, instruction, and pleasure to the most profound and

penetrating minds. "Astronomers, geologists, and micro
scopic observers have peculiar facilities for acquiring the most

sublime conceptions of the Deity, from their deep, extensive,

and accurate acquaintance with His works. Can they gaze at

the wondrous mechanism with which they are famihar; can
they calculate its workings, based upon the most recondite
mathematical truths; can they predict the results, on the

greatest scale and with infallible certainty; -- and yet cherish

....no admiring and affectionate thoughts of the Former ?

Can such men as you be enslaved to the prejudices of little
minds ?-- Can you be satisfied with a knowledge of Christi
anity so meagre as to be a parallel to that ignorance on
scientific subjects which provokes your pity ? When large,

expatiating, and thorough research upon all other objects are

esteemed indispensable, and are nobly achieved by you, can
you be contented with fragments of knowledge about, religion,

picked up in childhood, or accidentally and carelessly in the

course of life ; and which have no coherence, no completeness,

no standing upon well-studied proof; which are often indeed

nothing but vulgar prejudices ?                        Suffer one to

intreat you, who puts forth no claim but that of the sincerest

regard, and the warmest desire for your enjoying happiness of
the most exalted kind and in the most perfect degree. Suffer

him to intreat, that you would effectually .resolve to yield to
religion its rightful place in your minds and your hearts : that
you would give the just proportion of your studies to the facts

and evidences of Christianity, its doctrines and duties, its

promises, its invitations, and its faithful warnings.
   " ( Glory                           Highest ;
              tGoooGdoWd iilnl.'  the             on Earth, Peace ;
among Men,
                                  "

   Such was the unabating interest felt in the Scrip, and Geoh,
that in little more than eight years four editions of the work
were published, consisting in the whole of six thousand copies.
To each of these editions the Author continued to annex illus
trative notes, so as to bring down the facts not merely of geolo
gical discovery, but those of several other sciences, to the latest
date.* Besides many notes at the foot of the page which the

   * Mr. Henry Bohn, the enterprising publisher, of York Streeti, Covent Gar
den, has lately issued a large edition of the work for his series, called the
JET. 65.]           ' SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.'                                             427

first edition did not contain, thefowrth had supplementary notes
at the end of the volume, reaching to nearly double the length
of those in the first. Thus while the Lectures were allowed to
remain almost entirely the same as when they were delivered,
the facts and principles unfolded in them were receiving con
stant accessions of evidence, illustration, and strength. Very
much was done by the learned Author to supply in this part of
the volume enough of geology to meet the wants and desires of

beginners in that science ;--and the best sources of instruction
were pointed out for further progress : yet the most valuable

purpose answered by the notes, was the opportunity which they
afforded for accumulating proofs from a great variety of quarters,
in support of those parts of the text which were thought by
many the most vulnerable. Edition after edition came out, the
one not a mere repetition of tne other ; but characterized by
the clearest tokens of an incessant vigilance and determination,

to sustain in all their integrity the original positions, which

were therefore never like intrenchments suffered to go to decay,
or which were merely kept up because they had once been
established ;-- rather j the repeated pains bestowed upon them

answered the double purpose, of showing that they were not
abandoned, and of rendering them more impregnable than ever.
 The author was not content with a mere repetition of the echo

of the printing office ; but as a living man who retained his con

victions, he was earnest in supporting them, and was always, ready
to do his best to commend them to the scrutiny and reception

 of others.

Scientific Liirary. To this is prefixed a " Short Sketch ofthe Literary Life of
                                                                    B.A., Minister ofthe
the Author, by the  RSehve.rbJoorhnne."HamMilrt.onDaDviaevsi,eisn,  common with myself,   Congre
gational Church at                                                                        had the
advantage of knowing Dr. Pye Smith as a Tutor at Homerton : and who could
know him at all intimately in that or in any other relation, and not speak of
him with veneration and gratitude as Mr. Davies has done? Should the

Reader notice any discrepancy between the two narratives in some matters of
fact, the Memoir will be found probably the more accurate of the two, in con

sequence of the possession of sources of information by the Editor not at the
command of the Author of the Sketch. Any apparent differences in estimating
the character of Dr. Smith -- as a man-- a Christian --a Pastor --a Tutor-- an

            must be ascribed in part to the materials for forming a judgment at
the command of each writer respectively ; and in part also to the varied sus

ceptibilities of impression, and method of using their knowledge, by which the
one is distinguished from the other. Portraits of the same person can scarcely
be in aurespects alike, if they are drawn-- though with great care-- by differ
ent hands. --Ed.
438  'SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.'     [1839.

     To estimate the character of the Scripture and ¦¦Geology as;
 a whole, the following suggestions may not be out of place.
                           it.
 After making full allowance for the coincidence between Dr,
                               a
 Smith's views and those of some other authors, on the difficulty
 of maintaing the common opinions respecting the Mosaic account
 of the Creation and the Deluge, there is in his work an amount

 of matter new in itself, or new in its grouping and evidences,
 which can scarcely fail to entitle it to rank high as an original
 contribution to that accumulating stock of knowledge of creative
 wisdom and power, which in proportion as it increases is ever

 disclosing more abundantly the truth, beauty, and fulness of
 the Divine word. He seems to have had no predecessor in his

 method of exploring and cultivating the field which lay open

 before him at the beginning of 1839. In this respect, his

 last great work differed widely from his first. The Scripture
 Testimony led him along a well-trodden popular path ; but in the
 Scripture arid Geology, he had to find his way very often alone,

 and by a track not a little intricate, and as many feared peril

 ous. Yet he was enabled to hold on his course with safety and
 decision, and with an issue which has in substance been undis
 turbed. Not less valuable were his principles for maintaining
 the authority of the Sacred narrative; for by preserving the
 text from every kind of injury, the comment is left to be judged
 of on its own merits. This is as it ever ought to be. Whatever,
therefore, may be thought ofthe sagacity or the courage, of the
new method of interpretation, the highest commendations are
due to the Author for the firmness which he showed, in-opposing

every scheme tending to unsettle men's minds respecting the
historic character and fidelity of the Mosaic records. To free

--if that were possible -- Science from the difficulties which it

had at one time to encounter from Bevelation, was an im
portant undertaking ; but of incomparably higher importance
was the duty of preserving Bevelation itself from the injury to

which it was liable, had it been dealt with in an irreverent or
an unskilful manner, in order to smooth the path of Science.

Yet, merely to assert the harmony of the two, or to urge as an
article of faith, would not have been enough Dr. Smith has
proved the fact, and the consequence is, that Geology .fori years
past has been going on, not only without exciting any fear for the
authority of Scripture, but even accompanied by wide-spread
conviction, that Scripture less than ever assailable, or hkely
     is
JET. 65.]  'SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.'  429

to be assailed, through the medium of scientific discovery. In

this point of view, the worth of his labours cannot be too highly
prized. Such a piece of high service well became a man now
venerable for years and piety, who --like a Priest of an earlier
Dispensation-- could not have been more honourably employed

than in removing stumbling blocks from the threshold of the

Sacred Volume, by which admission into the interior has been

facilitated and made more attractive ever since.

   Nor is it unimportant to notice, that Dr. Smith's Christian

character and attainments tended to give a completeness to

his work, and a confidence in its results, which would otherwise

have been wanting. Not only had he often surveyed the whole
range of Biblical and Theological Literature, but his firm
attachment to the " truth as it is in Jesus " was unquestioned ;

so that he was fully competent to estimate the influence which
the new method of expounding the early portions of the Book
of Genesis might have upon the Bible generally, and on evan
gelical doctrines in particular. Had his piety been less intelli
gent, he might have stood tenaciously on the old methods of
exposition ; had it been less intense, he might have given up

these methods, and with them some of the doctrines which they

were supposed to enshrine : but he does neither, --the great

 guide Book, Heaven's own Bevelation to man, becomes his law,

equally in what he surrenders and what he retains ; and there
 fore he proceeds with as firm a step, and as true and Divine a
light, in the one case as in the other. The Christian will not be
 surprised at this ; but it must perhaps at times have perplexed

 those who are lovers of science, but are, unhappily, more or
 less averse from submitting to the authority of Bevelation. Yet
 his firmness on the one side, on that, namely, which had to be
 given up, was well adapted to be of service in inspiring confi
 dence in that which was retained. Such a careful explorer might
 justly be regarded as a safe guide by more parties and in more

 directions than one: --the key which he used at one time to open

 certain passages in the Book of Genesis to the disciples of
 Christ, might be used at another for the benefit of a class of
 men not a little disinclined to neglect the claims of the New

 Testament.

    The Scripture and Geology, beyond any of his other works,
 affords occasion for showing the constant predominance of the
 Christian element in Dr. Smith's character. His productions
430  LETTER TO CHARLES LYELL, ESQ., F.R.S.  [l839.

generally being on subjects entirely sacred, the devout spirit
by which they are marked was quite akin to their design ; but
here the field was wider, and the topics far more miscellaneous,
yet the same spirit is as warm and fresh and prevalent. Nor
does this arise from any visible effort to produce such an effect,

much less from any deliberate attempt to moralize or ser
monize. Beligion never comes in as dress, or drapery, or

decoration ; but it is ever present as life and love. The whole

book is instinct with this ; so that no Eeader can escape from

the subtil pervading essence. Surely this is the very best way
in which Beligion is to be sent out as the close companion and
ally of Science : -- the one with the other as a sort of perpetual
presence. And as plain Christian men on reading the work

must constantly realize the fact now mentioned, with such
an adjunct and an agencjr, Science would wear her best attrac
tions in their esteem, and possibly might achieve her highest
triumphs.

   In this respect particularly, the Volume cannot fail to be of

eminent service to very many of the humbler classes of Society.

Unlike its sister Science, Astronomy, which is nearly inaccessi
ble except to a few princely intellects ; unlike Chemistry, whose
delicate manipulations are almost sure to elude hands made for
the spade and the mattock; -- Geology can go with the humblest
labourer who delves in the earth for his daily bread, and while
it opens to him the wonders of an ancient world, he may now
learn how to regard these as in perfect harmony with the teach
ing of that Book --the Bible --which of all others deserves to
be the most precious and authoritative in his esteem. With
Dr. Smith's manual within reach, which is as truly scientific as
devout, scarcely a page can be read which will not enrich and
fertilize the intellect of those to whom good books are in that

sense a rarity ; while at the same time, the heart will be re
ceiving nutriment, as pure and salutary --to say the least -- as

that which is to be obtained from volumes exclusively devoted
to religion. With such a guide, therefore, or rather companion,

fellowship must be safe ; and it may be infinitely profitable : in

no case perhaps can it be other than agreeable and pleasant.

   At the risk of extending this chapter beyond the average

length, space must be found for inserting Letters, or parts
of Letters, written to or by Dr. Smith in relation to the Scrip-
ET. 65.] TESTIMONIES RESPECTING SCRIPT. AND GEOLOGY. 131

ture and Geology. He thus wrote to Charles Lyell, Esq.,

under date, Nov. 11, 1839 : -- " Dear Sir,--In requesting you

Ito do me the honour of accepting the accompanying book,

cannot but be desirous of precluding a suspicion, too likely to
Iarise, that

Ifthe public
  follow in            MthoesatircacGkeoolfogaiehse,'rdanwd htohehalivkee.  troubled
with their '                                                                       you
Ifavour me by reading what have brought forward, or even
dipping by the help of the Contents and Index into a few por

tions, you will find the course of argument to be quite different.

IThe results of philology and criticism are to my conviction

honest and unforced : at the same time cherish the hope that
they will set at rest some perplexities which have harassed

many excellent minds, and will liberate scientific investigation

fimromporatacnlats."s  of difficulties  which   every  one must   admit to be
                                        to the  same   gentleman   a few days
                        In a Letter
later, Dr. Smith says :-- " M.J views of the restricted locality of
the Adamic Creation and Deluge appear to me to be fully

in accordance with the phraseology of Scripture ; and they

liberate ScienicnesuapnedrabTlhee."ology from difficulties which seem to
be otherwise

   The number of copies which the Author gave away to public

libraries and among his friends was very considerable. In

several instances, he repeated these gifts to the same parties,

for the sake of placing the new matter, whether of facts or of

arguments, of the second and even of the third edition of the

work in their hands. Were all the Letters which he received

in reply to be printed, and those also which came to him from
purchasers of the work, either to make further inquiries or to

offer their comments and commendations, there would be

enough for a volume. The acknowledged competency and
celebrity of several of the Writers, especially upon those very

subjects to which their testimony applies, warrant our making

some use of these communications; --not, indeed, by way of

eulogizing Dr. Pye Smith, but rather with a view the more
fully to establish and recommend the great principles which he
was the first to elicit, and arrange, and defend, in so complete
a manner in the Congregational Lecture for 1839.
   Dr. Hitchcock, Professor of Chemistry and Geology, Am

herst College, Massachusetts, wrote thus :--

" Rev. and Dear Sir,-- It gave me great pleasure to receive a Letter from
43-3                                     TESTIMONIES RESPECTING                                          [l839.

Iyou, especially as it came to hand only n short time after having read your
invaluable Lectures on Scripture and Geology.                       had, indeed, long known

you as the theologian and philologist ; but never before as the accurate

geologist. And so rare is the combination, that it was very refreshing to
my spirit to meet with an author who thoroughly understood these three
Idepartments of learning.
IEurope : but                            have rarely felt any strong desire to visit
                         I have felt
Iyour book, if  confess                         a strong attraction thither                      itssinAcuethreoar.d"ing
                 might   hope for a            personal acquaintance with

  IIn a Letter addressed to Mr. Ebenezer Smith in April, 1852, Professor

Hitchcock, speaking of Dr. Smith, says, " have always regarded his work
on Geology and Religion as the best that has ever been published. The
spirit in which it is written is admirable, and the knowledge of the subject

Iquite surprising in a man of his habits. The high opinion had formed of
                                         abnydpaergsoennatllemacaqnuafirnotmanhceis.''works
his character as a  Christian                                                                and correspon
dence, was amply    sustained
                                               College, New Haven :--" In
of  From Professor       Silliman, of Yale                                                               behalf
                                               thank you, and I might well                               thank
    the College and for  Imyself, cordially

you on behalf both of the religious and the geological world, for the signal

service you have rendered to both. You are the first theologian who in that

Icharacter and with the avowal            of his name          has  garpepaetarseudbjecwt.i"th   all the
                                         discussion of        this                               From A
qualifications necessary for the
Physician : -- " have read it with rapturous delight, and thanked God that
Iyou have written it ; and may His Holy Spirit guide you into all truth to
the praise of the glory of His Great Name.                    can sympathize with you for
the unflinching position which you have taken ; but surely every lover of

science and of truth, every candid Christian, yea, the whole world will
sooner or later acknowledge their obligation to you for removing those
                                                                             many Christians."
      which have taken so firm a hold in the                  minds of so    and think all the
      Dr. Conybeare :-- " have read over                      your work,
Ierrors

From
Igeological

advances
             part   very clearly          and  abPlryofpeust,soarndPwheillllipgsot:--up"         to the  latest
            of the   science." --        From                                                      have  heard

from several of my geological friends opinions expressed regarding the
success of your generous effort in favour of a calumniated and misunderstood
Ibranch of Natural History, which it would have gratified you to hear,

though feel in your case that the comments of the world without can be
"Iof far less  importance than the satisfaction               yyoouurmuanydjeurstatlkyinfge.e"l
                world within, whicli prompted                                                    in your own
mind, that                                                                                           Somewhat
later:--       hope to get some respite in a few days, and will
               ftaoulytsouinagyaoiunr."                       if it be only                      then TRY to
find a few                                                    in reference
of writing                               most noble book,                    to have the pleasure
                                            Still later, and                 to the second edition
which was of duodecimo size, and lower in price than the first .--- " Most

I Ithankful am for the new form of your valuable work, and hope it will
mohafyvgemeotohlsoat gtgiswrtasidteeafuncldircthutahlanetkiospnuIbwbliechgichtdoeimtascaknondwo.n"wlemdFegrroeitmsthaeDndvr.etrhyeMraaecnqceutpiertaelblmle:e--npt"sreWbseoitnthht
of a new edition of your most valuable work. It is indeed the Dove sent
               Ark of modern             Geology, and it
               mouth." From              J. E. Bowman,
Iout from the

branch in its
                                                              has returned with                  the olive
                                                              Esq. :--" scarcely                  recollect
any book which gave me so much pleasure, as the perusal of yours on its
first appearance ; and this, not so much from the able and lucid manner in
JET. 65.J          THE ' SCRIPTURE AND GEOLOGY.'                                 433

which you have brought together and rendered intelligible to the general
Ireader, the discoveries of Geology, as from the beneficial influence was at
once aware it would have over a very large and important portion of the
religious world, who from education and honest though unfounded, pre
                                          if they were not directly opposed to
                   it

                       a
                                     a
                                                   it,

                                                             I
judices, were deterred from pursuing

it. Your book has acted as talisman in softening and disarming hostility,
and carrying conviction to the timid searcher after truth.
                                                                   had for years

before considered  most fortunate circumstance for Geology, that several

of its ablest champions were Clergymen of the Establishment, as otherwise
the attacks of its ignorant opponents would have had no bounds; and now
we hail in you an advocate, who in the boldest and ablest manner disarms
and stills opposition from another scarcely less numerous or influential body.
Nor are you less entitled to the thanks of the sincere searcher after religious

truth than to those of the Geologist, because              impossible that the Word
                                                it
                                                    is

                                                                      ;

                                                                                              is
and the Works   of the Great  Author can  be at variance   --the discrepancy
in ourselves."

   The next passage from Dr. Smith's former colleague at

Homerton, the Bev. Williarn Walford, and relates more par
ticularly to the philological branch of the argument that
being the one most in unison with Mr. Walford's tastes and
studies --
:                                                                             ;

                       is

" The course of my life has been such as to offer but few means or oppor
tunities for the acquirement of any extensive or exact acquaintance with
natural science yet have felt long and earnest desires for information on
                a:

                    I
some of the facts of that boundless expanse of knowledge and have in
                                                                   ;

particular been reader of geological speculations, more or less, for many

years. No conviction of my understanding has been more decisive than
that of the perfect harmony that obtains between theology and philosophy
                                                                                 ;

between the Works and the Word of the Blessed God.                     have passed
                                                                   ;I
through many severe conflicts in attempting to discover this harmony; I
none, however, very painful in relation to the apparent discrepancies
between geological theories and the records of Revelation as have never
been so fully assured of the correctness of any of these theories, as to give
occasion to anything more than slight and temporary oscillations of
judgment, while have had so settled belief of the truth of the Scriptures
I                                       it I a
  I

          I
as has soon restored the equilibrium.           have not,  it      true, ever been able

                                                               is

to satisfy myself with any interpretation of the first chapter of Genesis, to
which have gained access, though has long since appeared to me that
indefinite ages probably intervened between the event that stated in the
                                                                   is

first verse, and those which are told in the verses that follow.          a
   " am gratified at finding that you discard the groundless notion of the
                                                                              I
seven [sic] days that are assigned to the work of creation in the Mosaic
record, being used for long, and indefinite periods of time, as such notion
appears to me to be fatal to all just interpretation. The observations which
you make on the Scriptural usage of general and universal terms, must
think approve themselves to all who study the Sacred volume with any

tolerable attention and discrimination

                                                                       2  L-
434  TESTIMONIES RESPECTING SCRIPT. AND GEOLOGY. [1889.

I I" Upon the whole beg to acknowledge that derived much pleasure
Ifrom the perusal of your ingenious and elaborate volume, though am not
I Iprepared to say entirely acquiesce in all its conclusions.  greatly rejoice

in the accessions that are daily making to the stock of scientific attainment ;
and am of opinion that every endeavour to render such attainment auxiliary

Ito the removal of difficulties from the Holy Scriptures is worthy of the

highest praise, though imagine you will not escape entirely from the
paentdulbaingtotcrya.r"ping of ignorance, or the malevolent aspersions of prejudice

   The adaptation of the work to remove scepticism, and to
lead to the highest good of which man is capable, may be
judged of from the following passages of Letters addressed to
the Author. The first is from a member of the Society of
Friends :--

  II" trust thou wilt excuse the liberty take in thus obtruding myself on

Ithy notice. My object in doing so is, in the first place, to thank thee with

all the warmth of which am capable for having given to the public the
Congregational Lecture delivered last year by thee. So high is my estima

tion of the effects which are likely to result from this proceeding, that I

venture to suggest for thy consideration the desirableness of extending the
benefit of it still further, by allowing it to pass through a cheap pamphlet
edition. One great object of this would be, to bring it within the reach of
the mechanics of our larger towns, -- a class of men who are perhaps
peculiarly liable to imbibe the idea that, there are irreconcilable differences
between the discoveries of science and the revelations contained in the Holy
 Scriptures. Having myself passed through some mental conflict with regard
 to difficulties of this kind which arise in the prosecution of geological in

Iquiry, am anxious that all who are alike circumstanced should be put in

 possession of help such as the work in question seems to me to be calculated
 to afford."

   A professional gentleman, who. had been brought up a

Boman Catholic but who subsequently embraced Protestantism,

wrote thus to a friend, by whom the communication was

Iforwarded to Dr. Smith :-- " Of this work, can only say that
I never read the production of any human being that so much

astonished and delighted me. His grounds of exposition and

defence of the Mosaic Becord of the Creation, &c, were to

me new and unexpected. Not so the doubts raised by the

discoveries of modern geology. His work if generally read

is calculated to quiet many an uneasy mind, more especially
amongst those who are half Christian and half philosopher.

It will confirm and strengthen the former, and prove to the
JET. 65.]       PERMANENT VALUE OF THE WORK.            435

latter that -his greatest strength is but perfect weakness, and

tohfaitnthheisrephisilomsoorpehyin." the Mosaic Eecord than was ever dreamed

 IAnd thus another Letter closes :-- " have, my dear sir, felt
Imuch delicacy in laying this statement before you : but have
reason to bless God that ever you gave to the world your

Iwork on Geology. Truly ' He has led me by a way which
               Under God you have
knew       the kingdom of darkness     ibnetoenmtahrevemlloeuasnsligohft.c' a"lling
me ' from

A proof of the stability of Dr. Smith's argument, both in

the exegetical and scientific part, is found in the circumstance

that if between the publication of the first edition and the

fourth, anything had arisen fairly to disturb either branch of
inquiry, so well-placed and vigilant an observer as he was

could not have remained ignorant of it, nor would he have

omitted to state the results of his renewed investigation in

the later of the two editions. His love of truth, all his habits

as an Author, but especially the interest which he felt in this

matured production of his pen, must have brought him into

the field of discussion with any one who had on good or even

plausible grounds, impugned the validity of his positions as

laid down when these Lectures were first given to the public.

Nor will   it,  in conclusion, be going counter to the general

impression to say--that the uses which were at one time

made of geological discoveries (often with no little flippancy
and boldness) to disturb, or if possible to subvert, con
fidence in the Mosaic Writings, received      fatal check in
                                          a
                                                  ;
                                                                     a
that direction by the publication of this Work and not

check only, but very embarrassing defeat. For the Author'sa
argument did not stop at the point which some would have
deemed far enough for the simple defence of the integrity;
of the Scriptures -- went unexpectedly beyond, so as to
show that there was not single leading fact or principle ofa it

                                    a
which Geology was entitled to speak with certainty, which

could not find both shelter and sanction under the very
                                       a

words of that Book, which some vainly fancied the New Science

was to put down.

Can, then, the value of production be over-estimated, which,
                  a

by   working the readily-admitted phcenomena of Science into
close and compact union with the initial statements of the

                                              2f

                                                     2
436  PERMANENT VALUE OF THE WORK.        [l840-

Bible, has ever since formed a sort of breakwater, on the inner
side of which truths of the highest worth --like stately vessels
richly freighted --ride safely in a sure anchorage :--the storms

outside doing them no damage, nor even exciting any alarm ?

And, further ; such is the way in which this has been done,

that there is probably no fact, discovery, or position, to

be elicited in any future stage of the inquiry, that is not

in substance, if not in form, provided for by Dr. Pye Smith's

method of explaining the Mosaic writings ; so that not only
as a matter of faith, but of evidence, Scripture is seen to have
nothing whatever to fear from the progress of Geology. Nor
does the value of the book end here. -- The principle thus

established is as boundless in the extent of its application

as it is unfading in the duration of its influence : for the

proofs and inferences which are fairly deduced respecting the

harmony between the Word of GOD and any one department
of HIS Works, may be transferred by a generalization equally

obvious and trustworthy to all the rest ; for all are in the

same domain ; and all bear the impress of wisdom, power,

and beneficence, such as no forgery can imitate, nor any
arm less than that of the Infinite One produce :--" for of
allHim, and through Him, and to Him are
be glory for ever and ever. Amen."       things, to whom
CHAPTEB XXIV.

admission to the royal society --LETTER of acknowledgment to
    seventy friends-- second letter of explanation and inquiry
    --superintends classical studies at the college --letter to a
    wesleyan. minister--letter to dr. 0lintiius gregory-- attends
    british association at glasgow --letter to his daughter--¦
    letter to dr. wardlaw -- letter to professor phillips, f.r.s. --
    publications --letter to his son --attends british association
     at plymouth -- his consistent nonconformity -- general election
     --anti-corn-law conference -- his address at the conference --
     petition to parliament -- his motives in seeking the repeal of
     the corn laws-- on the repeal of those laws-- on the sab

     bath question -- eclectic review : dr. lant carpenter's sermons

     --lecture before the baptist missionary society.

Scarcely had the Congregational Lecture for 1839 left

the press, when steps were taken to place the Author among
the Fellows of the Eoyal Society. This being a distinction

rarely enjoyed by any of the members of the Denomination to

which Dr. Smith belonged, it may not be devoid of interest
nor even of utility, to give from a paper which he prepared for

the information of his immediate friends, an account of the

customary forms adopted on such an occasion.
"John Pye Smith, D.D., Divinity Tutor in the Protestant
Dissenting College, Homerton, Minister of the Old Gravel Pit
Meeting, at Homerton, Middlesex :-- the Author of a Work
                                                       Holy Scriptures and          parts
o' Of nGtehoeloEgeiclaatlioSnciebnectew,e' enandtheof   various Philological  some  other
                                                                               and

works;-- -who is much attached to Science, and anxious to

promote its success ; -- being desirous of admission into the

Boyal Society of London, we, the undersigned, propose and
recommend him as deserving that honour, and as likely to
438        A LETTER TO SEVENTY FRIENDS.                           [l.SlO.

PtboueefrcresoNsom,onveaeolmnaeKbuneso"re,wFfulr1elo8dm3ag9ne.d"."Gvea(nlTAuehamrabisollenigsKmnfeotohmlwleoblweeldrea.gdttee,b"rDyaotttcwhecdeourltoihstthtihsseero2n0af"tmhsFeigrsodnmaaoyf
John Edward Gray, James Yates, Thomas Bell, Charles Lyell,
William Buckland, A. Sedgwick.) " Bead to the Society on
the 21st day of November, 1839. To be balloted for on the
23rd day of January, 1810."

   On the 21th of the latter month, the Secretary addressed a
Letter to Dr. Smith, to apprize him that he had been elected a

Fellow ; and also to let him know that his attendance would

be expected at one of the four ensuing weekly meetings, to
complete the arrangements. When he appeared for the first
time in his place, he was recognized as a member in the follow

Iing form of words, spoken, it may be presumed, by the Presi

dent : --" do, by the Authority and in the name of the Eoyal
Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge, admit
you a Fellow thereof." The admission fee being paid, and

his name enrolled, he was from that time entitled to attend at
the Society's Booms as often as might suit his convenience.

   The following Letter is too closely related to the foregoing
circumstances, to be omitted or delayed :--

                              "Homerton ; Monday, March 2, 1840.
                              evening received a writing of the most
I" My
     dear  Sir,-- On  Friday

unexpected and surprising kind; an Address by yourself and other Gentle
men, in number Seventy, and inclosing Seventy Pounds, presented as aii
expression of generous kindness, and designed to meet the expense attendant
Iupon my having been honoured by admission into the Royal Society.

Highly as am favoured by this munificent boon, the announcement of it
is still more valuable and affecting on account of the number and qvalily
of the names attached to it.
                                                           feel.  This is
  I I" am unable to give utterance to the gratitude which
Ione of the most extraordinary favours from the Divine hand that have ever

been conferred upon me, though have been the subject of many and
remarkable mercies all my life long, the review of which is humiliating and
awakening in a high degree.

  I" It is impossible for me to make the acknowledgment of justice and

gratitude severally to each of the Gentlemen to whom am thus indebted,
but knowing so well your affectionate and unwearied friendliness, not only

Iin this instance, but in the nobler ' works of faith and labours of love' per

formed to the glory of our divine Eedeemer, take the liberty of addressing
this Letter to you, and request your additional kindness in communicating
it to the other Gentlemen, in such way as you may judge convenient. ' The
JET. 66.]  LETTER OF EXPLANATION AND INQUIRY.              439

design proposed by yourself and your respected associates, is not to minister

Ito my pride, or love of money, or glorying in men even the most excellent ;

but it is to admonish, quicken, and encourage in all that can do for HIS
Name to whom it is our happiness to feel ourselves under obligations which

Ieven a holy immortality' will not suffice to discharge. Blessed and happy

indeed shall be, if this end be answered in any good measure, through
           lgifleo,ryi.n'               to the service of ' our Lord Jesus
Ithe remainder of my                    entreat the greater favour of your

Christ, the Lord of
                           devotedness

                             For this

prayers, while it is my own heart's desire that the best of blessings may be
poured out upon you and your friends, in possessing the fulfilled promises

Iof godliness, for ' the life that now is and that which is to come.'

  " am, my dear Sir, your obliged and affectionate friend, J. Pye Smith.
  "To Mr. Hale,
" And through him to Mr. Alers Hankey,  Mr.  Rutt," &c. &c. &c, the

whole of the seventy names being given in the Letter.

    To prevent misconception, it is necessary to say that the
·generous kindness shown on this occasion to Dr. Smith, did

 not arise from any straitness in his circumstances, much less
 from any reluctance on his part to pay the customary fees.
 He was fully able, and quite as prompt as he was able, to do
 all that the case required. But, in truth, the several contribu
 tors desired to express in this manner, their sense of the

 honour which the veteran Nonconformist Pastor had achieved
for the Body as well as for himself. And that the act might
have this significance, the sum was not raised by a few persons,
but by many, each one of whom gave a similar amount ; and
still further to mark the catholicity of the interest, several of
the contributors did not belong to the Congregational Denomi

 nation.

   The preceding Letter renders it necessary to subjoin the
following ; written on the evening of the same day, and also
to Mr. Hale :--

  I" My dear Sir, -- There is a circumstance upon which feel it necessary

to have instruction from you, and any of the other Gentlemen who will

favour me by giving it.
  I" The Admission Fee into the Royal Society is Ten Pounds. This, of

pcPSoroiuxuudtrnysedens,Pt, omutonopddbaseei.dpoafCuipdporonoenccveeeeirvbdyienini2gng5g,tthhiteaoltewfcaatMetsdam.mrycyhaTig;hneetoertnhAtienionnnalniuentauoul aoalSfcputiabtysacmcarciepocnrtoidtominnispg- oltyhsis.ietiomFnBoouuroertf
Iyou and your generous associates have put me into possession of the whole
Seventy Pounds. It appears   to me,   therefore, that      am bound in honour
                                                       do  not like to act solely
to pay the Composition, the  Sixty   Pounds. But I
440 SUPERINTENDS CLASSICAL STUDIES AT THE COLLEGE. [lR40.

Iupon the impulse of my own mind, and therefore solicit the favour of

opinions from as many of my friends as may choose to give an opinion
upon this question, before the 19th of March.
                                               I" remain,'' &c. &c.

   While this Letter illustrates the conscientiousness of the
Writer, the Contributors did not deem it expedient to interfere
with his method of sustaining his place as an F.E.S. Left to
himself, therefore, Dr. Smith expended considerably more than
two-thirds of the Sixty Pounds in the purchase of a valuable
microscope, to be used by him, as he hoped, in extending his
knowledge of the Creator's works in a direction comparatively
unexplored by him hitherto for want of such an instrument ;
and the yearly payment to the Eoyal Society which he kept up
to the last, absorbed more than the residue of the sum raised

by his generous friends.

   In September, 1839, the Bev. D. G. Bishop expressed his

purpose to resign his office as Classical Tutor at Homerton,
which the Committee deemed it right to accept without delay.
Arrangements for a successor to Mr. Bishop were not com
pleted until April, 1810, when the Eev. Henry Lea Berry,
M.A., entered upon the vacant post. During the interval, Dr.
Smith superintended the Classical pursuits of the Students,
which often required his attendance at the College in the
afternoon ; the morning being principally devoted to the
duties of his own department as Theological Tutor. And
still further to uphold the usual routine of the Academic
family, he sought to be present at morning and evening
prayers; although this could not be done without consider
able personal inconvenience and perhaps some risk, in going
from his own house to the College. The following passage
from his College Diary, under date Lord's-day, January 5,
 1840, connects his earliest practice as a Tutor with his newly-
resumed functions :-- " This evening, in family academical wor

Iship, redd Psalm ci., with select observations from Henry,
Iusing the Library volume, as did on the evening of January

 5, 1801, the first time of solemnizing family worship in the

cap"aWcitiythofwhheaatdasotfonaisfhaimngilyg.race hath the LOBD helped thus

 far !"
JET. 66.]  LETTER TO A WESLEYAN MINISTER.                               441

  The Bev. J. T. Morley, a Wesleyan Minister, having applied

to Dr. Smith for his opinion respecting the merits of certain
authors, and for his advice on mental culture generally, the

following is part of a Letter which he wrote in reply :--

  " Dear Sir, --Your being a stranger is no obstruction to the exercise of

IChristian affection. No apology is requisite on your part. On my own,

I can only regret that never-ceasing, and may truly say overwhelming

duties have kept me so long from replying to your interesting Letter; and that

Inow the same class of hinderances incapacitates me from doing it justice.
Had I the requisite time, should think it superfluous and presumptuous, to

give my recommendation of those eminent authors and faithful servants of
Christ whom you mention. To read, with frequent pausing for recollec
tion, judging, and imprinting upon the mind and heart, the writings of

Ithem all (at least those on experimental and practical subjects), should

esteem a great privilege and most valuable exercise. Permit a few abrupt

hints, chiefly on their defects ; understanding their excellencies to be

admitted. The grandeur, comprehensiveness, and searching character of
Howe are greatly obscured and their impression weakened, by his involved

and often tedious style. My own cavil against the amiable and fine
thinker, Robert Hall, is the perpetual ellipsis of the relative pronoun and

the conjunction that. Such omission is proper enough for the colloquial
style, but it disparages written composition of a. grave character. Often it

Ibreaks and deforms Hall's natural euphony. With this exception,

should make him my model of style. In beauty of conception, lucidness of
order, and propriety of language, he seems to me to be the best English

Iwriter that now recollect ; at least, to be among the first. Foster's

diction seems to be somesvhat oppressed by the weight and abundance of

Ihis thoughts,--thoughts so original, so important ! Him and Hall would

adviso to be your chief books of reading for a time. Afterwards, avenues
of thoughts and topics would open for other works as profitable to

Isucceed. . . .                  would earnestly advise a diligent perusal
   " For disciplining the mind,
of Archbishop Whately's Rhetoric, then his Logic; and generally, so far

Ias know, his other writings, especially his later works. Add some
thing from your own mind of evangelical savour ; yet of that he has a more
happy measure than one might expect. About twenty years ago, Mr.
I IJacques, of the Wesleyan Society, published a good small book on the
cultivation and improvement of the mind.   am sorry that cannot find

it. In the Congregational Magazine for this month is a valuable Letter,
Isigned R. R., which contains excellent suggestions. But hope you will
Ienjoy the

recommend
           advantages of the College established by    your Body.       also
             Isaac Taylor's Self-Cultivation, --Isaac  Taylor, Jun.'s,
                                                                        Ele

ments of Thought, Carter's (of Colchester) Lectures on Taste. . . . Com
prehensively useful, Burder's Mental Discipline. Any of these works
supersedes particular advices. Two things only permit me to mention, the

results of my own experience, temptations, and trials, as primary objects

of perpetual effort ;--controlling and directing the train of thought which
flows through the mind, and to cherish the habit of ejaculatory prayer in

all our doings, and through all our time.
412                             LETTER TO HIS DAUGHTER.                           [l840.

" Grace, mercy, and peace be multiplied unto you for holiness and
                                                             Again, pardon my long delay. I
uasmef,u"ln&ecs.s    extensive  and           enduring!
                   &c.

   In reply to a Letter from Dr: Olinthus Gregory, which

accompanied a copy of a work then recently published by

that Author, Dr. Smith thus wrote :--

I" My dear Sir, -- Last night                                                      " June 27, 1840.
Im' Hoirnetst,h' anelucidcaatningexptrheses,          was favoured in a manner which affects me

                                                with    a  presentation copy of your new work,
                                                           Teaching and acquiring Mathematical
                                              mode    of

Knowledge ; and the generous note accompanying it. That you have
thought it not improper thus to honour me, is a matter of especial gratitude
Ito the Sovereign of hearts. It is He that has disposed you to such a kind
feeling.           know myself to be utterly unworthy of it. Any use which it

has pleased the Lord to make of me does indeed awaken surprise, for it is

Ia most convincing instance of the power of infinite GRACE. Had been

IIgiven over, as deserved to be, to "the guidance of my own heart, should
Ihave been not merely a useless, but a pernicious creature. Now have
passed the first half of the fortieth year of my tutorship in the old Academy

of this place ; and excepting the admonitory affliction of my deafness, I
enjoy a physical vigour and elasticity which almost surprises me ; but how

Imuch more abased and grieved should be at my spiritual insensibility !

IPray for me, my dear brother in the Lord; -- attempt to do for you.
O that you and your excellent Lady may experience, most fully and richly,
Hthiamt ."the Lord keeps them in perfect peace whose minds are stayed upon

   In September Dr. Smith went to Glasgow, to attend the

annual meeting of the British Association for the Advance

ment of Science. He left Homerton on the 16th, and went hy
way of Liverpool. The following Letters relate to this visit ;
the first was written in pencil : --

                                              " On board a Steam Vessel, returning from

                                              a Cold dinner at the Duke of Hamilton's, an

                                              old grotesque mansion in the I. of Arran;
ip.4;" My dear
                   Ruth,--There                   Saturday,  last      Sept. 19,  1840.
                                              was no post
                                                                   night ; and    had there been, I
Ithink could not have written, or at most only a line. Most wonderful

mercies have attended me at every step. Mr. S. Blackburn and the groom
met me ; and all showed me great kindness. Mrs. B. wept bitterly ; and
Mr. B.'s tears always           gush out at
the sad ideas.* The             Steam Ship            the   recm-rence, which is  very frequent,   of
                                                      left  Liverpool nominally   at 2° really at
                                                                                                   3°

   * The estimable family here mentioned had suffered a most distressing
bereavement in the death of two sons, at the respective ages of twenty-seven
JET. 66.]                LETTER TO DR. WARDLAW.                               443

Ion Thursday afternoon. Rough for some hours. About midnight, the
weather    became tranquil. When         went on deck on Friday (yesterday)
morning,   the sight was most striking.    Take the Atlas out of your Canter

bury. We were between Ayrshire (I think) and the I. of Arran : and then
all the way to Glasgow was most delightful. Arrived at 3 p.m. Mr. Mac

ILehose was waiting to meet me at Greenock. The Lady whose guest am,
and two young Ladies her daughters, make me ashamed by their assiduous
kindnesses. The first thing was to see Mr. Ewing. Then the Association

I Itook me up till near eleven, and believe it was after twelve before could
get to bed, and then had very little sleep. The Excursion to Arran was

fixed for to-day. Only a select number were furnished with tickets. The

Marquis of Northampton, learning my disappointment, most kindly re
linquished his right for me. Soon after five this morning, Mrs. H. had me

called. Miss H. made tea for me, and both the Sisters accompanied me to

the Railway Station. Thence the Geologists (about 100) under the
command of Mr. Murchison, were steamed away to Ardrossan. There we
breakfasted, of course at our own expense. Then embarked in the I. of

Arran Steam vessel. She passed along the E. of the Island. My copy of

Messrs. Sedgwick and Murchison's Section was most opportunely useful,

in company with two of the original, one his and the other mine. He stood
                place, and lectured upon  the geological
on an elevated  the real original before    our eyes.         Mfoyrmpartiivoantsi,onw"it--h  the
Sections and                                                                                 [his
Ideafness] -- "was not small: but God forbid that should be dissatisfied.
IEverybody else was evidently delighted ; and am sure they all had good
Ireason. The Duke was not there. The oddest thing -- suppose it is a
custom for the guests to take away something --when we had got in front
Iof the house, Dr. Buckland laughed and showed something in his hammer-
bag, -- a pie, perhaps venison.*  saw other gentlemen also had got some

thing in their bags or pockets.

 I I" have fears this may be too late for the post. Yet hope not. You
I Iand my other dears must pardon my abruptness.
                                                              fear cannot write
Iagain till the latter part of the week opening to-morrow.
                                                                         am to preach

for Mr. Russell (son of Dr. R. of Dundee) in the afternoon, and for Mr.
Ewing in the evening. Charming and holy man ! But now, not able ; and
they have no successor, greatly to the hurt of the congregation. Dr.
I IWardlaw wrote me a, note for the afternoon.
                                                      was glad that was
Iengaged before leaving home, for am not competent for such a congrega

tion as his. . . .
   " My best love, kind regards, &c. &c. according to the respective pro

prieties of persons.              Ever and affectionately yours, J. P. S."
   " The Lord richly bless you.

  In a Letter to Dr. Wardlaw, dated March 30, 1841, Dr.
Smith thus refers to other incidents of his visit to Scotland in
September, 1840 :--

and twenty-one, who sailed from Rio Janeiro for New York on their way to
                Louisiana, which appears to have been lost with all on board.
IEngland, in the         calamity, see the Liverpool          of  J"uly       1840.-- Ed.
                          said, ' Is this an organic   Times  ?'         12,
For an account                                        remain
                of this

                  *"
Ill LETTER TO HIS SON.                                [l841.

I be" my respectful regards and condolence to Mrs. and Miss Wardlaw,
Iand to your sons.  can never forget their and your kindness to me in my

forlorn state at Ardrossan. Miss Wardlaw may be pleased to hear that the
beautiful shell, of which single valves were so plentiful upon the sands, is
of Mactra subtruncata : and that the two Radiated Zoophytes which the
ladies found me carrying off, (having never before seen one, though Mr. J.
S. Wardlaw tells me that they are abundant on your coast,) are of the
Ifamily Acalepha (from their stinging property), genus Medusa, but of which

the species are so numerous that venture not to assign the name. AVhat
trifles ! But in these objects and their correlates, arc overwhelming displays
of Gol:-- O, to make them subordinate to the views of His spiritual glory!

Ii Cowper had been imbued but a little with a taste for natural know
ledge, he would not have written in so depreciating a strain of it. His
                                            powerful
argument would have been incomparably more            had its flow been
in the opposite direction."

   Early in 1840, a new edition of the Scripture and Geology
was called for. As compared with the first, this was improved
by a large addition to the supplementary notes. The following
passage from a Letter written by the Author to Professor John
Phillips, will be read with interest in this connection :--

                                            " Homerton, March, 1840.
" My dear Sir, -- . . . It is to me a gratification of peculiar value, to
Ienjoy your approbation of my Congregational Lecture. For so kind an
expression of it,   beg leave to return my best thanks: and for your

generous offer of communicating observations for the improvement of a
Isecond edition.   am not without hope of being encouraged to venture on
Ia republication; but must quietly wait. None of the great periodicals
I Ihave as yet, so far as know, noticed the book. However, mean without
delay to set about a close revision and every effort in my power to improve.
If I. . .
then you can favour me soon with your animadversions, shall
be deeply obliged. Let me beg you to expend none of your precious time
in writing full sentences. Hints, expressed in the most abbreviated forms,

I Itrust shall readily understand. My great concern is to be sure of FACTS,

I Iand to be corrected where am in error. These must take chiefly upon

I Itestimony ; for it is evidently impossible for me to be a practical geologist.
  need not say with what security rely upon your testimony."

    Dr. Smith contributed to the Eclectic Review for December,
an article on Dr. William Turton's Conchology.

    The next, passage, which is from a Letter to his Son at
Sheffield, will show, that notwithstanding the tendency of age
to blunt the sensibilities, the Homerton Tutor continued to
feel the claims of the College quite as vividly as he had done
2ET. 67.]   HIS CONSISTENT NONCONFORMITY.                                                        415

in earlier years. Nor was he less on the alert respecting
geological discovery :--

                                                              "Homerton, March 5, 1841.

" My dear Son, -- It is hard for a father to be under so heavy a pressure

as hardly to be able to write a few lines to his far-distant child. But alas !

Ithis is my case. Our recess is from the day called Good Friday to the
Wednesday following.      am sure our worthy and kind Committee would
very generously assent to my taking some days more; but my sense of
obligation will not allow me to desire it. Inevitable interruptions are often

occurring, from ordinations, bodily indisposition, and a vast variety of other
causes. My infirmity is also such an element qf deduction from the general

amount of my usefulness, as most strongly to bind me to compensate, so far
Ias by any means can, for the deficiency ; and the chief means are con
Istancy, punctuality, and assiduity.  therefore propose to leave town on
Wednesday night, April 8 ; get to Manchester the following morning, in

order to go six miles on the Bolton railway to see some fossilized tree-stumps

which have been uncovered, and Mr. Hawkshaw has generously inclosed and
                                                                                                 Then I
protected them, so that   btyhetyhemfairystbaensdeerneaidnietshtecironnvaetyivaences.i"tuation.
hope to get to Sheffield

   This visit appears to have been deferred to the following
month ; and in July, when the College vacation left the Tutor

free from every-day claims, he went again to Sheffield. To

wards the close of that month and at the beginning of August,

he was at Plymouth attending the Meeting of the British
Association. On August 1st he occupied the pulpit in the

morning at the Eev. George Smith's, and in the evening at the

Wesleyan Chapel, in that town. It is observable of him, that

when he was from home on the Lord's-day he rarely failed to
preach once, often twice, unless he was prevented by indisposi

tion. And on his visits to places where he came into daily

contact with the great leaders in the scientific world, he was
to be found worshipping, or conducting the worship, " among
his own people " on the Sabbath ; without the least attempt to

conceal for the time his Protestant Nonconformity, either by

attending an Episcopal Church, or by carefully keeping out of
the pulpit of the Dissenting Chapel. His conduct on these
occasions was firm without being obtrusive, and because it was
true to his well-known profession, it could scarcely fail to en
hance the general estimate of his character. Nor is it too
much to suppose, that if instances of the kind were as
numerous as they ought to be, the conscientious Church
                           to understand better, and then to
man would   soon come     principles of the conscientious Dis-
value more  highly, the
416                            ANTI-CORN-LAW CONFERENCE.                   [l841.

senter. --We are so constituted that consistency, in everything

but crime, is sure to command respect.

The General Election which occurred in July this year,
proved scarcely less exciting than the one in 1837. Besides
the usual struggles of party on political grounds, the progress
of agitation for the repeal of the tax on corn, evidently showed

that an important social conflict was approaching ; and with a

view of influencing the result, on one side or the other, many
were drawn or forced into the field, and the public mind
became impassioned, greatly beyond what would have been

the case had this vital element been wanting. It was not

to be expected that Dr. Smith should shrink from what he

Iregarded as his duty at such a crisis. In a note written to the

Eev. A. C. Wright, he says :-- " have two votes to give here,
and three in the North* The matter at stake is not a party-
affair; but it is the great cause of light and peace, truth,

honesty, well-regulated liberty, the temporal salvation of our

coof utnhteryG, oasnpdel.t"he  great increase of advantages for the spread
                               Hence, when the Country was called upon to

give its verdict on the Free Trade question, the Note intimates

that every other claim must be either set aside or modified, so

as to allow of his discharging to the utmost of his ability his

trust as an Elector. Yet, as we learn from a communication

intended for his Eelations at Leeds, he was always alive to the
only sound principles on which the suffrage can be based : --
I" Entreat them never to lose sight of the grand object, moral
qualifications for the franchise.  do not mean to exclude

Iall who are not religious. That guarantee is absurd, and it
wrought fearfully in New England.  adhere to the admirable

Letter ;-- as much as          possible to put the      franchise into  "  hands
that will exercise it '        freely, intelligently,  and honestly.''

   The most memorable public incident which occurred in Dr.
Smith's life during 1841, was the part he took in promoting
the Eepeal of the Corn Laws : he was one of the six hundred
and twenty Ministers whose names are recorded as having
been present at the Anti- Corn-Law Conference held at Man
chester in the month of August this year. His distance from
the place of meeting, his advanced age, deafness which pre-

       * ' The Middlesex and Staffordshire votes ' were 'upon Trusteeships.',
JET. 67.J  ADDRESS AT THE CONFERENCE.             447

vented his taking a part in the deliberations of the Assembly,
and a voice not sufficiently powerful to give him full efficiency
as a speaker --to which may be added an increasing tendency
to shrink from new and large gatherings of people whose pro

ceedings he could not fully catch and fall in with at the
moment --might have been urged as so many capital apologies

for absenting himself from the Conference. And soon after
the proposal came under his notice, he did give such consider

ation to one or more of these difficulties as led him to decline

the thought of attending ; but with the approach of the time,
the magnitude of the interests involved in the subject appeared

more and more impressive ; until at length he was constrained

to reverse his first determination, and to resolve on going.

Li this, as in many other cases, the sense of duty under which

he ultimately acted, was not matured, until he had carefully

gone from one point to another, in looking at the several
bearings of the question ; and it happened with him as with

persons of a similar temperament generally, that the decision

in which he finally rested, was not the less firmly held in con

sequence of his having arrived at it after he had examined

other positions, and even deemed them tenable according to
the light which he had at the time. Hence, a few clays before

I-the Conference began, Dr. Smith thus wrote to Sheffield :--

"My dear Son, --In nry note from Plymouth, could not from

want of time mention my intention and promise to go to

IManchester. To my conviction, it is an imperative duty, of
very high obligation.  would sell my books even most highly

prized, or undergo any other supportable self-denial, rather

Ithan be wanting to God and my country at this crisis. This
                                                disqualifi
                                       great
                                       God,'    if were
say under the humiliating consciousness of my

I Ication : but how could ' lift up my face unto
Inot to ' do what can ? ' "
True to his purpose, he was present at the opening of the

Conference on the 17th of August, and from his inability to
take a part in the discussions which might arise during the

sittings of the Assembly, he was allowed soon after the com

mencement to read an Address which he had prepared for
the occasion. This was subsequently printed in the Morning

Chronicle and in other papers. It contains an able defence of

the principles which had called so great a number of ministers

together, and explains in clear and admirable language the
448 ADDRESS AT THE CONFERENCE.                                              [l841.

true character and design of the meeting ; we may, accordingly,

show from his own words what were his views and motives,
in taking a prominent part in a proceeding which in many
quarters exposed him to misapprehension and censure. The
following passages are quoted from the report in the Patriot of

August 19 :--

I" feel myself deeply obliged to those Christian ministers and other
Ifriends to their country and to mankind, who devised and have convened
this meeting.  am sure also, that my brethren who have come from their
homes, and intermitted their sacred labours upon this occasion of solemn
and imperative demand, will unite with me in acknowledging the ready
hospitality with which so large a number of honourable families have wel
comed us. We have come together in no capacity, assumed or implied,
expressed or imagined, of authority. We are not a conclave, nor a synod,
nor a convocation. We disclaim any pretensions of a right to make laws
or regulations, or any desire to bind the consciences of our fellow- Christians,
or to command their practice. We disclaim and abhor everything that

might savour of disaffection to our beloved Sovereign, and the'eonstituted

Authorities of her realm, or of dictating measures to the Legislature, or of

fomenting discontent, or exciting to turbulence. We want to soothe, not to
irritate ; we long, and seek, and pray to do good, and not evil-- to promote

harmony and beneficence, to invade no man's interest, to diminish no man's
happiness, to ' follow the things which make for peace, and things where
with one may edify another.'

   " Wc have not assembled at the summons of any human authority. We
are not here to do any man's bidding. Wc are not come to say with our
tongues, or subscribe with our hands, any declarations or opinions with
which our hearts do not accord. Our gathering together is the unforced

act of each man's own will; and so far from regarding this individual

freeness of action as a circumstance to be regretted, we see in it an element

of strength and success. We may apply to it with eminent reason the
noble declarations of one of the most distinguished philosophers of our own

or any other country, Professor Whewell, in his Presidential Address to the

British Association, delivered not three weeks ago at Dcvonport, July 29th.
                              by voluntary association, ' to elevate and improve
Speaking   of  mefafonr,t's  he recommended such efforts as ' of that use which if  the
condition  of                                                                       we

disregard, the condition of man forthwith becomes degraded, and his pros

pects a blank ; of use in raising our thoughts and stimulating our exertions,
                                                                            nobler than we are.' ' Is this
so that  dwoectrminaey?'b--ecoamskeedwtisheer,Praonfdesbseotrt--er,'Gaondd  be thanked',--he replied -- 'in
a new

this country at least it has long been familiar to men's minds, has been

practically acted upon, and has been attended with the most blessed and
glorious effects. Do we despair of great and good objects because we live

in a state of society where men act each for himself, unforced by supreme
power ? Feeling that we are free, and that it is our glorious privilege to
act as freemen, we attempt to realize our ideas, not by the power of the

State, but by that power, which in such a State, and on such subjects,
represents the conviction of the nation --the power of voluntary association.'
JET. 67.]              ADDRESS AT THE CONFERENCE.                                                          449

" We are come together as ministers and teachers of the Christian religion

However diversely we may understand that religion, with respect to many
and those important points of theological doctrine and ecclesiastical order,
                                --methrcayt ,'trausewreellligaison'
in    this we are all  agreed                                         requires of us,  and of all men,
       do justly and   to love                                       to walk humbly    with our God ; '
' to

we are all convinced that religion, virtue, and morality, cannot be separated

from each other. We are drawn to this populous town, one of the most
important in her Majesty's dominions, one of the most vital and sensitive
parts of the body politic, because we have heard ' the voice of the cry of '
our country--lamentation and bitter weeping ;-- ' the harvest is past, the
summer is ended, and we are not saved ! ' The cry of distress has pierced

our souls. The woes of thousands and hundreds of thousands have de

manded our sympathy. The fear of still greater evils has filled us with

intense anxiety. We come to give vent to our fellow-feeling with the

destitute and the sorrowful, and those that have no comforter. We come to

raise a protest and a prayer on their behalf ; and not more on their behalf
as a class of men, than on behalf of the rich and great : for we are convinced

that all the orders of society, however immeasurably diversified, have one
common bond of interest, ; and that it is folly as well as injustice for any
class to attempt to raise itself upon the depression, or in any wise to the

injury of any other. But while we disavow unfounded assumptions, we

advance indeed a claim, but of a very different kind ; we elevate another
           authority --
kind of     Lord who     tlhoevecthlaimrighotef oruesansoenss,'anadndlowveho;setheseravuatnhtosriwtye  of ' the
righteous                                                                                              are, not

for our own aggrandizement, but for the universal good of mankind. We are

discharging an important and a necessary part of our function as men con
secrated to the teaching- of religion, when we explain and enforce its nature

and its obligations as demanding universal righteousness. We take our
stand upon the foundation of both the Law and the Gospel ; and we desire
to impress every soul of man with the indispensable obligation of honestly
obeying the Divine commands ;--' That which is altogether just thou shalt

follow -- ' All things, whatsoever ye would that men should do to you,
do ye even so to them :'-- ' Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things

are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever are pure, whatsoever are
lovely, whatsoever are of good report ; if there be any virtue, and if there
be any praise, think on these things ;'--so think on them, as the undeniable
                                                upon them, understand them                             in  their
meaning of the passage is,      as to  reason   and practise them faithfully.
full comprehension, apply       them   fairly,
" But we are impressed with the conviction, that this great law of righte
ousness is contradicted and violated, and rebellion is thus perpetrated against
the majesty of Heaven, by doctrines and practices which for many centuries
have been current among nations civilized, or professing to. be so, with
regard to trade; that is, the interchange of commodities, the products of
skill and industry, between the different families and tribes of mankind.
                aonfdosuuriccioduanl trleygihsalavteiona."deplorable  pre-eminence     in  this
The corn-laws                                                                                              class
of unrighteous

   This is followed by a brief account of the history of those
restrictions on Commerce, of which the tax on foreign corn
formed the most unpopular branch ; and the inexpediency, the

                                                                                                     2G
450                       PETITION TO PARLIAMENT                                                                  [l841.

injustice, and the danger of such a tax are pointed out. The
conduct of Dr. Smith and his fellow-labourers, in seeking to
promote a repeal of the tax, is defended against the charge
of its unsuitableness to their office as Christian Ministers :--

    " What are politics but the knowledge and practice of the claims of right,

and the obligations of duty which belong to men as members of society?
Is not this knowledge and practice an essential part of morality? As
teachers of religion, therefore, we are bound to be teachers of politics, and

to guard the important subject against errors and abuses. Our object is to
teach the politics which flow from piety -- the politics of equitable benevo
lence, the politics of the Gospel, the politics of Jesus Christ our Saviour and

Lord. We are deeply concerned that we, and those to whom we minister,
should ' render to all their due :'-- ' putting to silence the ignorance of foolish
men ;'-- ' as free, and not using our liberty for a cloak of malioiousness, but
as the servants of God.' We are most earnest to guard all persons to the

utmost of our power, against sedition, treason, rebellion, in any manner of
degree, approach, or tendenc3r. Be it also considered, that while the people
have their duties, they have also their claims, just and honourable claims ;
and that, if these be neglected, ' the cries of the poor ascend ' to the Just
and Almighty One who ' will plead their cause.' Also, to borrow the
                                                                                                             ' Property and
memorable    admonition   of a lamented Christian Statesman,                                                 To the higher
           their rights,  but they have likewise their duties.'
rank have
classes, therefore, even to the highest, we ' have a message from God.' "

    Eeference is then made to the heavy privations which many
myriads of the labouring classes were at that time suffering;
to the discontent and peril inevitable from such a state of

things; and the hope of a better, brighter day for England
is indulged. The Address closes thus :-- " May the God of
Mercy grant, my honoured brethren, that your conversation,
your resolutions, your holy example in the walks of daily hfe,
your influence, and your prayers, may be efficacious for the
waveeartsikngoroftheinvikl,!"and the acquisition of blessing, above all that

    In the month of September, Dr. Smith prepared a Petition
on the subject of the Corn Laws, addressed to the House of

Lords by the Congregation over which he presided. A copy
of this in his handwriting having been preserved among his
papers, it is given here as serving to show, in brief and strong
terms, the grounds of his very decided convictions and conduct
    ""thTTahot emthHoemumLeonbrtldeosusPSeppteiitrriiiootnud,alo&facno,dusrhTeenwmaetpitohonraall,           :--
at                                                                                                  history
                                                                                                     &c.
JET. 67.]            ON THE REPEAL OF THE CORN-LAWS.   451

" That your Lordships' petitioners respectfully remind your
Bight Honourable House of the existence of certain Laws in
the Statute Book of Her Majesty's realm, of which the inten

tion and effect are to restrict the supply of the necessaries of
human life, and greatly to enhance their cost :---

   " That the results of those unhappy laws are now displayed

in the extreme sufferings of those classes of our fellow-subjects

which constitute the basis of our national strength, in the de

pression of manufactures and their expatriation to rival coun

tries, in the miserably inadequate wages of both agricultural

and manufacturing industry, in the entire want of work to a

most alarming extent, in the hazardous and pernicious direc

tion of mercantile operations, and in a rapid tendency to the

impoverishing and ruin of the nation, thereby affecting most
                     highest as                 lowest orders : -- That your
Lsuorredlsyhiiptss'  petitioners  well as its  be penetrated with a rational
                                  cannot but

and religious conviction of the essential wickedness of those

laws, as in their very nature crimes against God, and as being

immediate causes of immorality, disloyalty, infidelity, pro

fligacy of manners, a contempt of the authority of religion,

and, by necessary consequence, the most appalling dangers
             pubhc peace and safety: --That therefore
tsohipths'e  petitioners humbly implore your Bight     your Lord
                                                       Honourable

House, to adopt without delay such measures as shall be the

most likely to stop the advance of national misery, and to pre
vent our common and irretrievable ruin."

Some time after the prayer of this petition had been granted,

and what is called Free Trade was secured, Dr. Smith had his

copy of the Paper entitled the Anti-Corn-Law League bound;

and on the back he had it lettered, so as to be a standing

memorial of his convictions both of the wrong which had been

set aside by the repeal of the bread tax, and of the Divine
Author to whom that richly-freighted blessing ought to be
ascribed. --Between the upper bands of each of the three folio

volumes, there is a letter-piece, containing in large characters

the words, The Trtumph of Justice ; and between the lower
bands are the words--Praise be to GOD.

   Owing to his great decision and activity in regard to this
subject, Dr. Smith's conduct was liable to be misunderstood
and even misrepresented ; yet his motives were unquestionably

                                                                                                 2G2
452 ON the repeal of THE CORN-LAWS. [lS41

of the purest and most generous kind. Not an atom of selfish
ness was mixed with them. He had nothing to do with manu-
factures, either by himself personally or by any of his im
mediate relations ; and as a Landlord-- although only on that

moderate scale which is apt to make men anxious or even

penurious --he might have gained more by the increased rental
which a Corn-law would have given him, than in such a small

family as his he was ever likely to save, by any abatement in
the price of bread consequent upon a free trade in wheat. In

his estimation, the prosperity of the country, which, to use his
own words, " included the welfare of all
                                          could not be

placed on a sound or sure basis, as long as there existed any
legal impediment to the purchase of the chief article of human

food at the cheapest rate at which it can be obtained from the
markets of the world. On whatsoever produce of the soil the
bulk of a population depends for its strength to labour, and
therefore for its power to provide for both public and personal
exigencies --whether it be rice in India, or potatoes in Ireland,
or corn in England--if that jtroduce is hampered with a tax,

the State is guilty no less of jeopardizing its own safety and
progress, than of inflicting a private injury in relation to the

health and comfort of a vast number of the people. Such a

tax does also involve a sinful opposition to that Divine dictum

which says, -- " The earth hath He given to the children of
men:" for though property in land may be-as rightfully held as

any other kind of property, yet it would be highly criminal df

the owners of land held it in a condition of neglect and bar

renness; or having sought fruit thereon, they should eithera
withhold the produce entirely from the public, or should make
           if,
a league among themselves to part with some of to others*it
but only at price beyond what the purchasers would have to

pay, were all sellers and all buyers as free as they ought to be

where the sustenance of man's life at stake. Now Dr. Smith,
                          it
with  a  host of Christian philanthropists and patriots who
                                    a is
cherished similar principles, considered the Corn Laws to

belong to sphere in which human legislation encroached
         a

sinfully and therefore most injuriously in many ways on
high and Divine provisions, intended for the common good

of mankind. Accordingly,  was imperative on Christians
in virtue of their Christianity--at least, so these men thought
--to speak and move and act, with view to the restoration of
JET. 67.]      NOTE ON THE SABBATH QUESTION.                  453

harmony between the regulations of an earthly judicature and
the great Ordinances of the Blessed and Only Potentate, the
King of kings, the Lord of lords.

And now that the change has been effected, and there is
no prospect, nay, perhaps there is a growing dislike, of any
attempt        reverse what has been
of place   to  ask,-- Whether anything  done  ; it may  not be out
           to                            has  occurred  in the his

tory of our country for centuries passed --not excepting the
abolition of Slavery in the West Indies --at which the heart of

a Christian Patriot may bound with a higher joy, or which

may be viewed with a surer hope of the Divine favour and

blessing ? In the progress of emancipation, first of the black

man's person, and then of the white man's food, England has
been permitted to take the lead: and since she achieved these

victories at an immense eost to many of her sons, that Provi

dence, which has given to America in California a noble motive

to act generously towards the oppressed and enslaved, has

given to England in Australia a recompense for what she has

already done, of which who can estimate the amount and dura

tion and value for ages yet to come ? The only thing that

seems to be needed is, that all minds should acquiesce in the

soundness of the principle upon which the tax on human food

was repealed, even though objections may he against some of

the details, or difficulties may press for a short time longer

upon some of the immediate results of that measure. Or
                                                        is
                                                                     if,
in certain instances, an approval of the principle cannot be
secured,-- as point of honour, an opinion must be retained
      it

          is
              if,

                         a
when       no longer nourished by the judgment, and perhaps
repudiated by the conscience --
                               is    too much to ask-- that faith

                                 it

in the future, encouraged by many tokens of present pros

perity, should unite all hearts, not all voices, in that mostif
religious and therefore most appropriate ascription --Praise

be to GOD?

Great difference of opinion known to prevail among good
                            is

men, respecting the grounds on which the observance of day
for the weekly celebration of Divine worship ought to be
                                              a
                                                           a
placed, and may be defended. In writing to              friend in

August this year, Dr. Smith stated his views of the question
thus --
'<
           cannot rest my argument on the fourth Commandment,
 1. :I
154              ON THE SABBATH QUESTION.                                         [l841.

except in the way of analogy and inference: for (1.) The Chris
tian ' Lord's Day ' is not ' the Sabbath ' ; and it is much to be

lamented that long established usage actually compels us to
call our sacred day by that abrogated name. Gal. iv. 9, 10;
Col. ii. 16. (2.) That precept was primarily a part of the
national law of Israel, and therefore to be construed strictly to

the letter, and neither under nor over. Consequently, cessa
tion from work not absolutely necessary was a perfect fulfil

ment of it. Religious exercises on that day of which we have

traces and intimations in the Old Testament, stood upon a
different ground, whence originated a parallelism of the two
Ifines of duty, but not an identity.
   " 2. Therefore am compelled to regard the moral in dis
tinction from positive argument for the mode of observing the

Lord's Day, as that on which alone we can take a sure standing.
That argument consists, (1.) Of the analogical reasoning above

mentioned. (2.) Of considerations various, extensive, and to
me of far greater power than the positive law of Sinai, drawn

from   the laws  coirfcumminsdta,ncaesss,oc--iatthioen,ncaotunrneexaionnd  of inward states
with   outward                                                             requirements of

personal and social religion, the physical, mental,                        and civil
   =                                                                       as yours,
(      political) benefits of resting  every  seventh day.
    "  These furnish me with the       very   same doctrine

in a manner which seems to me of invincibly demonstrative

strength ; whereas a direct argument from commandment iv.
is capable of being quite refuted."

   That reference to himself in the above extract, in which the

Writer speaks of certain moral considerations having greater

power with him than the positive law of Sinai, is illustrated by

a fact stated in a Note, recently      knreocweisv"e--d   from               the  present
                                                         says              that
Mrs. Pye Smith: --"Every one                                                      Lady --
" that a strictly conscientious regard to the sanctity of the Lord's
Day, formed a prominent habit in the personal and domestic

life of the Doctor; but all are not aware of the sacrifices

he made to attain this sacred object. Eegularly, invitations

were sent to him as F.E.S., to attend the Soirees of the Pre
sident of the Eoyal Society. To these the current of taste and

inclination would have carried him ; but a higher impulse he

was bound to obey. These brilliant assemblies were invariably

arranged to take place on Saturday evenings. So sacred did
JET. 67.]  ON THE SABBATH QUESTION.                  145

the obligation appear to the Doctor, to abstain from every act

approximating to a violation of Sabbatic time, that he was
never known to avail himself of these literary and scientific

   Although this communication applies to the latter years of Dr.
Smith's life, it is in perfect harmony with the principle and style
which had from a very early period characterized his religious

exercises on the Day of Best. In these exercises there were

no signs of a rigid, constrained, or of a dry and formal ob
servance of certain prescribed duties ; not anything which

betokened the domination of the letter of a law. It was

rather as though on that day he felt himself in a purer and a
more thoroughly congenial element than on other days ;-- as

though his renewed nature was less in the world of care and

of common duty, and was therefore more completely in the
possession, or at all events in the pursuit, of delights which

filled him at times with almost unutterable gratitude. So

much was this the case, that one of the members of his family
has spoken again and again of the peculiar animation, fervour,

and holy joyousness of the domestic worship on the morning
of the Lord's Day. 0, that it were possible for all who plead

against the obligation of the Mosaic law in this particular, to
be ' a law unto themselves ' in the spirit and style in which Dr.

Smith was J When the life of a duty is found to supersede the
necessity of the letter, then the great interests of truth and
holiness have a distinction put upon them on earth, akin to

that which will be their glory in heaven. But, alas ! many
persons appear to think themselves very good Christians, in
proportion as they succeed in proving that they ought not

Ito be Jews; just as though they would directly reverse the

words of Christ, and make Him say --' came not to fulfil the
Law but to destroy.' None probably, either in the world or

in the so-called Church, Judaize in a more egregious, and may
it not be said culpable manner, than those who turn the lack of

a positive commandment in the New Testament to keep holy,
into a, sort of negative authority for making common, the Lord's
IfDay.     such persons seem to live under the wrong dispen
sation even now, would they not be still more out of their ele
ment in the future; for in the absence of printed rules = the
letter of a law-- to bind their conduct, what could  their pres
ent inclinations and impulses do for them in         heaven?--
456        DR. LANT CARPENTER'S SERMONS.                                                   [l842.

Dr. Smith had such an exalted idea of both the capacity and
                                                                                           willing--
destiny of the renewred nature, that so                          fsahrorfreo' masbetoinog
                                                                                           many do,
we might even say able --to 'hug the                             an " entrance             might be

he was ever as one who strove that

mouinr isLtoerrdedaundntoSahviimouar bJuensduasnCtlhyriisntt.o"  the everlasting kingdom of
                                                                   And was he not right?--
right on principle --and right for himself as well ?

   In the June number of the Eclectic Review for 1811, there

is a paper which he wrote upon a volume of posthumous

Sermons on Practical Subjects, by the late Dr. Lant Carpenter,

of Bristol. The amiable and highly exemplary character of the
Author of the Sermons, had not only been long known to Dr.

Smith, but there had existed between the two a sincere friend
ship, notwithstanding their difference of opinion on some im
portant parts of Christian doctrine. While the Eeviewer,

however, highly commends passages in the Sermons and
excellencies in the temper and life of their Author, he does
not under the cover of anonymous writing keep back his own
belief in regard to points which elsewhere he advocated in the
"Itmost decisive manner. He says: --
                                                                 is our solemn and

heartfelt conviction that the essence of the Gospel is ex
terminated, and its blessings intercepted by those who reject
the proper Deity of our Saviour's pre-existent nature, the
propitiation for the sins of the world by his sacrifioial offering
up of Himself, the infinite value of His obedience, and the
influence of His Spirit in
holy character."-- Ec. Rev.  the production and                  maturing                  of a
                             1841, vol. i. p. 667.

On the extremely difficult, not to say really inexplicable
question, respecting the degree in which a professed difference
of belief in regard to the above points, may neutralize the force
of all other evidence in favour of a really right state of heart
towards God, the Eeviewer expresses himself with that love of
equity, and that deep sense of humility and diffidence, which
were his
stancy in  indveafreianbdliengchhaisracotwenrist' ihcse.artfWeltithcoanvfiircmtionne,s's   and con
                                                                                           of which
none who knew him could be ignorant, there was united such
a remarkable abstinence from all intrusion upon the Divine
prerogative of adjudging human motives, and passing a sen
tence of condemnation on human beings, as to entitle his con
duct in this respect to particular attention. Where the' fruits
JET. 68.]  BAPTIST MISSIONARY SOCIETY.                          457

of things appeared sound and good, he was ever inclined to
hope that there were roots of the right kind, lying perhaps in

some cases too far below the surface for the detection of any
human eye, but in the meanwhile not to be denied with that posi-

tiveness which is hasty to utter itself in the words--exclusively
befitting the authority of the Infallible Judge:-- " Cut it down,
why cumbereth it the ground ? " Yet, who ever did more to
bring these roots into prominence, by evincing their Divine

origin and vitality on the one hand, or their indispensable im
portance to the production and sustentation of the life of God

in the soul of man, on the other ?

Besides a second edition of the Four Discourses, the Author

published in 1842 a Lecture which he delivered at the London

Tavern in the month of October, before the Baptist Missionary
Society, on the completion of the Fiftieth year of its history.

The Lecture is entitled to a wider circulation than it has

hitherto received. Were it reprinted entire in this place, the

Beader could not fail to be delighted with the cogency of its

reasoning and the animation of its style : nor would he be less

instructed by the amount of information compressed within

such a small number of pages. The Author thus defines the

object of the Society :-- " A Christian Mission is a plan, con

ceived and arranged methodically, but in as simple a manner

as possible, for the communication of the greatest sum of

happiness to the greatest number of our fellow-creatures." In

this calm manner does he assign to its only competent source,

in the religion of the New Testament, the realization of the
                                                     --" The
celebrated maxim of Mr.    Jeremy  Be"ntBhuamt,"  :   says Dr.  greatest
happiness of the greatest                                        Smith,

" we wish our terms to be understood in their proper meaning
and just comprehension. We take happiness in its rational

sense ; not that which many misguided men deem happiness,
which frustrates their efforts, disappoints their expectation,

and leaves still in the heart a deep and melancholy void ; but

the happiness which will endure the examination of sound
reason, and will stand the test of all time,-- the whole dura

tion of man's
   This is followed by a statement of the truths of Bevelation,

on which the happiness of man in the present and future hfe
depends :--then comes an account of our Lord's command, and
458  BAPTIST MISSIONARY SOCIETY.  [l84S.

of the Apostles' labours to make known those truths. In

passing from the Apostles downwards to our own times, the

Author took occasion to depict, denounce, and refute those
pretensions to Apostolic succession, and almost to Apostolic
or even more than Apostolic powers, which in 1842 appeared

with the flush of a fashion which had not been long enough

in vogue to have lost any of its extravagance :-- " Some
there are who put in a claim, and say that there must be a

succession of commission and authority from those Apostles ;

and who have the exemplary modesty to affirm that this com
mission, this succession, has come down upon them and their
like, their own precious selves. What they lack in proof they

abundantly supply by assertion ; and they find too many of
our fellow -creatures weak, credulous, and willing to yield a
base submission to their arrogant and impudent preten

sions." --p. 14.

    After introducing a number of arguments against the prin
ciple as well as the assumption of Apostolical succession, the
learned and catholic-spirited Lecturer concludes with an epit

ome of the history of the transmission of Christianity from

early to modern times, comprehending the efforts of various
Christian Bodies down to those of the honoured Society to
whom belonged the illustrious names of " Fuller, Byland, and
Sutcliff, with Carey and Pearce."

   Dr. Smith's contributions to the Eclectic for 1842, appear

to have been confined to two brief but commendatory notices
of Dr. Edward Hitchcock's Wreath for the Tomb, and his
Elementary Geology.
               CHAPTEE XXV.

SECOND MARRIAGE--COLLEGE DUTIES -- PROPOSES A REDUCTION OP HIS

      SALARY AS A TUTOR -- REPEATS THE PROPOSAL -- CHANGE IN THE
     CLASSICAL TUTORSHIP -- INVITED TO BECOME RESIDENT TUTOR --

     ADVANTAGES OF HIS BEING THE RESIDENT TUTOR AT THIS TIME --
     LETTER TO THE TREASURERS --ENTERS UPON RESIDENCE AT THE
     COLLEGE -- LETTER TO SIR J. B. WILLIAMS -- PASTORAL LETTER TO
     HIS CHURCH --LETTER TO REV. E. BICKERSTETH --REV. E. BICKER
     STETH AND DR. SMITH -- ANTI-STATE-CHURCH ASSOCIATION -- ' DIS-
  , SENTERS' CHAPELS' BILL '--RE-ARRANGES COLLEGE LIBRARY -- INTER
     RUPTED BY ILLNESS --DISCONTINUES AFTERNOON SERVICE AT HIS
     CHAPEL -- CLOSE OP 1844.

  After more than ten years of widowhood, in January, 1843,

Dr. Smith married a second time. He had long known and

esteemed the'Lady who now became his wife. She was the

widow of the Eev. William Clayton, whose early ministerial
life had been passed in connection with the Congregational

Church at Saffron Walden, in Essex, but who for several years
prior to his death, which took place suddenly in March, 1838,

was the respected and efficient Chaplain of Mill Hill Gram

mar School.

   About  two years before this date, Dr.  Smith's  only  surviving
daughter   had married; and thus --to      use his   own
                                                           words --
that " serene course of domestic duty and comfort " which he
had " so long
               could not be perpetuated exactly as

it had been. For while the affection would continue un

diminished, and there would be also the uniform and truly

filial respect which Mr. Searle James Nash, the husband, ever

delighted to manifest, the new tie could not fail to bring with

it new claims which must to some extent interfere with the
460  COLLEGE DUTIES.  [l843.

immediately foregoing routine of things ; and the effect of this
would be felt by one in Dr. Smith's circumstances of age and
deafness, more perhaps than can be imagined by the generality

of persons. It may also be added, that as Mrs. Pye Smith

was several years younger than her husband, and as she
possessed great readiness in conversation and in the use of

the pen, with considerable skill and order in matters of
business :-- as moreover her varied talents were constantly
employed to relieve or to aid Dr. Smith in his declining
years --the connection proved an eminent benefit and solace

to him to the end of life. Without presuming to say, that
the number of his days was greater than it otherwise might
have been had he not entered into this union, it seems highly
reasonable to infer, that as one of its consequences his useful

ness was carried much nearer to the closing scene. Constant
and careful watching had in his case an obvious effect, in, pre
serving a valuable light for some years after its original bright

ness had begun to wane ;--the dimness might have come on
earlier, or it might have been greater than it ever was, if

such attention as he received for the last eight years had not

been at hand. He was ever deeply sensible of his advantage
in this respect ; and was always diligent in requiting it by

confidence and kindness, for he could not be happy so long
as any debt of affection was left undischarged.

    Through the years over which the narrative has been
recently passing, there was no interruption in the ordinary
course of Dr. Smith's pastoral duties ; but for that reason, as

may be readily understood, it would not be easy to give sufficient
interest to these to make it desirable to go into their details.
In his sphere of labour as a Tutor also, there was such
uniformity of diligent and persevering effort from day to day,'
with but few interruptions from a want of health to occupy

his place, or from any other cause which was not so transient

as to be unworthy of notice here, that the stability and
punctuality of his attendance entitled him to be considered
as the main-stay of order and activity to the Institution;
serving in this respect not only as an example, but as a source
of adjustment and progress to the Students generally. But
while the particulars of his course as a Tutor cannot supply

any great variety of incidents from year to year, there were
JET. 69.]   PROPOSES A REDUCTION OF HIS SALARY.                                                                                         461

manifestations of solicitude for the prosperity of the College,
shown by him under supposed circumstances of difficulty or
emergency, which are entitled to notice as signs by which his
character may be more fully understood and appreciated.
Some of these, which are allied in spirit, but which in regard
to time extend over two or three years, will now be grouped
into a class, the more clearly to bring out their import and

value.

   The following communication was addressed to the Trea
surers of the Institution : --

                                                                " Homerton, August 15, 1840.
I" My dear Sirs, -- The declaration which am now making to you is the
Iresult of no sudden impulse or hasty resolution.
                                                                have maturely con
                                                                duty which owe to you and
sidered and am well satisfied that
it,                                                a

            ;                                                 it

                                                                     is
                                                                            a

                                                                 I
                                                                           I

                                                                                                      is
to the College on the ground both of gratitude for the abundant kindness
which you and your honourable associates have for so many years con
ferred upon me, and of my infinite obligations to the adorable Saviour.
The necessity of establishing Mathematical and Philosophical Professor

ship, or what will be practically equivalent, in the College, undeniable.

But if. cannot be expected that the Funds of the Institution can bear the

additional expense that must be incurred.                       therefore renounce one

hundred pounds per annum, of the salary which you have so kindly given
me for many years and desire that this renunciation take effect from Mid
Asummer last. That the God of all grace may give success to all your
                                      ;affectionate and zealous efforts for the promotion of His glory and that
                                                        is

                                                                                                                                     ;
HE may enrich yourselves and your beloved families with the highest
            temporal                                                                 opbrlaigyeedr,"of,&c.
blessings,                               and  eternal,     the   heart's desire and
                                                        dear    Sirs, your greatly
                                                 " My                                                                                   &c.

few months later, when he found that the Treasurers were

altogether disinclined to entertain the proposal which he had

made, he wrote to them expressing his sense of their kindness

and generosity, as he was pleased to call it; but at the same

time renewing his request, and even urging upon them by
full statement of all the particulars of his income, not only from
                                         a

                                                                              it

                                                                                                                            a
professional sources, which might be known to them in other

ways, but by such detail of his private affairs as perhaps he
Only could give. And he did this to show how competent he

was as well as ready, to meet that change in his salary which
                                                   advantage of the College
he recommended for                            the  intreat your forgiveness          he had loved
and served so long.
                                              "                                      "--he writes
                                              I
                                                                        I

                                                                                                    it
-- " for intruding these private matters upon you.                                                                                      do in

order to substantiate my assurance, that through the Divine
462        REPEATS THE PROPOSAL.  [lS13.

Ibenignity, hope to be well able to sustain such a diminution
Iof income as have proposed. It would be, not a duty merely,

but my happiness, thus to show my attachment to the In

bstleitsustiinogns."which has been to me the instrument of so many

   The next is from a copy of a Letter addressed to the late
John Morley, Esq., one ofthe Treasurers :-- dated

                          " Homerton, September 13, 1841.

I" My dear Sir, -- trust that you will not infer any want of sensibility to
Ithe kindness of yourself and my other friends, from my now renewing a

proposal similar to that which submitted to you about a year ago, but
which you then, with characteristic generosity, declined to entertain.
   " The great increase in the expenses of our College Tuition is clearly un

Iavoidable.-- But the subscriptions diminish every year ; and few or no

additions are made. From subscriptions see no hope of retrieving the
Idisadvantageous balance which lies against our liberal and kind Treasurer.
  feel it therefore to be my duty, most respectfully and with full resolution,
to entreat the Committee through you, Sir, as its Representative, to take
off from my salary one hundred pounds a year ; this alteration commencing
with the current quarter.

  I" This is in my conviction no more than an act of duty, to which am

Ibound by strong obligations. Through forty-one years, have been receiving

great advantages from my service to the Academy. Were it requisite, and
Iwere it in my power, to serve all the rest of my life without any salary
whatever,  should only be acting out my feelings of attachment and

gratitude. This diminution of income is as nothing compared to the losses

and distresses which thousands of excellent men in commerce and manu

factures are now obliged to endure. It is also to be considered, that in

consequence of the marriage of my daughter, the giving up of £100 is no
great sacrifice ; for what remains will be adequate to the calls of beneficence

Iand all my other wants. Therefore, my dear and faithful friend, beseech
and enjoin upon you, to carry this proposal into immediate effect; and for

that purpose to adjust with my truly kind and valued friend, Mr. Rutt,
the proportions respectively for the Society and the Fund Board.
   " Of another and more serious subject, it is incumbent on me to renew

the mention, lest silence should seem forgetfulness. It is one of the
weaknesses of human nature, to fail in perceiving the proper point of time

for retiring from any station. Hence good men have been known to
Ipersist in retaining offices after their efficiency and usefulness had declined.
   dread the falling into this error. But a man is not fully competent to
Idecide in his own case.  therefore rely upon my friends, that they will

exercise their most careful judgment, and will faithfully tell me when they

see the moment arrived. The interests of the Church of Christ are in
finitely more important than the comfort of any individual."

   These communications supply a fine example of frankness,
in regard to some of the more delicate accompaniments of a
JET. 69.]     INVITED TO BECOME RESIDENT TUTOR.            463

public station, about which there is often too much reserve.

But in this case, the old and stanch friends of the College,
the Theological Tutor, and the Students, had become one

body to an extent greatly beyond what is common ; hence
the open and generous deportment above manifested.

As the Eev. Henry Lea Berry did not resume the duties of

the Classical department after the close of 1842, in the early
part of 1843 those duties again devolved upon the Theological

Tutor, by an ad interim arrangement which extended to the

month of February, when the services of Dr. William Smith

were secured; but only in relation to the business of the

Lecture room, for his engagements elsewhere prevented his

going into residence at Homerton. This gentleman continued
to attend at the College until January, 1845, when, at the

invitation of the Committee, he declared his acceptance of the

office of Classical Tutor ; to be held, however, without resi
dence, and in conjunction with a similar office at Highbury.

As the same Classical Tutor was now employed from day to
day, in going over the same or similar ground with two small
bodies of Students, who might be considered one in every

respect, excepting the fact of their living in houses three or
four miles asunder, the chief supporters of the separate

Colleges with some of their Tutors, began to contemplate

and d-esire the removal of an inconvenience by which --as it

was beheved-- much time and other valuable advantages were

sacrificed. Hence arose active measures to combine the two

Institutions in one ; and if two, why not three, so as to in

clude Coward College (then situated in London) with High
bury and Homerton. The proposal was made and embraced,
and New College is the result ; with one set of Officers and

Professors ;   one   set of Lectures, Classical, Scientific, and
Theological   ; and   with larger classes of Students :--whereas

ba ef'odriev,isaioll ntheosfelawbeoreuri'n  duplicate or   triphcate, involving such
                                            as-- contrary  to modern experience --

seemed to impair the worth of the article produced while it
added to the cost of its production. --The sequel will show
how warmly Dr. Pye Smith entered into the views of the last
of his coadjutors respecting the Union of the Colleges.

There being now no resident Tutor at Homerton, at a
464       THE ADVANTAGES OF HIS BEING                       [l813.

meeting of the Committee held March 8th this year, it was
unanimously resolved to invite the Subject of this narrative to

fill the vacant place at the head of the Academic family. No

arrangement could exceed Or even equal this in value for all

the parties concerned. The Treasurers and Committee of the

Institution, as the warm-hearted guardians of its true in

terests, had the utmost possible reason to place the fullest

confidence in the integrity, vigilance, high Christian example,

and holy zeal of their long-proved, and therefore long-loved

Theological Tutor. And for himself, throughout the whole

of his course, notwithstanding some untoward circumstances

in the earlier stages, or his subsequent formal separation from

the Student-family, the home of very many of Dr. Pye Smith's

best thoughts and affections had        been eminently with his
" young friends." Now, therefore,       when age was enfeebling

his body, but his mind and heart still retained unimpaired

the old and deeply-inwrought impressions, it was with no

ordinary  emotions  of thankfulness     and  joy  that  he  contern,-

                                                                                    j
plated a renewal of the earliest arrangements of his life at

Homerton. Once more settled in that early nest, the early

aspirations and desires, the early plans, would come back with
much of their original freshness ; and with that freshness as

the motive power, he would be able to carry the experience
with the other acquisitions of forty years, into methods of

usefulness among the Students to a far wider extent than

would have been practicable had he continued to live at a
distance from the College premises.

   Dr. Smith probably anticipated accomplishing more than he
was able to get through --taking the measure of his ability ,
rather from the largeness of his desires than from the gradr

ually contracting limits consequent     on the decline of phy
sical strength--yet it is nevertheless  evident that during the

last seven years of his labours as a Tutor, very many addi
tional advantages accrued to the College from his residence in .
the midst of the Students. His example, of diligence and ;
persevering activity, of gentlemanly bearing at all times, .of, <
meek and holy deportment as an eminent Christian; --his
devout and regular attendance at family worship ;--the fer
vour, rich variety, and fulness of his own prayers ;--were

among the realized fruits which the new plan brought,, in-
JET. 69.]  THE RESIDENT TUTOR AT THIS TIME.  465

 directly indeed, but not the less beneficially, under the notice
 of the Collegiate Body. Among the more direct literary

 results of the arrangement may be mentioned -- voluntary

 classes to receive instruction from him in Hebrew, German,
 and French --and also the adoption of methods to facilitate
 the acquisition of Classical learning; --his College Diary bear
 ing testimony to his zeal and labours in all these particulars.
 But besides these opportunities for more frequent intercourse
 between himself and the Students-- his duties as Theological
 Professor being also included --he was now, not only almost
 constantly within reach of any application which any of their
 number might wish to make, but he himself sought for their
 company both separately and together ; that by private con
 versation at one time, he might show how heartily he could
 sympathize with them in their several difficulties or trials ;

 and by social at another, how completely he regarded the

whole of their number, with himself at the head, as consti
tuting one family.

   Here it may not be out of place to notice -- that while the

above varied and valuable results were obtained from the new
plan, it is highly probable that had he resided elsewhere

during the last seven or eight years of his life --whether with
or without his duties as a Tutor,--his efficiency as a public

man might have been greatly diminished, perhaps scarcely
appreciable. As an Author, he had all but completed his
work before the new arrangement came into force ; so that

leisure from College claims and interests could hardly have
been employed to any great extent upon other productions

from his pen :--the manual exercise of writing was never very

easy to him, and at seventy years of age the difficulty had

greatly increased. Had he not been occupied, therefore, as
he was, or only much less fully occupied, he might have read
for his own entertainment and solace ; but it was now getting
too late for him or his friends to contemplate the accomplish

ment of much more ; especially as the sense of duty to under
take anything new, not unfrequently dechnes with a loss of
physical power: --a merciful provision for the quiet of the
mind, when no moral blame attaches to what is called in

activity. In truth, he had arrived at that age when the most

agreeable, and the most thoroughly practicable occupation is

found, in yielding to the stimulus -- supplied by intelligent

                                                                                          2H
466        LETTER TO THE TREASURERS AND COMMITTEE                               [l813.

listeners --to communicate information viva voce. With the

memory still retentive of its treasures, especially of those

long ago stored up, and often examined subsequently; with
an experience wide and varied, ripened by time and culture;

with a more thorough mellowing of the whole nature under
the long- continued influence of the gospel of Christ: --but

with --necessarily--less of freshness and energy in the purely
mental operations--Dr. Pye Smith was enabled to " fulfil his

course " as a public teacher from 1843 to 1850, with a pro
priety, beauty, and usefulness greatly beyond what he could

have realized if the Providence, which sent him into residence

at the College house in 1801, had not sent him thither again

in 1843. Personally considered, however, he no more expected
such a result in the latter instance than he did in the first :--

indeed, had he not married a second time, his deafness, to say

nothing of his being quite alone, would have been an objection
                         responsibilities of the                     position.
to  his  attempting the                                         new
    He   thus responded  to the application :--

                                                                "March 21, 1843.

     " To the Treasurers and the Committee of Homerton College.

   " Gentlemen, my dear friends :-- In replying to the invitation with which

you honoured me at your special meeting on the 8th instant, the first impulse
of both duty and inclination is the expression of gratitude. This mark of
your esteem and confidence has been preceded by so many others, through
the period of more than forty-two years, the memory of which can never be

Iabolished, that feel it to be a bond of still stronger obligation to the best
Iexertions of which am capable, in promoting the great and sole object of

your Academical Institution. Such devotedness is indeed for me the most

Iadapted form of consecration to our Divine Saviour, and that which desire

    make   the end and   aim of   my  life.
    " But     should be   guilty  of  great
I Ito
                                             sinful  error, if  were to regard your
If Iproposal only or chiefly in relation to my own happiness.
                                                                              did not
Ientertain the hope, almost would venture to say the conviction, that it
promises to put into my hands more abundant means of usefulness, in all
the relationships of the proposed office, than would be possible for me in any
I Iother position, trust that
Iyour prayer and the supply                                                    But ' through
                                  should  not venture to   aCchcreipstt,'it.  do indulge the
                                  of the  Spirit of Jesus

expectation of a preservation and increase to whatever capacities God has

intrusted to me, for the more efficient instruction, the strict yet liberal

government, and the holy encouragement, of pious young men preparing for

the gospel-ministry. A more perfect economy of time, the avoiding inter

ruptions to health, the facilities of reference to my books, and the opportu
nities of intercourse with the Students individually (thus mitigating the

Idisadvantage of my afflictive deafness), are blessings which trust will not

be received in vain.
JET. 69.]                  OF HOMERTON COLLEGE.                                       467

" Therefore in the fear of God, and in reliance upon His sanctifying and
Iupholding grace,          thankfully accept your affectionate and unanimous
Iinvitation.

submitting
            Terms and arrangements         leave entirely in your            hands,   only
           three requests. -- 1. That the  adjustments of salary             and its  con

nections may be made, so as first to secure liberal justice to other persons
whom you may elect into your service ; and then leaving me to such residual

consideration as shall be safely adapted to the revenue of the College.--
2. That you and your successors shall be at full liberty at any time to

dissolve our connexion, without assigning any reason ; and that such
notification on your part shall be regarded as not infringing, in the smallest
degree, upon the feelings of friendship and kindness.",--The third related
entirely to arrangements for the comfort of Mrs. Pye Smith, in the event of

the Doctor's death occurring at Homerton.
   " That the Father of Mercies may grant His blessing to the present pro

ceeding, and may richly recompense your disinterested, laborious, and

generous   exertions,  is  the  heart's desire and   prayer of, my dear Sirs,
                                   " Your obliged   and devoted servant,
                                                                " John Pye Smith."

   The following minute of the Committee was sent to him by
the Secretary :--

                                "Homerton College, March 22, 1843.
   " The Committee cannot receive Dr. Smith's cordial accept
ance of their proposal to assume the responsible office of
Eesident Tutor of the College, without embracing the oppor
tunity of recording their undiminished sense of the high value

of his long and laborious services, so successfully devoted to
the important objects of the Institution : and they cherish the

desire, in submission to the Divine Will, that he may be long

spared to carry on the efficient discharge of his various

duties."

In his College Diary, he thus wrote under date May 10th :--

Commenced residing in the College, and this evening for the
Ifirst time slept in it. ' Save now, beseech THEE, Lord !
ILord, beseech thee, send now                                   "

   Although for the last one or two of the seven years, during
which the arrangement now entered upon continued, Dr.

Smith's powers as a Tutor were failing ; yet neither the

exigency of the case required, nor did the approaching union

of the Colleges render it desirable that any change should

fbieftymaydeea,rs'simefpficlyienbtecsaeursveicet,hewahsumnoatn  instrument,  after nearly
                                                                             been. The
                                                                what it had

public sense of congruity and gratitude seemed to demand
thus much for the venerated Tutor-- that Providence favour -

                                                                             2h2
468          LETTER TO SIR J. B. WILLIAMS.                                 [1848.

ing, he and the Institution with which he had been so long

incorporate should be allowed to descend the stream of time

together--down to the very point, if that were possible, where
each would have to enter upon a new and separate course

for the future-- -when both would be about to renew their

youth :--but, 0, with what far surpassing certainty and glory
he !--And although Dr. Smith was permitted to continue

at Homerton until the time came and measures were ripe

for merging that Institution with the two others in New
College:-- and although he lived among us a few months

subsequent to that change, which he had hailed and favoured

as a thing full of promise for ensuing generations :--his public

work may truly be said to have been finished wher on the 12th
of May, 1850, he wrote in his College Diary                          "My last
lecture."

In a Letter to Dr. Daniel Dewar, Principal of Marischal

College, Aberdeen, dated September 26, 1843, Dr. Smith thus

refers to the arrangement which had then been in force
Iupwards of five months :-- " By the most wonderful and
unexpected   workings   of     Divine     tPhreovLidoerndcew, ill,'  am    now,  for
the closing  period pf  my                                            put  into  the
                               life ' if
situation in which you first knew me, -- residing in the College.

My office in tutorship is the same, but the collateral ways of

usefulness to my young friends are augmented. Our number

is full.  We have twenty-three, which is too many by one or

two."

The following clause of a Letter to Sir John B. Williams,

refers in all probability to the Education Bill brought into

the House of Commons by Sir James Graham, in the early
part of the Session of 1843, but which was subsequently

abandoned in consequence of the opposition it met with
from the Dissenters :--As the Letter was written in April,
                                                        that date :--
the   failure of the  measure   was not anticipated at
      The position             sacred cause, at home    and abroad, is
   "                  of our

painfully trying, and strongly calls for importunate and perse

vering prayer. But HE will overcome, who is the Holy and

the True. Yet we cannot doubt but that the aggression will

work for good. The excitement of the country must direct
attention to the principles of unalterable truth which are now

promulgated among all classes of our fellow-subjects, and
JET. 69.]          PASTORAL LETTER TO HIS CHURCH.                      469

the facts existing around us present exemplifications of both

the positive and the negative apphcation of those principles.

ISo likewise the extreme wickedness of the French aggression

in Tahiti has aroused the pious Protestant spirit, have reason
to beheve, throughout the Continent. ' Shall not God avenge
                                                           cry unto HIM
( i. e. vindicate   and  deliver )  his  own  elect,  who
day and night
                   ?' "

In reply to an application to preach at Brixton, the follow
ing passage will explain as a general rule Dr. Smith's motives

Ifor not leaving his own place and people on the Lord's day :--
   " For a long time have made it a rule to decline similar
services ; partly from feeling it my duty to devote my best

Iexertions to my own affectionate flock, so eminently deserving

of my affections ; and partly because cannot refuse some
requests and accede to others without behaving inconsistently

and with apparent disrespect to some. Also, the travelling on

the Lord's day is to me very objectionable. To             Etheesside ernecays.o"ns
is now added the important duties of the College

   Part of the College vacation this year was spent among
friends in Wiltshire and Dorsetshire. Although he got home
from this journey in time to occupy the pulpit on the first
Lord's day of September, yet as he was prevented from re
turning early enough to attend the Church Meeting on the

preceding Thursday, he addressed the following admirable

Letter to his people :--

                                    " Bradford, Wilts, Aug. 30, 1843.

" To the Church of Christ at the Old Gravel Pit Meeting, Homerton.

"My dear Brethren and Sisters,-- Grace be unto you, and mercy, and

peace ; from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

  I" You will hold your Church Meeting, as suppose, on the evening of
Ito-morrow or Friday.    cannot enjoy the privilege of being actually with
Iyou: for the opinion of judicious friends, both at home and abroad, has been

strongly expressed, that have not taken sufficient time for the invigorating
Iof health and strength : and therefore, acceding also to some interesting

opportunities of improving in Natural Science, purpose to remain here till
Saturday morning, and trust to be brought home in mercy on that evening.
On the next Lord's-day, therefore, we hope to be again united in the house
of our Gracious Lord, at the footstool of His throne, and at His table of
immortal love. -- But it is my present happiness to be with you in spirit,
' beholding and rejoicing in your order, and the stedfastness of your
470                  LETTER TO REV. EDWARD BICKERSTETH.                                                                                             [l843.

faith  in Christ. As             therefore  ye have received                                                               Christ Jesus  the Lord,    so
walk   ye in Him.'                                                                                                                                    to
" We can never highly enough value our privilege of free approach

the seat of Jehovah's condescending grace, supplicating for ourselves and
                                            ' The secret    things belong
iGnotedrc;'edainndg   for each other.      must reckon      the manner in                                                          unto the Lord our
                     among them we                                                                                                 which He honours

the  tmo u'tpuraalyinotenercefsosroraynoptrhaeyre,'rshaosf  His children. He who has commanded
us                                                          at His command all agencies and in

strumentalities in His kingdoms of nature and providence, of grace and

glory. He can never be at a loss to call forth, and regulate, and prosper

'tthhreeevirewaaloeypd,ea' rnadatinomdnsai;tnn' tebhreoloubngeghsamtwooenugscaa'nntnhdoettosepoceurerrctecihtvhielidnrgheson,w'.'  He does so. Though

                                                                                                                                   the fact is abundantly
                                                                                                                                      Universal experience

confirms it on the part of the true Church of Christ, and her children.

There are bodies of men which apply to themselves that sacred name,

without possessing, either individually or collectively, the characters by
which the Word of truth describes the Churches of which it speaks. While

we mourn over those soul-ruining delusions, and pray for the deliverance of
their unhappy victims, let it be our care to approve ourselves to our fellow-

creatures around us, and to God who tricth the hearts, that we are indeed
such persons as answer to the New
' saints and faithful, -- holding fast His                  Tweosrtda,m' ennott                                            description, that we are
                                                                                                                           permitting the intrusions
coShpf aimrriate,c'ntetaroinsbdtiecomumrianrsgkolsedwoafwlkbiitenhigngHaiss' thtioensLt'iotpurletdiao'ssne,s',  -- evincing
                                                                                                                           ' the     that we have     the
                                                                                                                eGvoedn,'   and                       the
                                                                                                                                   sanctification of  the
powers and           praises                                                                                                       to ' show forth
marvellous
                     light.' --  of  Him   who hath called                                                      us out of darkness into ' His
                                     will  much oblige me
will cause to                    It                                                                             if at the Church Meeting yo«
   " The best                               chapter of the 1st Ep. of Peter.
                     be read the second     upon you all, and your families                                                                   !  To the
                      of blessings rest
IChildren

praying
        of the Church beg                   to present my                                                       affectionate       regards,   aenadrnjoeys.t'ly
       that they all, without               one exception,                                                      may be our          ' glory
                                            I" am, my dear friends,
                                     " Your Pastor and servant in the Lord," &c. &c.

   In December, 1843, he thus wrote to the late Eector of
Watton, the Eev. E. Bickersteth :--

  I" My dear Sir, and am sure you will permit me to

Iin the kingdom and patience of Christ, --During months
                                                                                                                                   say,  my Brother
                                                                                                                                   and   years have
Ibeen longing to attempt the maintenance of intercourse by writing to you.

You have not been defective like me. From you have been favoured with
many expressions of your kind remembrance, both by the presentation of
your   numerous      dpouctbrliinceatioanccsortdhinogroutgohlgyodplienrevsasd,'edandbyby'
elect   and the                                                                                                                    the faith    of  God's
                                                                                                                                    Letters   and   notes
breathing that spirit of heavenly love which has always characterized
Iyour demeanour towards me. Why, then, have
Iassiduously followed so excellent an example ?                                                                                    not punctually and

                                                                                                                           owe to you an exposition
Iof the reasons, rather should say the causes, of this deficiency, a deficiency
which has the appearance of being quite unjustifiable.
JET. 09.J REV. EDWARD BICKERSTETH AND DR. SMITH.                                         471

" 1. The necessity of my situation, from having so many years occupied a
Ivery public station, compels me to write a great deal, especially in

answering Letters, a very irksome task; and have never been able to
acquire the art of rapid and mechanically easy hand-writing. These two
circumstances have produced a strong distaste for writing ; and their
influence is greatly augmented by the almost perpetual feeling of being
thus withheld from the reading of books which have cost me hundreds of

pounds, and which fill idly my shelves, and daily tantalize my eyes. Hence

I am always tempted to eschew writing when it is not immediately im
                      tleoaos, t,t'hveerayccduempurelastsiionng.of
perative. Hence,                                                    Letters  unanswered  has become
almost terrific ; at
I" 2. Yet am persuaded that 1 should not have so yielded to this dis
Icouragement, if could have written short or not very long epistles, merely
of the undying principle of ' love
 and of that especial exercise of                                   to all who love
                                                                    such love which
the effCushiorinsst,'                                                                    the Lord

IJesus                                                                                       owe to

Iyou. The idea of writing to you has been inseparable from that of com

posing almost a volume : for the subjects upon whieh have wished to
                        and important, as always to                          suggest the necessity of
write are so numerous
waiting for more time,  and-- ' labitur et labetur.' "

   The subjects here alluded to were for the most part such as
the devout Episcopalian of Watton Bectory and the con
scientious Nonconformist of Homerton College did not see in
the same light. Hence, while the latter with his characteristic

ardour was anxious to state and defend his views of truth and
duty, at times perhaps under the expectation that they would
appear as obvious to others as they did to himself; Mr.
Bickersteth -- on the other hand-- cultivated that style of

correspondence in which the Christian affections have to do

the chief part. Discussion therefore, and especially discussion
with a prospect of a practical result, was not to be expected ;

accordingly the correspondence could not be active as it

otherwise might have been, although there is abundant evi
dence on both sides to show, how heartily the two men agreed

and loved one another, whenever they met on that elevation
which the eminent piety of both qualified them to occupy.
Scarcely could examples be found of a wider diversity of
sentiment, not only on questions of ecclesiastical polity, but
on some points of Bible interpretation ; and yet each was ever
ready to ascribe to the other the highest Christian excellence.

   At the meeting of the Homerton College Committee in
February, 1844, a communication was made to Dr. Smith
respecting his connection with the Anti- State -Church Associa
tion. The design was to induce him to withdraw from that
472            ANTI-STATE-CHURCH ASSOCIATION,                                                    [l814.

Society ; but with that respect and affection which had long

marked the intercourse between the Committee and their now
venerated Theological Tutor, they-- or those of their number

who agreed in their views on this subject--appear not to have

done more than suggest their wishes, leaving him to act upon
them or not, just as his own convictions of propriety might deter

mine. With his uniform frankness towards these gentlemen,
                                            which belonged to
yet with that courage                       addressed a Letter   him  in   matters of
poef rHsoonmael rotobnligaCtioolnle,ghee,"                                 Committee
                                                                " To  the

transcribed :--                             from which the following passages are

"    " My honoured Friends and Brethren,    in  this            more explicit and                     per
     Permit me to return my best thanks,
Imanent manner, for the generous reasons and the kind manner of the

desire expressed at your last meeting, that would withdraw from my

membership with the Anti-State-Church Association.

  If" that desire could be met upon the ground of mere feeling, if com
Ipliance or non-compliance were a question upon which could exercise my
Iwill, if it were an optional alternative, readily and gladly should assent.
But it is not so. My originally uniting with that association was, so far
as feeling could be concerned in it, most strongly against my inclination.

IPerhaps should not have had the courage to take that step entirely of
Imyself. was invited to it in a most grave, serious, and Christian manner ;
Iand therefore could not refrain from giving due consideration to the

question. It was and is a matter of conscience before God. The principles
Iof Dissent imbibed from my Father and my best early connexions ; and

they have been confirmed and raised to the highest degree of conviction by

all my observation, reading, reflection, and experience, to thif hour. This
solemn and overwhelming conviction, as a very element of religious life,
was expressed some years ago in more than one of my publications. . . .
The sole design of the Society to which this Letter refers, is to lay before
our countrymen the evidence of Scripture, reason, a,nd experience upon this

subject; appealing to men's judgment and conscience, and the solemn sense
of an accountableness to Him who demands our obedience and has given us

IHis word to guide the manifestations of that obedience.

  " have alarming apprehensions that, if the abolition of this iniquity be

not accomplished by the peaceful means of scriptural argument and rational
persuasion, if the professed disciples of Jesus Christ abandon their duty
in this momentous cause, it will fall into the hands of men of the world,
and will be accomplished by some fearful convulsion. Should such a
result be brought on, or at all aided through our indifference or supine-

ness, we shall be answerable for the consequences, and who can estimate
               Iof our guilt ?
the greatness             "
                    Your
                 "            devaomte, dmayndmugcrehahtloynofauvreodurFerdiesnedrsv,ant,"  &c.  &c.

     On another point, which excited much discussion in the
JET. 70.]  ' DISSENTERS' CHAPELS' BILL.'                                                        473

early part of 1844, Dr. Smith took different ground from

that occupied by many of his brethren. The Bill brought

into Parliament and which was subsequently passed, to legalize

under certain conditions the holding of chapels and other
property --and which was supposed, with a high degree of

evidence, to have been framed so as to give to the Uni
tarian party the andisturbed possession of endowments ori
ginally designed
                     to aid the  odf iftfhuesi"onDisosfeenvtearnsg' eClichaalpedlosctBriinlle,"s
-- this Bill, under   the name

was opposed in a variety of ways by the orthodox Noncon
formists. But-- as will be seen from the following Note to
his friend, Henry Eutt, Esq., --Dr. Smith did not join in that
opposition ; he rather sought to diminish it. And as far as

can be ascertained from a cursory glance at the history of the

Unitarian party on the one side, and the Evangelical Body on
the other, during the last seven or eight years, the property

secured by the Bill to the former does not appear to have

imparted any new probability, nor even popularity to their doc
trines :--while in regard to the latter, the Bill has not proved
                                  lifsepreoaftdheofwsoernldti"m--enctas,nnowt h(iwchit--h
any real   impediment to     the
inasmuch   as they are "for  the

out a deplorable solecism) be exposed to the implication, that
their own support, instead of being expected from the age

which they benefit and bless, must be sought in the testa

mentary bequests oi generations which have passed away.

Admitting thai endowments have the effect of embalming

erroi for a time ; even chose very words, of which the

" Faithful and True Witness " has declared --they are spirit
and they are life, must have lost, or nearly lost, their

vitality at tha^ period when they were thought to need the

care Ox the hierophants and their servants to lay on the most

cpoestutlaytebatnhdeag"efsormandofcegroedmleinnetss,s"asafttheroutghhe  wc:itphowaevri"ewhatod  per

                                                                                                  coo

manifest!) departed. Yet whether we look at the supereroga
tory or the penitential and expiatory grounds, upon which the

Bomish Church raised its claims to the property of dying

people ; or whether at the mistakes, similai in kind but not in

principle, fallen into by o Protestantism not wholly freed from
the early bondage : -- any fondness for the system, or even any

tenacious grasp of its early products, seems to reflect discredit
upon the Christianity of our own day; for is it not like an
474        RE-ARRANGES the college LIBRARY.                     [l8«.

attempt to " seek the Uving among the dead ?"--And whenever

this is done, will not that be a most merciful disappointment,

which shall send the mistaken visitants of an empty sepulchre

into close communion with the Bisen Lord ?

Dr. Smith's, communication to Mr. Butt, brief as it is, will

show how clearly he apprehended the deteriorating effect of

endowments for religious uses ; it is dated April 13, 1844 :

I--" My dear Friend,-- had fully intended to meet you and
Iour associates on Tuesday evening ;* but now find that it
will be incumbent upon me to attend on that evening the
regular meeting of the Congregational Board. The obliga

tion arises from some steps having been proposed relative
Ito the Bill now before Parliament upon Chapels. As appre
Ihend that opposition to it would not be right, am anxious
Ito aid in preventing any remonstrance or petition.
                                                                think

that opposition from us would also turn out greatly to our

own disadvantage ; so that both duty and expediency forbid           it.

Nothing but strong necessity would induce me to fail attend
           a

ance.if I  am, my dear Sir,                   affection,"
              " Yours with high
                                 esteem  and               &c.  &c.

   Instead of leaving home for the greater part  or the whole of
                                                 ought to have
July and August--the College vacation -- which

been months of leisure and rest to one who was now seventy
years of age, and who was very fully occupied during ten
months in the year, Dr. Smith took the opportunity to begin,
and possible to complete task which every one, himself ex
cepted, knew to be beyond his strength. This was no other than
              ;
the almost entire re-arrangement of the pubhc library of the
College. The room which contained the books was lofty, anda
                                a
itas was filled from the floor nearly to the ceiling, the use
of steps was required thus rendering the toil and even the
danger great to one of his age and state of weakness at the:

time and owing to the undiminished force of the habits of

nearly his whole life, the labour and fatigue were largely in

creased for whenever he had book in his hands, he could;
scarcely resist the disposition to make himself acquainted with
its history, its author, its subject: --he would also examine

the condition of the volume, the binding, labelling, and see

whether the leaves were torn, turned down, or missing. Nor

* Annual Meeting of the Hackney Auxiliary Bible Society. Mr Rutt.
JET. 70.]  RE-ARRANGES. THE COLLEGE LIBRARY.  475

could he be satisfied without doing much to render his ex
amination useful to others who might come after him, by in
serting, as he has done, in the fly-leaves, or on the margin of
the page, tables of contents, indexes, and a variety of notes,
biographical, bibliographical, critical, commendatory or the
contrary. --Had the Volumes been dispersed upon which he
exhausted his slender strength during this season of appointed
relaxation, his learning and leisure thus voluntarily applied
might have appeared little better than thrown away; but as

the Library which was at Homerton is now included in that
of New College, Dr. Pye Smith's principles and skill as an

Annotator and a Critic --instead of being confined within the
limits of his printed Works --may be seen developed upon a

wider scale ; and are furthermore rendered permanently avail
able for the example, instruction, and entertainment of precisely

that class of persons -- Students for the Christian ministry --

whom he was ever well-pleased to serve, irrespective of any
earthly recompense of reward.

   But this self-imposed undertaking may not improbably be
numbered among the signs of that failure of power for the old
and long-accustomed literary pursuits, which was now begin

ning to be observed by his friends. He could neither read

continuously nor closely as he had done ; and writing, as we

have seen, was becoming more and more irksome ; conversa
tion also, and accordingly social intercourse, was subjected to a

heavy drawback. In the midst of the kindest circle of relations,

his sense of isolation was often visible, and therefore must have
been extremely painful to himself. Hence, when he began his
work in the Library, from which he could not be persuaded to
desist, it was as though he had been silently meditating and
maturing his purpose, with a view to secure not only occupation
for his time but interest for his thoughts, just at that period

when, by the absence of the Students, he would be left very

much more alone than usual. It is instructive to notice how

the native impulse, which still seemed to crave an object on
which to exert itself, was found going out in this new direction,
at an age when it could not pursue the older tracks : and that
perhaps, as the result of this wise provision of a Divine economy,
the failure of all power for action and service did not occur as
early as it might have done, had this vacation been passed with
out any such employment. With many persons, and especially
476 INTERRUPTED BY ILLNESS. [l8«.

in advanced hfe, the want of a fresh point of interest when
the old ones fail, is tha precursor of entire and often speedy
decay. Nor is this to be wondered at where great tenacity of

apphcation has been a characteristic :-- if the prop is suddenly

removed, and there is no other to supply its place, the plant
must soon droop and die.

The plan for re-arranging the Library, which consisted of

between three and four thousand volumes, appears to have

been carefully prepared bj Dr. Smith some time before he began
his operations. When therefore it became evident that his

mind was set upon the work, such aid as could be furnished iu

the absence of the Students was pressed on his acceptance;

but he had been all his life accustomed to do without foreign
help, and his interest in books was as yet unimpaired ; hence

although some assistance was occasionally edged in, iu was

not nearly to the amount which was offered, nor at all equal
to that which his own evident weakness required. Under these

circumstances, his assiduity was not able to complete the

task by the end of the vacation ; and as the Students, im

mediately after their return to the College, were engaged in
arranging their respective studies, Dr. Smith's College Diary,

which then affords a clue to his pursuits and feelings, contains
Vwtshueeecrlhly.L"ieubnnrtaw"rireey1sl0.l". ;a--sLiv"tbher6ear.streigyAi,;nl--lolitduStaseley.p".ti.n  5. " The whole
                                                                                                        Library work."   day labouring in
                                                                                                        " 9. Library, a   " 7. Library. --
                                                                                                       Very unwell."
                                                                                                                         little.    Very un
                                                                                                                                  Obliged to
                                                                                                                         " 12.
attend the consultation of Dr. Hodgkin and my dear Ebenezer."
'; 13. By them enjoined to desist for a time." Yet, notwith

standing this medical advice, he still strove to go on with his
Lectures, although undei considerable weakness and with

some interruptions. Sept.   23. The College Committee                                                                             met ;    and
                            Committee desired me to                                                                               cease     for
the Diary records -- " The
three or four weeks." But, then, as though to show how im

possible it was for him to rest while he was able to work at all,

he was his post     again by October 5th, and writes                                                                              against  that
                    after interruption by illness."
date --" Eeturned,
It is observable that on this occasion as well as some
others, his just and wise desire to aid by his presence and

partial services the progress of the Students, constrained him

to meet his class from day to day, (though it might be but for
ffiT. 70.]       DISCONTINUES AFTERNOON SERVICE.                                  477

a short time) when he was too weak to undertake the duties of
the pulpit on the Sabbath. For the one a substitute could be

found, but not for the other. Having, however, overtasked

his strength by the labour of the vacation, in October he
rather suddenly announced to his congregation, -- '· that there
would no longer be an afternoon service." On a subsequent
                            " the reasons which had
Lord's      day  he stated  to continue that duty :                  induced him to
forego      the  attempt "                                           these were, the

state of his health, and the advice, or rather injunction of his

medical friends, Prior to the time when Dr. Smith relin

quished this service, the congregation had made arrangements

for an evening lecture ; so that there ivere still two services in

the day, though the Pastor was only engaged to undertake one

of them, and the afternoon service was resumed in 1846, when

a co-Pastor was chosen. It is gratifying to find, that the dis

couraging, and somewhat alarming state of Dr. Smith's health

at this period, did not continue. In a Letter to his son at
Sheffield, dated December 2, 1844, he says :-- " After nearly

Ithreemonths of   mreomstarmkaebrclyifudllyebivlietraytinwgell.a"nd  vertiginous  dis

order,    am now

   Having at the close of this year filled another of his Sermon
Books, the Pastor adds :-- " Wonderful, -- that God has con
ducted me to the finishing of this book !

   " Lord, make me faithful."
                  CHAPTEE XXVI.

RENEWED HEALTH -- ECLECTIC EEVIEW : PASCAL'S THOUGHTS : DE. HENEY

       EDWARDS, MODERN PRETENSION-- CONTRIBUTIONS TO BIBLICAL CYCLO

      PAEDIA --TRANSLATIONS OF PASSAGES FROM THE HEBREW SCRIPTURES --
      METHOD OF QUOTING AUTHORS -- DESIRE FOR DEFINITE INFORMATION

         MYTHIC THEORY --SOCIAL AND PRIVATE INTERCOURSE WITH THE
      STUDENTS--LETTER TO THE NEW YORK INTELLIGENCER --ATTENDS
      BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT CAMBRIDGE --LETTER TO MRS. PYE SMITH --
      VISIT TO SHEFFIELD, ETC. -- LETTER TO HIS CHILDREN -- LETTER TO

       REV. THOMAS THOMAS.

With evidently renewed strength Dr. Smith was permitted to

enter upon the year 1845. His sense of the Divine benignity,

and his thoughts and desires for the future, were thus expressed

at the beginning of a new Sermon Book :-- " Infinite Mercy has

Ibrought me to this point of time. Beyond my expectation,

have to commence another book. Surely the probability of its

being the last is greater than at an earlier point of time.
that it may contain more indications of faithfulness to my Lord

and Saviour  and  his people,  my beloved,  patient, and  affectionate
flock!"

In the January number of the Eclectic Review for this year,

an article appeared which was written by Dr. Smith on M.
--F1a8u4"4ga.enrde'"ssuAbesldimaitimeonasnooaofrfiPnapgsrsocafool'fusnthdTehotshuogiunhlkt,sin,ygept"u--ebvleissnahyedsdetehpienly
                                                                                                                                     Paris in
                                                                                                                                    Eeviewer

                                                                                                                                     humble,

we put Pascal in the rank of Bacon, Boyle, Milton, Howe,
Edwards, Coleridge, Bobert Hall, and John Foster." Ec. Rev.
1845, vol. i. p. 64. Again: "Notwithstanding the deplorable
impregnation of submission to the false church and the papal

usurpation, which from his educational and other circumstances

had been put into Pascal's mind, he with his fellow-confessors
JET. 71.] DR. HENRY EDWARDS --MODERN PRETENSION.        479

and fellow-sufferers, were wondrous witnesses to the gospel of
the Grace of God, and its proper fruits. His Thoughts and
other pieces contain a multitude of evidences and illustrations

of the essence of doctrinal Christianity, Sovereign, Free,
Electing Love acting through a Divine Eedeemer and a
Divine Sanctifier; and the essence of practical Christianity,
LbfEreoeocvvmaieeuswtheteeoriAtiGusisogcduaHsritbesienfucuIlamstuoasoegsfetCaH."toeer,n"eiAsltinhuLdrsoouvJtahgenehlsyeft,ohnleailuonmwsdi--enLdgoi"uvomsebtrtoiatkfoiinnTeghHdeo,po"lapiasnhssiealtugshsese
Gale's True Idea of Jansenism --will give an insight into the
style of piety which Dr. Pye Smith was ever inclined to culti
vate :--" The Spirit of God in the most salutary manner

indicates to us, that there is no love of ourselves more true

than that whereby we love God with all the heart. And because

the most refined and noble love of God consists in a man's

being abstracted from the reflection and consideration of him

self, it thence followeth, that by how much the more a man

forgets himself, he has so much the more noble and exact

regard to himself. Thus, by an admirable kind of competition,

the more a man denies himself the more he seeks himself;

the more he is emptied of himself the  nmootrheingh.e"  is filled with
God. To relinquish God is to embrace                      lb. p. 66.

Dr. Smith's last contribution to the Eclectic, which he had

served with great fidelity, learning, and zeal from its com

mencement in .1805, appears to have been a short paper of

about three pages in the July number for the present year;

which by a singular coincidence, when the well-known temper

and habits of the Eeviewer are considered, was written not only

without any intention to give an estimate of the works at the

head of the article, but with manifest indications that they had

not even been read. The object was to put down the Author ;

and that object appears to have been very completely as well as

very summarily accomplished. One Henry Edwards announced
himself in the title-page as the writer of a certain number of
                   styled -- Christian Humility -- Elementary
volumes variously  on Providence--Piety and Intellect -- Our

Education--Poem
Female Servants --Poem on Marriage : but as though works

with such attractive designations could not be trusted to their
own merits, the author had also used the printing press with
480         DR. HENRY EDWARDS --MODERN PRETENSION.                                     [1848.

profuse liberality in annexing the most winning figures of
speech to his own name ; for he was -- at least as far as mere
printer's ink could make him --Ph. D., D.D., F.R.S., F.A.S.,
F.S.A., dc. dc. The paper in the Eclectic is thus gravely

opened :--

   " Our duty as the servants of the public, in subordination to the claims of
truth.and fidelity, is important and solemn. The functions of our Review

are to sift the barn-floor, to separate the chaff from the wheat, to honour

that which is worthy of honour in letters and in moral principle, and to
protest against errors in science, bad taste in literature, and whatever is

unscriptural in religious doctrine, or unholy with respect to practice ; to

point out, an<? to recommend works of real excellence, which are always

distinguished by unaffected modesty, and to strip off the veil from assuming
ignorance and unblushing imposture. We feel that we lie under a weighty

responsibility to man and to God. The giving of commendations, or
censures, to books and their authors, is a case of morals, to which the
                                                        of God applies : : Ye
rule repeatedly  ilanidjuddgomwnenti,n'   the Word      justifieth the wicked,  shall do no
unrighteousness                          --' He that                            and he that
condemneth the just, even they both are abomination to the Lord.' While
it is our desire to maintain a conscientious obedience to this Divine

command, we cannot but feel ourselves aroused from anj temptation to

remissness when titles of books are laid before us with such announcements
as the following :"-- A series of extravagant commendations are quoted, just
as a sample of r, larger quantity.                 The Reviewer then goes on to say :--
   " These flowers we have culled                  A'om nearly two pages of similar matter,

subjoined to the name and the books at the head of this article. In these

fifteen recommendations, purporting to be from various newspapers, there is a

similarity  of matter  "a--nd[ymesa, nntreur,lya,  fulsome ridiculousness of  praise,   and char
acteristic  idiotisms                              idiotisms in more senses    than
                                                                                       one,] " of

expression, so marked, as to make it almost impossible to avoid believing
that one person is both the object and the author of them all." . . .

"Here is a man, exhibiting himself to the astonished world, blowing his own
trumpet, and proclaiming his wondrous merits as ' the pure moralist,--the
pious doctor' --for the                  --'
theme,' -- of humility,  inculcation     of        in   a manner every way worthy      of his
                         piety, and                all  other moral excellence ;--and  yet at

the same moment branding his own forehead with Falsehood and Forgery.
We shudder to write it ! We could not have thought it possible ! But here
is the printed evidence before our eyes." Ec. Rev. 1845, vol. ii. pp. 96, 97.

The printed evidence is then given, consisting of the
enumeration of sundry abbreviations, the well-known sym

bols of fellowship with some of the most illustrious Scien

tific and Literary Societies in the land; which Dr. Henry

Edwards, the     Hauumthiolirtyo!"f      the "Nature,   Grounds, and                   Claims
                                          had just as   good a right                   to ap
of Christian
propriate, as he had to annex to his name M.P., or even

K.G. To those who knew Dr. Smith, this brief and conclusive
JET. .11.] CONTRIBUTIONS TO BIBLICAL CYCLOPAEDIA.   481

exposure of hterary " Falsehood and Forgery " will not appear
at all surprising. The simphcity and humihty of his personal
character, and his high sense of honour and veracity, must

have rendered such a matchless parade of the opposite quali

ties pecuharly offensive to his sensitive nature. And as the
pretender to so many titles professed to be a Christian, and

was withal numbered among Protestant Dissenting Ministers,
it seemed proper in itself, and would also weigh with Dr.
Smith, that the unwelcome task of laying bare the deception,

in order to remove if possible the reproach from the De

nomination and even from Christianity, should be under

taken by one whose services in the cause of Science and

Rehgion had not only been long continued, but had been
cr&wned with such marks of pubhc respect and distinction

as clearly showed, that there was a pathway to literary and

scientific honours open to all without regard to party: -- and

that therefore the titles which might be earned, and which were

in some measure the recompense, as well as the symbols of
success, ought never to be allowed by an upright and virtuous
community, to pass current in any instance in which it became

known that they were the wildest false pretences.

   The venerable Author of many articles in the Eclectic, dis
tinguished by high moral as well as literary worth, --had he
foreseen the future-- could not have concluded that department

of his labours with greater characteristic propriety, than by
leaving his protest against ambition, and parade, and a desire
to deceive, as he has done in this brief paper entitled " Dr.

Henry Edwards --Modern Pretension." May an exposure

alike just and kind have, widely, the effect of a warning !
The individual offender can be safely forgotten ; but not so

the ever-springing infirmities of our common nature :--wrecks
do sometimes occur even within sight of beacons; but if the

latter were not set up, the havoc would be far greater, and

in every way more disastrous !

  The Cyclopaedia of Biblical Literature, edited by Dr. John
Kitto, was published in 1845. As the plan of that large

work included the contribution of articles by authors of celeb

rity in Scripture learning, irrespective of party and even of
national distinctions, --England, Scotland, Ireland, Germany,

and America may be  said to  have  their  Biblical  and Literary

                                                       2i
482 translation of passages from the Hebrew, [imd.

representatives in these two portly volumes. No less than
forty different contributors are enumerated in the preface ; and
the Editor also furnished many of the papers. Dr. Pye
                  will be found at the close of the articles--
Smith's initials   Dispersion of--Nimrod--Noah-- Paradise-
Adam --Nations,
Tongues, Confusion of. It is not important to ascertain the
dates when these papers were severally prepared. They pro
bably were not written very long before they were published,!
or at all events, they may be assigned to quite the later years

of then Author's life ; and as such they show the activity and

even subtilty of his mind at the time.
   Although a wide interval separated Noah from Adam, and

the Dispersion of Nations from the period and state of things
described in the article on Paradise ; yet all Dr. Smith's con
tributions to this work are--in their subject-matter -- as though
they were equally remote from our age ; and the only original
and really authoritative source of information respecting the

whole, is confined to the first eleven chapters of the Book of

Genesis. The use which the Author makes of his Hebrew learn

ing, in translating passages from the Sacred Text, in explicating

the idioms of the language, and in filling in words or a short

clause to convey the sense vividly as well as clearly to an Eng

hsh Eeader, is not only felt to be of great service, in eliciting as

large an amount of instruction on the several topics as perhaps

can be expected from these few chapters of Sacred History ; but

will probably awaken regret that he did not apply himself to a
work for which he had unusually high qualifications : namely,

the entire translation of the Hebrew Scriptures into the Eng

lish tongue. A more careful, a more wisely conscientious, a

more devout yet penetrating appreciation of both the Letter
and Spirit of the Sacred language can scarcely be expected, or
even required. He sought to be closely exact without being

servile ; striving to bring over into our Saxon forms of speech',

the archaic simplicity, the full and fertile brevity of the won
drous Original :--that the earliest of all written books, the

Book of Genesis, and that a Divine One, might be made to

speak to us as nearly as possible in the form, and very largely
indeed in the spirit in which it spoke to those to whom the
several portions were first given. Comparing the passages
translated in these several articles in the Bib. Cycl. --evi
dently among the latest which Dr. Smith made --with those
ST. 71.] HIS METHOD OF QUOTING FROM OTHER AUTHORS. 483

found in his earlier works, they are distinguished generally
by a less paraphrastic style; just as though by long and
devout intimacy with the Original, he had imbibed mentally
and morally so much of its spirit that, when he had occasion
to reproduce the result in his own language, he could give
--as compared with an earlier period ---a larger amount in
fewer terms. Nor is this surprising ; for in the meanwhile
he had not only gained many opportunities of reviewing what
he had before done, but the great augmentation of his know
ledge, especially in science and natural history, at once enabled
and as it were constrained him to put ampler matter into the

fewest words.

   Besides the use which Dr. Smith in these several articles
made of the original source of information, the Sacred Scrip
tures, there is also a large amount of illustrative passages

derived from a variety of Authors, some of them not likely to
come in the way of ordinary Students ; showing clearly that
his reading had taken a wide range, and that his recollection still
gave him a ready command of his stores. His method of quot
ing--here, and often in his other works -- deserves to be noticed.
Many of the passages which he cites appear as though they

came from his mind rather than from his memory or from a
book :-- hence they do not stand like mere props or ornaments
to his own thoughts. Not, indeed, that they are concealed in
any way as quotations ; for no one could be more lavish than
he was in the use of all those typographical devices by which
literary property, even to the merest fragments, might be visibly
assigned to its rightful owner : but the passages quoted look as
though they had had justice done to them in the mind of Dr.
Smith before he makes them do service in the printed page.

Hence, in their relation to his own views, they hold both a

useful place and one of honour and distinction; one also --

which whether they are in accordance or not with the Author's
sentiments--is seen to be eminently subsidiary to his main
design. The Beader, therefore, is not perplexed by their
generality, nor overpowered by their number; and above all,
he is not hkely to be drawn away from the principal subject

into mere secondary discussions.
   The titles of the several articles which he contributed are

sufficient to show, that in every one of them there was ample

2i2scope, and almost innumerable examples, to entice in the
484  HIS DESIRE FOR DEFINITE INFORMATION.  [l845.

direction of theorizing and conjecture. To many they would

have served as irresistible baits, which would have been seized
with avidity, because they could scarcely imagine whither they

might be drawn. In his case, however, the primary object was

to collect, condense, and communicate upon the several points

definite information :-- definite, if he had met with any in the
whole course of his reading, or if it could be secured by

eliminating the most probable from the fanciful or the absurd.
Even where the subject is most recondite and curious, and the
materials for forming an opinion are scanty or shadowy, the
Author, with an evident interest in the investigation, does not

appear to pursue it for its own sake --far less from any personal
credit to be reaped from the issue :--he has plainly a duty to
do for truth and for human instruction --he has not to serve
himself, but " his generation according to the will of God "--

so that he holds on his way through the most obscure and diffi
cult passages, as one whose motives and spirit and manner
must commend themselves to the Beader's heart, even though
his judgment and the Author's should not agree at the close.

It was eminently a distinction of his --to touch and discuss the

most abstruse Biblical questions with almost perfect freedom of

thought, and yet with a reverence and devout humbleness of

mind which never seemed to slumber.

    Should the time ever arrive for printing Dr. Smith's con
tributions to the Biblical Cyclopaedia in a separate form,
arranging them in their chronological rather than their alpha
betical order, a greatly enlarged circle of Beaders would
rejoice to have a work as rich in instruction, as it is attractive

from the variety and suggestiveness of the matter introduced,
placed within their reach. And this, indeed, is the more to

 be desired, since the Author in some of these papers, as well
 as in his work on Scripture and Geology, has clearly asserted

 his belief respecting the historical character and claims of the
 Book of Genesis. Thus, in the article Paradise, having stated
 the great difficulties of every attempt to fix the locality, and

 having mentioned his own views of the question, he introduces

 a class of critics who escape from the inquiry by denying the
historical authority of that part of the Divine Word :--" The
 numerous attempts of modern German writers to resolve this
 part and all the rest of the Mosaic Archaeology into what they
 call a Mythic Philosopheme (an allegory made up of tradition
ST. 71.] SOCIAL 'INTERCOURSE WITH THE STUDENTS.                  485

and fancy), would require a large space to detail and examine
them. They are full of arbitrary assumptions and incon
sistencies ; their tendency and design are to undermine all the
facts of supernatural revelation, to destroy the authority of the
Mosaic and Prophetical Scriptures, and consequently of the
Christian; and thus eventually to supersede all religion that
rests upon any other ground than egotistical reasonings and
romantic fancies. They form a great part of a multifarious
scheme of infidelity and pantheism, which requires to be met

by the proofs of the existence of a personal, intelligent, and

efficient God, and the evidences that HE has bestowed upon

man a positive manifestation of His authority and His love."

Under date July 1, 1845, an entry occurs in the College

Diary, which will supply appropriate ground-work for the
following illustration of Dr. Smith's social character :-- " Mrs.

Smith had    intevaiteadn, dansduptpheisr."  afternoon received  the body  of
Students to                                  ---The number of    Students  in

the College at the time, as stated in a list of their names

written in the Diary, was twenty ; and through the kind
ness of Mrs. Pye Smith, a communication has been obtained

from one of the number, the Bev. George Palmer Davies

of Wandsworth, Surrey, giving an account of the manner in

which the evening was passed ; and then by an easy and
obvious transition going on to describe the personal and social

intercourse which the Tutor ever sought to maintain between

himself and the whole of the Students. With a commendable

fidelity to his sense of the worth of the venerated man, Mr.

Davies allows his Letter to be used in this memoir : and for

the accuracy of the delineation, and the generous but quite

unexaggerated warmth of the writer's feelings, it is given with

out abridgment. Let the Beader, however, not overlook the
fact, that the whole relates to that period of Dr. Smith's life --
when he was between seventy and seventy-five years of age -- at

which it is so extremely rare, to find the affections ahve, to say
nothing of their being active and vigorous, towards persons

whose claims -- of whatsoever kind --were only of recent origin,
and based mainly --as it might be imagined --on official

grounds. But in truth, the Student for the Christian ministry

had long been viewed by this Tutor as a sort of sacred

character, so that he was accustomed to hold race after race
486 SOCIAL AND PRIVATE INTERCOURSE                                                            [l84fi.

in respect and honour; and thus the accumulated feeling of

years evinced itself in an almost glowing                             wafhfeecnti--onnaftourratlhlye--m
through that advanced stage of human life,

the soil is too thin or exhausted for the growth of really new

plants. And his, whether from instinct or from a clear per
ception of duty and usefulness -- his v>as the true philosophy

for such an office : for by keeping his own estimate of the
value of the Student at the highest possible elevation, he was

not only hkely to keep his motives and efforts for the Student's

benefit in the best working order, both intellectually and
religiously ; --but the Student himself, unless dull in the worst
sense, would receive a salutary influence and impulse from the

pervading consciousness that he was not thought of and treated
by his Tutor as a common thing.

   Mr. Palmer Davies's Letter to Mrs. Pye Smith is dated
Wandsworth, Sept. 2, 1852 :--

I" After many interruptions have at length an hour or two to myself,
Iand readily embrace the opportunity so' afforded to reply to the question
which you proposed to me in your last note.                           entered Homerton College
Iin 1844, and it was, believe, in the summer of 1845 that we first met in
what subsequently became an annual meeting. That first meeting, though I
Iattended many subsequently, is the one of which entertain the most vivid
Irecollections, and to which now look back with the liveliest interest. The
Iorder of proceedings, as far as can recollect
                               :

                                                    it,

                                                                         ;

                                                I

                                                                                  a
                                                                      (for have far more

distinct recollection of the impressions which were produced than of the

incidents which occurred) was this The Doctor was by his deafness pre
cluded from taking part in our general conversation but after tea, before

we adjourned to his library, as we soon afterwards did, he gave us many

interesting anecdotes of distinguished men. It was either on this occasion,

or when we met in 1846, that he read to us long and valued Letter which
                               '

                                             a
he had recently received from Dr. Bush, of New                        York,   toBuocdhyin.'g  the book
he had just then published on the Resurrection                        of the                      forget
                                                                              aI
whether this was reply to Letter which Dr. Pye Smith had already
                a           a

                   it
written, or whether merely elicited reply but well recollect that,
                               a

                                                 :

                                          I

while he spoke in strong and affectionate language of Dr. Bush as friend
and conscientious scholar, he expressly dissented from his peculiar theory,

and referred to that which     well known that he himself so firmly, and
                            it

                                : is
                                                                      '
  think may say fondly,    held -- the existence of an indestructible germ,
so minute as to elude the
the resurrection body was
I                                                                      observations,' from which
        I                                                             some such instructive way

                           vaet rlyasnticteosst pmrinicgr.o*scoIpnic
we usually spent this portion of the evening.
   " We afterwards retired to his library, where he had already arranged
his microscope, and placed for our inspection rare works in Theology, and

those splendid books which he possessed illustrative of so many branches of

      At the close of this communication from Mr. Palmer Davies, the Reader
will find Letter of Dr. Smith's on the subject. --Ed.
*
             a
ST. 71.]         WITH THE STUDENTS.                                         487

Physical Science and Natural History. He himself superintended our
inspection, and, as was ever his wont, anticipated our questions and diffi
culties, and made our amusement instructive by the rich variety and
appropriateness of his remarks and illustrations. In addition to this we
had unrestricted permission to examine any other books, pictures or
portraits, and to propose any question which such examination might
suggest. In this way the time passed most pleasantly. This over, we then
Iassembled for family worship and afterwards met for supper. It was here,
that on this occasion, (in 1845)   as   shall never forget,  when we had    finished
our repast, he rose and spoke           a tenderness and                     him so
                                  with                       humility-- to

natural, to us so touching, of his trials, his comforts, the goodness of God,
Ithe kindness of friends, and of the unbounded affection which in his heart
he felt for us.  see him now as, with silvered hair, and tearful eyes, and

tremulous voice, and animated gesture, he stood, and in love and confidence

Iunlocked to us some of the finest feelings of his heart. We parted, having

sung a hymn. This will think serve to show the spirit in which those

Imeetings were passed. The ipsissima verba which were said, and the order

in which various incidents occurred, cannot so well remember.
  " But it would give a very inadequate idea of Dr. Smith's domestic inter

course with his Students to restrict it to this. For any or for all there was

ever to him ready access. There were stated seasons when he solicited

interviews with us individually ; but his duties, so varied and burdensome,

never prevented him at other seasons from granting such interviews when
asked. Once in every month the Committee of the College met and dined
with the Students in the Public Hall. On that day lectures in every branch
were suspended : but Dr. Smith invariably devoted the hour or more, on
other days assigned to him, to private conversation with such of the Students
as he selected, generally on matters touching personal feeling and religious

difficulties. On such occasions he chiefly invited those who were not daily
attendants in his Theological Class ; who otherwise might be too timid to
seek what was thus so considerately and kindly given. In the last two or
three years of his College life, this was not attended to with as much
regularity :--chiefly because the necessity for it had in part ceased in con

Isequence of changes connected with the studies of the Junior Classes ; and

partly too, believe, because after the death of Mr. Christie no new
Secretary was appointed, and the Doctor's time was of necessity occupied
in the preparations requisite to the deliberations of the Committee. This,

however, has to do only with the occasions on which, independently of any
expressed wish on the part of a Student, he of his own accord sought a

private conference.

   " But it was in less formal interviews, and these by no means unfrequent,
that the interest felt in the welfare of his pupils was most strikingly

manifested. Could the veil which shrouds these in inviolable secresy be

withdrawn, there were told many a touching tale which could betoken, one
would think, nothing less sacred than the love of a Father. Nor was this
unsought converse ever regarded as ominous of disgrace; while, on the
contrary, it seldom failed to furnish some new proof of the Tutor's con
siderate affection. Where health was delicate, it might be to suggest timely
caution :--where unpleasant habits had been contracted ; habits scarcely
observed by one less interested, it would be to administer kind and paternal
488                               LETTER TO THE EDITOR OF                                [l845.

counsel :-- where distress or anxiety was suspected, it would be to win
confidence, and to alleviate if not to remove it :-- in a word, there was hardly

a Student to whom, either in difficulties of mind or estate, he had not during

that Student's College course given practical sympathy and help. It was

often with the pleasant suddenness of a surprise, that one struggling with

his own sorrow and looking darkly at time to come, found his path

brightened by the unsuspected efforts of one absorbed, as he thought, in
nobler aims and full of other and higher cares than his ; and this too with
such secresy and unostentatious goodness, that none could spurn the con
fidence or apprehend exposure.

  I" This Letter would swell out to an unbecoming length, were to write
Ias would of the judicious but practically unrestricted access which we

had to the splendid treasures of his private library : of the assiduous
perseverance with which he procured for us admission to the various

Societies, Literary, Scientific, and Religious, in which his name and in

fluence were respected : of the way in which, in such circles, he identified

himself with his Pupils, ever naming and introducing them to those to
whom it were an honour but. once to have spoken ; and how, in the utter

absence of the repulsive frigidness of official dignity, by his personal virtues,
his splendid attainments, and above all, by the simplicity of his piety and
the spotlessness of his life, he sought and won the substance and symbols of
personal respect : and yet as one who has not heard of it but known my
              ;

                 aI
                     I

                                                      a

                                           I
                                                    I

                                                       I
                                                                                                           it,
heart burns that should stop with the mere enumeration, and check the
gush of gratitude which in me at least this bare catalogue awakens. You
have not sought that should write of him as a Teacher.
                                                                                 have therefore
spoken of him as Counsellor and Friend.
                                                                     have done this hastily and
incompletely but in love and reverence. Glad shall be if such crude

recollections will,               to the least extent, further  any  purpose-of  yours.  Believe
me," &c. &c.

   The following Letter, addressed to the Editor of the New
York Intelligencer, explains the purpose which Dr. Smith had

in writing it. It dated
                                  is
" Sir,-- Having been              lately        " Homerton College, Sept. 22, 1845.
                                     I    absent a month from home, found on my
                                                                     I

                                                                             I
return, an accumulation of Letters requiring answers, and other papers of
business. For fortnight have been toiling, at such intervals as have
I
                               a
been able to command, in writing according to the demands. This morning
  reached the latter part of my task and have found an American news

paper not opened, the New York Christian Intelligencer, for July 24th last.
For the communication of this Paper, return my respectful thanks to you,
                                                I;

                                                     I

or to any other friend, who has conferred the favour upon me. It contains
many articles of interesting information, and excellent Christian tendency.
But there one which puts upon me the necessity of troubling you with
this Letter.'
    is
         is
dwehn"ictAhnHAollledpgeaFrtaifoietnhc,t'cloyfnocruenryntoirnuugrem.reefusiancmgitetdgorfargoteimvfeual nctoorethydeoitru,ptoearniiodtd. iycoaTulhrpeucboflarircceatsstpiooannr,eI is
    ST. 71.]  THE NEW YORK INTELLIGENCER.                                                            489

    Ithese. A few months ago, wrote either to Professor Bush, ( a gentleman
    I Iwhom highly esteem, ) or to another friend ; but think it was to the
    IProfessor himself. In that

    Iwhich have indeed ' taught
                               Letter,        vyeerayrs,'briefly  described a doctrine,
                               for many                     even  my whole public life
    Iof almost fifty years ; and
                                            derived in my youth from Dr. Watts's
    Philosophical Essays. --It            fully granting what Mr. Bush has said,
                               which
                               is this :
    Iand which regard as demonstrably true, upon the perpetual flow and
    change of organized substances which constitute all vegetable and animal
    bodies, there is in the conformation of the human body, a particle which

    undergoes no change ; probably so minute, as to be indiscoverable by the

    highest microscopic power ; and which could not be known by man, were it
    to become an object of vision : but which like all other things, is ever naked
    and open to the Infinite Mind. This infinitesimal and indestructible

    particle, may be compared to the corculum of a vegetable seed ; and it is so

    compared by the inspired Teacher in 1 Cor. xv. 37, 38. It lives safe and

    secure through all the mutations of our Earth and its materials, in the

    hand of the Almighty Preserver of his own Universe. From at the
    great day, will be developed the resurrection body of each human
    Individual; and upon this foundation, the identity of the raised body will
    be as complete as that of your, or my body, at this moment, in relation
    to what our bodies were, a year, or seventy years ago.

       " The object of my Letter was, to press this doctrine upon the able and
    upright Professor, as being the one thing which necessary to the com
    pleteness of his theory, and as leaving untouched the great Scripture
      It

                      a
                            is

                                                                                 is
                                                                                                it,
    doctrines, of proper Resurrection of all the human bodies that have

    ever existed, or that shall exist, and the universal, conspicuous, and
    mutually conscious Judgment Day.

       " grieves me, however, to add, that your correspondent, in his strictures
    upon Geological Science, has fallen into the common error, of censuring

    wthiethporuotfotuhnodrouagnhdlyovuenrdwehresltmanindgingsutbhjeectobojefcttsheceEnstuererdn.ityWPitahstr--espaenctunto

    questionably necessary reality -- can make no difference, at what point
    soever we fix for the commencement of non-necessary existence, -- e. of
              it is

                          is

                                            it

                                                                                                                                                        :

                                                                                                             i.

                                                                      I
    Creation. The evidence of an unspeakably vast antiquity of the dependent
    universe, --in my view --decisive, both morally and physically and

    think that has been fairly shown, that the admission of God's creative
    acts--to have begun at some point of duration more remotely back than
    man can assign -- not at variance with the Inspired Volume, any more
    than that the language of Scripture, respecting the earth and the heavens,

' is  irreconcileable with the demonstrated facts of the Solar system, and the

    Astral spaces filled  with countless millions of Suns and Worlds.         Faith'--the
      " Upon the other    branch of the subject introduced by Hold
                                                 I
                                                           '
    future condition of the Earth, and other parts of the material universe, in

    comparison with which our globe but as the smallest particle of the
                                          is

    small dust of the balance --the sentiments which believe and teach are,
                             '

                              I
that nothing to which God has given existence, whether spirit or matter,
    will ever be annihilated.    maintain, not destruction, but change
                                                                                                     ;

agreeably to the metaphor, of new folding garment, or any other way
                                              a

altering its form and arrangement, (Ps. cii. 26. Heb. 12 and consonant
with the declaration of the conflagration and dissolution which shall precede
                                                                  i.
                                                                          ;)
490 LETTER TO MRS. PYE SMITH.                                                                 [l8«.

the recomposition of the materials into the 'New Heavens and the New
Earth :' 2 Pet. iii. 10-- 13. This is the very reverse of what your Corres

pondent ascribes to Geologists, that ' they              have           ngolohbees.'itatDioonestoyoduerclawroertthhye
permanent and indestructible continuance
                                                        of this
Iffriend understand ' destruction ' only in the vulgar sense ?
                                                                                        he burn a

stick to ashes, the common language that he has destroyed
                it                                                                   it     whereas,

                    is                                                                   :

                                    ;

                                                     is,
                                                         is
not an atom of  lost its form only changed. He does us great in

justice probably by taking up the representations of other persons. Will
he permit me to ask that he would for himself, fully read my book, to

which he does me the honour of referring? In particular, beg this for
                                                                                     I

the third edition, on account of the additions. Also would refer to
                                                                        Milner --'I
tShceripetuxrcee,l'lepnat rticvuollaurmlye  of the Rev. Thomas                     Astronomy  and
                                            chapters xvi. xvii. xviii.

                                            " am, sir, yours respectfully, P. S."
                                            I                                           J.

From the 18th to the 24th of June Dr. Smith was at Cam

bridge, attending the meetings of the British Association, held

there in 1845. An account of his journey, and of the manner

in which he was entertained in the University Town,                                           4 is
supplied hy passages from
Smith:--                                    3           Letter written to Mrs. Pye
                                                     a
                                            " Chambers of E. Eustace, Esq.,

                                                      St. Peter's College, Cambridge;
                                                      Wed. June 18,- 1845.

                                              o'clock.

" By the Divine mercy, everything has been comfortable

and prosperous, both at Ebenezer's, and on the journey. The

copious rain till about o'clock                          exhibited         great blessinga
to the country,--signal comfort to                      me, seated
                                                                        in the Wisbeach

Coach, after arriving at Bishop's Stortford, where                                      a   great

many gentlemen, including Mr. Greenhough and Lord Ennis-

killen, had come by the train from Town, and found them
selves destitute of the means of getting forwards. It was

pitiable to see them standing and looking most wistfully,

and prowling about the two or three coaches, -- evidently
longing to get the humblest outside place, but in vain :--the
rain pouring. -- presume there were no post-chaises to be had.
          I II

                       if

                        I it I
                            II

                                                               a
                                                                                     a

                                                                it

                                                                              is
What they did know not.                                 have met at the Beception
Boom, Sedgwick, Murchison, Hutton, Griffith,-- but none of
the unfortunates. --How strange !-- here, sitting in Mr. Eus
tace's chambers, given up as were to stranger, dissenter,

calmly and serenely as at home.                              do not know Mr. Eus
tace, nor have yet seen him. -- must conclude, as
                                                                                              near
ST. 71.]       LETTER TO HIS CHILDREN.                    491

Ithe College

invitation."
          dinner-hour  to which                am favoured with an

|Then the next day :--" Thursday,              past ii. Mercies still,
not only attendant, but prevenient. O that thankfulness and

Iincreased devotedness may be advanced in me
This forenoon       spent in the Woodwardian Collection of

Minerals and Fossils, conducted thither by Sir Henry de la
IBeche : then xi. to ii. in the Geological

come here to add to this note."
                                               Sections.  Now

  In July and August, Dr. and Mrs. Smith visited Sheffield,
Scarborough, and other places in the North of England. Soon
after his arrival at his Son's, at Broomhill, in the neighbour

hood of Sheffield, he wrote thus to the members of his family

at Billiter Square and Homerton ; --putting at the foot of the
first page of his Note their several names in full :--

  " My ever dear children, --Both feeling and justice lead me to love you

Iall with the same cordiality, and as cannot and need not write separately

I Jto each, adopt this mode. We left home at past ix°, and were at
iEuston Square at x°, a full quarter of an hour before the letting of the 1st

Class places commenced. At past x°, we began to be driven by fire and
water, upon the earth, above the earth, and deep in the bowels of the

earth, till, at vil°, we saw the affectionate face of dear John William at the
Sheffield Station. Speedily were we transported to Broomhill ; and here
we have found all in health and happiness, parents and children. What
Ithen can we render to the God of our lives and mercies ? In particular and

above all men, am bound to love and praise and seek to serve Him.
Through my long life, and now especially in its closing chapters, he has
filled me with blessings. Among the richest and sweetest of all, are
Iconjugal and parental blessings ; and with what delight in those respects

am favoured to look upon my families, both at home and here ! Yet,

I trust, this feeling is not selfishness ; unless it be such to rejoice in the

Ihappiness of those whom love because they deserve to be loved. But
sorrows and afflictions we must have ; sympathy also in them will be a
part of our blessedness, come how and when they may.
" Accept my especial thanks, my dear Ruth, for your so pressing upon me
the reading of Mr. Penrhyn Stanley's Life of Dr. Arnold, and your putting
Iit into my power.  hope this evening to finish vol. I. Strange as it
I Imight seem to some, must say that Arnold was just the man that should
delight in, the man of mine own heart. Sentiments which appear quite
Iopposite in him and in me, would, think, have turned out most harmonious,
Iif full conversation could have taken place.  think it plain that he never

met with an evangelical dissenter or churchman either, that was not
ignorant, enslaved to words, unscientific, incapable of sympathizing with

the holy nobleness of Arnold, and Paul, and John, and Jesus. What love
492                 LETTER TO MR. THOMAS :                                            [l845.

and zeal and diligence ; and a life so short ! Beautiful exemplification of
Rev. ii. 3."

These visits to Sheffield were rendered pecuharly interesting

to the Doctor, and to the members of his family residing there,
by the opportunity which was thus provided and secured for
the administration of the rite of Baptism by the venerated and
affectionate Grandfather to the infant children of Mr. and

Mrs. John William Smith. Notwithstanding the distance, his
many duties, and his advanced age, the children of this branch
of the family born prior to his decease were all baptized by

him with only   one   exception.      He thus refers                        to an instance
of the kind on  this               We have attended                         the Baptismal
                      visit :-- "
Service of dear Charlotte Pye. --Everything delightful and
encouraging. --Not
                      ooldnlyphMilors.opMhiocnatlgofmrieenryd."             present, but Mr.
James Yates, my
                                                                            --Scarcely can it

be necessary to say, that his Grandchildren in London re

ceived a similar service from his hands.

   During the Pastor's absence his pulpit was supphed on this
occasion by one of the Senior Students of the College, the

Eev. Thomas Thomas, now settled at Wellingborough, North

amptonshire. His Tutor wrote thus to him from Scarborough,
Aug. 12, 1845 :--

  "My dear friend, --The mercies which we have been favoured with,

through the fortnight since we left home, have been constant and im

pressive. The melancholy state of the weather, from almost constant rains
           uonuset asoofnadboleors;*colbdu, tpmreuvcehntms otroe  a great
and most                                                          does the   degree   the advantage
of moving                                                                   prospect  of a disastrous

harvest-time weigh upon our spirits. Yet prayer and trust, with resigna

tion to the judgments of the Ever Blessed Ruler, bring a present encourage

ment and a future relief. We may well dread afflictive visitations for our
many national offences, and for the perfidious cruelty of our Government in

being accessory to the French villany in the South Seas. Yet we have
hope upon the principle of Gen. xviii. 20 -- 23. We arrived at this town

on Friday, the 8th instant. So far as we can now form an anticipative

opinion, we hope to be again in our dear home by the 29th. But if it

Ishould appear advisable to prolong our absence beyond that day, will

inform my friends in good time ; and providence enabling, we shall be with
you before Sept. 7th. The Church-Meeting will be on the 4th.

  I" On the 24th the ' black Bartholomew Day ' (as our fathers used to

style it,) you will, entertain not a doubt, preach in response to the call of
our Deputies. Please to confer with our wise and faithful friends, the

     * " We have, however, an excellent situation, open to the fine bay."
ST. 71.]         ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S DAY.                                              493

IDeacons ; and as cannot doubt their approbation, announce, next Lord's
Day, your intention and the accompanying Collection.* Also, request them
Ito advance a sovereign for me, which will thankfully repay when we meet.
II am sure you will

proper sentiments
                 not  deem me dictatorial if  '  Nomneconntifoonr,miassts'sugMgeemstoivriealo,'f
                 for  the occasion, --i. The

2 vols.   It is in the Library,    on the left of the   door; very improperly
lettered                           Eminent Ministers.'     See the Introduction,
          on the back, ' Lives of

and the articles, Spurston, Bates, and Baxter, to which the Index will
direct, ii. Dr. Watts's ' Humble Attempt ' for the Revival of Religion, in
one of the volumes of his Works. It contains many valuable sentiments on

the obligations and advantages which Dissenters peculiarly possess, and
which in our day have been gloriously amplified. See Mr. Palmer's
ICatechism.  have repeatedly preached Bartholomew-day sermons. But
Iif you favour me, when returned, with a sight of your notes, trust that
I may be enabled to attempt some supplementary inferences on the morning

Iof September 14th. iii. An excellent article, conjecture by Mr. Black
Ifburn himself, in the Congregational Magazine for this month.             you have

any notes of my Church History Lectures, for 1572, you will find a more
detailed account of the French Bartholomew.

"Please to give my kind regards and Mrs. Smith's, to Mrs. Swallow,
Iand to our other beloved ones. No Letters have come to-day, but hope
Ifor to-morrow.  wrote on Saturday. The post time hence is half past one.
I" Romans xv. 30--33.
                             "  remain,    my dear Mend,          J.  Pye  Smith.''
                                           Affectionately yours,
                                        "

   * The Collection was made for the Deputies of the Three Denominations,
towards meeting the expenses of Protecting the Civil Rights of Protestant

Dissenters. --Ed.
                      CHAPTEE XXVII.

 CO-PASTORATE-- INVITATION TO REV. JOHN DAVIES --MR. DAVIES BECOMES
       CO-PASTOR -- PASTORATE OF MR. DAVIES -- LETTER URGING THE
       OBSERVANCE OF THE LORD'S SUPPER--HIS DEAFNESS --REMARKS ON
       ORDINATION-- EXCURSION TO THE CHANNEL ISLANDS -- LETTERS TO
       HIS DAUGHTER--LETTER TO REV. J. S. WARDLAW: INFANT BAPTISM
      --ATTENDS BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT SOUTHAMPTON, -- REV. THOMAS
       ADKINS-- UNDERTAKES SECRETARYSHIP OF THE COLLEGE -- HIS MO
       TIVES FOR TAKING THE OFFICE-- NOTES OF A SERMON ON THE
       ACTIVITY AND DECLINE OF LIFE -- MINDFUL OF HIS ADVANCED AGE-
       LETTER TO HIS SON AT SHEFFIELD,-- ATTENDS BRITISH ASSOCIATION
       AT OXFORD--VARIETY AND NUMBER OF HIS COLLEGE LECTURES --

        LETTER TO MR. CHARLES REED : GOVERNMENT EDUCATION MEASURE.

   From a variety of causes, differing probably in their nature
and combination in each particular case, the attempt to in
troduce a co-pastor into our Nonconformist Churches has
often been found to fail ; and the result has been, not an
increase of strength, but rather weakness and division. When

however --from age or infirmity --the Incumbent of a " Liying "

in the Church of England is unable to discharge his clerical
duties, he secures the aid of a Curate, and the work goes on
and the congregation is kept up, without any apparent change.
The distinction in the two cases may be in part accounted for
in this way ;--religious communities sustained upon the volun
tary principle} have not only that principle as the sole ground
of their pecuniary support, but it does also operate in all their
relations, so that everything almost which requires to be done,

has to be done -- if not exactly in a different way, yet--in a dif

ferent spirit from that called for in the Establishment. Should
this fact appear to any as a grave objection against the con
stitution of Free Churches, it is really an argument in their
ST. 73.]  CO-PASTORATE.  495

favour ; for it involves by thus much, the substitution of moral
means, among all the parties concerned in the working out
of all parts of such a system, as distinct from the application

of mere will, or of human law, authority, and power ; in a
word, of physical force. The principle from which action

begins in the first mover, must not only be of higher advan
tage to himself in proportion as it is moral; but it is likely to
be of greater use to the person to be acted upon, by calling up

moral qualities in him also. Now --as already intimated --Dr.

Smith appeared not merely to carry out, but most sincerely to
love the Church Polity of the Nonconformists, in consequence
of the very great prominence given to this principle, and the

scope and demand for its exercise in all Church proceedings.

   Hence, when the time came, as he felt toward the close of
the seventy-second year of his age that it had come, for the
appointment of a co-pastor ; the Church Book bears ample

evidence of the cordiality with which he entered into all the
measures for securing the object. His handwriting in the

minutes of the proceedings, and his mind and heart in the

composition of the several documents, clearly evince his
thorough union of purpose with his people on that occasion,
and his activity and gratification in giving effect to their
desires. --Having already stated the particulars relating to
the formation of the Church at the Gravel Pit, and those also
of the choice and ordination of the Bev. John Pye Smith to

be its Pastor ; it will not perhaps be without interest, to some

at least who are but imperfectly acquainted with such pro

ceedings, if there be a detail of the several steps by which this

now aged minister sought and obtained the co-operation of
a much younger man in the Pastorship.

   " 1846. January 29. At the Church Meeting holden this
evening, it was resolved :--I. That the Church, having en
joyed satisfactory opportunities of knowing the Beverend John
Davies, and of forming a judgment upon his Christian Char

acter and his Ministerial Endowments, consider him to be
well qualified for the Pastoral office, either conjoint or sole ;

and that if the Lord should direct him and us to be united in

that important relation, we shall entertain very encouraging
hopes of spiritual benefits to ourselves and to our families, to
the congregation and to the neighbourhood. Such a union we
should regard as a gracious answer to our prayers, and a token
496  INVITATION TO REV. JOHN DAVIES.  [l840.

of mercy from our Divine Head and Saviour :-- and II. That

a Letter, signed by the Pastor and Deacons on behalf of the

Church, be addressed to the Beverend John Davies, cordially
inviting him to take upon himself the office of Conjoint

Pastor.

   " In pursuance of these Besolutions, a Letter, of which the
following is a copy, was sent :--

   " To the Eeverend John Davies.
   " Beverend and Dear Sir :-- In accordance with the Be

solutions passed at a Meeting of the Pastor, Deacons, and
Members of the Congregational Church of Christ assembling
in the Old Gravel Pit Meeting House, Hackney, (a copy qf
which is inclosed) we hereby and with sincere pleasure convey
to you the very cordial and urgent request of the Church that
you would take upon yourself the office of Joint-Pastor.

   " We hope that in answer to prayer, the Church has been
directed in this important step, and trust that Divine guidance
will be graciously afforded to you in considering and deciding
upon it : and we pray that a union may now be formed, which

will prove for the glory of our Great Head and Saviour, for
the advancement of his kingdom amongst us, for your own
comfort, and for the spiritual and eternal happiness of all who
will be thus committed to your care.

      " We are, dear Sir, with much respect and affection,
                     " Yours in the service of Christ
                                " John Pye Smith, Pastor ;
                               " Samuel G. Underhill-- G. Parker-
                                   Stephen Olding --H. Butt--James
                                         Carter; Deacons."

   A Church Meeting was held February 19th, when a Letter
was read from the Eev. John Davies, expressing his acceptance

of the invitation. But according to the order observed by the
early Nonconformists, which Dr. Pye Smith desired studiously
to follow, and in which his colleague-elect kindly met his
wishes, Mr. Davies was not to be considered as fully appointed

until the formalities recorded in the annexed minute, for March

19th, had been completed: -- "At a special Church Meeting,

holden this evening, the Bev. John Davies was received into

our fellowship, upon dismission and warm recommendation

from the Church at Aldermanbury Postern, in which he had
sustained the Pastoral office during upwards of twelve years.
ST. 72.J  PASTORATE OP MR. DAVIES.                                           497

The Church then called him to the oversight and teaching
which belong to the pastoral function, in conjunction with
John Pye Smith :
call.--" Lord, we   and he         declared  hnisowapcrcoespptaenrcitey."of  the
                   beseech       Thee, send

  At the formation of the Church at the Gravel Pit, it has
been seen that Dr. Smith first became a member of the small

community, and then he was ' called out ' by his Brethren to
take the pastoral oversight of them in the Lord : and thus, at
his desire, the same course was pursued in the case of Mr.

Davies ; he also was first ' received into the fellowship ' of
the Church, and the Church having ' called ' him to be their

Pastor, he at that meeting declared his acceptance of the
' --Under such regulations, which are now gone almost

into oblivion, or are looked back upon and recollected only to
excite a smile, there lay a truth and a lesson which are quite as

much needed in our day as in any :--namely, that the Pastor of

a Christian Church is only one of the Brethren, whom the rest
have ' called to the oversight and teaching which belong to
the Pastoral function.' And it might be expected, that the

bonds which unite the parties subsequent to the change in his

position would be stronger, less easily severed, and the affec

tionate service of each for each be warmer and more generous,

in consequence of that collateral link which connected him

with that particular Society as a   MofemthbeerG, owspheolm."  he was  after
wards to serve in " the fellowship

   " 1846, April 23, Thursday evening. The solemn service of

Becognition took place, of the Beverend John Davies to the

Pastorship in conjunction with John Pye Smith.
   " Beading the Scriptures (2 Tim. ii.) and Prayer, by the Eev.

Algernon Wells. -- The two customary inquiries were made by

the Bev. Dr. Henry Forster Burder ; the first was responded to
on behalf of the Church, by Mr. Stephen Olding ; the second,
by Mr. Davies. --Dr. Burder addressed Mr. Davies, from 2 Tim.
h. 15 ; ' Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman
that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of

truth.'

    " The designation Prayer was offered by J. P. S.
    " The Sermon by the Eev.     Thomas Binney, from Philippians
i-  1.-- ' To all the Saints in   Christ Jesus,-- with the bishops

                                                               2k
498             PASTORATE OF MR. DAVIES.              [l846.

and   deacons ; grace  unto you and peace, from God our Father
and                    Christ.'
      the Lord Jesus   Prayer, by the Eev. Alfred Barrett."
   "
      The concluding

  In this manner, equally respectful to his colleague, and

modest and unassuming in reference to himself, did Dr. Smith

insert in the Church Book the several circumstances of the
choice and settlement of the Eev. John Davies at the Gravel

Pit Chapel. The arrangement has proved in every sense a

most happy and gratifying oue. The mind of the elder Pastor

was at once and ever after relieved from all anxiety on the delicate

question of obtaining a coadjutor, with whom he could work

harmoniously for that term of ministerial service which might
                                                      his ' companion
lyaebt oubre,'  granted to him    : he saw also in    at whatever time   in
                his successor to  the full Pastorate                    his

own failure of strength, or removal from the world, might lay

him aside from all such duties. Thus there was now not only
complete freedom from solicitude respecting a provision for the

welfare of the Church which he had formed, and had served
long and faithfully ; but there was full satisfaction, which

expressed itself as it were spontaneously in thankfulness and
joy--like a gladsome exhalation coming up from 'a newly-
watered garden, or ' a field which the Lord hath blessed.'

Under the new arrangements, the congregation began to

increase, and members were added to the Church at a more

rapid rate than had been known during the later years of the
sole pastorship of Dr. Smith, when the interruptions of his

health and his greatly augmented deafness lessened his activity

and usefulness. It was also evident as a fact, and may be

accounted for on principles common and even justifiable in

such cases--which therefore deserve more consideration than
they generally receive --that the variety in the style of preach
ing secured by this fresh provision for the pulpit, met and
gratified mental tastes and states of feeling -- did great good,
promoted the Divine glory --beyond the range within which

the aged Pastor found his circle of attached hearers. All,

however, went on in admirable harmony. And such a blessing
has descended on the settlement of Mr. Davies -- distinguished
as it has been by his uniform consistency, punctuality, and
power in cultivating his own particular sphere of labour--that
at this time--about seven years from the commencement of
ST. J72.  LETTER ON THE LORD'S SUPPER.                                 499

his Co-Pastorship --it has been found necessary to provide

additional accommodation for the numbers who attend his able
ministry. Were the now-glorified Pastor still on earth, with what
holy delight would he contemplate the prosperity of his suc
cessor, and the well-being of the Flock under his care ! But
to the warmest gratitude for the past, he would add the most
fervent prayers for the future. May that future be all that

even he could desire !

Just at the time when these measures were being taken with

a view to the increased efficiency of the pulpit, Dr. Smith

addressed a Letter to one of his congregation, urging upon him
                                                         Christ, -- "
rtheemedmutbyraonfceobosef rvmineg."  that command of                  This do in
                                        Having received  a copy of     the Letter

for the use of this memoir, it is here transcribed : --·

                                                      " Homerton, January 31, 1846.

I" My dear Friend, -- So, am sure, you will permit me to address you ;
for your friendship has been manifested in so many instances of kindness

I Iknown to me, and, have no doubt, very many besides of which have no
Iknowledge, that it would be most ungrateful and foolish in me to entertain
a doubt.  therefore hope that you will permit a line of free address on a

subject, the least important relation of which is the happiness which it
would bring to myself. -- That happiness would consist in the being enabled

Ito address you as my Brother in Church Fellowship. Though have
never been favoured with the enjoyment of any direct communication from
you on the subject of personal religion, and feeling my great affliction in

Ithe irremediable privation of conversational intercourse ; yet the impressions

from such observation as have been able to make, and the more explicit

Ievidence of testimony by which have been eminently gratified, amount to

a solemn and pleasing satisfaction of its appearing your duty to complete
your holy profession, by that more public acknowledgment of Christ which

I IHe requires.                                                        am fully per

  " Arguments in favour of it
                                      need not use. They are,
suaded, obvious and even familiar to your mind. Your extensive reading
and your habits of reflection cannot but have produced such an effect.

IBesides, there are several publications upon this subject which have at

Various times distributed among my friends, and which have probably
engaged, your attention. Those small and humble books are, in my esteem,

of great value : scriptural, rational, and affectionate, appealing to the best

principles of which our minds are susceptible, as urging to this essential

manifestation cf Christian obedience.

  I"Now we have a prospect of that reinforcement of pastoral and preach

ing advantages, from which hope that a day of mercy is dawning. The
character and endowments of Mr. Davies promise to render him the means

of revival and signal blessing. It is evidently desirable in a high degree,

to do all that we can to encourage him at the present point of time. Your

                                                               2K2
500  HIS DEAFNESS REMARKS ON ORDINATION.                                                         [l84G.

Iaccession to our Society would, feel assured, be very conducive to that end.
This consideration permit me to add to those first intimated. Unspeakably
greater as they are, they suffer no disparagement by the addition of this
Iplea. -- Entreating your
                           devout attention  cotonstohlaistiosnu,b' jemcta, yangduidperayainndg   that
' the Father of mercies,   the God of all                                                        most
richly bless you,-- remain,
                             " My
                                   dear Friend and Brother,
                                     " Yours, with affectionate esteem,"  Sec.

   In writing to another member of his congregation, the aged

Pastor, as in the foregoing Letter, refers to his deafness, which
was evidently at this time a source of great inconvenience j

not simply by preventing his receiving the communications

which his friends wished to make to him in conversation, but

also by producing a growing difficulty, and therefore a growing
reluctance in regard to the act of speaking, to which very deaf

persons are often painfully liable : --
   " My distressing infirmity leads me to shrink from social

intercourse, as it is almost impossible for my friends to make
themselves continuously understood by my dull perceptions,
This consciousness, added to the unavoidable multitude of

demands on time and effort, must be my apology for not

Ihaving waited upon you. But if can summon up sufficient
Iresolution, hope to make a call this afternoon or that of

to-morrow."

    To a Student who wrote to him respecting his ordination,
 and who wished the Classical Tutor, Dr. William Smith, to

Itake a part in the service, Dr. Pye Smith wrote thus :--" do

not, with confidence, expect to see Dr. William Smith till

IThursday.--But were he here, neither could ask him, nor,
I feel assured, would or could he comply: for he is not a

¦npeo-fivTepos (1 Tim. iv. 14), which all must be who properly
engage in an Ordination. Both the reason of the case, and

Ithe universal usage of the Congregational and the Presbyterian

Churches dictate this regulation. -- have felt painfully the
apprehension that too few of the [County] Ministers seem to,
have been engaged. They are the proper presbyters (== pastors,
bishops,) to ordain one within their own boundaries."

   Dr. and Mrs. Smith passed about three weeks of the vaca
tion this year in a visit to Guernsey, Jersey, and the coast of
Normandy.
ST. 72.]              EXCURSION TO GUERNSEY, JERSEY, ETC.                                                              501

   The following passages from Letters to his daughter, Mrs.
Nash, relate to this excursion: --

                                                                                " St. Helier's, Aug. 16, 1846.

   . " This is a town far larger than one could well anticipate ; (25,000                .
inhabitants--in 1831, 16,000--1821, 10,000;--) and distances, especially
from the outskirts, very fatiguing. But we can reach Clement Perrot's Chapel                   i.,
in 15 min. A very handsome place, -- large Congregation and Sabbath
School-- great attention and apparent seriousness on the countenances                                  .
All in French. After prayer and reading Col. Mr. P. came down
from the pulpit to baptize. The becomingly serious aspect of the father,
the tears of the young mother, the very pretty babe, the amplitude
and seeming unction of Mr. P.'s addresses, made upon me a deep
and delightful impression. Sermon from Habakkuk iii. 2. Mrs. Pye

Smith wrote           for me,         aws aussuaadl,mihraavbilneg,'             been accustomed to French.       I it  She
added, -- the         discourse                                                 and so her sketch showed
.                                                                                                                    to be.

  .IHis delivery was simple, manly, engaging.                                            . Every day see
        a
      II 'more and more of the silliness of the philosophy, and the impiety of the
theology, which regards anything as trivial. The veriest atoms of being,aa

and the shortest moments of time, are indispensable links and rivetings of
                                        His hand,
the great chain,        thheinldgsin.'   This our                             of whom    and through whom and to
whom are all                          ;                                       excursion  has been full of instances.

hTahvinegsintwrohdicuhcemd aunsytoworeumldarckaallbltehebmlesossitngtrsi.f"ling and unnoticeable accidents,I
" Monday morning 17th.
                                                               .must scrawl very hastily and by snatches
                                                                                                                 ;I a
                                                              .'
                                                                                                                         .
                                                                             .                                                     :

                                                                     a
for fine day like this must not be lost. Thursday and Saturday were,
from being rainy. On Friday we had most interesting excursion, across
this delightful little island, to the N. and then along the E. side, with

France on our horizon. Now we are going westerly tour, with the
                                                                                :

                                                                                       a
                                                                                                is
mighty Atlantic on our left.                                                    Evening. We have had mos't

pleasing excursion to the west side of the island northerly, coastwise, and
                                                                                                                 high sandy heaths,
returning inland. Towards the coast, the country
and the coast series of magnificent bays inland, as on the eastern side,

picturesque and constantly altering from the undulations of the surface.
The rocks, near this part, are like some portions of the Devonian
                                                                                                                     dare

not say with confidence but all along to the N. and to the E. beautiful
                                        :

                                            a

                                              I
                                                               a
Granite and Syenite, with tract of apparently pudding-stone. . .
" Now have resolved, so far as frail creature may resolve, to take
                                                   think, be of any material importance.
another Sabbath. This cannot,

. Please to give my kind regards to Mr. Davies and our excellent
                      feel assured that they will approve of this extension of my
Deacons.

furlough, and that ray kind Colleague will readily oblige me by taking the

morning service on the 30th. . . .
tion" aGteracree,gamrdersc,y",                   multiplied                     to you all                       Accept our affec
                                  and peace  be                                          :
                                &c. &c.                                                                       !

Then in Letter dated August 18th --

   " might   represent this Isle to be                                        a miniature of Herefordshire,      Mon
             and North Wales, brought                                                                            agri-
mouthshire,                                                                   into one field of view. Of its
502                      ISLE OF JERSEY.                                       [l846.

... Iculture and other things remarkable, hope to tell Mr. Nash, and to
entertain Wallis : [Mr. Nash's son]. In the town six sevenths of the

names are French.              To the coiotfry-people it is advisable, if not

quite necessary to speak French. Some of the country-women (in the
market, &c. ) wear the Norman coiffure, as you may have seen in prints of
Rouen. Some knit, as they walk the streets. But it contradicts my taste
to see such a sad invasion of English people and manners, -- even fine
Oxford-street-like shops, -- threatening to overwhelm the native character.

... IThat character is to me deeply interesting; among other things, on account
of the numbers of French Protestants who here found a refuge in the 16th
                               have felt it extremely difficult to get my
and 17th centuries.

mind into the habitual sense of the points of the compass here. This has

arisen from my long-possessed separate maps of these Isles, in which the
convenience of the engraver has led to an infringement of the common
method, that of having the N. at the top. -- Go over to the College. In the

Library, on the^oor-shelf, between the windows, is a very large thin volume

of maps, only four or five ; in which is one of France on a large scale. Tliat
will imprint a just idea of the relative position of these Islands and the

French coast. It is curious that,*of Guernsey, the higher end is its Southern
part, and it slopes down to the North, as if looking towards England ; but

Jersey has its posture the reverse. Its higher, bleak, magnificently rocky
portion is the N. and N. W., and it undulates lower, and to the S. coast on

which we arc. . . .
   . . . " Accept, my dear Son and Daughter, the assurance of our tender

love : and may infinitely better love pour its blessings upon you all !"

   The following also was from the same place, dated August
25th :--

   " Again, by the unceasing and admirable kindness of our God, wc have

this day had a most fail- voyage from St. Malo's 8% o'clock to 2. It is out
of my power now to detail our adventures in France. They have been
If Imost

will
     remarkable.     we  are spared  htaovegivbeeeynouinthBerirtetacintayl,,*  think they
                         you. We                                               among the
     amuse and surprise

I Idescendants of the ancient
   " Wednesday, Aug. 26.
                         Armoricans, a sister tribe  or nation of the Welsh.
                          . . . We have taken        to-day our last country-

ride ; so that now we have surveyed, think may say, the whole of this
charming Island. We have also found that we can go to Guernsey on
IfFriday ; and therefore we intend to do so, thus augmenting the time here

by one day, and diminishing it of course there.-- God's gracious pro
vidence smile upon the execution of our purposes yet remaining, as it has
so wonderfully upon  the past, we
you and the beloved  ones around   shall  have the great  enjoyment of seeing
                                    you,  on Wednesday     evening, September
I2nd. Till then, narrative and description must, remain unattempted. Our
leovveenintog."all.  have to attend a Temperance Meeting in the town this

  * " Twenty-four miles from   St. Malo.  rouWteeowneMntonodnaSya."turday  afternoon  and
                               different
evening; and returned quite a
ST. 72.]  LETTER TO REV. JOHN SMITH WARDLAW.                            503

   The next Letter was from St. Peter's Port, Guernsey, dated
August 29th :--

  " My very dear M. R.--By the continual exercise of divine mercy, we
had our passage hither, thirty-two miles, yesterday ; rather tediously ( four
hours instead of two, ) but comfortably, except that rain came on during
the last hour. In everything, we see the goodness of Him who con-

descendeth to our low estate. There are no little things.
" It is our hope to go to Southampton on Tuesday, but not to arrive there
till after dark. This is the most formidable part of the expedition -- 120
I Imiles; for confess am not very fond of the sea-voyaging part. . . .
IFar indeed am                                                           his opinion
                  from agreeing  'bwoiatthinMg'r.is  Charles Reed, in   among these
expressed at Mr.Foulger's, that                      a desirable thing

islands and the innumerable rocks which in all sizes and shapes stud the
magnificent ocean ; beautiful, magnificent, most dangerous. But riding is
the grand delight. We have now just alighted from a remarkably fine

enjoyment of it, hence to the S. E. coast, and returning by a different
route; thus making an approach to a circle. The country and scenery

hitherwards resembles West Yorkshire, for instance from Barnsley to
Wakefield : further on and higher up, the hills are covered with gorse and

Iferns and heaths, the rocks grand ; pretty much agreeing to my ideas of
Linton.   must say that this island appears to have the advantage of

Jersey in many respects. That is mostly a land of farmers and shop
keepers; here is a preponderance of persons who possess a moderate in

dependence, and consequently there are many country houses, some of

which may be called seats ; and about them all the fields and orchards are

well wooded. The trees, if not quite so numerous, are generally of larger
growth than those of Jersey. This town is the only town in the isle. It
Icovers a declivity, it presents a fine aspect to the sea, and, very contrarily

to what had read, its streets and buildings deserve praise. It greatly

resembles one of the best French towns, superadding the visibilities of
cleanliness. The environs are beautiful."

While Dr. Smith was on this journey, he took occasion to

write to the Eev. John Smith Wardlaw, son of Dr. Wardlaw,

of Glasgow ; a part of the Letter will now be given : it is dated

                                                       " Dinan, in Brittany,

I" May                           Lord's-day evening, Aug. 23, 1846.
          avail myself of your kindness for another purpose ?
-- To beg your conveying to your admirable father my especial
acknowledgments of approbation and joy on account of the

third edition of his Dissertation on Baptism, and its congenially
worthy Appendix. That Appendix will encourage my mind

and greatly (I trust) aid my efforts in the same field. My

practice during my pastoral life (42^ years) and my instructions
as Divinity Tutor during a period not much shorter, have been

what Dr. Wardlaw has so opportunely illustrated. --Dr. Halley
504                   INFANT BAPTISM.                                     [l840.

Iwas one of my pupils.  do not know how others have followed

out the path ; but rather fear that my attempts to infuse my

Isentiments have been but partially successful. So far as
know, the majority of our Pastors take a sort of middle course,

with varieties ; but which in all those varieties appears incon
sistent. *

   * To those who are not familiar with the subject referred to in the above
paragraph, the following remarks may supply information. --The Congrega-
tionalists, although agreed in favour of the Scriptural authority -of Infant
Baptism, differ in opinion and practice, respecting the extent to which the rite

should be administered. Dr. Wardlaw, and the Scottish Congregationalists
probably without exception, consider the child's claim to baptism to be incom
plete, and therefore inadmissible, unless one at least of the parents is a com
municant at the Lord's Supper ; --technically, is a Member of the Church. The
same rule holds in the Church of Scotland, and very widely, if not universally
among the other Presbyterian Bodies in that Country ; and a desire to secure
baptism for a child, is not perhaps without weight in inducing parents, really
unregenerate, to assume a profession of vital Christianity. --But the English

Congregationalists, speaking of them generally, do not maintain such a con

nection between the faith or profession of the parents and the claim of the
child --between the observance of the Lord's Supper by the one, and the

administration of baptism to the other ; they rather hold, that there should be
no condition or restriction set up, to prevent the baptism of any children whose

parents or guardians are willing to have them baptized.
This point came under discussion in the Tenth Series of the Congregational

Lecture, delivered in 1844, and published the same year, by Dr. Halley, On the

Sacraments. A clear exposition of the principles, and an able defence of the

practice prevailing in England, may be found in the Seventh Lecture of that
Course. In 1846, Dr. Wardlaw published the third edition of his Dissei-tation
                                                               Appendix, containing " strictures
on Infant  Baptism ;  tboywDhric. hHahelleayd."ded    an        year after, Dr. Halley replied    on
the views  advocated                                The                                           in

a small volume, to the animadversions of his friend in Glasgow ; and there the

discussion appears to have ended for the present.
   Dr. Pye Smith, as will be seen, agreed with Dr. Wardlaw, and not with his
Congregational brethren generally on this side the Tweed. But although his
views were stated clearly in his lectures to his Students, and were carried out

with the greatest uniformity in his pastoral relation, he never allowed them in

the slightest degree to interfere with the benignity of his feelings or the kind

ness of his efforts towards those who differed from him in this particular, ,
         imn itdhdeleCoclloeugrese,orwbiethyonvdariiet.ties,"
whether                                                        mentioned  in the Letter to Mr. J. S.

   "The

Wardlaw, consisted in all probability of cases in which the Pastor of a Church,
adopting in substance Dr. Smith's views, was yet not prepared to confine the
rite of baptism strictly to the children of communicants, but would also extend
it to others, of the piety of whose parents he had a good hope, though they
might not make what is called a public profession. There are also cases, where
the baptism of the children of non-communicants is conceded in practice, pro
vided the parents express their willingness to allow the Clmrch to train up
these catechumens in a Christian manner. -- Generally, however, the plan is, to
baptize all children who are brought to the minister for that purpose, without
observing these distinctions. --Ed.
ST. 72.]        ATTENDS BRITISH ASSOCIATION.             505

I"Mrs. Smith and left home on the 11th instant, fleeing
from too severe occupation, and seeking the relaxation of two
or three weeks. From step to step, by a succession of what
men might call petty accidents, we have been led hither ; but
in every thing, we see the power, wisdom, and mercy of our

IGod. We are here among the descendants of the Celtic
Armoricans.          am struck with the amiable   and interesting
physiognomy                                       observation ex
                and --so far as our very limited
Itends --conduct of the poor and hard-working peasantry.
   -- " August 29, Isle of Guernsey. refrained from finishing
this note, in order to arrive at a British Post-office.

"Now, may grace, mercy, and peace be multiplied to you

and to Mrs. Smith Wardlaw, in all their blessed fruits for time

and eternity !  I"                                am,"
                                                           &c. &c.

   A few days after his return from the Channel Islands, Dr.

Smith went to Southampton, to attend the Meeting of the

British Association ; the President for the year being Sir E. I.

Murchison. The inconvenience of being quite alone, which in
his state of deafness the Doctor had felt very much at Cam
bridge in 1845, led him to resolve on availing himself, as far
as might be practicable in future years, of the company of Mrs.
Smith on these occasions. That lady thus speaks of the visit :

-- "At Southampton the Eev. T. Adlrins generously invited us
to use and enjoy his house, during his absence. In this de

lightful domicile, the kind and thoughtful arrangements of Mr.
and Mrs. Adkins, eminently promoted the comfort and welfare
of their venerable Guest, whose strength was then appearing

to be rather overtasked by constant attendance at the Sec
tions." The overtasking here mentioned is not simply to be

ascribed to his advanced age, nor to the conscientious and

even eager efforts he made to catch what was said ; but owing
to the great defect of his power to hear, a strain was put upon

all the other faculties which could be made to serve as inlets
to knowledge ; and this must have tended to produce prema

ture exhaustion, --not to mention the wear of frequent dis

appointment and failure.
   His Sermon Book records that he preached for Mr. Adkins

during this visit ; from the text Eph. i. 22, 23.
506      BECOMES SECRETARY OF THE COLLEGE.         [1840.

   Soon after the recommencement of the Session at Homer

ton, Mr. Christie, the esteemed Secretary of the College, died.

In this new emergency, the venerable Tutor, with that prompti

tude to serve the Institution which he had ever shown, deter
mined to undertake the duties of the vacant office, --that he

might thereby relieve the somewhat impaired funds, and thus
allow the educational staff to be kept up in full vigour for the
Students' benefit. Nor was this a short-lived expression of

the "voluntary                For nearly four years; that
                                              it

                                                                              is,
down to June 1850, he kept his post as indeed honorary
Secretary, --the repeated requests of his friends, the members;
of the Committee, that he should resign into other hands,
notwithstanding. In this way --without the possibility ofit
human foresight --he was the last of the Secretaries, as well
as the last of the Theological Tutors, of the College. In thisa
way, moreover, he felt to be in his power to discharge some

portion of that debt of gratitude, which, quite apart from its

ever being thought of as subject of obligation by any human

being except himself and which, indeed, could never be
deemed claimable on ordinary and even honourable princi

ples of human action in such cases, had often pressed upon:
his sense of duty --at one time constraining him to offer
a
   large abatement from his salary, at another to double his

annual subscription --both of which having been declined by

a Committee who well knew the worth of his services, he

henceforth resolved to give in labour, which  was no easy
                                              it

                                                                                           .
thing for them to refuse, that which they could not think
of accepting from his hands in the form of money.

   His Letters of various dates addressed to the Constituents

render very evident, that the numerous personal advantages
     it

which he traced to his connection with the College throughout

the long term of his official life, operated with great effect on

his heart and mind, as motives to gratitude towards that
Divine Benefactor who had graciously placed and sustained
him in that position and from wisely-cultivated habit of
                   :

                                           a

looking to what may be called the Divine bearings of human

ties and obligations, rather than solely or chiefly at their rela

tions as between man and man, he often rose quite above
the reputable level of the simply commercial rules of justice

and equity, which obtain currency and credit on the Exchange;
and as well in disposition as conduct proved himself qualified
JET. 72.]                 MOTIVES FOR TAKING THE OFFICE.  507

to take          rCahnrkistwcitohnstthraosineetwhhous.m" ighUtndbeercosmucihngalymostaiyve--, "thTehree
Love of

was often no other limit to his actual services, except that

which he found by pressing upon the uttermost limit of his
ability ; -- and there even, judging from the expression of his
countenance, he would appear like one projecting his spirit
                                                          tfoindsayn--ot"!"T--o
the unattainable space beyond, and ready
is present with me; but how to perform,
Iinto

will
Evidently the right kind of nature, let it be but renewed and

sanctified, for the great realities of a higher hfe ; the impulse
lofty, the principles pure and noble, but the power--though, as
measured by a human scale, of no ordinary magnitude -- far too

contracted to be for any long time a fitting companion and

instrument of the higher elements of the character :--thus
tending to evince amidst our weakness and conflicts --more
than the probability --the moral necessity, of a Future State
op Being ; when the great schism, of which sin was the parent

and misery is the offspring, shall be completely healed, to the
ineffable joy of the Intelligent Universe and the endless Glory

of the Blessed GOD.

Although Dr. Smith's Sermon Book is a very imperfect sub

stitute for a Diary, yet it occasionally supplies hints as well as

dates, which are not without their use in enabling us to trace

the progress     of       h"isOllidfe.ageT,heitsfircsht aLroarcdte'srisdtaicys,inoJbalniguaatrioyn, s,18a4n7d,
he preached      on
adapted blessings "--from the text Ps. lxxi. 9. In the evening

o"tfothteheclaYyo, utnhge."SermOnon   Book records that Mr. Davies preached
                                     the 17th of the same month, Dr. Smith

returned to the subject of human life ; and from the very im

pressive words of our Lord to Peter, John xxi. 18, 19, delivered

a discourse which was made up so largely of suggestions arising

from or adapted to his own case, and designed for his own

guidance, that a part of it from his Notes of the Sermon may
not only fitly but usefully occupy a place here. Two pages --
the last two -- out of four will be given; and they will also

serve to show the style, and the amount of the Pastor's ordi

nary written preparations for the pulpit.

" The extent              of man's   life may be  divided into two principal periods,
                          childhood  and extreme  age: ) the mature--declining.
(--"seEtatcinhg    aside  own advantages--difficulties -- trials (=occurrences which
                 has its
508          NOTES OF A SERMON ON HUMAN LIFE.                                         [1847.

are tests of mind and character, pleasing or painful,) means for good, --

consolations.

   " Yet it is impossible to draw a sharp line of distinction. The two kinds
(q. d.) exchange. Youth and manhood, --infirm and afflicted to a great
degree :-- Advanced age, hale and vigorous. Christian wisdom here affords
its aid ; consideration how each one may best live to God. Rom. xiv. 7, 8.

1 Cor. vi. 19, 20. 2 Cor. v. 15.

   " But a general rule may be assumed :--and this will assign to the first
class Activity, -- to the second Patient Submission.

" I. The period of sanctified activity.

   "Bodily strength firm, -- and capable of enduring fatigue. The mind,
lively, energetic ;-- ready to make acquisitions, and able to retain them ;--
reasoning faculty, prompt ;-- deductions, clear ; -- sentiments, firmly held; --
imagination, vivid ;--resolute in forming intentions,,--ardent in executing

them.

  "The great call now is to a well regulated activity. Eom. xii. 11,

17. Phil. iv. 8.
       "     Manner :--
             'Talents.'  according       to  our station,  connections, means     of  action.

...    "Social ;-- at home, -- in the world of business, --beneficence, on every

point  of the scale  ; -- friends,  cothurnetreyfo, ldmacnhkainrgde, ,"spr[etoad   of the Gospel, all the
means                Our Lord's                                                   Peter in the context,]
         thereto.
" denotes comprehensiveness and intensity.

" II. The period of sanctified decline.                                               feeling

" Expect infirmities and other afflictions : --which may increase.
" Avoid the spirit of dissatisfaction, -- peevishness, --fretfulness.
" Cultivate patience, cheerfulness,-- benevolence, --sweetness of

and manner.
"
"  Improve   the perhaps increasing          opportunities  for  reflection and prayer.
   Cherish                                   of God.
             approbation of the will
" By example and word,
" Aim at glorifying God  encourage young        Christians.                       last sufferings
                         in all ways, unto
                                                death, --Peter's

would be a striking exhibition of faithfulness and love to his Lord. How
             may it have been.
beneficial    i. 14, 15. 2 Tim.     iv.  4--6.  Gen. xlix. 18. Rev. vii. 14."

   " 2 Pet.

    How rich in materials for the best kind of meditation are the
foregoing lines; derived evidently from a mind singularly ob
servant of its own operations and tendencies, and at the same
time seeking to be prepared --and also to prepare others-- for
the duties and difficulties of every period of life which might

be attained. -- A few months later, he was still wakeful, and ready

to warm on the same point, for he thus expressed himself in a
Letter to the late Edward Baines, Esq., who was about three
months his senior in age :-- " How near are the boundaries of life

and death ! . . . Soon, but how soon we know not, must

we obey that inevitable summons. Nqw, may we be working for
ST. 73.] ATTENDS BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT OXFORD.                                               509

the  benefit of mankind          and the honour of our     aDwiavyin!"e         Saviour            ;
for  the day of life and         opportunity is fleeting

And thus to his son at Sheffield.

                                                           " Homerton, June 3, 1847.

  I" M2y5tdhe,"ar   Son,-- For   your very    t"hoauccgehpttfuml yanhdeaartf-fefeclttiontahtaenksL.ette. r, . on
                                  birthday,]
May                [Dr. Smith's
  " cannot         but regard    it as a thing wonderful, that Divine Providence

has given to me the entrance upon my 74th year, in such physical health
and vigour, and surrounded by so many of the components of happiness,

I Itemporal and spiritual. How am called to pray and watch, that may
be grateful and faithfully devoted to Him ' before whom my fathers did
                                 fferodmmealal llevmily,'
walk, the God who hath

Iwho hath redeemed me
                                                           life long unto this   day, the angel
                                                           (Gen. xlviii. 15,)   and in whom
trust for the crowning blessing -- 2 Tim. iv. 18. . . .

                   This morning we have heard of the death of Dr. Chalmers.

Last Sabbath evening at Edinburgh, he went to bed in apparent health ;
and he was found dead in his bed on Monday morning. On May 4th
another truly great man for genius and talent, literature and political
science, and vital religion, -- the Protestant Pascal, --Alexander Vinet, -- the
modern glory of Switzerland and France, --aged 50,--entered his heavenly

rest. The following week, on the 11th, died of a decline our scientific and
truly pious friend, Joseph Channing Pearce, F.G.S., of Bradford, Wilts, and

two years ago removed to Bath ; set. 35. . . .
"I"
     Grace, mercy, and peace be multiplied                 to you all !         yours,"  &c.  &c.
      remain, my beloved John William, ever                and affectionately

   The College Diary records that from June 22nd to the 30th,
Dr. Smith was at Oxford attending the meeting of the British
Association. Sir E. H. Inglis, Bart., was President on that

occasion. None of the circumstances connected with this visit

to the famous University City have been recorded, excepting
the single fact entered in his Sermon Book, that on June 27th,
he preached " At Mr. Spence's, Oxford, for Village Missions,
Luke iv. 43."

   At the close of the Academical Session, which began January

8th, and which, in respect of his official duties, ended June 21,
this year, Dr. Smith has enumerated the several subjects of his
lectures as Theological Tutor, and the number of times devoted

to each. As this will serve to show what he had to do, and
how he strove to meet the several claims, the list is transcribed

from his College Diary :--" In this Session--Divinity, 53 lect.
--Ethics, 13 --Bible antiquities, 10 --Biblical Criticism, 10 --
5 10  LETTER TO MR. CHARLES REED :  [l847.

Ecclesiastical History, 13-- Pastoral, 16-- Exegetical, 31."-- In
the whole 146 lectures. By taking the Exegetical lecture on
Saturdays, the Tutor met his Class six days in the week : yet
there were many interruptions between January and June,
when he could not meet them at all, or only for a part of the
resular time : and there were also several instances in which

the lecture for the day was not given, but the time was occupied
on some subject pro re nata, and which could not be classed
under any of the foregoing divisions. Too much had to be
done by one man, and therefore he could not give that breadth
of time and thought to one subject at once, which both the

Tutor and the Pupils alike require in order to the full effect of
the great work of the Lecture room. But as the system which
Dr. Smith pursued was first taken up from necessity, and then
carried on from habit, it is greatly to his honour both for com

petency and diligence, that he could do what he did for the
benefit of the Students with those comparatively small portions

of space, which were allotted to the respective subjects of his
seven regular courses of Lectures ; to say nothing of those
 which, had he classed them at all, he would perhaps have
 called sporadic, a term applied by him in another connection
 to be hereafter noticed. As, however, his style of lecturing

 was didactic and often conversational, the value, and indeed

 the readiness of his communications, did not depend upon any
 degree of force or momentum which might be imparted to his

 mind by a long array of words, either before the important
 matter was reached, or to fill up -- so to speak -- the inter
 stices between one portion of such matter and the next :--his
 plan was, to enter at once into the gist of the topic for the day ;

 or if an extempore question arose, the precise information

 sought for was almost sure to be produced with as little delay
 as possible.

   When the Government Education scheme of 1847 was

undergoing discussion in the country, Dr. Smith received
an invitation to attend a public meeting at Hackney on the
subject. The following Letter (addressed to Mr. Charles
Beed) will be valued as containing a brief but very clear
statement of the Writer's convictions upon a topic, which is
scarcely second in importance to that relating to the method
for supporting and spreading Christianity itself: -- the morally
ST. 73.]       GOVERNMENT EDUCATION MEASURE.                                    511

destitute of our population, whether children or adults, de

mand and will be most of all benefited               by the operation of
that life-diffusing principle-- " Freely ye          have received; freely

give :"--

                                 " Homerton College. Friday, April 9, 1847.

 I" My dear Sir, -- solicit the favour of your causing in such way and

manner as you may think fit, some intimation to be given at the Meeting

this Evening, that my absence does not arise from insensibility to the vast
importance of the occasion, but solely from my afflictive disqualification for
bearing a part in the deliberative assembly, and from the fact that my
personal duties, which are immediate and indispensable, require all my
time and particularly this evening.

   " To me it appears that Her Majesty's Ministers have been circumvented

and deceived, and that, having been drawn to commit themselves, they

cling to error and will be most unwilling to recede. But the subject is of

I Iimportance greater than can express. Most thoroughly am convinced

that if the government plan should be established it will be a deadly stab to
the constitutional liberties of our country. It will corrupt society at its
fountain head, by subduing independent education, scattering bribes in

tempting prospects among our countrymen, accustoming them from child

hood to servility and hypocrisy, insulting Christianity by the evident

(though lurking) assumption that anything which any persons may call

religion, may, and shall be encouraged by state-pay, and endangering
Evangehcal Protestantism by putting millions of our rural population
under the unblushing usurpations of certain clergymen and their instru

ments, who plainly manifest their more than half popish principles. --It is

my daily prayer that this awful consummation of temporal and eternal
                                         pure word
evil  may be   arrested, and that the   free course  of   God,glowrhifiiecdh.'  men were
thus  seeking  to obstruct, may ' have               and                           But, for
                                                           be

this purpose, we must use all suitable means. Public Meetings and

Petitions are of the first necessity.

  " In the old Gravel Pit Vestry Petitions are receiving signatures, one to
each House of Parliament. They are Congregational; but it is right also
that a Petition should go up from the more general body of our neighbours
which is to assemble this evening. -- May Heavenly Mercy guide this

arduous struggle to the most righteous issue !

                               I" am, my dear Sir,
                                                           " Yours with high esteem,
                                                             " J. Pye Smith."
                   CHAPTEE XXVIII.

fourth edition of the scripture testimony -- his views of the
      song of solomon --controversy respecting that book-- with
      draws his disquisition upon it--his views of inspiration--
      autobiographical notice --plan and execution of the scrip
     ture testimony --copies of the work given" away-- letter to
      b. p. seaman, esq., m.d. --testimonies and acknowledgments--
      the four discourses --the relation of the scripture testi
      mony and the four discourses --usefulness of his works in
      india: conversion of a high caste brahmin.

   In 1847, the fourth edition of the Scripture Testimony, and

the third edition of the Four Discourses were published. Thus
for the first time, and that nearly at the close of his literary :
labours, the now venerable Author was permitted to see the
two works, which were closely related in their design and im
portance, going forth from the press in the same year ; that
each might for the future be regarded as the proper, yea, the
inseparable companion and complement of the other. He had
also the further gratification of having the Scrip. Tes. brought
out in two volumes, by which, as compared with the second and
third editions, the cost was lowered to purchasers ; and yet as
this was effected chiefly by using a fuller page, and not by
inconveniently reducing the type, the reader's comfort, as well
as his pecuniary means, was evidently consulted. The brief
note to this edition, annexed to the preface, will explain its
character as compared with the earlier ones :--" The Pub
lishers have determined to bring out this edition in the most
economical form that is practicable; but nothing is omitted,
except a disquisition upon the Song of Solomon, for which a
shorter notice is substituted. Numerous additions have been
(ET. 73.]  HIS VIEWS OE THE SONG- OE SOLOMON.                             513

inserted, in their requisite places ; and  these  are, with few           and
immaterial exceptions, in the Notes."

   Here it is due to truth and to Dr. Smith, to give some ac
count of a controversy in which he was engaged in 1837 and

1838 respecting the Song of Solomon; the results of which

doubtless had an influence in leading him to withhold the
disquisition just mentioned, and which, accordingly, could not

with propriety have been spoken of in this narrative until that
important fact came regularly before the Eeader.

   The history of the subject may be said to begin with the year
1818, when the first volume of the Scrip. Tes. was published.

Almost at the commencement of the work, the Author, with
the strictest logical accuracy, sought to lay down the basis on
which his subsequent argument was to be raised ; defining both

the quality and the sources of the data to be employed in his
progress. In a note on 2 Tim. iii. 15, 16, he avowed his belief
that that passage " furnishes the strongest testimony to the

inspiration of  each and every of        the books of the Old             Testa
ment;" which     in his estimation       would give to those              books,

speaking of them generally, the authority of infallible truth.
Immediately upon this the question is very properly put ;--¦
" What books were acknowledged by the Jews as sacred in the
time of our Lord and his Apostles ?" An answer is obtained
by an appeal to the Hebrew Scriptures and to the testimony of
Josephus ; and that answer recognized the fact of the admission

of the Song of Solomon into the former, and that it was in

cbleulideevdedamtoongbethdeivibnoeo."ks  which the latter said the Jews   "justly
                                         At this early stage, therefore,
                                                                          and as

far as the brevity of the Note allowed, there was no attempt to

conceal nor even dilute the external evidence for the canonical
rights of this part of the Sacred volume. Nevertheless the

Author intimated his sense of a difficulty in acquiescing in
this decision ; to show, it may be presumed, what were the
exact limits within which he was then prepared to predicate

inspiration of the Old Testament ; as well as to secure his

liberty to speak more fully on the question, should he be
inclined at a future period :-- so little, however, was said, that
the whole Note is scarcely more than two pages in length, and
the intimation respecting the Song of Solomon does not

amount to two lines.

                                                  2L
514  HIS VIEWS OF THE SONG OF SOLOMON.  [l847.

Whether the objection, as thus briefly started, called forth

animadversion or inquiry cannot perhaps be ascertained. But
the second edition of the Scrip. Tes., published in 1829, con

tained a more detailed exposition of the Author's sentiments
upon each of the two topics ;-- eleven pages were devoted to a

very able defence of the claims of the Jewish Scriptures gene

rally to be received as the Word of God ; and these are followed

by seven, in which he explains his reasons and motives for

excepting the Song of Solomon from this distinction. Yet here,
as in the first edition, no attempt was made to impugn the

integrity of the external evidence : the Author's difficulties
arose entirely from his inability to recognize in the Song the
marks of a religious or sacred composition. Hence, it may be

suggested in passing, that his views of Inspiration were as

remote as possible from the modern notion, which ascribes

that quality to almost every work of genius ; for if he could

have made such a deceptive use of a term, which by the

common consent of a host of careful writers has been confined

to one set of books, he would have had a sufficient pretext for

calling the Song of Solomon inspired, whatever might have

been his opinion of its meaning. And further, if his views of

Inspiration had been either low or cloudy, the difficulty which

he felt respecting the claims of this Book, and which it cost
him much personal discomfort to avow, would either not have

been felt at all, or would have been evaded by some facile

generality of phrase, under which it is easy to cover a deficiency
of discrimination, or the absence of true moral courage. He,
in reality, entertained such clear and exalted ideas of inspired

productions, that his chief inducement for leaving this Book
out of the category, arose from his conscientious belief that its

contents fell below the Divine standard. And if the principle of
this objection was wrong, as he himself acknowledged at a later
stage of the inquiry,
     a                            nevertheless, arose from the elevation

                  it,

                                 ;
and definiteness of his estimate of Bible writings, and not the
contrary. Nor are we to wonder that in this instance, he gave
way to such principle for in the whole range of Biblical

criticism, the controversy about the canonicity of the Song of
Solomon stands unmatched for the extent to which the external

and internal evidence interfere with one another. On the one

side, the admission of the canonicity acts often with great
power, though perhaps with great subtilty also, in determining
ST. 73.] CONTROVERSY RESPECTING THE SONG OF SOLOMON. 515
in the reader's estimation the design and meaning of the Book :
on the other, a particular view of the meaning, or perplexity on
that point, has a tendency to lower the opinion which is formed

of its right to a place in the canon ;-- on both sides, and by all
parties the question is very generally assumed in argument,
although in theory this may be doubted or even denied.

   Early in 1830, which was the year after the second edition of
the Scrip. Tes. left the press, the Congregational Magazine

contained some strictures upon Dr. Smith's views of the Song
of Solomon. Of these he did not take any public notice until

1837, when the third edition of his work appeared, in which

the question was discussed to a greater length than before ; for

the Author says,                     that to  the seven pages in the second  inetdeitniodnedh,e"
added "fourteen                      more "   in the third. These were "
he goes on to say, " to present an impartial view of the argu

ments in favour of the canonical authority of the Book, in

                                              it,

                                                                          ;

                                                         I

                                                                   it

                                                                                                                       ;;
cluding a brief defence of with which had been privately

favoured by Professor Pusey of Oxford and to that statement
subjoining my own remarks."
came out, Dr. Smith obtained                  Shortly before the third edition
                                              the Publishers' permission to

offer this part of the work to the Editor of the Congregational

Magazine,     that gentleman would allow      to be inserted
           if
and thus his reply to the strictures of 1830, though late, would
be found in the same periodical. The request was kindly coma

plied with, and the whole article appeared in the number for

July, 1837. In note at the foot of the page, the Editor men

tioned the name of the Contributor of the Strictures in 1830
adding--that he had subsequently been removed by death, but

that as there were others who entertained the same views, they

would be at liberty to advocate them in the Magazine. -- Such
   the history of the admission of the " disquisition " into that
is

                                  ;
periodical in the first instance; which gave rise to the con

troversy respecting the Song of Solomon, which was after
wards carried on in its pages between Dr. Smith and Dr.
James Bennett --an opponent whom he esteemed, as friend
                                                                             a

and brother in the Christian muiistry, and as the Author of
Lectures on the History of Christ --Lectures on the Preaching of
Christ-- The Eighth Series of the Congregational Lecture,

entitled The  Theology of the                 Early Christian Church, and
other works.  The controversy
                                              was long and animated elicit-
                                                                             2l
                                                                                 ;
                                                                                    2
516 CONTROVERSY RESPECTING THE SONG OF SOLOMON. [l847.

ing on both sides much learning, and as it was conducted

on the whole with good temper, and led to a result which
might not otherwise have been secured, scarcely any one
can have regretted such an application of the pages of the
Magazine.

Papers by Dr. Smith appeared in the numbers for July,

November, and December of 1837, and for September, 1838:
-- and by Dr. Bennett, for October, 1837, and for January,

February, March, and October, 1838. Just these leading
pouits may be                   In
which contained    noticed.           the  number for                "  July,    the,, one
                   a reprint    of         disquisition                        the Song
                                    the "                                 on

of Solomon, Dr. Smith did not confine himself to arguments

against the canonicity of that Book, drawn from his difficulties

concerning its meaning ; he now sought to invalidate its claims

by an appeal to certain considerations affecting the external

evidence. Dr. Bennett's first Letter, in the Magazine for
October, 1837, contains an appeal: --,"1 request, for the sake

of truth, that he [Dr. S.] would explicitly declare, whether he
                                        a part  of the
admits the  Stoimnge.t"o  have  formed  in his  reply,               Jewish canon in
                                Smith                                in December--
our Lord's                 Dr.
 avows that this is " pressing the matter to
 and then as frankly answers in the negative                                  its proper
adding, "and these are my reasons." From                                      " No, no
frankl;y"                                                                     this point

Iinssoute;"

the discussion branches out into a great variety of particulars,
which are pursued on both sides for a considerable time and
with much vigour
delay, arising from       and  "uctlomsoenstessrep; uugnntailncaet"  length   after some
                          the                                         to the  whole con

troversy, Dr. Smith retracts the opinion just mentioned. And

to make this surrender of the main position as prominent as
possible, Italics are freely used ; thus -- " Dr. Bennett's argu

Iment from Melito is not only conducted by him with great

ability, and powerfully urged, but must acknowledge, that
it now appears to me to be unanswerable, and .decisive of, the
question that the  Book was a part of the Hebrew
Apostolic age."     Cong. Mag. Sep. 1838, p. 543.                       Canon in the
                                                                          In both,the

second and third editions of the Scrip. Tes. the catalogue. of

sacred books given by Melito in the second century, had been
distinctly mentioned by Dr. Smith--just as in the first edition,
he had appealed to the Hebrew Scriptures and to Josephus--
in support of the integrity of the Jewish Canon.-- He had how

ever allowed his difficulties respecting the meaning of the Song,
ST. 78.] WITHDRAWS HIS DISQUISITION ON THAT BOOK.                           5 17

to interfere with the due weight of this important class of evi
dences ; and thus became involved in a dilemma, from which
there was no escape, except by acknowledging his error ; and
he had both the manliness to make that acknowledgment, and
to stand by the principle on which it was made, when --ten
years afterwards --he avowedly, and without any compulsion,
omitted the disquisition from the fourth edition of the Scripture

Testimony.

  It is due to the whole subject, to insert the following passage

from a Letter which Dr. Smith wrote to his Son at Sheffield,

some time after the controversy with Dr. Bennett was
closed :--

I"The admission with regard to Melito (the fact of which had stated in
my book, but had not duly adverted to it,) brings the Song called Solomon's
into a position about equivalent to that of David's Dirge on Saul and

IJonathan, and other scattered fragments which have pointed out, whose

religious interest is merely some inferential moral lesson. In this case, it

... Iappears to me to be a constructive eulogy upon monogamy.
flattered myself that every reader of common reflection would see that my
essential point is maintained, namely, the rejection of the pernicious mode

of interpretation as an allegory, and the fact that our Lord, by himself and
his Apostles, said nothing to bring that poem into New Testament applica
tion. . . . The Book might be considered as having answered its pur

pose, and therefore, being like many institutions of the Mosaic Law, obsolete
and vanishing away ; see Heb. vii. 18, 19 ; viii. 13. This idea reconciles its

being admitted as a part of the Jewish Canon (Rule,) with the fact that
neither our Lord nor his Apostles have taken       Hleiamst;'nootricehaodf  it ; which
                                              the
appears unaccountable, if it 'bore testimony   to                           that deep
                                                       evangelical sentiment,
spiritual import, so full of vital and   affectionate
which Dr. Bennett and others ascribe to
                                         it."

   Apart from the change wrought in his views by this dis
cussion --and quite irrespective of those traits of character
elicited in its progress--the grand basis of the argument on

the opposite side, was one which it was of the utmost im
portance to maintain unimpaired :--namely, that the question

ought to be decided simply by an appeal to the fact, whether
the Book was, or was not, in the Jewish Canon at the com

mencement of the Christian sera. Dr. Bennett, therefore,
served far more than this particular cause when he urged
the controversy to its " proper issue ; " and Dr. Smith perhaps
never paid higher homage to the great principle on which
faith in a Divine Bevelation must stand, than when his objec
tions to the Canonical authority of the Song of Solomon,
518          HIS VIEWS OF INSPIRATION.                                                  [l847.

grounded for the most part if not entirely on his view of

its meaning, were openly surrendered before the force of the

external  "  edviisdqeunicseit. ionT,"hewshuebnseqituenmt ighvtoluhnatvaery    withdrawment
of the                                                                       been reprinted

almost as a matter of course, is still more to the credit of his

judgment and Christian courage, especially when the proverbial

unyieldingness of human nature in advanced age is taken into
account, --Among, therefore, the numerous examples of com

pleted labour supphed by his life, the fourth edition of the
Scripture Testimony is entitled to take a higher place than the

third : and he was permitted to see the fourth, as the standard

edition, through the  press, not    loonfgthebefroerwearhdi"s                work on    earth
was done, and "the    recompense                                             attained.

Whether Dr. Smith's views respecting the meaning of the

Song, and the use to be made of it, underwent any change

towards the last, it would perhaps be scarcely possible to
determine with certainty. For the most part, they appear to

have been the same ; yet a paragraph in the fourth edition, (see

p. 38) refers in favourable terms to an analogical application of
the Book, similar in principle to the prevailing one among
those who unhesitatingly admit its Divine inspiration. Indeed

when the latter is once conceded, the mind will either leave

the question of interpretation unexamined, or at least un
settled -- or it will incline with more or less force towards the

method for which Dr. Bennett is one among many advocates.

   To obviate misapprehension and its consequences, it is
proper to record Dr. Smith's views on the general question of
the Inspiration of the Scriptures. These were embodied in

two Notes in the several editions of the Scrip. Tes., one of

which related to the Old Testament, and one to the New. The
passages which follow are derived from the fourth edition :--

" The communicating from God to a mortal of knowledge which could

not be, or had not been  obtained   inReavney laottihoenr.*wayT,hehy           His immediate
influence on the human    mind, is                                           qualifying of a

recipient of revelation to communicate the revealed knowledge to his

  * It is right to mention, that both here, and in all cases where Dr. Smith's

language is quoted, whether from Letters or Printed Works, great care has
been taken to copy closely his method of giving emphasis to particular words

and clauses. In this respect he is his own Expositor. -- Ed.
ST. 73.]        HIS VIEWS OF INSPIRATION.                                                   519

fellow-creatures with perfect certainty and accuracy, is Inspiration. Of
the mode of inspiration we are necessarily ignorant. It is not revealed,
and it is beyond the range of human experience since the apostolic ao-e.
. . . The Holy Scriptures . . . have been committed to writing
under such a kind and degree of Divine influence, that is, inspiration,
as was REQUISITE in every case ; whether of the most complete suggestion,

or of assisting and directing the ordinary faculties of those whom the Most
High was pleased to employ as the subjects of inspiration. . . . Yet
the result ¦ in each and every case, is practically the same ; the full cer
tainty of Divine Truth as the ground of our faith, and the perception of
Divine Authority as the obligation binding us to obedience." Vol. i.
pp. 24, 2J.
   " The great  Principle  of  a    Complete  Inspiration  of the Apostles,

warranting our dependence upon the Certain Truth of every declaration
                                                                                            application
which they    have delivered, as a  bdyoactbruinned,andtutpyr,oeolfus.c'i'datlbio.n,57o. r
of religion;  has been established

   Partly to illustrate, and partly to establish his positions, Dr.
 Smith specified instances and particular texts, which appeared
to him incompatible with the doctrine of a verbal inspiration.
But he did not propose any alteration of these passages :--they
were left just as he found them, although for reasons which he

carefully states in the respective cases, he could not class them
with the very words of inspiration. Such discrimination in look
ing at evidence, often of a very complex kind, was at the out
set a sign that the passages which he used in his great argu

ment, were taken by weight and not merely by number. And
the success of his Work is in no small degree owing to that
-very caution, which, while it has been censured by some, has
led --there can be little doubt--to a victory never likely to be

reversed. This very discrimination, moreover, is utterly at

variance with the apparently plausible fallacy --that if we have
the truth related in Scripture, it is of comparatively small
moment from what source we suppose it to come. The state

ments, in other words, the doctrines and warnings of Bevela

tion are designed for the conscience as well as the under
standing ; indeed, in a vast number of instances, the latter is
reached first of all, only through a quickening influence exerted
upon the former. Now as human history is full of examples
of the power which appeals to the conscience derive from our

impressions of the relation which the Speaker has to us ; it is
found in fact, and may be justified on the soundest principles,
that appeals respecting religion in particular, are more or less
cogent in their operation, according as we trace the matter of
520                   HIS VIEWS OF INSPIRATION.          [lH 17.

the appeal to a Divine or to a human origin. Hence the

admirably worded distinction given above, where inspiration
is said to secure " the full certainty of Divine truth as the

ground of our faith, and the perception of Divine authority as
                                                         --And as the latter
the obligation binding us to

may be regarded as the great thing to be secured, Inspiration

may be considered to have been given mainly with a view to

duty. Accordingly, if the motive power be neutralized or

weakened, the beneficial results in human character and con

duct must decline in proportion.
   This suggests another fact, brought clearly out in Dr.

Smith's treatment of this question : -- that the inquiry was not

in his case an ultimate one : it did not terminate in itself. His

purpose was to obtain for the basis of his arguments, and

therefore for the arguments themselves if logical, a kind and

measure both of attention and confidence, beyond what he

would ever have thought them to deserve, had the true and

proper inspiration of the Scriptures been set aside. Utterly

unlike, therefore, the discussions which have since arisen, in

which the words mechanical and dynamical play an important
part --as though the modus operandi of inspiration were more
to be studied than the product or the result of the power --his

great design in introducing the subject was, that the testimony
of Scripture, apart from which he had as it were no mission,

might come with the force of infallible truth to the mind.

Between him and some who are vaguely supposed to be like*

him in his views of inspiration, there is really no more resem

blance than between a man who carefully examines a given set

of materials out of which it is his purpose to raise a solid

structure, and a man who examines without any serious inten

tion to build at all, or rather perhaps with an intention not to

build; or at least if he do, it is to be with few or none of

these materials. Hasty observers, indeed, are apt to class all

who examine in one group. Yet after a while equity and
justice are                                              a Divine Speaker --
                      heard, saying  in   the words of   but judge righteous
j"uJdugdmgeentn.o" t   according to        appearance ;
                                     the

   Like many Theological Writers, he distinguished between
Bevelation and Inspiration ; the latter he considered as " quali

fying a recipient of revelation to communicate the revealed
knowledge to his fellow-creatures with perfect certainty and
ST. 73.]           HIS VIEWS OF INSPIRATION.                                                     521

                Thus the mind of the inspired person having been
enlightened by, and led to appreciate the truth revealed to him,
he would then make it known without danger of mistake ; for
it is implied, that he receives in order that he may communi

cate. This accounts for variety of manner and phraseology,
without the slightest prejudice to the Divine origin of the

matter of revelation ; the source and authority of the mes
sage are one and the same, though the words of the different

accredited messengers may vary. According to this view also,
Bevelation stands in the relation of proximate cause to what

ever increased knowledge, and consequently increased mental
or moral power, the inspired recipient may have or may mani
fest, in the discharge of his high office as an ambassador to

mankind. In Paul's case, for example, the inspired product

was so little the result of a mere dynamical process, that is, of

mental culture carried on apart from special Divine com

munications, that it was not only quite a new thing in his

mental history, but quite a contrary thing to what his mind had
ever produced or his lips had uttered before.

   Scarcely can it be necessary to add, that the distinction

which Dr. Smith at one time claimed for Prophets and Apos

tles, he did not in any way subvert at another. Because
he predicated Inspiration of these men, they stood in his
most deliberate judgment quite alone and apart from all other

teachers ; with a function which was due to a purely Divine

determination and appointment, and therefore was absolutely

unique. Accordingly, he never fell into the fallacy of con

tending for an inspiration, which, while it included these men,

included such a variety of persons of conflicting principles,

sentiments, and characters, that whether we have any, or none,
amounts precisely to the same thing. He was too sagacious a

thinker, too reverent a believer, too eminent a Christian, ever

"Itfimlolourdseaionno.ifnsinta"sWnptiretaotiaolernen."dn--eacnAeynssdsaarwnilycht"yio?--n--hteothis somewhat popular
                                                                                               says -- "ignorant of the

                                                                                                  is not revealed; and

it is beyond  the  range  of human  experience                                                   since the Apos
tolic age."

There is another point to which justice demands attention :

is,that the almost unrivalled prominence which was always

given by Dr. Smith, in the Class Boom, the Pulpit, in all his

printed works, in his numerous Letters, and in conversation,
522      AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE.                                                 [l8i7.

to the great truths revealed in the Sacred Scriptures. These

were held by him with no wavering hand ; were spoken of

with     no faltering tongue ; were illustrated by no dubious
life.    Not a doctrine, nor a precept, nor a promise --which
good
         and holy men have been wont to hold dear --ever had

to wait in the antechamber of his mind, until he had disposed

of certain questions which now and then arose respecting the

Divine Authority of some few of the words of that Mighty
Book, which none ever cherished with a profounder reverence

and love than he. A doubt, a difficulty might rest upon a

clause or a verse here and there ; but these, like specks of

shadow on a wide landscape, and which were solely of terrestrial

origin, only served to bring out into greater brightness the

vast unclouded expanse on which, to his apprehension, the Sun

of heavenly ' wisdom and knowledge ' poured divine light.

that all who think his critical caution and skill worthy of
imitation, were equally anxious to " follow his faith !" With

him the solid and lasting results were the great objects of

interest, not the mere process of examination, which he ever
made subsidiary to something incomparably better than itself: --

hence the real value of his example.

  In his part of the controversy with Dr. Bennett a passage
occurs which while it is appropriate in this connection, is also

instructively, and it may be added singularly autobiographical ;
its insertion here is therefore a duty.--His friendly opponent

suggested, that "the German Neologists had evidently too
         influence over " him.
much     fundamental principles,  To   dthreisa,dfualfteerrroarsll,u"d&incg,  to   the
                                                                              of  that
" false                           the

class of persons, and next to their erudition, their skill in

philology and antiquity, from which he had derived benefit:

Dr. Smith replies, that his views respecting Inspiration and

the Song of Solomon had a much earlier and a widely different

source ; he says :--

  I" They have grown up during a period which cannot estimate at much

less than forty years. Their seeds were sown in my mind more than that
time ago, by a Minister of very eminent usefulness, a strict and high Cal-
vinist, and. to whom, as a friend, an instructor, and a pastor, my childhood

Iand youth were under obligations never to be forgotten. Sometimes have

felt a disposition to envy my more happy brethren, who, setting out in the
work of the ministry with a general conviction of the certainty of evangelical
ST. 73.] PLAN AND EXECUTION OF THE SCRIP. TES.  523

doctrines, founded on sufficient, though not widely comprehensive, know
ledge of evidences, are never troubled with controversial difficulties, but
continue in the works of zeal and love, their faith strong, their labours

Igreatly blessed, and their joy increasing to the end. Different has been

my lot. From early youth was in private and friendly association with
persons who had been brought up in a denial of the primary truths of the

IGospel. From the commencement of more serious habits and studies, had
IArian and Unitarian Mends whom could not but esteem; and some of
Ithem had expectations that should join their party.
" When it pleased God to put me into a situation of awful responsibility
Ias an Academical Tutor, fully settled as my own mind was ( -- can never
Isufficiently bless God for it !-- ) upon the truth of all the grand doctrines of

Redemption and Grace, could not think myself excused from the obliga
Ition of working up from the foundation.  had pupils to guide and assist
                                          could not satisfy myself with
Iin studying for the Christian ministry.
delivering to them only the positive form of doctrine. My duty was to go
with them into the grounds of Biblical and Theological Science ; to instruct
and aid then- understandings ; not to bribe or force their judgments. Bound

to look with equal steadiness at moral dispositions and at theoretical investi

Igations, felt it my duty to march with them through the enemies' terri

Itory, seeking to have, and hold, and wield, the armour which is mighty

through God. After so many years of toil, anxiety, and humbly add,
prayer for the blessings promised by the Father of lights ; accused, on the

Ione hand, of obstjnacy and prejudice, and, on the other, sometimes charged

with anti-evangelical predilections ; have obtained help from God, and
continue to this moment, able by His mercy to say, that there is not a doc
trine, or promise, or precept, or warning, contained in the glorious Gospel

of the Blessed God, and generally understood under the term Orthodoxy,

I Iwhich do not believe with the fullest conviction, and as am enabled, both
Iobey and teach. Perhaps, in every punctilio, agree with no party, with

no man ; but the whole gospel, its grace, its duties, and its blessings, as

understood hy such men as Edwards, John Erskine, Williams [his Tutor at

IRotherham] , Fuller, and Ryland, is the rock on which stand, and believe

Ithat shall stand for ever :--' The unsearchable riches of Christ ! Not I,

but the grace of God ! ' " Cong. Mag. Nov. 1837. pp. 700, 701.

   Before we take leave of the Scripture Testimony as a whole,
the following remarks respecting it appear due to the Author's
memory. The plan of the work, although marked by great

originality, was so exactly suited to the purpose, that the suc
cessive editions through a period of nearly thirty years, seemed
in that particular neither to demand nor even admit of improve

ment. In all that related to the prime sources of his argument,
the Holy Scriptures, the author pursued the inductive method :
not a text was admitted without a most careful examination of

its claims to a sure place in the work ; nor did he leave out

one, without first satisfying himself that, at least, he could not
use it with advantage. On this account, he was able to stand
524  PLAN AND EXECUTION  [mi.

by all his positions from the commencement to the close of his
labours ; by wbich a steady, or rather an increasing value was
imparted to them, which can scarcely be over estimated. But
while the plan was maintained, as the several parts were
capable of receiving fresh matter, to elucidate or confirm what
had been already stated ; no pains were spared to effect this
object. Far from permitting either theological or critical science

to leave his great work in the back ground, it was obviously a
constant point of interest with Dr. Smith to render both tribu
tary to the firmer establishment of the doctrine which that
work was written to defend :-- although in effecting this design,

he had to incur for many years a considerable expenditure of
money for books, English and Foreign, and of tune and toil in
examining their contents. While, therefore, the plan, irre
spective of its originality, was better than any other for easy
reference to the several parts ; while also each part (not only
Book, and Chapter, but Section, and often Note) possessed a
completeness in itself particularly serviceable to the Bible

 Student and the Christian Minister, the opportunity which it
afforded for successive additions, without any" derangement

whatever to the structure as a whole, is one of its greatest

 recommend ations .

    Another very observable feature is the number of quotations

 with which the work abounds, especially from German authors;

It is almost needless to say, that the labour of selecting pas

 sages so appropriate as the great majority of these are, of

 translating them, and then of giving them a suitable introduc
 tion to their respective places, must have been much greater
 than that which would have attended an equal number of
pages of what is called original composition. As it was not,

 then, to save trouble that this course was pursued, the motive

for it must be found, first, in the benefit which the Author
himself had derived from the passages in question ; and next,
in that honesty of purpose, that generosity of feeling-- nourished
by an intelligent appreciation of what his Beader deserved --

 which led him to place at his service the very best human aids
 he had himself met with for forming a correct opinion of the
 points discussed. He did, as it were, take the Student by this

 means into his own council-chamber, and laying before him the
 opinions of those inaudible speakers of several ages and
 countries with whom he had grown familiar, he sought not
ST. 73.]  OF THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.  525

simply to make them known, but to show how they might be
employed, and that with the greatest advantage, both for know
ledge and conviction. There was indeed no mystery about
him ; no intentional reserve respecting his processes of search

ing for truth, and of arriving at that amount of certainty which

Ihe avowed. It was as though he had said-- " wish you to see

Ihow came by this ; and this ; and where, and whence."

   Next to liis quotations from numerous Authors, the com
mendatory epithets applied to them can scarcely fail to attract
attention. , As, however, many of the questions in the Scrip.
Tes. turned upon points which could only be adjusted by great
delicacy and aptitude of critical skill, two or more views of the
meaning of some text, or perhaps single word in the Hebrew

or Greek original, would have to be compared, and the choice

determined accordingly. In such cases it could never be

uninteresting in itself, nor be felt superfluous, even by the best
scholars, to find the critical authority of the writers whom he

quotes, placed in connection with the passages cited from their
works. Indeed, a competency to judge of the several ques
tions which arose in the progress of his inquiry, would be the

more readily conceded to one who showed that he had both
the power and the spirit to form a liberal estimate of what

others had done in the same department. The labours, and

the merits of the labourers, were thus properly stated together.

And while this could not fail to recommend his work to
scholars of the riper kind ; the less erudite, -- all those who

cannot be sure of their ability to settle many of the points by
their own narrower resources of critical skill --would often

derive great help in coming to a decision from those very
epithets which Dr. Smith freely used to accredit the friendly

authorities to whom he has referred. This style, indeed, is
less necessary now than it was when the first, or even the
second edition of the Scrip. Tes. came out :--both because the

Work has made Bible Students better acquainted with the
learned persons mentioned than they otherwise might have
been, and especially because the Author has grown to be gene
rally regarded as himself a trustworthy upon such topics. Yet
he did not think it desirable to deprive either his positions
or his Beaders in time to come, of any advantage which might

already have accrued from his care in making known the

characters and merits of his witnesses and vouchers ; and, in
526 PLAN AND EXECUTION  [l847.

 truth, none will complain of this, or of the quotations them
 selves, except they be persons who greatly misapprehend the

 nature and design of his labours.

     There are some commendatory words or phrases attached to

 names, with whom Dr. Smith could not have had any wide or

 general sympathy. In these cases, it will for the most part be

 found, that the distinguishing epithet is carefully annexed to some
 single quality, or attainment, for which the person referred to was
 celebrated : -- such as his learning, his critical acumen, or even the

 honesty with which he avowed his opinions. And if any good

 use was to be made of the testimony of an enemy on an import
 ant point, the effect would be greater rather than less, by showing

 respect to what there was in him really worthy of honour. If

 the sacredness of the cause, and still more his clear perception
 of the extent and weight of the evidence in its favour, kept
 Dr. Smith from lowering the one or disturbing the- other by a
 crude mixture of human passion with texts of scripture; -- the
 weapons of his warfare not being carnal --he could perceive
 and commend worth of any kind in an opponent, which one
less sure of his mastery over the question in all its bearings
would either not observe ; or if he observed would not mention,

lest by so doing he should not be able to recover the effect of
such misplaced generosity -- as it might be called. -- But, just

commendations on friend or foe, are never thrown away, except

on baser natures.

    The learning of the work has never been called in question
from the very first ; nor is it now even possible that it should be.

A mastery of the languages and contents of the Hebrew and

Greek Scriptures very rarely equalled; a command of the
writings of the Fathers amply sufficient for the purposes of
the argument ; a very large and exact acquaintance with philo
logical and critical disquisitions, editions of the Sacred Texts,

Early Versions and modern Translations -- Commentaries, an
cient and modern, in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, German,
French, and English ; an extensive knowledge of the writings
of those who deny the doctrine of our Lord's Divinity :--these,
in their several combinations and methods of appropriate appli

cation and service, come out alike unobtrusively and naturally
in every part of the wide field which had to be gone over,
tending to place the real learning of the Author far above all
suspicion. And this is said, not indeed to aggrandize- the
ST. 73.]        OF THE SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.                              527

man --although attainments such as his, made under the pri
vations and difficulties of a large part of his career, ought
never to be lost sight of in an estimate of his character --

but it certainly is proper, to draw attention to his qualifications

for accomplishing the task which he undertook, when he collected

and established, as he has done, the Scripture Testimony to

the Messiah. Yet, with all the learning and all the quotations,
the work is in the strictest sense an original one :--that is,

it is not a compilation ; no approach is made in any part of
it to substitute other men's thoughts for his own. He never

could adopt the book-making principle. Compression, con

densation, not mere wordy expansion, was ever a prime object

of solicitude in all his literary productions ; --else, he might

have covered more paper, and written less.

After what has been already said, it can be scarcely neces

sary to advert to the devout tone by which the work is distin

guished. Scarcely any Eeader can be insensible to this ele

ment; which here, as in Dr. Smith's writings generally, is a
pervading one :-- one which seems never to be lost amidst the
keenness of critical disquisitions, nor to become frigid or frozen

in their coldness. Nor is this found lying along the course of
                'psapticrhitesa--ndlikliefe,s'uwnnhyichspogtivsesinitsa  wintry landscape --
the  work   in
hut  it is                                                               own animation and
            as

beauty to the whole. This peculiarity may be ascribed, in

part, to that Christian temper, which Dr. Smith was careful

to maintain even in his controversial writings ; by the preserva
tion of which the deeper-seated Christian principles were not

checked nor disturbed in their operation : in part also, it is
due to the spirit and habit of prayer which -- as we have seen --¦

he eminently cultivated. Bare are the instances in which,
with the intellectual endowments of a high order, there is a
corresponding development and exercise of a devout heart: --
the stature and frame, so to speak, quite above the average,
with all the simplicity and fervour of a child in supplication
before God. Yet the union of the two is indispensable to the

perfection of our powers, nor less to the full efficiency and
permanent benefit of all literary productions. Scarcely any

duty, and we may safely affirm scarcely any difficulty, whether

practical, speculative, or even critical, was met and dis
entangled by Dr. Smith, apart from a direct act of prayer.
"Why,"-- says he in his Four Discourses, (p. 85.)-- "should
528  COPIEri OF THE WORK GIVEN AWAY.                     [l817.

we not imitate the excellent Bengel, who so often in his

Gnomon, and in his German Notes on the New Testament,
rises from a grammatical observation in a devout rapture of
ejaculation? -- Gracious Saviour, let thy mercy flow to me!"

Entirely in this spirit, he began and carried on that course
of inquiry which is developed in the Scrip. Tes. ; and replete

as that work is with the evidence of a wide and penetrating

criticism -- as though Lexicons, Commentators, and Scholars
of all sorts, had been his prime aids, companions, and guides--

his first, and often his latest resort in doubt or perplexity,
was prayer-- intense, importunate prayer. The devout style of
the work therefore, far from having to be brought in by any
artificial or special means, could not have been kept out with

out an effort ; and in that case, it can scarcely be deemed
paradoxical to say, that it could not have been kept out with

one. To this it may be added, that in consequence of the

prominence and value which he attached to this habit, the

very popularity of his efforts tended to deepen his humility;
the commendations of men, reminded him the more of the

Divine Source of all that he had been enabled to achieve.

Human praise seemed ever to awaken the thought, and
                                         words: -- "Not
Ggeonde;r"a--llywotordselwichitichthein                   I, but the Grace of
                                         the Speaker's
                                                         case bore as strong a

relation to the devout exercises of his closet and his study, as

they did to any public tokens of success with which God had
been pleased to honour him :---revealing in this way the

ardour of his secret intercessions by the warmth of his

gratitude, for both were kindled at the same altar.

   According to his usual practice Dr. Smith gave away many
copies of the Sciij). Tes. as the successive editions left the

press. This was done to several of the Colleges in this country
and America, to certain of his more endeared personal friends ;

and also in several instances where the indigence of the receiver
was the motive ; an indigence often urged upon his attention
by applicants themselves, who were not otherwise known to

him. Hence, in addition to the number of copies of these

rather costly volumes, which were placed at the Author's dis
posal by his Pubhshers, he purchased from time to time one
copy after another, the original supply not sufficing to meet the
promptings of friendly feeling, and the appeals which came to
JET. 73.] LETTER TO B. PIERCE SEAMAN, ESQ., M.D.               529

him from needy strangers. Occasionally also a presentation copy
afforded him an opportunity to convey his gratitude for services
which he or some of his family had received ; when with a

readiness, delicacy, and gracefulness which must have greatly
enhanced the worth of the token of respect, his motives and

his feelings would be expressed in a Letter which accompanied

the gift. The following is one of this class ; it was addressed to
B. Pierce Seaman, Esq., M.D., and from the date, it refers to
the third edition of the Scrip. Tes. : --

               I " Homerton, Oct. 2, 1837.

· " My dear Sir, -- solicit the acceptance of the accompanying
volumes, as a small memorial of my obligations to you, for

your very kind, assiduous, and successful exercise of science

Iand skill, more than two years ago. -- From an early period of

your life, had the happiness of enjoying some acquaintance

with you. Your kindness and friendship to my dear son en
hanced my gratitude and esteem : and now, in your retirement

Ifrom the anxieties and severe labours of medical practice,
offer up to the Father of Mercies my earnest prayer, that you
may ever enjoy the purest happiness, resting upon that only

Ifirm foundation, the gospel of our Lord and Eedeemer.-- do
not take upon me to request your perusal of the book entirely.

IPerhaps some parts of it may appear merely controversial ;

though deem the controversy of the most important practical

character. But in looking over the Tables of Contents, or the
Index, at the end of the third volume, some topics of interest

will probably be perceived.

  " That God may confer upon you the best blessings of His

providence and grace, and thus render your honourable station

in this dying life eminently holy and useful, is the sincere

prayer  of,  my  dear Sir,                          servant,"
                   " Your
                            obliged  and  faithful             &c. &c.

   At this date it would be superfluous to quote any of the

opinions which have been pronounced upon the character and
merits of the Work, by men of weight and learning in the
Christian Church, and in Beviews. There are, however, two
sources of information and evidence which may be briefly
noticed.-- First, The Author received a great number of private
Letters, which expressed the gratitude of their respective

Writers for benefits derived from his labours. In some in-

                                                                                                    2M
530              THE FOUR DISCOURSES.  [l8!T.

stances these acknowledgments particularized a <change from
Unitarianism or Socinianism, to a cordial reception of the

Scripture Testimony concerning the Person of the Messiah;
others spoke of important aid which the work had rendered to
ministers or private Christians, tending to alleviate difficulties,

and to give clearness and force to their convictions not before
experienced. Now therefore it became plain that his efforts
were answering those important purposes for which they had

been made ; and by the direct action of his Writings upon

those who were the teachers and guides of others, he was per

mitted to contribute to the inestimable results of their labours

in a still wider field. And further ; the importance of the

Sc?ip. Tes. is evinced by the extent and confidence with which
Ifit is quoted.
                 it aids the Christian Pastor in the duties of

the pulpit, commentaries and controversial or critical produc*

tions, now frequently enriched from its pages, convey to many

who have no access to the direct source of information) the
fruits of his devout and learned diligence. Thus, then, were

the work itself to go into the shade, which is not likely to be
the case, the use to Which it has been already applied in adding
to the value of other works, must perpetuate the blessings

which the Author has been made the instrument of bestowing
upon mankind ; while in relation to the great argument, such a
etbhvoeedryyMoejfsosieniavtihd--esnuc"epcpoalmisepttahhca"t--tedbwuiiallltndurpekminnaitinthteoigmSecptrrhiepegtrunrabebyleT,ethsatfiotmr ownihtyichitso
founded upon a rock.

    The other Work, a third edition of which was pubhshed in
1847, is entitled --Four Discourses on the Sacrifice and Priest

hood of Jesus Christ, and the Atonement and Redemption thence

accruing : with Supplementary Notes and Illustrations. It is a

single volume, duodecimo, of 360 pages, nearly 150 of which
are occupied by the Notes. As illustrative of the still unim
paired activity of the Author's mind in relation to the questions

discussed, this edition contains about thirty pages of new matter,
in reply to the Eev. George Vance Smith, a Unitarian minister,
who had published some strictures upon Dr. Pye Smith's second
edition of the Discourses.

   In the Preface to that edition, these personal sentiments were

expressed :-- " The subjects of these Four Discourses closely
ST.flS.]  THE FOUR DISCOURSES.             531

cohere. In the Author's conviction, they are no other than an

unfolding of the characteristic doctrine of the Gospel, its very
heart and essence, the first principles of the Apostolic Church,
1 Christ, the Crucified ; ' the capital truth of theology and
religion, which it Was the glory of the Protestant Eeformation
to hold1 up to the world with accumulated evidence. From the
descendants of the Beformers, to an awful extent, that glory
has departed. Arianism and Pelagianism, Eemonstrantism
and Socinianism, the Unitarianism of England, the Antisuper-

naturailism and Pantheism of Germany, have beat with all their

forces against this rock : In Vain. It stands and will stand

for Thus plainly and pungently did he avow his sense
of what was the " very heart and essence of the Gospel : " and

thus also did he declare his firm conviction of its stability, all
gainsayers and opponents notwithstanding.

The first of these Four Discourses came out as a single sermon

in the year 1813, and    ilseoafOdCinnhgrtihsetto:"pSia--ccsr"--ifiOc"enOotnhfeCtphhreroispNte;ar toVufraelwuehaicnohdf..

the following are the
Design of the Sacrifice
the Eedeemer's Sacrifice : "--and, " On the Efficacy of the Sacri
fice of Christ." The Discourse extends to 74 pages, with nearly

100 pages of Supplementary Notes at the end of the Volume.

Scarcely any question relating to the subject is left unnoticed.

The second of the Four Discourses is, On the Priesthood of
Christ; this is longer than the former, but it has fewer
notes. Here the Author examines the " Appellations of Jesus
Christ, relating to this Office :-- and the Characteristic Pro
perties of this Office :"-- this last includes -- Observations -- "On
the Authority of the Epistle to the Hebrews : "-- " On the Error

of regarding our Lord's Priesthood as figurative : "--" On the
falsely called Eationalist System of Bible Interpretation : "--

and " On the Tendency of that System to Infidelity and

Atheism." A careful and a critical examination of all the

Scripture passages relating to the Sacrifice and Priesthood of
the Messiah, will be found in one or the other of these two

Discourses with their allied Notes.

   The third part of the Work, which is On the Atonement of
Christ, is quite distinct in form, and also in the method of
filling up, both from the earlier portions of this volume, and

from Dr. Smith's writings generally. It consists of a series

of propositions, twenty-five in number, with subdivisions under

                                     2 m2
532     THE FOUR DISCOURSES.                                                            [l8+7(

a few of them ; briefly but very carefully worded, with scarcely
any explanation, and with no discussion ; cohering, however,

each to each, with great closeness and tenacity, and the whole

not improbably reminding the Eeader of a chain of argument

made up simply of the links, free from any casing or covering
which has a tendency to conceal of weaken the impression of
their real strength. These propositions bring out in their

order and harmony those fundamental truths or axioms,

Theology --or rather of the whole Divine Polity --apart from

a knowledge and appreciation of which, theological discourses,

whether printed or merely preached, must be partial, incoherent,
and often trashy and vapid. This portion of the work there

fore deserves to be studied for the manner in which it goes into
what may be truly called first principles :-- and that this is done
briefly --very briefly --is a great advantage; for the Eeader with

ordinary attention will be able to keep the whole in his mind
at one view. As illustrative of the Author, it affords, in con

nection with many of his other works, a striking example of

the extent in which he possessed and combined the two prime
qualities of a Biblical Expositor ;-- namely, great, exact, and
very carefully applied critical science ;-- and a penetrating : and

comprehensive insight into the rationale of the Divine system
Itof moral government considered as a whole.
                                                                                        might be diffir

cult to find his equal for the scale on which he possessed and

cultivated these two qualities ; or for the degree in which the one
was constantly aiding, directing, and regulating the practical
apphcation of the other :-- he ever sought to be a strictly critical,
a thoroughly philosophical, Expositor of the Divine Book:--

neither the one nor the other alone, but both combined.

   The last of the Four Discourses is On the Redemption by

Christ. This is shorter than any of the rest; but greater
length was not needed, where the foregoing subjects had been
fully examined. Yet here the Author's intimate knowledge of

the phraseology of Scripture, and his perception of its signifi

cance and propriety, can scarcely fail to excite attention. How,,

for example, does he reprove the error in defect as well as that

in excess, into which men are apt to fall in respect of the so-
called commercial style and terms applied in. the Divine Word
to the fact of human Redemption :--

'   "   Aorfoarcmlesoof feGxporde,s' scioann,nwoth, ichhowisevseorfrfeigquureanttivlye  and solemnly employed in

   the                                                                                  it may be, but have suit-
ST. 73.]            SCRIP. TES. AND THE FOUR DISCOURSES.                                              533

ableness and wisdom in it. The impious ridicule which some persons are in
the-habit of throwing upon who still would be called Christians, ought
                               it,
                                                a
to esicite.our pity for them, but not for moment deter us from making full
use of it, provided we transgress not the sobriety and chasteness of Scripture.

   little1 reflection may show us that the metaphor rests upon very just and
Ainstructive analogies, and that involves no suppositions inconsistent with
                               it
              !
the, attributes of God, or the dignity of sacred things. That the idea of
                is
something sordid and degrading should be associated with that of pecuniary
accuracy, one of the affectations of corrupt state of society. Justice in
                            is
                                               a          the plainest and most familiar

                                               it

                                                        is
                                                        it
commutation Was probably the earliest, as
case of exact righteousness between man and man. It therefore fit
                                                            is                                        a

representative of whatever honourable; and would naturally grow into
an established metaphor to denote Equity, both in particular cases and in

the abstract. Hence    aralsnog, efoorfmms oorfalspoebelicghaticoonu."ld--nFoot ubrutDibse.  derived, and
extended to the whole                                                                        third ed. pp.

169, 200. See also p. 121.

     In this style, the Author showed how heartily he appreciated

the ;very letter of the Divine Word, while he at the same time
entered deeply into its spirit. They who cannot do both must,
as were of necessity, neologize. And as men cannot live upon
   , it
essences, stimulating as they are to the mere sense, cannot                                  it
be matter of surprise to any who knew the reality and vigoura                                  it is
of Dr, Smith's piety, that he in particular drew his nourish

ment as Cliristian man directly from the Scriptures, without
any precarious attempt to separate -- as the phrase                                                 -- the

substance from the form.

r,.

   In concluding this chapter, the two Works, to which hasa
been devoted, should be viewed in their relation to one another.a

Some years ago an article was admitted into the Christian                                    a
Observer, written by person who professed to have derived
some benefit from perusal of the Scrip. Tes. but who wasa
disposed to bring an accusation against the Author, of lean
ing to the Antisupernaturalists of Germany, because, forsooth,a
he did not include in work respecting the Person of Christ,
                               a
passages-- such as Isai. liii.--which relate to our Lord's suffer

ings. There must have been not only complete ignorance of
the existence of the Four Discourses, though they had been
then many years before the world, but also most slender
knowledge or perception of the coherence of theological senti

ments, to say nothing of want of charity, before any one
could allow himself even to imagine that an Author who had
defended our Lord's Divinity as Dr. Smith had done, would--
534 SCRTP. TES. AND THE FOUR DISCOURSES. [l8«.

notwithstanding -- deny His sacrifice, or ignore some of the

most important passages upon that subject.-- It is, therefore,
not without cause, that the Beader, if not otherwise moved

thereto, is requested to consider the latter of these works as
sustaining, both in its subject, and in the purpose and plan of

the Author, an intimate relation to the former. Nor is it easy

to conceive of the one being complete in principle, design, and

utility without the other. Not, indeed, that a writer who dis

cusses either ofthe two must discuss the other also: but where

the sentiments which are held in the one case, are like *those
held by Dr. Smith, there it may be assumed, that the senti

ments held in the other will be like his also. That is to say,
speaking generally, scriptural views respecting the Person of

Christ, are found in  connection with scriptural views   respecting
His sacrifice ;--and  on the other hand, a denial of    our Lord's

true and proper Divinity is an accompaniment of, or is accom
panied by, a denial of his vicarious sacrifice. In this particular

case, therefore, whatever is wanting in one of these works to

a perfect delineation of the Messiah's character and office, the
other will be found to supply. Here the Scripture Testimony

to our Lord's Person and Work is fully detailed : the texts,
the evidence, the arguments for each, stand in their due rela
tion to the several parts and to the whole.

Surveying the structure of the two Works, and within sight

of the stability which time seems to be impressing upon them,
the question may be urged, without the slightest approach to a

disparaging of others :-- Whether any Author within living

memory can be named, of any Church or in any country, who
has at once defended --nay, proved --the doctrine of our Lord's
true and proper Deity, and the doctrine of His true and proper

Sacrifice as an atonement for sin, with the care, the complete

ness, and the success of Dr. John Pye Smith. No one ever

gave greater significance, or greater weight to the words--
the very words-- of Divine Inspiration than he : no one ever

arrayed those words in a more compact, in a more conclusive
form as a series of arguments on the two " first principles, the
vCerruycthfeteadrt.'an" d essence of the Apostolic Church, ' Christ the

Subsequently to Dr. Smith's death, intelligence reached this
Mil. 73.]  USEFULNESS OF HIS WORKS IN INDIA.  535

country of the progress which Christianity was making in
British India ; and especially of the Conversion of a Brahmin
of High Caste, who had derived signal benefit from the Con
gregational Lecture on Scripture and Geology, and in a later
stage of his inquiries, from the Scripture Testimony to the
Messiah. To insert the particulars, will appropriately con
clude this chapter of the Author's life. They are obtained
from the Madras Native Herald, October 4th, 1851. The pro
minent facts are also related in the Calcutta Christian Advocate,
for July 12th : and with additional details in that Paper for July
17th of the same year : they have been further confirmed by
a communication from the devoted Secretary * of a Society in
whose success and advancement Dr. Smith was much interested

--the Society for Promoting Female Education in the
East.-- It is right, however, to premise, that the passage now

to be transcribed, is copied from a manuscript sent for the

Editor's use, and not directly from the Madras Herald itself :--

    « The events of the last four months have tended much to deepen the
 impression of the power of Christianity to vanquish Hinduism; and many
 who some time ago opposed the Gospel with some degree of courage and of
 heart, now regard it as possessed of some mysterious, mighty power which
 it is useless to resist. Twelve young men have renounced the faith of their
 fathers for the pure faith of the Son of God ; and we know of five others
 whose determination had been formed to pursue a similar course, and who
 have been kept back only by the strong hand of force and confinement.
 Most of these are Brahmins of high caste, and all of them are connected
with families in the middle or higher ranks of native society.

   ¦" The most important and striking case is that of Gyanendra Mohan Tajore,

a relative ofthe late Dwarkanath Tajore, and only son of Prasannakumar
Tajore, the well-known late Government Pleader in the Sudder Court, and for

many years the intimate friend of Rammohun Roy. Being of an inquiring
and philosophical cast of mind, and possessing ample leisure, his attention
was directed to Christianity about ten years ago, whilst a Student in the
Hindu College. Not being intimately acquainted with any Christian men,
he was left to struggle alone with all the various objections and difficulties
which fell in his path. After he had arrived at the conclusion that Hinduism,
even in its more refined and philosophical form, was false, there seemed to

be in Christianity itself serious difficulties which precluded its being true.
Thus, at one time, the geological argument against the Scripture narrative
of the Creation seemed to him insuperable, until he met with Dr. Pye Smith's
work on the Relation between some parts of Holy Scripture and Geological
Science. At another time, the mystery attaching to the doctrine of the Trinity

   * Miss Adam, who has been for several years one of the honorary Secretaries
of the Society, is the Lady here referred to.
536  CONVERSION OF A HIGH CASTE BRAHMIN.  [l847.

 led him to profess Unitarianism, when he fell in with Dr. Smith's Scripture

  Testimony to the 3Iessiah, which fully established him in the orthodox belief.
 As he pursued his investigations, his interest deepened, and he began to re
 gard Christianity not so much in a literary as in a religious point of view. --
 His companions and friends were not indifferent spectators of the mental and
 spiritual struggles he was passing through ; and when they saw that he
 regarded the faith of Jesus of Nazareth favourably, they did all they could to
 unsettle the grounds of his conviction. To satisfy his own mind, and to meet
 the objections thrown in his path by those unfavourable to the faith of the

 Bible, he has read extensively and profoundly, not merely the works of pure
 Theology, but in the writings of the French infidels, the German rationalists!
 and the English and American sceptics ;' happily finding his way through
 clouds and darkness into the calm, pure light of gospel truth and faith.

    " Meanwhile, the faith which was becoming dearer to him, he taught to
 his youthful wife. The philosophical, abstract difficulties which beset her
 husband's course, did not impede hers. The more simple, touching' truths

 of the Bible won her heart. She felt there was a mysterious power con

nected with the Gospel, which the religion of her ancestors, possessed not'
To her one of the most wonderful events was, that she, a Hindu lady,
should receive a religion which came from the far, far West: wonderful
even to her husband was the influence of Christian truth upon her mind and

heart; for she manifested an amount of Scripture knowledge, of freedom
from Hindu prejudice, and of religious decision, which can only be attrib
uted to the teachings of the Holy Spirit. But God, as a tender Shepherd
who will not expose the dehcate lambs of his fold to the pitiless winds and
storms, removed her from ' the evil to come.' During her illness, she
expressed her entire faith in Christ as the only Saviour of mankind, She
urged her husband to embrace Christianity publicly ; and a few weeks after
her death, he resolved to be baptized.

   " We need not say how mighty were the obstacles to be overcome, in
taking such a step; loss of friends, displeasure of relatives, calumnies of the
wicked, and the misrepresentation of the ignorant. Happily to these,
poverty was not added; since, though suffering pecuniary loss, he still
retains in his own right a competent and even liberal income. He was
bchauprtcizhed[Ebpyischoispaclo] unotnrytmhean1, 0tthheoRf eJuv.lyK."rishna Mohan Banerjea, at the old
                   CHAPTEE XXIX.

 fourth edition of scripture and geology -- letter to mr. s. j.
      farrer --memorial respecting his declining health --attends
     british association at swansea -- letter to his daughter--the

      West riding election in 1848 --attack of paralysis-- London

     peace society --attends peace congress at paris --letter to
      his children -- to his son --to henry rutt, esq.--to j. e.

      r5tland, esq. -- to dr. dewar -- to e. baines, esq. -- his hand
      writing --resolutions op college committee respecting the
      close of his tutorship -- meeting at the congregational
      library : ' tribute of respect ' -- resigns his pastorship --
      letters -- his pastoral character -- preaching -- prayers --church
      ordinances. --pastoral visiting.

   Having already spoken of the fourth and latest edition of
the Scripture and Geology pubhshed during the Author's life,
it is only necessary to notice in this place for the sake of the
order of occurrences, that it came out in the early part of the

year 1848. It was a " greatly enlarged " work, not a mere

reprint of the preceding edition ; and as such it may be deemed
a monument of Dr. Pye Smith's continued activity of mind up
to this date, of the keen interest which he still took in the dis
coveries of science, and of his steady adherence to those prin
ciples of Bible interpretation which he had laid down in the

Congregational Lecture nearly ten years before.

  One of the Students, Mr. S. J. Farrer of Yarmouth, having

been obliged to return to his friends in consequence of the
declining state of his health, the venerable Tutor thus ex
pressed his sympathy and Christian love :--

   " My dear Friend,-- Accept, for your kind and prompt Letter, the best
538  MEMORIAL RESPECTING HIS DECLINING HEALTH.                                              [l818.

Ithanks of our whole circle. Happy again shall be to hear from you,
especially if you can convey good intelligence. But, what is good?

Surely, while bodily health and external comforts are so in their own sense,
and form a strong demand upon our gratitude, incomparably higher should
our adoring thankfulness arise for the ' spiritual blessings in heavenly
places !' Let us ever recollect the relation which those and all our other
Imercies bear to the Lord Jesus. Eph. i. 3 -- 5. -- You, my dear Friend, are in

His hands. trust you enjoy the consolation of this glorious truth, 1 Cor. iii;
21--23. Whether restored to health or not, the consolation still remains
for you. The kind and faithful examination of Dr. Hodgkin and my own
                     to light unquestionable proofs that my health is
                     may you and be found ' looking to the Author
                    ;' living to Him ; and then whether working or
Ibseerloiovuesdlysoimn phaairveed.broOugnhljt'

and Finisher of our faith

waiting, we are doing His will. Then, all is well ; all is best. . . .
   " That the rich
the sincere prayer  aobfuynodaunrsceaffoefctpioeancaetelayn,"d  joy   may  be  granted  to  you,  is
                                                                     &c.
                                                                &c.

That allusion which the above Letter contains to the Writer's

own health, is confirmed by an entry in his College Diary, in
which he says, under date March 23, --" became ill, and unable

till the 29th." A still more explicit view of his state and

fdeaethendgsApartilth1e9tthim, aendmaayddbreessoebdtain"eTdo    from   the following        paper,
mittee of Homerton College " : --                                the  Treasurers and         Com

I" After much reflection and prayer for Divine guidance, am brought to
the conclusion that it is my duty to submit this memorial to my honoured

Patrons and Friends.
   " For their constant kindness shown to me in an innumerable variety of

I Iinstances, through forty-eight years, am deeply thankful ; and pray that
Ithey who now survive, and the descendants of those who are departed may

receive the rich rewards of grace. Happy should be to serve them in the
work which they have been pleased to confide to me, for any suitable period
of continuance ; but an end must come, and it is desirable to exercise fore
thought, and to make timely provision. -- Having almost completed my

Iseventy-fourth year, my natural powers must decline. To the endurance of

bodily fatigue, feel myself becoming less equal ; and the ability for mental
exertion cannot but obey a similar law of decrease. To urge the efforts of
either body or mind beyond their natural limit, would accelerate their
decay; and in such a progress, any unexpected attack of disease would

find the subject greatly incapacitated for sustaining it. -- It , is also an
obvious consideration, that if the office of Divinity Tutor in our Institu

tion were to become suddenly vacant, the difficulty of a satisfactory appoint
ment would he increased by the urgency of the demand ; and the danger
Imight be incurred of a hasty choice, likely to prove disappointing.
" Therefore, with duteous respect,  submit to the Committee the pro

priety of their entering into deliberation and inquiry, with a view to find
the best qualified person for conducting the Biblical and Theological Tuition
in this College. When the wisdom and mercy of our Divine Saviour shall
ST. 74.J          LETTER TO HIS DAUGHTER.                              539

have led them to make such a selection, it will be my duty to resign into
their hands, with affectionate gratitude, the sacred trust which they have

Icommitted to me.
                       " remain their obedient and devoted servant," &c. &c.

   This memorial does not appear to have been intended to
lead to any immediate resignation of his office, unless that
step became imperative by the complete failure of his health ;
it was rather to prepare the way for a not very remote future,

that in the event of his services ceasing, as it were at any

moment, the Committee might not be taken by surprise, nor

the Students left without a Tutor. A few months later his

energies seem to have revived again ; and in the following
year, when the proposal for uniting the Three Colleges was
taking a practicable form, he not only entered thoroughly into
the plan, and was relieved from all anxiety respecting a suc
cessor at Homerton, but lie was willing, should God mercifully

permit, to retain his office up to the close of the separate

existence of the Institution.

   The last of the meetings of the British Association which

Dr. Smith ever attended, was the one of this year, which was

held at Swansea, in Glamorganshire: --the Marquess of North
ampton being the President. Part of a Letter written to

Mrs. Nash, while he was staying at Bridgend on this occasion,
is here given :--

" We came in the Mail on Thursday, and were received with the kindest

welcome by a Wesleyan Methodist family. . . . Yesterday, our most

assiduous host (Mr. Philip Price, a Chemist) drove us to Dunraven Castle,
five miles, whose adjoining rocky coast has been the scene of dreadful
accidents, and piratical and wrecking crimes. A gentleman, we suppose

a Wesleyan also, has sent, and has to-day come, to engage us for three or

four days at his seat on the coast. The heartiness of him and his lady is

such that we cannot but thankfully accept. We propose to go on Monday,
when he will send his carriage ; and to return hither on Thursday morning,

get to Swansea (twenty-seven miles) that day, and on Friday the 25th
cross to Ilfracombe. . . . Thanks to you, my dear Ruth, for your very
right and profitable suggestion. We must undergo separation, each one

alone. The balance of probability points me out as the nearest to the ter

minus of earthly  life, and   the bursting into the never-dying state  ! But,
ever blessed be   He who     worketh all things! Eph. i. 11; Rom.      viii. 28.
IMay but be enabled to ' serve ' the Saviour in such way as He approves !
IJohn xii. 26. These considerations excite me to be more eager in pursuing

such objects as those of the British Association, that may see and learn
540              ATTACK OF PARALYSIS.                                                        [iSdff..

Imore of God and His wonders in nature and providence, in the earth and

the heavens ;--not to rest in that knowledge (of which have, but a poor

Imodicum) if even could obtain as much of it as Herschel or John Phillips,
Ibut to make it an instrument and a motive for ' glorying in the erob ' of

the Lord Jesus, and leading others to do so. -- cannot but desire that you
                 sacrifice to your old
would make the   edition of ' Scripture  faatnhderG'seololovgey, .b' y  really  and attentively
reading the new
                 "
                          Grace,  mercy, and love be with you                   yaoluljrs,"
                                      " Ever and affectionately
                                                                                             &c.  '

   Dr. Smith's Sermon Book shows that he preached during
this visit at the Independent Chapel, Swansea; at that also

at Bridgend, where one of his former pupils was settled ; and
twice at the Wesleyan Chapel at the latter place.

   In consequence of the ac'cession of Lord Morpeth 'to the
Upper House on the death of his father the Earl of Carlisle,

in 1848, there was a vacancy in the representation of the West

Biding of Yorkshire, for which the Homerton Tutor had- a

vote. Notwithstanding his advanced age, his zeal to discharge

his duty to his country on this occasion, will be seen from the

Ifollowing passage of a note written to Mr. Edward Baines,

dated Nov. 28, 1848 :--" trust it will not be necessary for
me to go to Sheffield. John William suggests, that by your

kind management, some opponent, whose honour may be
confided in, will pair off with me. To go would be to me

exceedingly inconvenient and almost inadmissible, on account

of the oppressive number and weight of Academical duties,
and Letter-writing to an extent almost incredible." Yet, although
Ithus pressed for time, his College Diary records-- " Dec. 14.
   went to Sheffield, to support         Sir  Culling                   E. Eardley ;         and
returned on the 19th."

Contrary to his usual practice, not to enter week-day occur
rences hi his
date Tuesday,    Sermon   Book, Dr. Smith has                           recorded,    under
                 January  2, 1849 :--" Stroke of                        paralysis  ;" with

the letters of the last word placed separately, in order to draw

the writer's eye more readily to the monitory fact. The Col
Ilege

--"
 Diary has these notices           respecting his   health at this time :
January 4th, instead of           the 3rd ;"-- for   the opening of the
Academical Session of the half year, -- " but
                                                       was disabled from

attending by a stroke of paralysis, with which my heavenly
Master gently smote me on Tuesday, the 2nd ¦"-- then for
ST. 75.]  LONDON PEACE SOCIETY.  541

some subsequent days -- " resigned to quietude." Again, how

ever, his strength rallied ; and although some of the effects of
the attack continued to the close of his life, and will be found
referred to occasionally in his Letters, yet in a few days he was
able to resume his Tutorial duties. From this date the Minute
Book of the College, which he still persevered in keeping, and
also his College Diary, not unfrequently disclose errors in the

spelling and in the omission or reduplication of words, --sug

gesting a touching contrast between the command which he
had over his accurate knowledge during the great portion of
his life, and the failure of power now.

   Among the Institutions which Dr. Smith supported by his
example, his purse, and his advocacy in various ways, the

London Peace Society held a high place. It is believed that

he was one of the earliest of the Ministers of the Gospel who
joined that Society, the spirit of which was such as he ap

proved in his judgment, and loved with a warmth of feeling, a

thorough sympathy of nature, which could scarcely be in

creased ; and as a mark of confidence and respect, he was in

cluded among the Vice-Presidents of the Society for several
years prior to his death. When, therefore, it was proposed in
1849, to convene from all parts of the world in the capital of
France, as many of the Eepresentatives and Friends of the
Peace Principle as were willing and able to meet, the plan
secured at once the full concurrence of the aged Tutor of

Homerton. But the state of his health at the time, and the
peculiar cause for apprehension in the probably exciting cir
cumstances which could scarcely fail to arise, constrained

his nearest connections to urge the expediency and even duty

of his remaining at home. With this advice, however, he
qould by no means think it right to comply ; and as the Con
gress was to be held during the College vacation, he felt quite

at liberty to go to Paris without trenching upon other claims. In

this instance, as in many during his long life, the impulse
under which he determined to act-- though it was directly
counter to wishes and suggestions which according to human
foresight were wise as well as kind--was attended with no sad
result:-- on the contrary, an opposite course, as he himself
mentioned, might have been positively injurious; while the
one he pursued proved a relief to his mind, and even yielded
542             PEACE CONGRESS AT PARIS.                     [lfUO.

unexpected gratification and benefit. In such cases there are,

in truth, no precedents ; nor is there any rule on the one side
or the other, by which the issue of things can be determined
with certainty. Generally speaking, where the impulse is
strong and unwavering, and there is an intelligent and con
scientious appreciation of the object to be promoted, the risk

incurred by yielding to the desire, is less perhaps than that
of resorting to vigorous means to prevent its accomplishment.

In this case in particular, as Dr. Smith could not expect to

hear what might be said at the Congress ; and as his voice was
too feeble to allow of his taking any part in the speaking, as,

moreover, he had no pleasure in spectacles or crowded assem

blies, simply as such :--his going under these circumstances,
was a very pure exemplification of fidelity to a sense of duty,

when no one would for an instant have questioned his sincerity,
had he thought proper to remain in the quiet and repose of his

own home.

   His Letters of this date and in relation to this subject will

be found unusually interesting. Parental affection and tender

ness --respect as well as love -- eminently distinguish them.

Indeed, from this time, when he was evidently receding more
and more from the occupations, official and literary, wbich had

long and largely absorbed his attention, his communications to
his children, brief as they often were, are as though he was
now able to reach those purer deposits of the precious ore

which lay in the depths of his heart ; not, indeed, unknown

before, but only not so largely used. --The first of the Letters

is exquisitely characteristic ; it is brief, glowing, decided, yet

eminently conciliatory. It was written, as the Eeader will

perceive, in reply to efforts to dissuade Dr. Smith from
attending the Congress: --
                               " Saturday night, August 11.
I" My truly precious Son,--My cordial thanks for your
solicitude and  affection. --    regard this  is [sic,  for  baes]peaacger.e--at
religious duty  to man and                    reign is  to
                               to Him whose
Martyrdom, if called to would be crown in this cause. --
                ; it,             ;                          A

moral obligation in the right hand    aacontingent apprehension

of physical evil, in the other --which has the right of pre
                               :

ponderance  ?   Phil. ii. 17 30. -- My judgmenta             thoroughly

convinced.                                       is

   " For provision against contingencies, what wonderful, an
ST. 75.J        LETTER TO HIS CHILDREN.                                543

unexampled combination of providential means! -- 60, or more,

of the most careful, humane, kind, judicious companions, men
and women. And she whose judgment and vigilance are ever

alert.
" If you and Dr. Hodgkin were to dissuade, the result would
Ibe, apprehend, far more hazardous, physically by nervous irri
Itation, than the execution of my purpose would be.
                                                                       could
never shake off the painful reflection. It would embitter my
Iremaining life and my dying hours. -- Also a consultation is
impracticable.  have engaged to go back on Monday. [To

Bamsgate, where Mrs. Pye Smith was           then  waiting for   him.]  --
We hope to come home on Saturday,             the                then
                                                   18th. -- Say         no

more; except hope, prayer, joy,
   " Truly grieved at being compelled to write, yet, ever and

most affectionately, your old and determined father. J. P. S."

   On Tuesday, August 21, 1849, between six and seven hun
dred persons went from England to France, to meet in Paris a
great number of other persons from all parts of the world,

with a view to encourage and disseminate principles opposed

to war of every kind, and in favour of universal peace. The
sittings of this voluntary Congress were held on Wednesday,

Thursday, and Friday of the same week : they were attended

hy large multitudes of people ; and the speakers on the several

occasions were selected from different countries, to afford a

better opportunity for ascertaining and promoting community
of sentiment on the great subject which had called them

together. The hospitality and attention shown to the visitors

by the people of Paris, and with the concurrence of the
Government, will not soon be forgotten. After the close of
the first day's sitting Dr. Smith thus wrote to London :--¦

                " Paris, Hotel d'Angleterre,
                  Rue Filles de St. Thomas,

                Rue Richelieu, Wednesday evening,
                                    Aug. 22, 1849.
" My beloved children,-- Great mercies we have to acknowledge, beyond my

power to convey in adequate description,     and we must not  consume  time.

If again permitted to see you, our tongues   must supply :--
" First ; let me touch the negative side of our affairs. The vast crowding
and bustling at London Bridge Station,-- the same at Calais, [sic for
                                              waiting, and the overcoming heat
Boulogne]     oppressing us with enormous
of so many    in the railway waiting rooms,  --the arriving at the Paris station
at half-past   one this morning, instead of  ten last night, --and the anxiety of
514                  PEACE CONGRESS AT PARIS.                                           [lS(0.

my mind about our luggage, which we were obliged to leave with the keys,
on board ' the Princess Clementine ' in Boulogne Harbour, and were assured

Ithat we should get them in Paris ;-- found it difficult to have such faith in
men ;-- and the fear which still lingered in my anxious breast, after we had
arrived, and the mountains of luggage were drawn out of the immense
                  near an hour (I think) it was before
receptacles, and                                        ours was              obtained. It
was towards iii°   when we got to an Hotel (not this,   to which
                                                                               our arrange

ment was previously formed,) but that was a very nice one.
   " Secondly ; the comforts far indeed outweighed the preliminary incon

veniences. The journey by land, in both countries, wras eminently agree
able, --kind Quaker companions, -- a quick and most pleasant voyage, though
the ship was crammed full, many obliged to stand, -- a most magnificent

sunset, I think exceeding any such sight ever beheld by me,-- and then, the

affairs of this day, -- all are adapted to fill us with grateful emotions.

   " (), thought I, if my dear Friends, who objected or hesitated, could have
seen the assembly of this forenoon, they would have regarded it as a splendid
dream; --they would have longed to be there, a room far preferable to
Exeter Hall ; 2000 men and women assembled to proclaim the duty of
Imankind living in love ; Victor Hugo's evident zeal and heartiness, -- one of

to-day's papers (La Presse) which read at, breakfast, powerfully sustaining
the cause, --all this in the place which has been, as all well-informed men

know, the very heart of the enemy's power against the Gospel-principle :--
Iwho will not wonder and praise and love P
                                               must end. O that we may
Ifind you all in health and comfort equal to ours! It is night, and this

Letter must go to the office. My dearest has, hope, almost surmounted
the greatness of fatigue ; and she unites in love to you all, and affectionate

remembrances  to all our dear friends,
                  "
                     With,  my  dear sons and  adnadugahffteecrtsi,onately,"
                                " Yours ever
                                                                              &c.  &c.

The next was to Mr. Ebenezer Smith : it is dated : --

                       I "Paris, Aug. 26, Sabbath, 1849.

   " My very dear Son,-- cannot let a post pass without grateful acknow
ledgments for your most welcome Letter, written yesterday, and delivered

here early this forenoon. O, let our Heavenly Father and Redeemer and
ISanctifier be praised, for the signal mercy of your being spared to us!
You, my beloved son, can,   sodnouabmt en,'ot,inaptphreopCriiamteetiPehieil.  i. 21. Amidst the
multitude of ' Priez pour
                                                                              La Chaise, I was
delighted to see a simple marble slab,
any other of the delusive corruptions   to     a young lady,                  ofwitinhioquutityt,h' atanodr
                                        of     ' the mystery

Ithe above text inscribed.              hope with the sanction of Him who
   " We pray truly, tenderly, and
hears [in the exalted Hebrew sense] prayer : and so, you for us. . . .
The many objects of valuable interest in this astonishing place, lead me to
stay as long as we can. . . .           We shall have volumes to tell, if per
Imitted to return to our dear friends. Now can only say two or three
words. . . . The Minister of the Interior and his lady sent cards to all
Ithe English, &c, visitors, inviting to a Soiree last evening. Few of our

country, dare say, (except Mr. Cobden) had ever beheld anything so mag-
ST. 75.]                     LETTER TO MR. HENRY RUTT.           5l5

nificent; and to many it must have been like the dream of an Arabian

tale. M. de ToCqueville's personal appearance is the most simple and
humble, and so his manner and evident mental character. Other chief
members of the Government, and Foreign Ambassadors were present.
To-morrow we are, in like manner, to go to Versailles."

  The next also was written to Mr. Ebenezer Smith, who was
at that time at Boulogne : it is dated Sept. 1 : --

   ".The innumerable objects demanding and rewarding attention, have led
me to resolve upon stretching my line to the very utmost. Therefore, we
hope to be at Boulogne on Tuesday, the 4th, by 4°, and probably at the
Hotel des Bains, at the commencement of the Pier. The upper town

Icertainly should prefer for those whom a little more walking does not
Ideter. Also, thought in 1835, that the encircling rampart with its trees

had an unhappy effect in preventing the salutary currents of free air from

sufficiently ventilating the houses. Not so, ut mihi videbatur, is the open

slope of the street ascending to the Haute Ville. Our plan is, if our gracious
Guide enable, to go on Wednesday to Ramsgate or to Dover. . . . This
Lord's day, we have worshipped at the new Independent or Free Church
                                                    to join in the communion
Chapel, (F. M.'s  [Monod's])  and at 3J°,  wc hope
at Taithout."

   Although while at a distance from his home, Dr. Smith was

constantly finding some new claims upon his attention, he
did -not omit to send the proper notices to the members of

the Homerton College Committee, of a meeting to be held in
the early part of September. One of these, dated Paris,

August 25th, was addressed to Henry Butt, Esq., to which the

Ifollowing postscript was added :-- " think it a great mercy and
Ihappiness that Mrs. Smith and have come here. O that you
aud yours could have had the same enjoyment ! Yesterday

was the 277th anniversary of the Bartholomew Massacre. We

are located in Bichelieu Street, near the Louvre, where
Charles IX. amused himself by firing upon his Protestant
subjects as they were fleeing" from the assassins. The streets
flowed with blood. Ten thousand were slain in this city ;

probably fifty thousand in the Provinces. Near the same spot,
                                      Henry IV. was stabbed
at the  ceanrdriaogfet."his  street,                         to the heart

in his

On the 9th of September, the venerable Pastor occupied his

place in the pulpit at the Gravel Pit Chapel; and on the 12th

the ' Commencement Prayer Meeting ' was held at the College,

after which the business of the Session began, and was con
tinued without any trace of illness in the Tutor to the close
of the year. He inserted a note in his College Diary, under

                                                             2N
546               LETTER TO DR. DEWAR--E. BAINES, ESQ.                              [l849.

date December 1 1th :-- " Church History --may be also called
the History of the Human Bace, in its most important res
pect, --Eelation to the Moral Government of God. Through
all time, the great antithesis in Beligion has run, the Outward,

ASfefnescutiaoln, atMee, cShpaonnictaanl,eoFuosr."mal ; and the Inward, Spiritual,

  In reply to J. E. Byland, Esq., respecting a loan of books, he

Iwrote, October 25th :-- " My dear Sir,-- shall be happy to send
Ithe books which you desire, as soon as can muster courage*

and get time, for the packuig up and the other requisites of

Ithe transmission. My seventy-sixth year is almost half past.

Long ago should have retired from pubhc responsibilities,

If Ibut  my    friends would not agree           tteormiti.natNinogwp, owinet."all  consent.
         live
               till July that will be the

   And thus to Dr. Dewar, in the following month :--" My dear
Principal,--Pardon extreme and unavoidable abruptness, that

I Imay not lose a post. -- sympathize in your and Mrs. Dewar's
Ideep affliction. Thrice have been called to drink the same

bitter cup. May every gracious support be granted, from the

Ifulness of the everlasting covenant !-- Of the flow of time am
Ipowerfully reminded. This is my fiftieth and last year of

public life. O that to the Lord may live and die !"

  In a Letter to Mr. Edward Baines at the close of the year,

after acknowledging the arrival of a Christmas present from
Leeds, he writes ; in relation to his own prospects :--

"Accept my warm thanks for your kind sentiments regarding myself.
The generous affection of my Friends, such as my hopes or imaginations
had not in the least anticipated, now leads me to the thought of being
enabled to take a house near the New College, if my life be spared to finish
my course here. A work, which will be of immediate necessity, and for
I Iwhich think myself
                               possessed of some adaptation, have set               my heart
upon ;--the                                                                         You can

  I" As for
                  classifying  and disposition of the combined Library.
                  any work
                               of the pen,       indulge no expectation.

scarcely have a notion of my morbid reluctance to the mechanical labour

fof writing : for it is to me a most irksome labour, It forms so broad

  I* <u   " feel  it  requisite to  resist  the  tendency  to become ' Dilator, spe longus,

inesrrss.'
  t " The production
                               of  this  note    [of four pages]  has  taken  me fully three
hours. Dec. 25."
ST. 75.]         HIS HANDWRITING.                                                  547

Ia contrast to the expedition of (I think may say all) my associates and
correspondents, as to be to me a very mortifying and humiliating sub
I Iject of reflection. Always have been a slow writer. When was a
Ichild, my Father used to say, that had a very improper method of manag
Iing the quill.  rather think it was taught me by Mr. Moses Eadon in
I I1783-7. But now am persuaded that have a confirmed paralysis of the
fingers ; as likewise of the organs of speech, especially in reading to any

person.

" Please to present my best regards to your honoured mother, Miss

Talbot, Mrs.   Edward, and all the Tribes besides.      inMygrocuopnss.t"ant  but  very
poor prayers  are offered for them all, personally and

These complaints of his great slowness in writing are not

unworthy of notice, when compared with the large amount

of his labour in using the pen. They tend to enhance our

estimate of his services to the Church, the College, and the

Literature of his country ; and especially of his services in
the wide field of epistolary correspondence, the gratuitous
or benevolent portion in particular. There was, however, one

thing which seems to have escaped his notice : namely ; that
Mr. Moses Eadon had done great justice to his pupil, and

his pupil to the Teacher, in securing such a style of penman
Ifship as reflects great credit upon both.              the fingers were

not flexible, they were successful instruments, nevertheless,

in producing a singularly legible result ; if the pen was not held
right, the myriads of alphabetic characters which it formed

could in scarcely a single instance be mistaken for hiero
glyphics ; and although the complete " formation of every

letter did not call forth a mental, there is abundant evidence

to show that it did a manual act. The grouping of the words
into sentences, was carried out by a system of punctuation

in some respects peculiar ; and the methods of giving em

phasis to particular terms and clauses were varied and not

common, requiring attention in the Writer, and such as could

not be left to the printer's discretion. Accordingly, where so

much had to be thought of and done, the mechanical process
could not have been rapid, even had Mr. Moses Eadon taught

the running hand which is only one among many devices for

attaining speed -- chiefly, if not exclusively, speed --in this our

day. Yet with all his success, Dr. Smith's penmanship bears
not the slightest trace of an attempt on his part to vie with the
Itwriting-master's art.  may be supposed to have originated

from that love of accuracy inherent in his character, and

                                                        2n2
518  RESOLUTIONS TOUCHING  [ls|9.

which embraced the 'jots and tittles,' as well as the 'weightier
              in his several pursuits, acquirements, and produc

tions. It belonged also to that fair, clear, calm, explicit expo

sition of his sentiments and feelings, so abundantly evident in
the subject-matter on which his pen was at any time employed;
-- a scholarly style, such as became one whose ample materials
were at the command of his will, who could therefore use

them with order and precision, and who from a desire to

save time both to himself and others, took care that what he
wrote should always admit of being easily read.

   Towards the latter end of this year, and in the prospect of
the termination of Dr. Smith's long public life, the Homerton
College Committee in the first instance, and a few days after
wards, the Congregational body at their Library in Blomfield
Street, met, and adopted, -- each, with perfect unanimity--a
series of Eesolutions designed to express their sense of the
value of his services, and their high respect for his person

and character. It is due to all the parties concerned to

present in this place a record of their proceedings. We thus
arrive at ' the beginning of the end ' :--¦

   A Special Meeting of the College Committee was held Nov,
7th, when, " after a lengthened conversation " in reference to
the Tutors and Professors of the Institution, the following
Eesolutions were adopted : -- *

   " I. That in consequence of the union of Homerton College with the
Colleges of Highbury and Coward, the Committee respectfully inform then-
Tutors and Professors that their services will not be required beyond
Michaelmas, 1850, and that their salaries will then cease.--In conveying

this official notice, the Committee cannot refrain from assuring their
esteemed Friends of the regret with which they look forward to the
close of a connection which has been so full of satisfaction and plea
sure. They bear grateful testimony to the zeal, ability, and success
with which they have fulfilled their important duties, and express their
earnest hope that the talents and attainments, which have in this Institu
tion been so faithfully devoted to the cause of Sound Scriptural learning,
may be again employed with equal advantage to the Church of God in

som"eIIs.imTiolarthsepihrerreevoefreCdhraisntdianbeluosveefudlneFsrsi.end, the Theological Tutor, now

just entering on the fiftieth year of laborious and honourable service, they
feel that a more distinct expression of respect and gratitude is due. They
look back with affectionate admiration on the whole period of his Academi-

    * The Minutes of this Meeting are not in Dr. Smith's handwriting.-- Ed.
4 ^sw
JET. 75.]    THE CLOSE OF HIS TUTORSHIP.  549

cal career, and thankfully record that his distinguished reputation as a

Scholar and Divine, his exemplary zeal, piety, and talent as a Tutor,

his meekness and consistency as a Christian, and his unflinching fidelity
to principle as a public man, have been a main source of credit and stability
to this Institution. They are deeply conscious that such service can never
be fully requited, and therefore feel bound, no less by justice than by affec
tion, to recommend to the next General Meeting of their Constituents that
ale Salary which their venerable Friend at present receives from the funds
of the College . . . should be continued during the rest of his life.

   " For themselves personally they desire to testify that they have ever
reckoned it amongst their highest privileges, to be associated with him in the
direction of this ancient College ; and, although their official connection

must soon terminate, they trust that they shall long continue to enjoy his
private friendship, and fervently pray that, as his past days have been spent
in zealous, faithful labour for the Church of Christ, so his future years>

cheepreedacbey." the blessing of his Great Master, may be full of honour, comfort,

and

That part of the above Eesolutions wbich refers particularly
to the Theological Tutor, will be read with the most thorough

sympathy by the long line of Students who enjoyed the advan

tages of his vigilance and learning; and the determination to

continue his salary for the rest of his life, will not only secure

the hearty approval of those who reaped more directly the

fruits of his instruction, but of the Churches also whom that

instruction has reached through the medium of Pastors trained

at Homerton. Or, if we look at the purpose thus expressed

by the Committee in a general point of view, it will be at once

acknowledged that services such as Dr. Smith had been render
ing to the College for nearly fifty years --the services, in fact,
of his whole life ; for the twenty-six years prior to his coming

to Homerton were not more than enough for the formation of
his own character and intellect -- fully justified this pecuniary

arrangement. And it was also obvious that this Faithful
Steward had by this time well-nigh exhausted his strength, so
as to leave no reasonable prospect of his ever being able to

undertake any other pubhc duty :--an impression confirmed

by the result ; for when his office as a Tutor finally terminated

at Midsummer, 1850, he was enfeebled to such a degree, that

with entire freedom from College and Pastoral claims, and almost

an entire escape from the extraneous demands of a large mis
                            --
cellaneous correspondence       and   notwithstanding the utmost
care and watchfulness on   the  part
                                      of his nearest connections --
the thin thread of life could not be preserved longer than a

few months.
550                  TRIBUTE OF RESPECT                                            [l849.

   The    ensuing    particulars are copied                     from  the    pamphlet
entitled   The Pye
                      Smith Testimonial .--

   " At a Meeting* held at the Congregational Library, Blomfield Street, on
Wednesday, the 14th of November, 1849, for the purpose of resolvmg
on some public Tribute of Respect to the Rev. John Pye Smith, D.D.,

F.R.S., &c. &c.
" Samuel Morley, Esq., in the Chair ;
" The following Resolutions were unanimously         adopted :--Moved by Dr.
Leifchild ; seconded by W. A. Hankey, Esq. ; supported by the Rev. J. N.
Goulty, Brighton :--
" That this Meeting desires to offer humble thanks to the Father of
Spirits for all the great and godly men with whom He has enriched the

world, and for their various contributions towards its material and spiritual
cultivation and happiness. -- That, while this Meeting devoutly acknow

ledges the goodness of God in calling and qualifying men in every age
for the work of the Christian Church, and expresses special gratitude for
those worthies whose names adorn the history of British Nonconformity --
as Goodwin, Baxter, Owen, Howe, Henry, Watts, and Doddridge, -- it

would record   its highest respect and truest affection for           one of the living
successors of                                                         man eminent for
               these illustrious men, John Pye Smith, a

his personal virtues and professional excellencies, for his accurate and ex

tensive scholarship, for his careful researches in the various departments of

history   and science, for his vast stores of        sacred knowledge, Biblical, Theo
logical,   and Ecclesiastical, and for his           ' Testimony ' to the Person and
Priesthood of the Son of God."
   " Moved by Dr. William Smith, seconded by Josiah Conder,
ported by Rev. John Yockney and Rev. John Hayden :--                         Esq.  j  sup

  J." That this Meeting wishes to embody in a permanent memorial its grati

tude to God for Dr. Pye Smith's life and labours during half a century
in connection with Homerton College, and for the influence which his
character and writings have exerted on the ministry, the Church, and the

world ; and that for this purpose, this Meeting proposes to raise by public
subscription a sum of money to be laid out on interest for Dr. Smith's

benefit during his lifetime, which sum, on his death, shall he appropriated

to   found Divinity  LoScnhdoolanr.s"hips,  bearing  his name,  in  the New  College  at
St.  John's Wood,

   The last Eesolution, which was moved by the Bev. George
Clayton; seconded by the Eev. Algernon Wells; and sup
ported by Eevs. S. S. England, T. A. Davids, and A. Good,
related to the formation of a Committee to carry the design

   * The Meeting consisted of nearly thirty ministers, and twenty lay-gentle
men ; some from the Country and some from London ; and as the ministers
had been educated at various Colleges, the peculiar Homerton tie was not the
motive which drew the assembly together. The whole of the particulars may
be learned from the above-named pamphlet. Lond. : Snow. 1851.-- En.
ST. 75.]    FROM THE CONGREGATIONAL EODY.                              551

into effect. -- The names of the members --twenty-six in the
whole -- show the wide interest which was felt in accomphshing

the purpose for which the meeting had been called on this

occasion.

In November Dr. Smith began, and in December completed

a series of four discourses on the Parable of the Sower ; with
the last of which he ended his work at the Gravel Pit Chapel.

            been heard with   much interest, and he was asked to
            to his people in
                              a small volume :-- " It would, am
They had

Igive them
       said Mr. E. V. Walford, who conveyed to him the desire
for their publication -- " be gratefully and affectionately received

by the Church and congregation generally, as a         memorial of
the closing efforts of your much valued ministry       amongst us."

But, no ; he could not meet the wish of his friends in this
instance: his strength was probably unequal to the extra

 labour of preparing his notes for the press ; for with diminished
 powers, he still retained his love of accuracy in all things.
 And how great the trial to such a man, arising from the per

 ception, or it may be the tantalizing apprehension of defects,
 which he in vain attempts to remedy !--the mind feeling after
, its long-used implements, but without finding them ; or if they

 are found, without strength to grasp them firmly enough to

meet the exigency, whether imaginary or real.

  In the Sermon Book, after   Ptahsetolrisnheipf.o" r  December  30th  the
words occur :--" Close of my
And as though he would be his own registrar to the utmost
limit of possibility, the last entry which is found in the Church

Book is in his own hand :--
   " On the Lord's day morning, December 30th, 1849, John

Pye Smith preached his last pastoral discourse, and resigned
the office in which the Lord's wondrous mercy and grace,
                                                       which he desires
amidst all  his infirmities and deficiencies   for     for nearly forty-
ever to be  deeply humbled, have upheld       him

six years. To his rejoicing, and to the praise of Divine love,
     sees the increasing happiness  of his  beloved    Friends under
he                    dear Brother  who is  now the
the  ministry of his  Davies."                          sole Pastor,
the  Beverend John

A few days later, the Pastor tendered his resignation to the
552         RESIGNS HIS PASTORSHIP.                                                                   [l810.

Church, and the Church accepted it; when the following
Letters passed :--

" To the Church of Christ under the pastoral care of the Reverend John
Davies, assembling in the Old Gravel Pit Meeting House, Hackney.
   " My dear Brethren, Sisters, and Children, -- The point of time has now

elapsed at which the wise and gracious Providence of God has called and
enabled me to return into your rightful hand the office of pastoral oversight,
according to the ecclesiastical principles of the New Testament. In that
station you placed me nearly forty-six years ago. Through that long

period, you have sustained me with unremitting kindness and patience, love
and prayerfulness. You have upheld and comforted me in a most exemplary
manner; you have had compassion upon my infirmities, you have borne
with and forgiven my short-comings, you have sympathized with me in
sorrow, you have, with affectionate interest, participated in my joys, and,
with your characteristic kindness, you have suffered the farewell word of

Iexhortation. --For these, and all the other blessings of which you have been

the Lord's instruments to myself and my family, entreat you all, and

Iespecially our faithful Deacons, to accept my heartfelt thanks. The vivid

memory of those blessings will, trust, remain, not only through what yet
of earthly life may be continued to me, but in the hour of death, and to our

Imutual realizing of eternity.

  " It is a signal mercy, and to me a satisfaction beyond what can express,

that our eyes behold our Teacher, and that we still enjoy the, ministrations
of our sole temporal Pastor, my friend and late colleague, the object of your

Ichoice, at first with happy unanimity, and since with increasing approbation

the Reverend John Davies. Him and you commend to each other re

ciprocally, for the fellowship of mutual confidence and prayer, that the

Ifsaving work of the Holy Spirit may be carried on with ever-advancing

power. ' there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of
love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any yearnings of tenderness, if any

mercies, fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being
of one accord, of one mind ; [acting] in no respect through strife or vain

glory, but, in lowliness of mind, each esteeming one another superior to

themselves, each attending to not [merely] their own things [feelings and

interests,] but those of others.                   Let this mind be in you, which even was in
Christ Jesus.' Phil. ii. 1-- 5.                   ' Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, he

"Ipoefacgeoowd ilclobmefowrtit,hbeyoouf.'  one    mind, live in   peace,            and  the God of love  and
                                               2  Cor. xiii. 11.

     hope to remain ever your servant and friend, in the Redeemer's name,
                                                                         " John Pye Smith."
" Homerton  College, Thursday,                    January 3rd, 1850."

" To the Reverend John Pye Smith, D.D., &c. &c, late Pastor of the
Ch"urRcehvearsesnedmbalnindg daetartheSirO, --ld IGt raisvewl itPhitdeMeepetainndg
                                                                                    House, Hackney.   that  we
                                                                                    mingled feelings

acknowledge the communication you have made to us, announcing your
resignation of the Pastoral Office, which for so many years you have
honourably sustained amongst us.-- It becomes us on such an occasion to
ST. 75.]                 HIS PASTORAL CHARACTER.                                           553

express our gratitude to the Great Source of life and of all our mercies,
both temporal  Dcaonivnditninsepuieraditpuptaorlo,ubsatht;--iaotnthfo;a--rt tayhopauet rhiyoaodvuerobfememinnoirfseatvrytohuaranenddfowertixtyah-mfinvpuelmeyeheraaovruess,
you have been
tokens of the
been blessed to the salvation of many ;-- that you have presided over an
united people, and have lived in their affections, and though some of them
are now worshipping with the Church in heaven, yet many remain to join
in this tribute of respect and regard. --Allow us also to sympathize with
you, in the pleasure you must feel, in leaving the Church committed to the
care of one with whom you have been for some years happily associated :--
that you have been permitted to witness the blessing of God attending his
ministry, and that you can resign your charge to him with so much confi

dence and satisfaction.

" And now that the All-wise Providence of God, and the feelings of
declining strength have dictated your retirement, --receive, dear Sir, our
united wishes and prayers, that the richest blessings of the Gospel may be
enjoyed by you whilst on earth, supporting you in duty, sustaining and
soothing you in trial and weakness, -- adding pleasure and delight to every
comfort,--giving you the brightest evidences and hopes of the heavenly
state ; and when it is the will of the great Head of the Church to call you

hence,   ' may an  entrance be  manindisStearveiodurnnJteosuysouCharibsut.n' dantly  into  the ever
lasting  kingdom   of our Lord

" Signed on behalf of the Church, and by its order, at a meeting held
3rd January, 1850 :-- Samuel G.                            Stephen
H. Eutt, James Carter, Deacons."  Underhill,  G.  Parker,                                  Olding,

   The close of so long a Pastorship, seems to justify the
offering of some remark on the manner in which Dr. Smith
discharged the several duties of the office.

   Having already given the details of the forming of the
Church, and of his ordination over it in 1804, -- of his methods
of conducting, and registering in the Church Book, the pro
ceedings of the Society, -- of the choice and acceptance of a Co-
Pastor in 1846,-- and lastly of his own resignation, --the whole
serves to show his love of order ; and that in matters of routine
he adhered more closely than is now common to the precedents
and usages of the early Nonconformists. Yet the imitation

was not servile, nor maintained for its own sake, or because
others had established a particular method. The course
pursued was recommended to his judgment by its adaptation
to a valuable end, and especially by its believed agreement in
its leading features with New Testament precept or example.

It was also abundantly evident, that with whatever strictness

he observed the letter of ancient customs, there was in his
case no lack of a living spirit, the spirit of his own age, to
animate the whole :-- as though he could be at once exactly
554  HIS PASTORAL CHARACTER:  [1849.

technical, yet nobly free. --A statue has form without life ; a

man has hfe, and form as well.

  In speaking of his characteristics as a preacher, the great

amount of definite Scriptural instruction which might be
derived from a regular attendance on his ministry, must hold
the chief place. His plans included, the consecutive exposi
tion of particular Books of the Bible,--the selection of the
more prominent passages in a Book, for the purpose of show

ing the leading facts, doctrines, and duties as they were related
to one another, or to the whole Book; without a rigid ad
herence to the criticism and explanation of every part ahke,--

the discussion of sets of selected texts, designed to bring
together the whole of the scriptural light upon some one topic ;

such, for example, as the Perfections of God, the Divinity of
Christ, the existence and agency of evil spirits, --sermons on
the several branches of relative duty; going on from one to
another without the omission of any class. There occurred,
moreover, in his ministry, as distinct from the usage of his

brethren generally, and often enough to claim specific notice,

discourses intended to keep alive the memory of great events
in Ecclesiastical, Puritan, and Nonconformist history. Un

questionably, the amount and spontaneous vivacity of his in
formation upon all these points was one of the inducements

or at least aids to the practice :--he had, however, an irresistible
moral motive ;--his convictions respecting the rights of con

science, and the deep injustice, the folly, the cruelty and guilt
of every form of persecution for the truth's sake, had a degree

of strength, an immediateness, and therefore an urgency in his
apprehension, which rendered silence, or even a tame style of

speaking, all but impossible. It was here, if anywhere, that

such indignation as he could feel would flash out ; and at times,

it must be acknowledged, in words which to persons who had

not pondered the facts as he had done must have appeared
excessive, as compared with the occasion to which they were
applied, or the place where they were uttered.

    After a somewhat careful examination of Dr. Smith's printed

sermons, of very many of those which he left in manuscript,
and of notes of sermons kindly lent by several of his congrega
tion, it is due to his memory, and to the use which may be
made of his example, to say : --that it would be difficult to find
ST. 75.]            preaching.                                                 555

a ministry more uniformly filled with the matter no less than
imbued with the spirit of Divine Bevelation. The authority of
that Bevelation as Divine was not simply asserted but con
stantly acted upon. An implicit surrender of the judgment to

its ascertained meaning, and of the heart and life to its require

ments, clearly showed the place which it really held in the

Pastor's estimation. He never went into discussions, which,

for their remoteness from the sentiments and especially from

the style of the Sacred Writings, seem to assert for the

Preacher at least a co-ordinate if not a superior jurisdiction

with that of the Bible itself. Active as his mind was, and

well fitted both by nature and discipline for penetrating re

search, it is equally singular and instructive to observe how he
seemed to avoid the pursuit of curious questions, and any

striving after that which goes by the name of originality.
Taking his place by the side of the Divine Word, just as he

did by the Divine Works, he was simply but most scrupulously

careful, laborious, and devout in searching for the meaning of
                    tmhaignhht itsheownnha'veexpseormieentchei,n' g
Scripture, that he                                                    to  say  of greater
value to mankind                                                     on   the  one hand,

and of inconceivably higher certainty and importance than his
' intuitions ' on the other. This was a capital quality, con

sidering his position and his endowments; and he thereby
evinced that high order of mental conjoined with moral power,

of which the Apostle Paul is the great exemplar ; that namely,

of putting forth all his energies, whether natural or acquired,

in developing the facts and doctrines of Christianity : re
solving, -- and carrying out the resolution --to 'know nothing
among men, save Jesus Christ, and Him crucified.' And just

as Saul of Tarsus would never have been heard of in history,

if his fine talents had been expended chiefly in adding to or
embellishing the ' traditions of the fathers ;' in hke manner,
ttshhueemcWinogonrstdcoi,e' n'itssioputehsanekesfoosuf nhwdimaitthsioenwlf,h' oi--cfhdwiDshpare.tsnoSseemvdeitrh' ,tsh--oehindsisnitcneetaredereomstfilipskreoorf

may be felt in his life and writings. With him, the Bible was

never like a mine which was nearly worked out, or as a

fountain which had at length run dry : --nor did he act as
though, indeed, his abilities --if used at all--were of that

transcendent order, that they were really too fresh, and full,

and life-giving, to serve any purpose less than that of being an
556          HIS PASTORAL CHARACTER :                  [lS19.

original, an independent, a sufficient source of saving know

ledge to the world. It deserves to be added, that while his

profound deference for Bevelation sprang from and betokened

his reverence for the Divine Authority; it did also evince the

deepest regard for all those whom he sought to instruct and
benefit; for he dealt with them as with persons who were

supposed to have both a common right and a common interest

in ascertaining the Will of God as revealed in the Scrip

tures ; --and only in that way can any Pastor be said to ' hold
the mystery of the faith with a pure

   How thoroughly evangelical his ministry was is clear from
^11 his works. Besides the very large proportion of his ser

mons which directly relate to the doctrines and duties of the

New Testament economy, his discourses on other subjects

rarely fail to bring into prominence, in some part or other, so

much of the purely Christian element, as distinctly to show
both his principles and his position as a Pastor and Teacher

in the Christian Church. He, in fact, had no mission, except

as Christ's   minister  ";anllordicliogueldncehe"  be  Christ's minister, ex
             he gave                               to  preach the "common
cepting as
           as the only ground of hope, both for himself and

them that heard him : and on this point, there was never

the slightest chance of mistake. Nor was the superstructure

of Christian virtue and holiness, left to find its way up to

completeness apart from his constant watchfulness and agency.

Here also, the Bible was his own and his people's guide ;

he was careful not to teach a doctrine, nor to recommend

cr urge a duty, which had not been honestly drawn from the
words, and was sustained by the spirit of that Book ; nor did
he ask from any person the submission of his intellect or his
life --that is, ' the obedience of faith '--without setting the

example of a full surrender in both respects himself.

   Two or three things prevented his ministry from being
very popular. One was the weakness of his voice ; or rather,

perhaps, his want of abihty to regulate its intonations, arising

from his deafness. Another was the style of his composition,

which would be deemed somewhat scholastic ; well adapted to

the Class Boom of the College, but not so well suited to the

miscellaneous assembly in a place of worship. The sentences
were constructed almost exclusively with a view to impart

information, a knowledge of the truth ; and not to produce an
ST. V».]  PRAYERS.  557

effect upon the feelings, except as the judgment was en
lightened. There was no onward, stately, cumulative march
of argument or of appeal from page to page ; no artifices of
composition in which the words, as distinct from the things,
were made to act an important part; no gathering together of
the details in a sort of mighty confluence --like a stream swollen

into an almost resistless torrent --at the close. Whether the
want of these characteristics of a popular style, is to be traced
to the early and powerful influence of the Lecture Eoom in

forming his habits as a Preacher ; or whether to the deafness,
which prevented him from being sensible to not a few of the

s'alutary effects of the human voice upon the heart and mind of

a congregation ; or whether it must be ascribed to his order of
mental action, which no change in the particulars just noticed

could have set aside, are questions which each one must decide
for himself. This, however, may be mentioned. He never
could allow his imagination to leave his judgment in the back
ground ; for although the former might take the lead in the

way of suggestion or illustration, if the latter could not fully

accredit what was offered, the contribution was at once de

clined. He seemed also, constitutionally unable, or from

religious motives was unwilling, to stimulate the intellectual

part of his nature to the slighting of the moral : indeed, as
he could not be content unless bis growth in holiness kept pace
with the increase of his knowledge of the letter of Scripture,

his teaching was to a remarkable degree the result, as well as

the index, of what he was as a Christian man. It is scarcely

necessary to add, how the warmth which his imagination
might occasionally fail to give to his discourses, was supplied
by the " unction " of a singularly devout heart.

   Dr. Smith's prayers, as compared with his sermons, and also

as compared with the prayers of many of his brethren, would
be thought generally to possess a very high degree of excellence.
But before attempting to offer any remarks upon their worth,
some notice should be taken of two things not unfrequently
found in them, which many intelligent and pious persons could
not entirely approve. Public events, occurring in our own country,
on the continent of Europe, or in more remote parts of the
world, would be at times referred to with a very unusual degree
of minuteness and fulness; indicating in the Speaker and re-
558  HIS PASTORAL CHARACTER :                              [lS19.

quiring in the Hearer an amount of information rarely called

for on such occasions ; and not always perhaps at command
among many of the well-informed congregation tq whom he

ministered ; and when to this he added allusions to some of the

details of past history in our own or in other countries, there

would now and then be a complication of facts which tended

rather to tax the memory than to impress the heart. Here, as

in his sermons, his familiarity with such topics, in the variety

of their relations both to the Divine Government and to the

welfare of man, made such a course generally easy, and perhaps

edifying to himself. Yet it was not always without difficulty

that these materials, even in his hands, shaped themselves into

petitions or praises. A certain intractableness did at times

show itself, which was not to be overcome except by devices of

expression, which evidently tasked the inventive powers of the

speaker at the moment. No doubt whatever can rest upon the

purity of his motives for pursuing the course in question ; to

which, as before intimated, the readiness and variety of his

knowledge opened an easy way and supplied a strong induce

ment ; but, speaking generally, and as in comparison with what

is usual in Nonconformist worship, his example in this par

ticular will not be thought entitled to imitation.
   Another peculiarity in his prayers --akin, indeed, to the fore

going-- was the minuteness which occasionally marked his
reference to private persons and families. Both the courteous-

ness and the generous sympathies of his disposition combined

to encourage, perhaps to command this practice ; for in this
way, he could strengthen and diffuse, as he believed, a deep

feeling of interest throughout his Church and Congregation, in

respect of the joys or the trials of particular members. As a

general principle, however, the larger   the assembly in   which
prayer is offered, the more "common"    ought that prayer  to be.

The closet, the family, the church-meeting, the congregation,

are as the several steps of an expanding series ; the first of

which includes whatever is strictly personal to the worshipper,

and to all for whom he may then and there intercede ; the last

embraces the totality, when Pastor and People unite in a service,
whether of prayer or praise, in which they are of one heart and
of one mind, and implore or acknowledge blessings of concern

ment to them as one whole. Any considerable deviation from

this plan, is sure to be attended with difficulty. Some persons
JET. 75.]            PRAYERS.                                 559

perhaps are soothed and gratified by being publicly referred to

in the worship ;-- others are distressed by almost the slightest
allusion to themselves as individuals ;-- and others are at times

apt to wonder, or be displeased, because no notice seems to be

taken of their case ; and no little skill is required to keep clear

of the danger of producing wrong impressions among the con
gregation. Here it may be submitted --whether some of the

elements of Dr. Smith's character, did not in certain instances

rather disqualify him for the introduction of private topics into

pubhc worship ? He had a great command of words to give
copiousness and variety to such allusions ;--his mind and heart

would glow, with a sort of reverberating heat, around any par

ticular person or subject on which his attention was strongly
fixed ;-- his charity also, his great Christian benevolence, and

the desire to kindle a hke feeling in others, led him on occa

sionally into a warmth and length of expression, much beyond

the just claims of the case as they might be estimated by many

whose attention was thus, perhaps unexpectedly, drawn from

general to private and personal interests, of which they had no

knowledge, or none which they could turn to a good account.

It moreover, not unlikely, that the extent and style of refer
        is,
ence did at times become little oppressive to the object of
              if                                      a
                                                              a
                    is
                                                                         a
                    it
                                                                              it
                            is
                             is                                                                                   :
--while others might be apprehensive of such result. On the
                                           a
whole, this one of many instances in which purity and elevaa

tion of motive must not be trusted as rule for Pastor's

conduct, apart from wide consideration of not merely the
circumstances and feelings of the Congregation at large, but of

those also of the several persons relatively to one another.
Fidelity to the existence of these two classes of facts in Dr.
                     the ground for introducing them in this
Smith's ministry,
place. It was not right to pass them by, for they unquestion
ably did characterize his practice in prayer and to include
                                                      :

them among excellencies, would be to go counter to the general
                                                      general rule in such
opinion,       that  may be learned from the          the other side --the
things.    Yet           proper to add-- as on

following remarks made by one who had the very best means
of knowing both the extent and reasons of the peculiarity now

mentioned :-- " His sympathies and intercessions were world
wide. Indeed he embraced on principle the opportunity of the
long or intercessory prayer, for the very purpose of presenting
special cases, whether near or remote, whether events of joy
560  HIS PASTORAL CHARACTER :                             [iNlfl.

or sorrow in the home-circle, or our country, or Ireland, or
Holland, Germany, or Madagascar : -- whether there were
famine, or political commotions, or restrictions and persecu

tions. And the events of prosperity or adversity in our own

neighbourhood, and above all in our own Church, found the

most earnest, and      opftreivnateaf.f"ecting  memorial  in his prayers--1
public, domestic, and

Passing on to positions which can be held with greater,

perhaps with entire unanimity, it may be mentioned first of all,

that Dr. Smith's devotional services, whether in the bosom of

his family, among his Students, in the social circle, or in the
more public worship of the Church, could not fail to produce

the impression that he was in a very eminent degree a man of
prayer. His intimate knowledge of the Scriptures, in their
substance and language, formed the ground- work of his petitions
and praises ;--his large acquaintance with the best writings on

practical piety and the rehgion of the heart, gave him a com

mand of appropriate materials, suited to outward circumstances

whether of duty or trial, and to states of feeling of almost
every variety ; -- and the recollection -- or rather the constant
presence --of the prominent facts of his own history, the strict

watch which he kept over his conduct, the analysis of his

motives, and the comparison of what he was with the Word of
God, imparted a life-like quality to his utterances, whether of

confession, supplication, or thanksgiving, which could scarcely

be unobserved or unfelt by those joining with him in the
service. His deep sympathy with the worship itself, and with
some of the highest ends to be secured by
                       is
                                      it,

                                                                  a
                                                                                  a
                                                          was also very
observable characteristic. A particular phrase --less appreciated
perhaps now than at one time -- well adapted to convey
correct idea of his manner in this duty-- speaking generally)

he was at such times as one who held Communion with God;
As far as his apprehension or consciousness could be rendered
apparent by his manner and expressions, there was present to

his view an Object of Worship perfectly, infinitely distinct

from himself; inconceivably more glorious, more attractive,

and more stimulating for thought and emotion than any other'
being or thing in the Universe, or than all combined. He was
not, therefore, as one that beateth the air ;' as one who was

paying homage to his own sentiments or words, however good
ST. 75.]                    PRAYERS.               561

or true or beautiful : he was not entangled by his own dreams,

nor did he ever lose himself, or escape from the perception of
his fellow-worshippers, in a soliloquy. That Pantheism which

has such a tendency to debilitate both the mental and moral

character, and which can only mature a sort of refined self-

adoration, he shrank from as an offence to his reason, and as

enfeebling to his piety ; and because there was, as he believed,

an infinite distance between the Temple and the Deity--
between the worshippers and the Being who was worshipped --

he had ever before him unbounded scope for that onward,

earnest, definite thought, to which he gave utterance in words,

significant indeed of the most profound awe, yet evincing very

rare elevation and purity of heart and mind. It may also be

added, that he did not seem to regard prayer and praise as
acts, with the performance of which for their own sake -- ad

mitting their sincerity --the Deity was to be appeased.

These several suggestions received at times corroboration

which would almost startle a person not accustomed to his

manner. His sense of the presence of the Object of worship

was so vivid as to give rise, as it were on the instant, to some
expression of reverence -- of personal unworthiness --of ardent
gratitude-- of adoring wonder-- of almost seraphic love and
joy--not as though he was then thinking of God, but as though

he saw Him, beyond the      usual power    of our  gaevaerth" lywinvgiseido,n"
even when purified; -- and  as though the   sight

wondrous words to his tongue --words that did not appear to

belong to trains of thought, which by their length, especiaUy
in audible speaking, will occasionally carry a person far beyond

the ordinary limits of his 'devout exercises : they were rather
the result of that habit which he had long kept up, of

urging his way nearer and nearer toward the Divine Mercy
Seat, to secure a position from which, under the shadow of the
Cross, he could obtain glimpses-- brief but intensely im
pressive -- of the Greatest and most Glorious of all Bealities.
On these occasions the Personality of the Object of worship
seemed to stand revealed even to his fellow-worshippers, by
the very brevity no less than the force of his expressions ;
for it was observable, that he was not carried away into an
ecstacy:-- it was not much that he said; and this was generally
the language of surprise, admiration, awe, or rapturous delight,
--a sort of tribute paid on the spot to ineffable Majesty, Purity,

                                                                                          2o
56'2         HIS PASTORAL CHARACTER :                                 [lM!l.

and Love ; while at the same time, it agreed in character and
tendency with that part of the general prayer to which it
might be thought to belong as a parenthesis. With the think

ing and reasoning faculty in such constant exercise, and with
the marked deference which Dr. Smith ever gave to the
product of thought and argument, it was not a little wonderful

that in his case faith should have had such an extraordinary
power of realizing the unseen Deity ;-- a rare combination,
indeed, but one absolutely indispensable to the full expansion
of the nobility of our nature. His daughter says :-- " My dear
Father in prayer drew largely from the Old Testament Scrip

tures, from the prayers of Moses, David, Solomon, Job, and

the Prophets. Their expressions were transfused, and so

were Paul's, into his prayers. Thus he cultivated enlargement

of expression : and as to expansiveness and subhmity, his
invocations, even in the family, --where, indeed, they were
                          simpAlep,o--carelympsined."ed
most lofty,  ardent, and                                 one  of the  Songs of
Seraphs in                the
             the Book of

But while this peculiarity belonged to him in a manner not

easy to be matched elsewhere, nothing could exceed in sub-

missiveness the temper of his heart and mind at such times.

The clay in the hand of the potter was so plastic, that if we
could predicate intelligence of the intelligence might seem
                          it,

                                                     :

                                           it
to have been used only to facilitate the more complete accom

plishment of the Divinely intended result                     was as though

his whole nature had been carefully laid open and spread out,

to catch the influence and the blessing. While, therefore, on

the one hand, he was among the most earnest and importunate

of suppliants, he was also the moSt humble, the most meek,

the most impressively and profoundly reverential: and in

acknowledging the Divine condescension in permitting and
encouraging man to approach the Deity, scarcely any style of

language seemed rich enough to express his emotions. His
own exquisite moral sympathy with every phase of sentiment

at such times, and with almost every shade of expression, proved
how his highest joys were found in Communion with God.

The Person and Work of the Divine Mediator held precisely
the same high place in the Pastor's devotional exercises, which

they did in his sermons. With him there was no perplexing

silence, no obscurity in one part as compared with another            ;
ST. 75.]   CHURCH ORDINANCES.                            503

all was consistent and symmetrical, betokening the sincerity
and the depth of his convictions on this vital topic. Indeed,
the medium by which he was ever accustomed to implore
acceptance with God, not only imparted that rich glow and
unction to his prayers which they were known to possess,
but it also gave that firmness to his testimony, as one who
preached Christ the crucified, bjr which his ministry was
distinguished : in other words, his own Christian experience, in

Ifkind and degree, was the source of the unity and power of all

his public services. -- those who greatly exceed him, in one
way or another, in the ability to attract and retain large

congregations, could secure on the same scale the character
istic excellencies which belonged to Dr. Smith's prayers, the

results, in the benefit of mankind and for the glory of God,
would astonish and gladden the whole Church. These ex

cellencies, moreover, are not to be ascribed to what might be
deemed peculiar to him as a Bible Student, an accomplished

Critic, an able Tutor. They belonged to the Christian life of
the man ; and as such they may well be urged as an example
and for an encouragement to others. His prayers were ad
mirably sustained by his practice and temper, and the whole
furnished solid evidence of the reality of revealed religion.

In regard to the ordinances of the Christian Church, it has

been already mentioned, that Dr. Smith confined the rite of

Baptism to the children of Church Members; a restriction

which led him to make in his sermons, and especially at the

Lord's Table, special appeals to this class of non-communicants,

which were often not only exceedingly ardent and touching,
but were the means of bringing many to yield themselves to

God. His supplications also were often very earnest for them

in particular. The Church Book bears ample testimony to
the importance which he attached to his practice ; for these

young persons are spoken of almost invariably as "the Children
of the Church." On the Lord's Supper, he held, as we have
                           was obligatory upon the  Disciples of
seen, the  belief that it                           Day. -- Great
Christ to                  His death every Lord's
           commemorate
care was taken in the admission of members ; and as great
fidehty and fulness characterized his pastoral instructions, not
more than two or three cases of discipline occurred in forty -

                                                    2o2
561                  HIS PASTORAL CHARACTER :            [l849,

six years. The Church from the beginning appears to have
been distinguished for the Christian sobriety and consistency

of its members.

  In pastoral visiting, Dr. Smith was not able to carry out

his principles and plans according to his wishes. The manifold

claims upon his time, official and extraneous, are now well
known; but his deafness caused inaptitude for this class of

services. None could deplore his failure hi this respect more

than he : none could more earnestly intreat the forbearance

and even compassion of his friends ; and it is worth noticing
as a trait of his character, that in meeting the complaints or
expressions of regret which were occasionally addressed to him

on this subject, he never seems to have used a word tending to

weaken the people's right, or the pastor's obligation, in regard

to such duties. The integrity and firmness with which he ever
strove to keep the standard of duty straight and high, even
though by doing so his own deficiency might be made apparent,
show him to have been a true man ; whose judgment might be

the more safely followed in other things, when it was seen that

the Scriptural rule was not to be tampered with, merely for the

sake of his own peace.

   Yet, considering  h"igsreciarctuimnfsirtmanitcye,s",  and especially that which
he spoke of as his                                       very much was done by

the Pastor to aid and comfort his people in private. In cases

of illness and bereavement, in family trials and losses, he

sought to be their sympathizing friend ; when, if he could not

catch their words, he often won their hearts by the tenderness

of his compassion, and the fervour of his prayers on their

behalf. Those especially who took a generous view of his
position, and who were ever ready -- as they certainly might be

in his case --to give him credit for not only the best of motives,
but often for the best of efforts, to promote the welfare of his

Pastoral charge, received in his confidence and Christian

affection a recompense which was quite as precious in their
esteem, and perhaps quite as valuable in its results upon their
character, as his more frequent visits might have been. -- That
compensative system, the operation of which has been observed

with great interest in the natural world, is to be found no less

in the world of mind and morals. The benefit which is

withheld from one person by difficulties which another is
ST. 75.]  PASTORAL VISITING.             565

unable to surmount, may often be secured, and quite as largely
too, by the independent action of just and enlightened thought.

God is often pleased to give His blessing to those who, instead
of urging claims on His fully-occupied servants, are ready to
supply their own wants and those of their friends to the very
best of their power. -- On principles like these, and in this

noble spirit, Dr. Pye Smith's Church and Congregation went

on with their honoured Pastor, in the exercise of mutual con

fidence and love. And they have the present satisfaction, and

will always be entitled to the credit, arising out of one of the

clearest of facts :--that whatever sacrifices they made of per

sonal feeling, in order to fall in with and facilitate his labours

for the pubhc good, those labours promise to be attended with

such enduring advantages as can scarcely fail to be prized by
                                         aIfc, oirnrduepetidb,lewhcerorewna,"mhains
multitudes even to the   end of time.
is seen to be evidently  striving for "

best friends can contribute to his success by keeping the race

course as free as possible from every kind of obstruction, with
what far greater propriety, and with how much higher gain to
                                   same principle be acted upon
all parties concerned, may   the
where the prize sought for        incorruptible ?"--Not to hinder
                            is "

is,--to some persons, and for many duties of the highest im

portance --the very best kind of help.
CHAPTEE XXX.

CLOSING MINISTERIAL SERVICES-- ADDRESS AT THE FOUNDING OF NEW
      COLLEGE -- FINAL ADDRESS PREPARED FOR MILL HILL GRAMMAR

      SCHOOL -- RESIGNS HIS TUTORSHIP AT HOMERTON -- FAREWELL

       ADDRESS AT HOMERTON-- HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR-- HIS

     BENEFICENCE-- SUPERNUMERARY SERVICES -- HIS CHARACTERISTICS IN
     COMPANY AND CONVERSATION -- OCCASIONAL IMPULSES-- SUMMARY OF

       HIS CHARACTER : LOVE OF LIBERTY : LOVE OF KNOWLEDGE : EMI
      NENT PIETY : THE THREE COMBINED -- HIS PUBLIC WORK COMPLETED.

Although Dr. Smith had now resigned the pastoral office,

his Sermon Book contains an account of a few engagements

which as a minister he undertook during the year 1850. These

may be briefly noticed, for the sake of completing the history
of that part of his duties. That they were not more numerous,

arose from the fact that his strength was nearly exhausted.

   On Tuesday evening, January 29th, he delivered a discourse
at the Eev. Josiah Viney's Chapel, Betbnal Green ; on " The

Truths concerning the  tEo xttheentTrauntdhsMaogf nBiteuldigeiono.f"  the Created
Universe, not adverse
                                                                         A day or

two afterwards in a Note to Mr. Viney, he shows that his mind

still retained its interest in the class of questions to which this

discourse belongs.

   April 2nd and again August 6th, he delivered the Merchants'

Lecture at the Poultry Chapel. At the latter date, which was

his last service of the kind, the text was Psalm lxxi. 9 ; selected

evidently for its great appropriateness to himself. One of his

express motives for continuing an effort which seemed beyond
his strength was, that it enabled him four times a year to con

tribute to the comfort of excellent but necessitous ministers, to
ST. 76.] ADDRESS AT THE FOUNDING OF NEW COLLEGE.                                   567

whom he was in the habit of giving the remuneration which he
received for his labours on these occasions.

  A service exceedingly suitable for the last of his long life as a
Christian minister, was one which he discharged at the request

of the Pastor and Members of the Church at the Gravel Pit
Chapel :--he presided there at the Lord's Supper on Septem

ber 1st. No record of this occurs in his Sermon Book ; but

the fact has been communicated, and the Notes of his address

have been sent by a friend, who states that the closing words
were :-- " There will be ' the marriage supper of the Lamb
                                                                saints. --Let
the whole  tihnacot nncoenievaobfleusmbueltiwtuadnetinogf.t"he                 us  charge
ourselves

   At the laying of the first stone of New College, at St. John's

Wood, on the llth of May, 1850, the address for the occasion

was prepared by Dr. Pye Smith; but in consequence of his

inability to make himself heard, he requested his learned co

adjutor at Homerton, Dr. William Smith, to read it to the

assembly. The address was afterwards printed, but as it

contains passages which deserve to be placed with other

memorials of the Author's life and opinions, some use of it

with that view will now be made. The relation which he had
long sustained to the oldest of the Colleges thus united in one,
gave a seemliness to his position in the engagements of the
day which was very widely felt at the time ; and -- as the event
proved-- this was the only visible link between himself and the
new Institution. For another reason he was eminently in
place here :--As in the two respects of piety and knowledge,
he never seems to have thought of remaining stationary at any
point which he had been permitted to attain, it was due ahke
to his principles and his success as a Theological Tutor, that at

the close of his career he should be allowed publicly to testify
his great readiness, not only to acquiesce in but also to help
forward every new provision, which promised to give greater
width and greater depth to the training of Students for the
Christian ministry.

   The Address begins with a brief account of each of the
three Colleges of Homerton, Coward, and Highbury ; and of
the gradual expansion of their respective methods of academical
discipline during the present century. As a consequence of
this latter circumstance, the plan of uniting them into one was
568      ADDRESS AT THE FOUNDING OF NEW COLLEGE. [l8J0.

first suggested, and then accomplished. The address then

takes a wider range :-- " All history shows us that from the
beginning of human nature, its Creator, infinite in power and

wisdom,  holiness  and love, has  been carrying forward our   race
by what  may be    well called a   system of Education."
                                                             That

system is then traced under various forms, and through

different countries ; the pre-eminence being given to the

Eecords of Divine Bevelation in the Hebrew and Christian

Scriptures. From the latter, the transition is easy to the

Christian Fathers, to the Schools and Colleges of the middle

ages, to the learned lights of the Eeformation, and then to

the efforts made by the Puritans and Nonconformists to com

pensate as they best could for the exclusion of their Theological

Students from the National Universities. A great and momen

tous defect is, however, discovered among their arrangments: --
" One might almost think that the learned and pious men of

that day never considered the duty of ascertaining that their
young sons had the first qualification for the ministry, laid

down by Divine authority, the being 'faithful men, apt to
teach, --men of God, stewards of God, -- examples to their
flocks,--patterns of good works.' " But this defect, serious as

it was, can scarcely awaken surprise when it is remembered

that those very Universities at which the Puritans would have
sought had the law allowed, an education for their rising

Ministers, never insisted upon real piety, as it is now under

stood, as a condition in the training of their own Clergy. Indeed,

if such a condition is recognized in theory, its application in

practice must be next to impossible in richly endowed or

territorially established Churches. Only free communities can

be really strict in their terms of admission ; for endowments
generate vested rights, which are proverbially hostile to any

very close scrutiny of either creed or character. Besides, where

such a truth has been long lost to the practice of the Church,

it takes a considerable time to restore it even to its principles.
Hence Dr. Smith says in his address :-- " Two generations had

Itto elapse

were duly
to supply
         bapeefrorercemeievtdehyed.:"--gre"aAtndfwauathsltenaoNntdontdciloalnngftoherermooisfrtisgthiniwsaetiproernotcheoeefdfiitnrhsget

Institutions whose happy union is this day proclaimed, that

the satisfactory evidences of conversion to God, in encouraging

any young man to devote himself to the ministry, were
ST. 76.] ADDRESS AT THE FOUNDING OF NEW COLLEGE.                         569

thoroughly understood to be of imperative and absolute necessity.

Upon this foundation, as the immoveable rock, in their separate
form, and now in their union, it is our resolution
                                                    and our              trust
in God, that our Colleges shall ever stand."

   This was Dr. Pye Smith's final testimony in favour of a
principle, for which -- as already noticed --he relinquished an

attractive office at Wymondley Colkfge, at his outset in public

life. His whole history shows how richly he was rewarded for

his self-denial and courage on that memorable occasion : and

now, at the close of life, he not only held and defended the

same principle, but in the incorporation of Coward with the

other Colleges, he saw it carried out in a way and to an extent

which fell in exactly with his earliest convictions of duty and

propriety in such cases. Could a more appropriate recompense
have been thought of for such a mind ?-- And are not such

recompenses in the present world adapted, probably designed,

to strengthen our faith in the future more glorious rewards

which, in the government of God, will be conferred upon in

tegrity and virtue ? How wide the contrast between the youth

ful Student-Tutor going away in the depth of winter from

Wymondley House, because he could not be a party in pre
paring persons for the Christian ministry who were not required

to give " satisfactory evidences of conversion to God --and
that venerable and honoured man who now saw the principle

for which he then pleaded laid, with the full concurrence of a
host of the most approved witnesses, as the " foundation, the
immoveable rock " of New College. Yet between that earliest

and this nearly latest day of his long  public career, there             were
sure links of inseparable connection,   ahreeldalbl youtrhawtayBse."ing
                                                                          " in
whose hands our breath is, and whose

   The concluding portion of the Address brings out so many of
the Author's sentiments, and in comparatively few words, that
on that account, and because this was the last of his original
appeals from the press, it will now be presented :--

   " The desirableness and practicability of this union [of the Three Colleges]
must appear to every thoughtful mind. The knowledge of God and the
salvation of man include all truth and all happiness. The conviction and
enjoyment of this, we desire to communicate to all men ; and to do so, we
wish to improve and enlarge our instruments, and at the same time to
concentrate our strength. The cause and the time demand this. Never
570  ADDRESS AT THE FOUNDING OF NEW COLLEGE.                            [lS.'jO.

before has come into being such a multitude and cogency of reasons for the
exertion. The providence and grace of God work out His purposes by the

use of means. Our duty is to find the best means to the best ends, and to
              in the best manner. Only in so     daollingth, incgasn.'  we hope for an
work them     blessing from ' Him who worketh                              His universe
effectuating
rises up around us ; the unfathomable past, the immeasurable present, the
awful future, all wrapped in the infinity of His Presence. His doings are
explored with a penetration and an accuracy which Bacon, or Leibnitz,
or Newton never probably imagined. Natural knowledge and the physical
sciences have left their ancient landmarks far in the backward distance.

The wheels of time seem to be even accelerated. Discovery and invention,
efforts prodigious and results which overwhelm the strongest minds, have

become almost familiar to us. Yet there are men who obtrude themselves

upon sense and reason ; men blind to heavenly beauty, untouched by the
majesty of wisdom, holiness, and love, --

              ' Unspeakable :--
              A goodness beyond thought, and power divine.'

   " Those men must not be left without rebuke and refutation. Their false
hearted assumings of evangelical phraseology, and their rhapsodies of
livpocritical devotion, on the one hand, and the attempted resurrection of

superstitious fooleries by deceivers and deceived, on the other, must be
exposed to the daylight of true knowledge and honest argument. A com
prehensive and upright philosophy, a faithful treatment of ecclesiastical

questions, and a cordial acquiescence in the Word of God, must be the
character of our ministers, and by them must be impressed upon the under

standing of our fellow-Christians. The immeasurable extent, of the works

of creation, and their unfathomable antiquity, must be held in harmony

with the coinciding infinity of God's condescension to the smallest worm, to
the invisible animalcule, and to the moral government of all dependent
intelligences. The decrees of Jehovah from past eternity, their execution

in righteousness and grace to the eternity future ; the distinct subsistencies

of the One God ; the majesty of the law, the works of redemption and

regeneration, the full accountableness of man, the rules of indefeasible

duty through the vast range of obligation to man and God, the retributions
of eternity ;-- these and all their collateral principles of belief and holiness,
our ministers must be qualified to maintain with lucid demonstration, with
meekness to opponents, and fully illustrated by their own practical character.
"We expect that many will go forth from          GNoeswpelC,'obllyegwerititnog'ssemt athrkeemd
selves for the defence and confirmation of  the
                                            the

with honourableness and benevolence. But from all, it is our demand and
expectation that they will make their highest employ ' the PREACHING
which God hath bidden.' To this one thing they are to devote their powers,
and consecrate their acquisitions ; all science and literature, all eloquence,
poetry, and history, and the all-pervading practice of Prayer. With this

subserviency and for this end, the solemnity of to-day stands as a testimony

Iof the most rightful demand.
   " For a moment may be permitted to speak of myself. When the
present Academical Session is completed, two months hence, my course will

Ibe finished, my fifty years of attempted service will have run out. Never
in time, and trust to cternitv, can I become unmindful of the tolerant and
ST. 76.] ADDRESS FOR MILL HILL GRAMMAR SCHOOL.                                     571

Iliberal treatment which have received from the Homerton College Society,
and from the wide circle of my friends and brethren. It gives me exalted
Ipleasure to think of the superior manner in which my attempts will be
superseded.  retire, with gratitude to God and man ; and looking joy

fully upon the arrangements which the judicious Council have made for the
Iplans of study and the Professors whom they have chosen. In the presence

of those gentlemen, cannot venture to speak my sentiments. Long have

I known and loved and honoured them. Their works praise them. The
public confidence waits upon them. The privilege is ours of Prayer for
them : and in the grace of Him who has promised to be with His churches
alway, even to the end of the world, we confide, that ' the work of faith, the
labour of love, and the patience of hope ' will not be in vain.

   " ' Now, our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, even our Father, which
hath loved us, and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope
through grace, comfort your hearts, and stablish you
and work ; '-- fix you firm and fast upon the Everlasting  inRoecvker!y"  good     word

Another labour of love in connection with the advancement

of real piety and sound learning among Evangelical Noncon

formists, was to take an affectionate leave of the pupils of Mill
Hill Grammar School, at their public examination, June 19th,
Itthis year.
                   has been already seen, that Dr. Smith was one

of the most active among those who were engaged in laying the

plan of that Institution in 1807 ; and during many subsequent

years, to no one was it more indebted than to him for a great

variety of important services. The School was like a second
Homerton in his affections.* On this account it was--and

not because he was now really able to bear the fatigue of
delivering an Address on the ' Public Day '--that he complied

with the request of the Committee to attend, if he could, on

the occasion. He was not, however, able to be present : his

strength     wcoaus ldun;"eqhueal   to this  part   of the duty; but "he did
what he                            prepared   an   Address, which was kindly
read by Dr. William Smith. It begins thus :--

* In August, 1851, the Editor had an opportunity of seeing Thomas
Priestley, Esq., who had then been more than thirty years connected with
Mill Hill Grammar School ; of which he had long held the office of Head
Master. He spoke in the warmest terms of Dr. Smith's great and constant
efforts to secure for the Institution a high character for accuracy of scholarship ;
efforts which were sustained and stimulated by the vast extent, the readiness,
the completeness, of his own learning. The regularity and care with which
                                      examination of the pupils,     led him to    keep an
he followed  up    the   quarterly     of the several classes, but  of every boy
account not  only  of   the progress                                               in each

class; so that he could form an estimate of the diligence, talents, and character
of each from quarter to quarter :-- and then when the rewards were distributed,
                                                                    or  counsels,  or en
he could adapt the gift and        his  accompanying cautions,
couragements, to each one as       the
                                        case might require. --Ei>.
572               FINAL ADDRESS PREPARED FOR                                                  [lain.

   " To the Young Gentlemen who have been, and to those who now are,

Pupils in the Protestant Dissenters' Grammar School at Mill Hill.
   " My dear Friends, -- There is a page of knowledge, secondary indeed to

the volume of the Holy Scriptures, but, like unto that, ' profitable also for

teaching, for conviction when we have gone wrong, for the education which
aisccionmrpiglishhteeodu.'sneTshsa, ttphaagte'             become ' complete,
                                                we may     possession of every  to every good work
                                                is in the                       man, aged or youth

ful : it is the history of himself. It is inscribed upon an invisible tablet,
but retentive and faithful. A sound understanding and a virtuous heart
will conscientiously preserve the characters in their vivid strength ; and
they will remain for ever, if even some obscuration should in a few cases be
produced by natural causes. . . . O, then, my young friends, now
while it is practicable and profitable, form and fix the habit of looking
at the tablet of conscience. Forget not ' the Golden Verses ' which your
Greek lessons have brought before you. Self-inspection will produce and

maintain self-knowledge ; and without self-knowledge there can be no
practical wisdom, for happiness in time or salvation in the world of immor

Itality. But this advice will not reach its effect, if it fail to be combined

with that other guide to which before alluded. ' Seek ye out of the Book
of the Lord. Let it not depart out of thy mouth ; but meditate therein day
and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written
therein.' Its spirit and instructions will pour light into your under
standing: and if faithfully observed, will purify your conscience, will
                  every good resolution, will ' keep you         from the paths of the' de
cstornofyiremr,'  and will lead you to that which is life        eternal, -- ' the excellency of

the knowledge of Christ Jesus our Lord.' . .                        .
" These sentiments point out to you the objects, both mediate and supreme,

for which your parents and friends have placed you in this Seminary. Your

personal concurrence is indispensable. You are bound by every tender and

Ievery awful obligation, to resolve and to act for making sure the obtaining
of those designed objects.                      beg you to cherish the feeling --the dictate of
duty and honour --of gratitude and love. Let it be laid up as a jewel in the
casket of your hearts, for frequent but always reverential observation.

Thus it will prove a spring of living power, spreading its refreshing action
                  woitfhlifper.om'isHeo.'nouInr
over the whole                                             thy   father and thy mother ; the  first
commandment                                                this  manner you will keep up the  con

viction, most becoming and essential to your reasonable nature, that time
and eternity exercise a reciprocal influence. Each of those conditions of

our existence must minister to the other, by promoting the appropriate
states of thought and conduct. Attainments, thus employed, in the fields
of temporal knowledge, will elevate all your faculties, and aid them to the
exercises of faith in the things which are unseen and eternal : while a

realizing belief of the Law and the Gospel of God will adorn literature and
science with a divine beauty. The highest attainments of learning without
piety, will mislead and betray ; because they are destitute of the highest
truth and the affections congenial to that truth. Ever then let this be the
guiding principle of your studies and pursuits ; ' This is life eternal, that

we may know Thee  the Only                      True       God, and Him  whom   Thou hast sent,
Jesus Christ.' "

After an account of the studies to promote which the Mill
ST. 76.]         MILL HILL GRAMMAR SCHOOL.                                        573

Hill School was founded, the Address admirably says :-- " The
religion of Bevelation loves, embraces, promotes all true
knowledge : it frowns only upon falsehood and sin, that which,
though it
             may usurp the name of philosophy, is ' vain                          and
deceitful.'                                                                       and
              It calls you to prove, by your attainments
by your example, that there is no disruption between natural
realities and moral truth. In many particulars, discrepance

has indeed appeared ; but closer examination has always

shown that it lay only in the appearance. We are assured that

such will be the result of full and                         honest examination.   truGtihrd,'
yourselves to the noble contest.                            Be ' valiant for the

against all ignorance,  ofevriagshiotne,ousscneepstsic,'isymo,u        and   superstition  :
and, with 'the armour                                                  must  prevail."

Then follow cautions against the use, or the encouraging in
any way, of all kinds of pernicious and demoralizing publica
                                                            given to " disperse
tions ; and the  aid that   should be                       " is pointed out :--   every
where the light  of truth  and holiness
                                                                                  " With
such sentiments and designs, you will conceive the desirable
ness of giving your influence to the means of improving social
life. Such are libraries, literary and philosophical Institutions,

lectures, the movements for closing daily business at reasonably
                                                            of Peace,
UeanrilvyerhsoaulrsB, enanedvotlheenceA.s"socAiatbiorniesf             Temperance, and
                                                            reference  was then made to

the Great Exhibition of 1851 ; which, indeed, the revered Tutor
was not permitted to see, but which he hailed and spoke of
with feelings of great animation for one of his advanced age :--
" To be prepared to appreciate this noble scheme of philan

thropy, this glorious contrast to the common character of

Princes of all ages, you must revise and apply all your know

ledge. Thus, you will not merely by your liberal aids and
your exulting presence, bear your part in this truly Boyal
Exhibition, but you will derive personal benefits from it in all

the walks of usefulness. To such a rational and far-seeing
preparation your Education in the Mill Hill School is admirably

subservient." Here, the notes pass at once into a more sub

dued key, in which they continue to the close :--

  " But, there are awakening remembrances associated with this day and

this place. It is forty-three years and a half since the opening of this
Institution. Of the persons who were then active in its foundation and

advancement, so far as my memory serves me, all have passed into the
eternal state except three, the Rev. John Clayton, Mr. Samuel Houston, and
571                                 FINAL ADDRESS, ETC.                              [l8f,0.

the writer of these words. The retrospect brings before us many familiar

taongdethheear,r't-aasffewcteinllg    images  of those with whom we ' took sweet     counsel
                                    as spent  many hours in anxious deliberation.    Among

those persons prominently stand forward Mr. Joseph Fox, the patron and

friend of our first pupil, who is now Sir Thomas Noon Talfourd, Mr. Favell,

so long the zealous Treasurer, the learned Counsellor who became Sir John

Gurney, Baron of the Exchequer, Mr. Page, Mr. Bunnell, Mr. Gutteridge,

Dr. Buxton ; and of ministers, Mr. Hughes, Dr. Waugh, Dr. Winter, and

Mr. John Townsend. . . . Nor can we forget those who, in succession,
presided over the studies and discipline and evangelical ministrations of the

Seminary ; Mr. Atkinson, Mr. Philips, Dr. Humphrys, Mr. William Clayton.

We loved them living, and we revere their memory now that they sleep in

death. We desire to apply, more and more intensely , the divine command j
' Remember those who have been your guides, who spoke to you the word

of God  li;few,' haonsde  faith imitate, steadily contemplating the issue            of their
mortal                    that this was the foundation and the corner-stone          of their

ministrations, ' Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and to-day and for ever.'
" Tender memory yet lingers. It cannot
                                                       the vivid image of pupils

who have done honour to their educational advantages, have given evidence

Iof conversion and faith and love to the Redeemer, and have finished their
holy course. Two,                   especially, would    point out to your revering  imitation  ;
one who entered on                  the same day with                                Hamilton   ;
                                                       Talfourd, --Richard Winter

and the other, a young man whose contemporaries may be yet in the School,
Samuel Johnson Farrer [the Student who was obliged to leave Homerton
on account of ill-health ; see page 537 ante,'] " and whose warm-hearted

devotedness, and untiring labour for the salvation of souls, followed with

remarkable tokens of the best success, were in active exercise till almost his
last breath. ' He died in the Lord, and his works follow him.' "

   Such were his parting words to the Pupils of a School which
he had watched and served with almost the care and affection
of a Parent. Except the direct mention of dates and of his
companionship with the founders of the Institution, there is
really nothing in the Address which could be said to show the
great age of the writer; no stiffness of phrase; no tone of
authority ; nor even any drying up of sympathies by mere
length of years, so as to deprive his language of the life and
warmth, and therefore of the adaptation, suited to the time and
the audience. The careful observer of his long career, especially
if he be a cordial one also, can scarcely fail to be reminded at
times of the appropriateness to him of Wordsworth's exquisite
lines in relation to young Hartley Coleridge : --

               " Nature will either end thee quite;
                   Or, lengthening out thy season of delight,
                   Preserve for thee, by individual right,
                A young lamb's heart among the full-grown flocks."
ST. 70.]  RESIGNS HIS TUTORSHIP AT HOMERTON.  575

   While the Address perfectly accords with the principles
which Dr. Smith had always strenuously maintained, respecting
the duty and advantages of acquiring valuable knowledge of

every kind, it is as explicit as all his teaching had been, on the

necessity of regarding learning and science as quite subordinate
to morality and Christian holiness. Nor did he wrap up his
convictions upon the latter in phrases studiously denuded of
the words of the Bible : passage after passage is quoted pre

cisely in that way which shows what his views really were, and
that in his most matured judgment there was no appeal what

ever from the authority of the Scriptures, the language of
which he regarded as the very best for conveying their great
lessons to mankind. The Beader will also do well to observe
the singularly close contiguity --so to speak -- between Dr.
Smith's sharply defined religious sentiments and his senti

ments upon all other subjects. In this Address, in which there

is nothing of the formality of a sermon, the essential truths of

Christianity occur with such readiness and frequency, that their
position in relation to the other topics affords a safe criterion

of the place which they held in the Writer's own mind and
history. --Amidst all his efforts in the pursuit or recommenda

tion of knowledge, the supreme place in his affections, was
never for an instant yielded to any competitor with the claims
of " Christ the Crucified, the very heart and essence of the
Apostolic Church and unless his example in this respect is
taken as a whole, the picture that is formed of him is a fancy
sketch, and not a likeness -- a delusion, it may be, and not a

model.

We now arrive at the period to which the College Diary
refers, under date, May 12th, and which is rendered impressive
by the words-- "My last lecture." Then for the 20th--" The
IExamination in Classics, Hebrew, and Mathematics ; --by Dr.
William Smith, the       Bev.   Bobert Bedpath,-- was not in
health and strength fit  to    Bev. JoThhnenKethnene2d5yt."h----"TEhxeamAinnnai
                         the
tion in Theology, by
versary was held on Thursday, June 27th ; and as it had been
announced that the Theological Tutor was to take his leave of
the Institution, the attendance was larger than usual. An
Address was delivered by Dr. Pye Smith, which was full of
touching interest, arising out of his review of the history of the
576             FAREWELL ADDRESS AT HOMERTON.                                          [[850.

College, and of the circumstances and feelings under which he
retired. The whole may be found in the Homerton College
Beport for 1850 ; a part of which having been quoted at the

commencement of his career as a Tutor, the concluding part
deserves insertion here at its close :--

  I" Now ask permission to address a farewell word to those from whom

I am now to be for ever separated as relates to the transient capacity of

pupil and teacher; yet hoping for another union, heavenly and indis

soluble.

   " My young Friends, --At the commencement of our Divinity Course, I

addressed to you Observations and Advices upon your profession, character,
and duties; relating especially to your spiritual state and condition, -- the
cherishing of love to God and holiness, the cultivation of self-knowledge, --
habitual seriousness of spirit and demeanour,-- entire submission to the
authority of God, -- integrity and impartiality in your inquiries, --regu
lating every thing by its subserviency to the sanctification of your heart

and life, --keeping the eye of your mind always directed to the supreme

end of our being, -- the employment of time, -- and the duty of prayer. I

now make it my earnest request, that you would make those Counsels the
basis of all your studies.

  I" On two subjects only leave my parting advice. 1. Raise your minds to

the thorough consideration of the new situation in which you are hence

forward to live and move. You are aware that, in framing the con
stitution of the New College, it has been determined that the students

shall reside in private families, and no longer within the College. This

resolution has not been adopted without reflection, conference, and prayer,

patiently and fervently exercised. You then have the first honourable dis
tinction of proving to your liberal friends, that you are worthy to be
entrusted with the large measure that will be appointed to you of self-
direction ;--that foresight and discretion, Christian watchfulness and uni
versal integrity, a just anticipation of the economical virtues and the delicate

morality which are essential to your future character.

   " With you it lies to prove, that the most tender conscience, lively faith

in the Saviour, and humble devotion, can dwell harmoniously in one breast
with the deepest and sublimest knowledge of natural truth; --that all truth,
regard being had to collateral circumstances, is valuable ;--that no truth can
be at variance with any other truth ;-- that there is a philosophy which is
                      deceitful; --     tihnatknaowjulesdtges,e' airschrinegallyintao
not visionary   and   is excellent                                                      'the wonderful
works of Him    who                                                                    part of our duty

to Him, and cannot be neglected by those who have the means of attainingit,
    without great sin;-- and that the greatest danger lies in surrendering

the demonstrations of science into the hands of men whose hearts are
alienated from the wisdom and power of God.'
                '
                            is
" Your residing apart           intended to elevate you to consciousness of
                                                        a

                                                                     it, it
individual responsibility, to the careful husbanding of time, to the resolute
employment of that time in large continuity, instead of suffering to be
                --in                                    you to be equal to your
frittered away  will  bew'obrlde,ssedwiilnldpereodv;e'  or that you are below          situation,
and then you  it,                                                                          or not

                    ;

                             a

                                    it
worthy of and then you will sink into ruin.
ST. 76.]      HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR.                                           577

I2. "The other charge which would give you, with the utmost tenderness
strength       in my power, is above       all things to maintain
practice      of prayer. Public and         family worship speak                  the feeling and
Iand                                                                              for themselves :

the
but that which recommend is the devotion of your hearts, not even the
constancy of personal retirement each morning and evening, as if that were
all, but that you bind together those seclusions with the habit of ejaculatory
prayer. This you can do in secret and in company, in study, in conversation,
in receiving instruction, in surveying the works of God, in reflecting upon
his government and providence from the astral spaces to the smallest atom.
This habit will keep faith alive and active ; it will realize the Redeemer's
                              you and      maannidfehstaipnpginehsism.''self      you.
promise   of  dwelling with   usefulness,                                     to        This will
seal up       sum, holiness,
         the

Here it will be proper to add some remarks to those which

have already occurred in the memoir, designed to exhibit
his characteristics as a Tutor. For several years prior to

his resignation, arrangements had been in operation at the

College by which he was spared the necessity of giving those

courses of lectures on different branches of natural Science
which, as we have seen, were included in his Inaugural Address
in 1801, and were for the greater part of his public hfe kept up

with a sort of resolute vigour, notwithstanding the serious

demands thereby made upon his time and strength. The

appointment of a Tutor in 1841, to deliver lectures in Pure

and Mixed Mathematics, left Dr. Smith at liberty to carry on

his Theological course free from the other class of claims.

Accordingly, in enumerating the several subjects which had

engaged his attention during the first half of the year 1847, the

list  is,Daisviwneityh--aveEthseicesn,--(Bppib. le50A9,nt5iq1u0)itiecson--finBeidblitcoalthCe riftoiclliosmw
ing,--

--Ecclesiastical History-- Pastoralia-- and Exegetical lectures
                                                                                  2
--much too extended even then, judging from recent efforts to                        p

distribute such variety of work among two, three, or even                                  ;
              ;a                                                                                     ;
more Professors but still very moderate and congruous, as
compared with the scale he laid down for himself from the
first.-- During the later years, the time apportioned to these
                                                             to Friday inclusive,
subjects      was two hours day from Monday                  the general rule--
and one       hour on Saturday and this was
                              a

                                      ;

Monday, Bible Antiquities, and Biblical Criticism -.--Tuesday,
Ecclesiastical History, and Christian Ethics -.--Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday, Theological lectures on the basis of the
Syllabus;-- Friday, however, being once in two or three weeks,
occupied with the Hall Sermon instead of the Lecture and
              '

                                                          '
578  HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR.  [l880,

occasionally a part of Friday was given to the class of subjects
under the head of Pastoraha. The one hour on Saturday was

rarely if ever used for any other purpose than an Exegetical

lecture on the Greek Testament.
   With a single exception, his written preparation for these

several courses, consisted of outhnes and notes in a number of

manuscript volumes, in which he was progressively treasuring
up the results of.his reading and thought as time went on. And
as it highly behoved him to keep himself well informed, and
then to inform his Students, of all the valuable, or popular
though not valuable, contributions to the literature issuing
from the printing presses of Europe and America on the
several subjects of his lectures, it was found that from year to

year as he added to his library, he enriched his Note-books

with suggestions respecting Authors and their Works, which
admirably served to increase the knowledge and to direct the

judgment of the young men under his care. If, indeed, his
plan was wanting in those advantages which often arise out of a
well-read, elaborately prepared discourse or essay; --if there
was less of compression in his style, less of impressiveness and
force in his manner ;--if there were opportunities, one might
say inducements to digress, which were not always declined :--

few careful observers will for a moment question the admirable

congruity of his method with his order of mind and his form

of character : for as he never could have used impassioned

oratory, the greatest Bcope was afforded for calmly developing

his varied attainments, intellectual and moral, in his daily

intercourse with the Students. Nor must it be forgotten that

he was a sort of living lesson, from which much might be
learned better than the lore of books. --Even as a general
question it may deserve inquiry :--Whether his plan did not
secure a more constant and vigorous apphcation of all his

powers for the fifty years of his official life, so as better to keep
up the vitality of his own mind, and in that way the interest of

his successive classes, than if he had at an early period pro

duced a full set of completed lectures, requiring scarcely any
thing more afterwards beyond the reading of them to the several
Students as they passed through the College.

   The single exception in his method of preparation for his
regular duties, was in the case of the class of subjects included
ST. 76.]  HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR.                        579

under the head of Pastoralia. Here, instead      of compiling out
lines of his own, he was in the habit of using   as his Text book
Dr. Doddridge's Lectures on Preaching,           and the Several

^Branches of the Ministerial Office. As that work, moreover,
contained an estimate of the most valuable Writers on Biblical
and Theological 'subjects, according to the opinion formed of
them by the Tutor of Daventry Academy, it supplied in this
department, as well as in the more prominent ones mentioned
in the Title, a basis for other remarks upon Authors in this
portion   of the Homerton Tutor's
Smith's   copy,* is to a large extent  course.   The margin of   Dr.
                                       occupied  by annotations
                                                                 and
additions of his own ; besides which, , the volume has several

pages of manuscript, on branches of the subject not entered

upon, or not with sufficient        fulness by Doddridge. A note in
pencil at the beginning of          the Lectures says :--" After many

times going over this part of my duty, with different modifica
tions, we entered upon it
30, 1847 :"--probably the           for each   successive Friday, January
                                    last time  of doing this at Homerton.

Dr. Doddridge's plan was an extensive and important one, for
the guidance of young men in respect of a position and duties
in hfe altogether new, and yet of incomparable responsibility.

It included some General Bemarks on the Christian ministry --
the use and Character of Theological Works--the Composi

tion, strain, style, matter, and Delivery of Sermons--Direc
tions for Prayer -- On the Exposition of the Scriptures, with
the characters of Commentators -- On Catechising -- On the
administration of Baptism and the Lord's Supper --General
Visiting-- Visiting the Sick-- and Maxims for Conversation

and Conduct in the different relations of public life. Now as

Dr. Smith went over this wide field with the eye of an observer

Who had secured, first, the advantages of his predecessor's

labours, and then of very large subsequent contributions on

nearly all the topics above enumerated, his annotations by the

way, whether to correct, to confirm, or to add to the Lectures,

left perhaps scarcely anything undone which was necessary to

carry the design entered upon at Daventry in the last century,

up to the point of knowledge and advisable conduct suited

to our own day. --But as the age in which he lived had been

  * The copy used by Dr. Smith is the one in vol. v. of the edition of Dod
dridge's works published at Leeds in 1804 : edited by Dr. Edward Wilhams.
In size it is Royal octavo.' --Ed.
                                                 2e2
580           HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR.                                [i860.

departing more and more from the scholastic forms which

prevailed in the time of Doddridge, he--without ever being
indifferent to their claims -- did not lay that stress upon them
which was common at the earher period. In this respect, how

ever, each of these Tutors would probably have done whatthe

other did, had the order of their appearance in the world been

reversed. --The means may not now exist for instituting a

comparison between the two Lecturers, in what concerns the

supplementary or unwritten portions addressed to their re

spective classes. But though we may be sure from the well-

known character of the man, that Dr. Doddridge was ever

most diligent and liberal in placing the benefits of his large

experience and observation at the service of his Students, it

may, nevertheless, be of use to preserve some memorial, while

it can be done, of Dr. Smith's efforts as a counsellor and
friend ;--the last four or five lectures of the course being
understood to furnish the ground plan of his remarks.

Here a variety of suggestions and advices would be offered,

respecting the importance and the means of taking care of the
health--the attention that should be paid to personal habits

manadnycon"dluitctt,leuntdheinrgws"hi--ch   he was accustomed to specify  a  great,
                                           so-called, and therefore too      often
slighted -- by the practice of which or the contrary, the

estimate of the character of a Christian Pastor, and therefore

the whole sum of his influence and usefulness, might be im
paired or increased. On the same principle, he recommended'

great care in all money transactions, that debt might be

Icauvmoidsteadnceasnd:--th"eKePeapstyoor urbeowwnelpl-eincfuonrmiareyd     respecting his cir
                                                                        accounts in the most
                      a Journal and a Ledger, --and
exact order.  advise                                                    a classifi
cation of accounts."  There were two other Bules,                       social in

their bearing, on which he laid great stress, and under which

he had accumulated and was in the habit of producing a great
variety of particulars, of neglect or right conduct :--" Avoid,

a"sDmo uechvearsytphoinsgsibpleo,ssgibivlein,g fotrrouyboluersaetlft.h" e--hTouhseesSotufdfreienntsdsco:"u--ld

not help at times being much amused at the pains which their

Tutor must have taken, in collecting and treasuring up very
many of his materials, and at the pleasant way in which they
were brought out for use :--they served, however, to illustrate
not only his vigilance and his nice sense of propriety, but the
ST. 76.]  HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR.                 581

real, the fraternal solicitude which he    cherished for  the fullest
efficiency, comfort, and happiness of      " his young    brethren."

Nor is it easy to estimate the sum         of good secured by the

whole number of his Students, from one part or another of his
advices and cautions. Time, money, influence, reputation,
efficiency, with their train of results going on into the future,
took a shape or a scope higher and better for what he said
upon these common things than if he had been silent. In this
way, as well as in those weightier matters on which the grand

stress was ever laid, he strove to furnish the man of God more
thoroughly for every good word and work.

Two particulars must be added respecting himself -.--first;
                                           strict conformity --both
that he was ever understood    to live in  for others. The extent
                               his rules
as to letter and spirit--with

to which this is true of him, was often matter of surprise and

admiration while he was with us ; and in some respects, which

could not be clearly known before, the fact has come out with
all the appropriate evidence since his death. Another thing to
be noticed is, that in touching upon some of the defects and

faults, into which  men are apt through mere inadvertence

to be at times betrayed, his manner was as free as possible

from every ingredient or quality which could give pain to the

hearer. Pf there was severity for a moment, it was against
the thing, and not against the person :--or if there was a smile,

it was not that of triumph at the cost of inflicting a pang upon
another :--it was merely a sort of lambent light by which the

error complained of might be the more clearly seen for an
instant, and then pass away for ever. And as he was rarely, if

at any time, observed to indulge in a sarcastic or scornful

method of indicating opinion or feeling, the purity and benevo

lence of his motives came into full view, both to his own ad
vantage, and to that of the purpose which he sought to effect.

His Pastoralia, therefore, were lectures, or rather conversa

tions, which in many respects served to endear his memory to
those who enjoyed his care as at once a Tutor and a Friend.

   Some irregularities in attendance, and in the course pursued
when he was present, were unavoidable, especially during Dr.
Smith's later years. An attack of illness more or less severe,
an imperative claim in some other direction, or the absence of
several of liis class, would set aside or shorten the lecture of
582            HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR.           [1850.

the day. But in these cases, it was curious to witness his
expressions of regret, and the efforts he would make to repair
the loss--almost as though some pecuniary claim had been
shghted, which it was important to set right at the earhest

opportunity. It may readily be imagined that his Students

were not always equally disconcerted with himself at these in
terruptions; nor so eager to edge in the lecture omitted one

day by extending the time of their attendance in class another :

but   whether  he   succeeded    or not,   there  was    infohrishcisonPduupctilsa'
fine  example      fidelity to  a trust,           zeal
               of                         and of

benefit, which could not escape observation. The digressions,

which have already been alluded to, there is reason to sup

pose occurred oftener towards the end of his course than

they had done earher ; arising, in part, from his greatly, in

creased investigation and knowledge, especially in natural

Science ; and in part also, it might be due to the fact that with
an unabated sense of the value of his more strictly professional

course as Theological Tutor, it was not easy for him, in pro

portion as the same ground grew more and more familiar year

after year, to maintain an interest in it sufficiently vivid to

counteract as often as was desirable the attractions of some

less worn subject. Nor was he always free from the mistake

of supposing, that these ex tempore lectures, or rather con

versations, had the same charm, or the same utility for his
Pupils as they had for himself. They were, however, generally
full of valuable information ; although not on the particular

topic which routine required. And latterly, the most con

siderate of the Students saw that they belonged to a sort of
necessity, which might excite transient regret ; but which they

resolved not to attempt to interrupt, out of deep respect for
one who had grown into some of the inevitable infirmities of
age, from the very length and abundance of his labours hi
behalf of the College and of the Church of Christ at large.

   Beverting for a moment to his long course of duty, it is
right to mention that if the care and fulness of his preparation .
for his lectures, or his energy and perseverance in the class
room, had depended at all on the number of his Students, Dr.

Smith would have had an excuse almost always at hand for
any lack of service in which he might have been inclined to

indulge. How instructive was it to observe the regularity of
ST. 76.]        HIS CHARACTERISTICS AS A TUTOR.               583

his attendance, the tenacity with which he would remain at his
post up to, and often beyond the allotted hour ; and especially
the Note-books and the printed volumes which he brought
from his own Library :-- and all for the benefit of a class rarely
exceeding twelve or fourteen persons, and generally not so
many. Nor were his efforts of a fitful kind, at one time great,
and at another weak and feeble, as though his feelings or his
interest fluctuated a great deal in respect of what he had to do.

The well-sustained uniformity of his course as a Tutor, was

obvious to all who had an opportunity to watch his conduct :
and the tendency of this to keep others regular and more
diligent than they otherwise might have been, will not be
doubted; while at the same time this was the right way to

have his office and character held in honour.

His piety was ever apparent in the lecture-room, as well as

elsewhere ; and it was apparent in consequence of the elevation

of his Christian stature and attainments, and not from any

specific means used to bring it into prominence. His tone and

manner, as well as his words, showed what a reverent, what a
devout spirit his was ; --he came to the subjects of his lectures

as one who had a deep sense of their hallowed nature and

tendency ; and by a   rare felicity  of   anticipation, his conduct
towards his Students  evinced that
                                      he  already " esteemed them
very highly in love for their works' sake." The effect of all

this was, that his presence had an unusually prevailing in

fluence, in the way of suggesting his nearness to the presence

of the Highest of all Beings :--the most familiar epithet, which

his Students in their free converse with one another were

accustomed to   apply to him,  expressed also their sense of  this
fact; --he was                                                and
                ever --"The    Blessed Doctor." --Those old

really immutable Christian verities, the reception of which
made him quite a new man before he was twenty years of age,

constantly went with him into the class-room, and were dwelt
Ifupon there with a decision which betokened the growth of his
own living confidence in them as time went on.   any evidence

on these points be wanting, in addition to that which arises
from the numerous works which he gave to the world before

he was called to leave  it,  that evidence can be collected, almost

to an unlimited extent, from the Syllabus of his Divinity
Lectures, which under the title of First Lines of Christian
584                    HIS BENEFICENCE.                      [l8»0.

Theology, is to appear as a posthumous publication :-- and
which, therefore, is a revealing of the course pursued by the
Tutor in the bosom of his class, apart from any preparation or
adjustment to meet the public eye. --And until it can be shown
                       kind or measure any superfluities in his
that there were in     it may well merit profound, inquiry-- x-with
Cliristian character,
a view to high practical purposes--whether there: were any

superfluities in his Christian creed : for this is the sum and
glory of his official position;--that while he taught without
ambiguity or reserve the doctrine which is according to god
liness, his life was in singular harmony with the letter and the
spirit of his instructions.

In withdrawing from the world, Dr. Smith felt it to be his

duty formally to dissolve his connection with many of the

Societies of which he had been a member. To save timeiand
suspense in making the fact known, he had a circular printed
which he filled up and addressed as each case required. This
was dated Homerton, August 29, 1850 :--the following passages

Iare of use here, as illustrative of the beneficence of his char

acter ;-- " Sir, It is with regret that give you the trouble of
receiving this communication, informing you of my being

obliged to discontinue my Membership in
   " For many years past, the income of my professional life
Ihas amply sufficed for personal and domestic expenditure, and
   have been thus enabled to devote the proceeds of private
property (from one-eighth to one-fourth of the whole) to pur
Iposes of Christian Beneficence and General Usefulness. But
now     am called to form all my arrangements anew."         Then,
after  alluding to the ' generous ' conduct of his friends,
                                                             " both

in their corporate capacity as  The   HspoomntearnteoonusColTleegsetimSoonciieatly,",
and by the unexpected measure   of a
Ihe goes on to say :-- " But the most favourable view that can
take of my prospective circumstances,              theexpoebnldigitautrieo.n"
of careful circumspection in all the    presents

                                       details of
. . . " There is, therefore, no choice left me but that, with

Ia reduction of other expenses, must relinquish my connexion
Iwith many of the Societies with which have had the privilege
of being associated. My friends will regard me as, in this

respect, civilly dead. Yet it is my purpose to act upon the
principle enjoined in 1 Cor. xvi. 2 ; and at the termination of
®T. 76.]                               HIS BENEFICENCE.                                             585

Ieach practicable period, ascertain what may be able to set
Iapart for the great objects of philanthropy. Beceive my

thanks for the kindness and courtesy with which have been
always favoured by     yourself and                                                          you
worthily represent,;  and beheve me    t"he&c.S&occi.ety                              which         so

 . Some passages from his earher correspondence will now be
given, expressive of his principles and practice in regard to
this branch of Christian duty. Having in a former year
occasion to explain to one of his sons his motives for not doing
                 particular object just then              brought under his
more     for a                                           annual subscriptions
notice          says ;--" The fact is that my
         :--he

and constant compliance with applications for contributions,
many upon a large scale, for objects of the greatest importance

in England, Scotland, and Ireland, Germany, France, and
Switzerland, and in remoter parts,-- amount to a sum so very
sgereriaotusaninxiectoymapnadrisaopnprweihthenmsioyn.r"esouTrhcees,foallsowoifntgen
one of his Deacons :--                                                                 to    produce
                                                                                      was     sent to

."My dear Sir,--In looking over the hook which contains such abundant

Ievidence of your affectionate assiduity, and the liberality of yourself and
my other friends, find the Rev.        's name three times, amounting
to £6 2s.--Now this cannot be allowed. To ministering brethren it has
                 Bhaeprpriyn"ess[thtoe sRupepvl.yJotsheephacBceormrym, ofdaatthieorn
always been our                                                                       without any   sub
                                                                                      of Mr. Henry
scription. Mr.                                                                                      Lea
Berry ] " insists upon being an exception, in the generosity of his. heart :
Ibut Mr.  is not in similar circumstances, and he has a large young
family, as think. You will therefore permit me to return the inclosed six

pounds and 2s. entreating of you the favour that you would restore it to our
liberal and beloved brother, with my warm expression of gratitude for his

Ikindness, but with the unalterable assurance that it cannot be retained.
Ifam sure that you and my other brethren will think and feel with me in this
matter.   Mr. and Mrs.                 ¦ find edification in partaking of divine

ordinances with us, it is a peculiar pleasure, and a matter of thankfulness to

the God of all grace : but they are fully entitled to the best accommodation
Iin your power to provide.

                         " rem"aiYno, umryobdleigaerdfriaenndd,affectionate friend," &c.

IWriting to his son in 1844, he says, " feel it my duty to
Iconsecrate to the many grand and holy demands of religion
adnedncheuwmiallnjiutys,tifayl.l"that  can ; perhaps more than man's pru

How constantly he practised his own rules in regard to
matters of finance, is obvious from the care which he took for
586                  HIS BENEFICENCE.                                   [i860.

fifty years hi keeping an account of his receipts and disburse
ments. He was thus in point of knowledge -- of no small im
portance in such things --master of his circumstances. As his
example may not be without weight, his gentle spirit will not

be disturbed by a brief description of the latest, and probably

in his view the most approved method for such a record. A

book, of a demy-quarto size and properly ruled, had a page set

apart   for each of the following branches   of   the  Hyoeuasrleykeeexppeinngd.i"
ture ;  under the respective headings of
--" II. Furniture and things allied         :--  " I.
personal expenses." --"III. ii. J. P.  thereto."-- " III. i. J. P. S.'s
                                       S. miscellaneous." --"III. iii.
IfBooks." --"IV. Beneficence,

Sporadic Donations." --"iii.
                       Placi.esAonfnWuaolrsChoipn.t"ri--butiotnhrse."e     "ii.

                                                                        pages,

or any considerable part of three pages, were required under

the general head of Beneficence, the whole amount must have

been large in proportion to the income of the Donor. And so,

in truth, it was. The sum varied in different years ; but

taking the total of eighteen years, that is from 1833 to 1850

inclusive, he gave away from one-sixth (it is understated by

himself at one-eighth) to one-fourth of his yearly income from

all sources. Yet he knew the value of money, and could have
found what might have been deemed a proper and to him a
profitable outlay for nearly all he had, in the purchase of books,

of philosophical instruments, and of costly articles designed to
increase his knowledge of natural science ; and in this way to

fit him for more abundant usefulness. He did, indeed, buy

books freely, not however to one-third of the amount of his

 benefactions, and never for the sake of embellishing a library ;
' nor were they of that class, in which the gratification of the
taste is the chief object of interest to the collector.

   One of the latest proofs of his benevolence was exceedingly

appropriate and characteristic. In the printed Beport of New

College for 1852, Dr. Smith's name occurs among those who
"Ahad made Donations to
                       the Library and Museum of that
Institution. He gave--    large and valuable Collection of
                                                  Classical." The
Books ;  chiefly Theological, Philological,  and
Beport   adds, " The Volumes have not        yet  been accurately

counted  ;  but the  number is believed   to be from 2000 to 2500."
He gave     also--"  The greater part of  his private Collection of

Minerals and Fossils. (This is in addition to a number of
Specimens given by Dr. Smith at different times to form the
fflT- r6>]      SUPERNUMERARY SERVICES.                             587

basis of a Museum for the use of the Students at Homerton
College;     which are  now also deposited
College,    London.)"   Report, dc. p. 36.--  in the Museum of New
                                              Thus from the twentieth
year of his age, when he prepared an appeal to his friends in
behalf of the   new and bold, but-- as the result has clearly
proved-- nobly   successful effort to introduce the Gospel into
India ;--down   to his seventy-sixth year, his path of beneficence

was hke that of the shining light, which shineth more and
more unto the perfect day. What he might have been in this
respect had piety been absent, or had it been only less decided
and vigorous, it is impossible to say: --but thus much is
certain, that the first example of the feeling and the practice
in his history, is met with subsequent to his conversion ; and
the principle itself always secured his approval and advocacy
on grounds of imperative Christian obligation and duty. We
are therefore justified in stating, that he did good and gave

largely because he felt the constraining influence of the love of

Christ ; and not simply to gratify a naturally benevolent dis

position, although to this he was no stranger. -- The grounds
on which human action ought to rest should be seen to be of
Divine origin; --"to do
                          Ggoodod isanwdelltoplceoamsemdu."nicate,  forget not;
for with such sacrifices

   Allied to Dr. Smith's Pecuniary Beneficence, are the services
which he was called upon to render beyond the range of his
official and regular duties. To his Ministerial Brethren he was

ever a warm friend ; ready to aid them whether they lived in
Town or Country, by meeting their wishes in a spirit and

with a generosity which could not fail to awaken the liveliest
emotions of admiration and gratitude towards their unobtrusive
but most efficient Benefactor. He took a part at Ordination

Services three, four, and occasionally five times in the course

of a year. Some of these --only a few, however, in comparison
with the whole which he attended --were connected with the

settlement of one or another of his own Students. On these

occasions, few could fail to observe the respect, the kindness,
the confidence which the Tutor would show to the Pastor-
elect:--the terms of commendation and affection which came
warm from his heart, when speaking of or to him in public, or
in the private circle :-- and the point, copiousness, and cogency

of his intercessions before God on his behalf. Beversing the
588  SUPERNUMERARY SERVICES.                                      [l850.

order of the Apostle's words, it might be said--that as a father

with a son he was ready to serve with his ' young brother ' in
the Gospel.

   But his public station, his well-known character, and
especially the variety and style of his printed works, drew to
wards him, as it were naturally, a host of applications still
more remote from his proper sphere of duty than any yet

mentioned. His freedom of inquiry led adventurous thinkers,

on the one hand, to submit to him their difficulties and doubts :
while, on the other, the clearness and definiteness of his reli

gious belief, laid him open to appeals touching the soundness
of certain new opinions that might have been broached. His

large acquaintance with books on Theological, Critical, and

Scientific subjects, opened the way to questions concerning the

character of particular authors, or the course of reading which
he would recommend the applicant to pursue. Persons who
were about to translate some work into English, sought his
direction in cases where they were perplexed by the idiom of
the Foreign tongue. Others who were contemplating a work

of their own, craved his advice at the outset, or desired him to

examine the manuscript before it went to press. --It was thus
that he was kept incessantly employed :--it was thus that

the intervals of official duty were crowded with 'extraneous
claims :'--it was thus that his Letter-Writing became at times

painfully oppressive in one direction, and brief, and to himself
unsatisfactory in another.--He had, notwithstanding, many

motives for doing his utmost to meet these supernumerary

appeals. There was his constant readiness to do good; his

unfailing courteousness of disposition ; his self-denying per

severance in labour ; added to which, if the inquiries addressed
to him related-- as they often did--to Scripture truths, or to

circumstances connected with the Christian ministry, he felt as

though he could not pass them by in silence, or with a mere

apology for an answer. In this respect he still acted as one

who was under law to Christ.
   The ' field ' from which these favours came to him, may truly

be said to have been ' the world ; ' for it not only included

the United Kingdom,  reamnodtevrarpioaurtss.'ConPtrionbeanbtalyl  countries, but
America, and even '                                               for one whose

station was not more public than his, and who kept no private
ffiT- r6-J         SUPERNUMERARY SERVICES.                                             589

Secretary, the amount of what may be called his gratuitous
correspondence was almost without precedent. Large, indeed,
was the number of Letters of this class which he had to read,

and next to write ; and as they were not Letters of mere form,
or pf business routine, which could be answered according to
a common model in the writer's memory, but each one was
emphatically of its own sort, the time required and the thought

also, especially for him whose penmanship was slow and his

love of accuracy strong, must have added greatly to the total

sum of benevolent service which in his long life he rendered
to his generation. A few are curious, particularly as addressed

to such a man.     Thus   oEnpeic,c"ororef swpohnicdhenhte  incloses                   for his use
                   of an
the " prelections                                            says, "                   It contains
       t9h0ro0u0gvheorsuets;--"--hearnodica--nowthrietrtepnerinsotnhesesntrtichteimst
about                                                                                  literal ortho
doxy
                                                                                       in 1845, from

ihe far-off State of Indiana, upwards of three closely-written

large folio pages, beginning thus :--" Dear Sir,--By the favour

able notice of your Scientific and Beligious labours, by the

IBev. Edward Hitchcock in his Elementary Geology, pubhshed

in New York, am persuaded that your mind is prepared to
comprehend the works of God in their most enlarged princi

Iples, as well as to appreciate the advantages of this knowledge

to rehgion. For this reason, have thought that a commu

Inication, showing the works of God in their revealed and true

sense, which perceive men of science have not been able to
attain, will be acceptable to you at this time, in enabling you

to enlarge the  sphere of your usefulness and               labours in the
cause of truth                                              the top of the
                and science among men."--At
page of the first of these two Letters, Dr. Smith wrote in pencil

"Answa"; but the second probably was never fully read, for

the writer's cosmogony from beginning to end was superlatively

mystical.

   As Dr. Smith rarely took a copy of his Letters, and as those
which he wrote in reply to applications about hterary pro
ductions, or for his opinion and advice on practical, critical,
or speculative difficulties, had an object for those to whom they
were addressed which might be considered peculiar and exclu

sive, it is not in our power to furnish the Beader with more
than one specimen of the style in which his knowledge and his
benevolence prompted him to meet this class of claims upon
his time. Should the commencement of the following Note
590.                         SUPERNUMERARY SERVICES.                                         [l8S0.

appear abrupt, it is right to say, that the applicant was not per
sonally known to Dr. Smith, and his residence was so remote

that he was not known to be a minister, and was therefore

written to as a layman. It is dated Homerton, Dec. 16, 1842 :--

I" Dear Sir, -- am quite astonished that any person, possessed of moderate
scholarship, should not know that D. O. M. is one of the most common
Latin Sigla; -- methods of denoting words by their initial letters. This
form probably originated in the D. M. found at the head of almost every
sepulchral tablet of the ancient Romans, denoting Dlis Manibus, i. e. To
the gods presiding over the invisible world ; or, more probably, it was in
tended to convey the idea that the departed spirit of the parent, husband,
wife, &c. was, in a sense, deified, and it would therefore signify To the

deified souls.

  I" Thence, conjecture, arose another form among the heathen, D. 0. M.,

which, assuming the dative case (the most usual, as expressing dedication ;

but of course, any case would be understood which the construction re
qu"ireDdiis:--O)mwnoibuulds
                             be                                                              '
                             Manibus
                                      ;  To all the deified souls.
" Deo Optimo Maximo ; To the best and greatest deity. *
I" Dese Optimse Maximae ;--which might he Juno, Venus, Diana, Proser
   pine, or some other imagined goddess ; but generally suppose that

      Diana was meant.

   "When in the 4th and following, centuries Christianity had widely
diffused itself throughout the Roman Empire, the Western or Latin Chris

tians very naturally and properly retained the common and well-known
form, D. O. M., ( Deus Optimus Maximus, in whatever case the construction
might                                    description of the Only True God, the
Being  be,  ) as a noble and  beautiful  usually comes in the dative, indicating
            all Perfections.
       of                     It most

that a church, hospital, school, or book, or anything else, was consecrated
To the Best and Greatest of Beings.
" In the paper herein returned, the first instance is in the dative case ;
                             are in the genitive.
                                                 " remain,
Ithe remaining two                                                             truly,"

                                                            dear  Sir,  yours           &c.

   The reader will now be able to appreciate those often
pathetic complaints which he has again and again met with,
respecting the variety and weight of Dr. Smith's correspon
dence ;--and he will be able to reconcile these with the
comparative fewness and brevity of his Letters to his personal
friends. Can it be necessary to say, that in responding to

these extraneous demands he had no recompense except that,

--but how rich a one in his estimation !--which arose from

* " Probably intending the Numen Summum, Father qf gods and men, or
simply God,    of whom many heathen                               though obscurely and in
consistently.    See Rom. i. 19."        writers  speak,
ST. 76.]       CHARACTERISTICS IN COMPANY, ETC.               591

complying with his high sense of Christian obligation to the
Utmost extent in his power; as though he must deny himself
in some of the pleasures of social life, in order that he might
go the round of a wider range of self-denying duty ? And
with a delicacy which belonged to his scale of moral greatness,
these services, which neither the church, nor the college, nor
the world, could either claim or be cognizant of, were just
those about wbich, as to their nature and objects, he was
profoundly silent himself.

   To his pecuniary benefactions, and the gifts of time and
thought here mentioned, must be added --as a further evidence
of the unselfishness of his disposition --his easy and generous

 method of settling, or rather of allowing others to settle for
-him, the money part of his varied offices and labours. As

a Tutor or a Pastor, he was as grateful for that which he
received as though his exertions were too highly remunerated ;

yet he had no fastidious, much less any factitious indifference
to the free-will offerings of his friends, the principle of which,

indeed, commanded his warmest approval.--And the same in

regard to his printed works : what Author of his celebrity,

knowing the worth of money and having such a variety of
        ?
                                 ever gave his Publishers less trouble,
                            it,
important uses for

or so little, in questions of copyright and the price of literary

labour         He, therefore, in all these cases was worker for the
                                              a
                                                   a
sake of the service to be rendered, and not with view to the
pay. Hence, the spirit in which he discharged duty was such
as no pay can command nor any policy counterfeit -- was
                                                      ;

                                                          it

that of Him " who though he was rich,    for  roicuhr."sakes  became
poor, that we through His poverty might  be

   As the next step in this attempt to unfold the circumstancesto
of Dr. Pye Smith's life, will find him at Guildford, whither he
retired from all public duties, and where, indeed, he began to;
sink from the first day of his arrival to the close of his earthly
course --this may be the most suitable part of the Memoir,

    receive some remarks concerning certain features of his
character and conduct of which no specific notice has yet been

submitted to the Beader.
592 HIS CHARACTERISTICS IN [i860.

   To begin with what he was in company and conversation : --
His retiring and diffident manner rarely escaped observation ;
for if any one part of a room, or any one person in a circle of
friends, was less prominent than another, Dr. Smith, when left

to have his own way, would choose that part, and place him

self --often with the warmest greeting--by the side of that

person ; and this was almost sure to be the case, whenever the

less prominent figures happened to be of the number of his

Pupils, or of the humbler class of Christian Ministers. He

was scrupulously careful to avoid every act, word, or posture,

which could indicate --even by absence of mind --any deficiency
of respect for those with whom he was in company. Indeed, his

great attention to the wants and comfort of others, his urbanity
and politeness, the remarkable quickness with which he would
anticipate their attempts to serve him and themselves also, not
unfrequently perplexed those whom he thus honoured, and

who were at times at a loss to know how they were to receive
and how requite his courtesy and kindness.

His manner in conversation must always be viewed in the
light of
Yet even  the   serious  inafnirdmigtyro,'wing  difficulty of his deafness.
           his  ' great                    was  not unattended with valu

able traits of character. He never sat, moody and apart, as

one who was angry that he could not upon equal terms with

the rest share the benefits and pleasures of social intercourse: --

nor was he restless and eager to urge his claims as a speaker,
upon those from whom he could derive little or nothing as a

hearer :--nor was his countenance marked by the traces of a

lofty, stoical, human calm, as though it did not become his
dignity to give any signs of feeling before men. His patience,
his submission looked like what we doubt not they were --

really Divine graces, attempering,   refining, and elevating the
mortal part ;--without, as it were,
                                     obliterating it. His efforts
to compensate for this drawback upon conversation, were per

sisted in with an energy which often called forth surprise. At
times, the inconvenience and pain to which he would submit,
in order perhaps to receive some communication so small in

value that its loss could never have been felt by him, were fol
lowed by tokens of disappointment in which his sense of what

was due to himself and what to the speaker, appeared in
singular conflict with each other. Yet he did not cease from
his endeavours to meet the wishes of his friends. His eye was
ST. 76.]  COMPANY AND CONVERSATION.  593

quick and inquisitive --his ear-trumpet was adjusted in the best
way for service --he got some one to give him the purport and
scope of the conversation, in writing if he could not otherwise
obtain it-- and rarely did he omit the precaution of asking for

distinctness of enunciation, lest the speaker should exhaust him
self instead by mere loudness of tone. When he began to speak
in reply, especially before a number of persons, he generally

made an apology for his deafness, and desired their kind indul
gence should he say anything not appropriate to the occasion,
or which might have been said already, or which might per

chance wound the feelings of any one present. Such charac
teristics as belonged to his written works and to his College

lectures, were found also in his conversation. His information,

his accuracy, his readiness in the use of names and dates, came
out freely as the case might require. Nor less obvious were his

meekness in receiving, his generosity in estimating, and his
mildness in answering objections and difficulties. He was also
open to conviction ; and when convinced, his manner and spirit

suffered no change for the worse.
   The monologue style, for which the late Mr. Coleridge was

celebrated, rarely if ever appeared in Dr. Smith. Deaf as he was,

well furnished with topics as he was known to be, and though

not unfrequently urged to take up continuous speaking in com
pany--his mental habits, and his sense of what was proper, at

least in his case, never allowed him to engross the conversa
tion to himself. Indeed his mind was not of the theorizing
cast: questions with him were pursued with a view to their

being settled, and never simply or mainly as intellectual exer
cises; so that long tissues of words, however beautiful, seem
neither to have attracted his attention in company, nor to have

drawn out his powers in return. --From the style of Dr. Smith's
Letters and writings generally, the Beader is perhaps prepared

to hear, that his conversation was very seldom enlivened by wit

and pleasantry, and never was it made pungent by satire or
sarcasm. This might be owing in a measure to his inability

to catch what was being said by a facetious speaker, quickly
enough to be prepared with a fitting rejoinder; besides which,
his deafness would often induce hesitation and uncertainty,
whether he had heard as correctly as an answer in kind re
quired, for when he was sure of his ground, a happy quota
tion from a Greek or Latin Classic, or the graphic relation of

                                                                                                      2Q
594 HIS CHARACTERISTICS.                      [l850.

a fact met with in his reading or observation, where some

egregious piece of fraud, or folly, or baffled ambition, or

spiritual tyranny had been enacted, showed the extent and

availableness of his resources as soon as he was fully aware
of what was needed at the time. Nor was his manner on

these occasions unsuited to the matter; his whole counte
nance, but especially his eye, joined in the life and sparkle of
the moment. Yet there can be no doubt, that these things
were not in harmony with his prevailing turn of mind. He
seemed to yield to them now and then, rather out of deference

to his company than from choice and inclination : Ms element
was different; perhaps we may say, without any reflection

upon others, it was higher, calmer, holier; and the ground

which he trode was surer and safer, for himself, for the claims
of truth and righteousness, for God's glory, and for good-will

to man.

   Whenever he took a part in conversation, there was no want
of variety, nor even of vivacity :--nor was his style heavy or

sermonizing; and considering his daily practice in the Class

room or the Pulpit, and the deference with which he was

listened to, few persons could fail to be gratified with the

complete absence of the Lecturer in company, and the presence
of the easy, unassuming Christian gentleman -- shining not so
much by the splendour of his talents, as by " the ornament of

pa rmiceee."k  and quiet spirit, which is in  the sight of God of great
                                              inability to hear the sound
                It is however true, that his

of his own voice, occasionally gave a more formal and scholastic

air to his expressions, and his articulation was more stiffened,

than comported with an exact sense of the difference between

what was proper for the Professor's Chair, and what for the
private circle.-- But where the ear is such an imperfect guide

to the tongue, how rare the examples of the propriety and
grace which marked his social intercourse.

   Among the many Letters which have appeared in this

memoir, in not a few of which the Writer had occasion to
apologize for his seeming inattention to his correspondents,
and craved their indulgence on the score of the pressure of
' extraneous claims ;'--the silence respecting himself, his duties
and works, deserves to be viewed as a peculiarity of Dr.
Smith's character. With here and there an exception, and
MT. 76.]       SILENCE CONCERNING HIMSELF.                   595

that of the briefest kind, it might have been imagined that
he passed through life with scarcely an interruption to his

health, with no obstacles or difficulties beyond those extraneous

claims to which he refers :--and therefore as one whose labours
and trials were not important enough to be dwelt upon in his
IfLetters to his friends.
                           the book had not been announced

in some public way, which belonged rather to The Trade than

to himself, who could have known that he was engaged in pre
paring the Scripture Testimony, or The Four Discourses, or the

Scripture and Geology 1 And when successive editions were

sold, and new ones had to be prepared, who learned, directly

or indirectly from his Letters, his success as an Author, or

how busy he was in meeting the demands of the press ? He

knew well the nature of his employments ; nor could he
really have forgotten the apology--gratifying generally to the

personal feelings of Authors, and potent with most of their
friends --which popular Writers assign for some inattention to
Ifprivate claims.. But, no : he could not speak of himself.
                                                             he

was enabled to do the work, and God was pleased to give the

blessing, the desire of his heart and the labour of his hands

were answered ; and what had he to say excepting praise,
which was to be offered with singular exclusiveness in that

retirement, to which, as resorted to in prayer, he owed his

success. It is almost superfluous to add, that this silence

about himself and his literary labours, which is in an unusual
degree visible in his correspondence, did also distinguish his

conversation. Exceptions to the rule in either case will be
found to belong to that later or rather latest period of his life,
when the public verdict had given something hke authority to

his productions, or when age is apt to look with unwonted
surprise or gratification upon achievements which it can no

longer equal.

   Notwithstanding the meekness and patience of Dr. Smith's

general demeanour, there were times when he manifested a
suddenness of expression, and perhaps of purpose and action,
quite startling to those who were new to his manner in this
respect ; and during the last four or five years of his life, these
movements of his tongue or person became more frequent, and
were marked by increased sharpness of outline ; tending to
remind an observer of the keen rigid angularity, which objects

                                                                                       2q2
590  OCCASIONAL IMPULSES.  [l8S0.

put on when the clear cold air of winter sets in. Such a man,
however, even when quite alone and from an early period,
could not but carry on his pursuits at a more rapid rate than
the generality ; this was noticed of him in his boyhood, and

while he was at Eotherham. His stock of vital power, giving
for so many years such successful aid to mental action, must

have been very large. Coming therefore with this into society,
and with the superadded impetus arising from the culture of
this in private, his celerity of purpose would startle because it
was not common ; and would be apt to occasion some embarrass

ment, first to others, and then by the force of reaction to him
self, because it was not possible to adjust surrounding persons

and things at once, even if at all, to his position and rate of

speed. Cases did undoubtedly occur in which he spoke, or
wrote, or acted, under impressions which were hasty and

partial, and therefore erroneous; and as his belief or convic

tion at the time gave the law to his conduct, he was no less

zealous in carrying out his defective data, than when the
ground on which he stood was in every respect just and

proper.--In these cases, however, he was ever among the

readiest to apologize for the error into which he had fallen,
and to make the best compensation in his power for its con
sequences as far as they could be repaired.*

   But-- speaking generally--it would be incorrect to ascribe
these peculiarities to impulse, in the sense in which that word

is used to designate the action of feeling apart from the
exercise of judgment. The principles of duty, their range,
limits, illustrations and motives, with their respective con

sequences, had been examined by Dr. Smith very extensively
and with a high regard to accuracy ; and the results had been
laid up in mind and memory so as to be ready for use almost
at any moment :-- but as his deafness made it often difficult

    * The following anecdote, as. a sample pf many which could be collected,
will illustrate this part of his character. On one occasion when he was dining
in the College Hall, he upset the mustard ; but as he supposed the lad who
waited at table was in fault, he reproved him for carelessness. The Students
endeavoured to make the Tutor understand how the accident happened; but
his deafness prevented them from succeeding at the moment. Soon after

dinner the matter was explained, and he saw that if any one was to blame,
it was himself. In the eiening of the same day, when the Students and
servants were assembled at family worship, Dr. Smith took the opportunity to

offer a public apology to the lad, whom a few hours before he had, by mistake,
publicly censured. ,
ST. 76.]  OCCASIONAL IMPULSES.  597

 and at times impossible for him to enter into the conversation,
 or to take up the exigent circumstances, at the early stage or
 in the complete manner that other persons could and did, there
 was occasionally an appearance or even the reality of in-
 appropriateness in his expressions ; yet even here he did not
 speak at random, nor from the slightest inattention to the
 courtesies of society. Our rule of judging of what is called
 propriety, is framed agreeably to the prevailing state of things
 where all the senses are possessed --it being the Divine pur
 pose that it should be thus, for the guidance and as a test of
 right conduct among men in general ;--yet we are slow to

 make due allowance for those cases in which from the failure

 of one of the senses, the rule of action, and therefore of our
 estimate of action, involves an element peculiar to itself.

    There can be no doubt that Dr. Smith's natural tempera

 ment was sanguine. His well-known ardour in study, and

 especially his zeal and perseverance in mastering new branches
 of knowledge, evince this to^have been the case :-- and this also
 showed itself-- as, indeed, was almost inevitable --in the circle

 of his acquaintance and friends. Occasionally he would attach

 himself with great warmth of feeling, and with, obvious sin

cerity, to some new claimant on his regard ; and if circumstances

 favoured he would bestow upon the person and office of the

 object of interest such a number of commendations, that com

parative strangers were prepossessed with an idea of his merits,
 and even the person himself was perhaps in danger of being
 conveyed by so copious a stream of praise into a position
 where the navigation might be somewhat beyond his power.

Whenever this was the case, from the evidence of the fact
being as it were forced upon his attention, Dr. Smith was
constrained at times to alter his course of conduct. Yet it is

due to his memory to say, that he never carried the change a
single step further than the point, which appeared to him to

be demanded by new requirements, which had sprung up con
trary ahke to his expectations and his earnest wishes and

prayers. His real friendship, his purposes to serve those whom

he had been accustomed to esteem, did not pass away with the

time when he could no longer serve them as he had done. --

Fair allowance therefore being made for the extent to which
his deafness rendered him dependent upon others for informa
tion, and upon himself for conjectures, his conduct and con-
598         SUMMARY OF HIS CHARACTER.                                                   [l850.

versation-- at times liable in form to the charge of an un
expected inconsistency --will be found in substance to have
agreed with duty and uprightness. -- The moral lesson of his
example is the higher in consequence of that privation under

which he was placed by the All-Wise Benefactor; for while this
was a constant source of difficulty to himself, it is admirable to
think how manfully he strove to prevent it from ever being an
occasion of complaint or inconvenience to others.

  In reviewing the life of Dr. Pye Smith as a whole, there are

three features of character so clearly apparent in his history
that they are entitled to be called leading ones :--these are, a
love of enlightened liberty --a love of all valuable knowledge--and
eminent Scriptural piety. Each of the three was owned and

manifested by him on a comparatively large scale ; nor is it
easy to say which of them took the lead, for they do not seem

to have been cultivated, and therefore not to have been de
veloped separately ;-- at least, not after that period when the
most important of the three was added to the other two.

Hence, if eminence can be predicated of Dr. Smith, as compared
with other good and great men, it would be in respect to the

combination of these three qualities, on a scale for each and

with a symmetry of the whole not easily matched.

To begin with his love of enlightened liberty. This

was seen in the whole of his public life, whether in relation to

social, civil, or ecclesiastical questions ; nor less in his private

Ipursuits. " On many occasions "--Mrs. Pye Smith remarks --

" have had opportunity to observe the warm fraternal greet

ing with which the Doctor received his American friends.

Always he anticipated their coming, and spoke of their visits

with lively interest. His predilections were strong on their
behalf :--but his complacency was not undiscriminating. There
was one subject on which he felt an anxious suspense, an in
quiring solicitude -- and in his own inability from deafness to
detect incidentally, would ask of me--what conversational evi

dence was given of the bias of their minds on the question of
Slavery.
regulation  Soaf thisifsajcutdiognmoenntthainsdpfoeienlti,nhges."deemTheids  essential   to the
                                                                                        liberty
                                                                              love of

was not on the one hand, an abstraction or a mere sentimental

emotion ; nor on the other, was it a selfish impulse ;-- as though
JET. 76. j  HIS LOVE OF LIBERTY.            599

it meant full scope for his own fancies and operations, while
perhaps persons around him would have to curtail their freedom

in order to meet the encroachments of his. In his estimation,
hberty was a Divine gift for which he was accountable ; it was

therefore his dignity, his honour, as well as his privilege and
right :-- and because it was all this to him, he earnestly desired
                                            sa"mWe htaotstoheevmerliykeewwioseu,l"d
that  it might be all this to others also.
that
      men should do to you, do ye the

was his motto and rule ; and this he rather applied to quicken

the outgoings of service towards others, than urged as the

ground of any claims due to himself. He held but his single
share of the common blessing ;--the responsibility of a larger
portion was heavier than he could consent to bear; the usurpa

tion was a wrong which he could not commit. All duty with

him was to be free, because every thing deserving to be called

duty, was an expression of obedience and love to the Holy and

Blessed God. The freest action, therefore, could not be capri
cious, nor isolated from surrounding claims :-- hence in all the
relations of social life, as a Son, a Husband, a Father, a Subject

of the State, as well as in that of Tutor or Pastor, the conscience

was seldom if ever allowed to act without the affections in the

course which duty called him to pursue.--It has been seen

that this feature of his character showed itself strongly in his

earliest efforts to acquire knowledge. The books to which he

had access were used with the utmost freedom, without any

particular regard to rule or limit, and as though it became him

to attempt to master a very large portion of the reading which

fell in his way. In all his later years, the same characteristic

was visible ; but, as might be expected from his piety and expe

rience, it was not so discursive, so indiscriminate as at the begin

ning. It was regulated by the motive which operated on his

conduct generally, yet this regulation never diminished the

vigour of the principle itself. --Nor is it paradoxical in this

case to say, that his love of liberty strengthened his piety.
Exact as he was in the observance of forms, he was in no
respect fettered by them; and though his sentiments were
very decided in regard to Christian doctrine and polity, he
had the power and the will to obtain benefit from books and
persons remote from the range of his own creed and party.
It will also be readily perceived how the Christian graces
which were thus brought into use, and the wider scope
600  SUMMARY OF HIS CHARACTER.  [l850.

afforded for sympathy and prayer, reacted in the most salu
tary manner on his own character and attainments as a disciple
of Christ.

   Like the former quality, his love of learning and of all

valuable knowledge, came out early in life and continued
undiminished to near its close. Not that he was ever a mis

cellaneous, much less what would be called a universal reader.

Classical, historical, biographical, and scientific works occupied
a high place in his estimation, and had engaged a considerable

portion of his time; --but the highest place and the largest

portion, he gave to works relating to the Sacred Scriptures;

and his reading generally, in the other departments above

mentioned, seems to have derived its chief interest from the

use to which he could apply it in illustrating the language or
the principles of the Bible. While he allowed but little of
his knowledge to remain inoperative, it is also obvious that
most of it was made to find its way, directly or indirectly, into

one great channel.

   His love of the learning of books was accompanied by a
lively desire to obtain a knowledge of scientific facts. Yet he

was perhaps better fitted to trace the moral relations of these

facts, to their Divine Author and to human welfare, than to be
a discoverer, an expert explorer himself. He could on the

whole work better in the Study than in the Field ; and even
in the Study, better with the pen than with any kind of philo

sophical apparatus. It may be doubted whether under any

length of training, he could have acquired such a mastery of
his hand as to become a good manipulator in chemistry, in
botany, or in the use of the microscope ; --things did not fall
into their right places, as it were by a few magical touches.
First there had to be a mental act, and then a formal purpose,

and then the execution of the latter according to rule; whence
it often happened that nature, tired of waiting, or shy of index -
terity, had pursued her course in her own way, or could not be in
duced to move at all :--leaving the Investigator not in the least
angry,but blushing as though he had done something amiss. This
want of success, however, in the manual part of experimenting,
never lessened his interest in the facts and principles of science,

as they were made known from time to time by men of skill
and eminence in such pursuits. The data were treasured up
ST. 76.]       HIS LOVE OF KNOWLEDGE.   601

carefully in his Note-books and memory, and were used with

as much cordiality as though he had discovered or verified

them himself.

At the presentation of the Testimonial in January, 1851,
Professor William Smith of New College -- a gentleman in
                                 the point --thus referred
respect qualified to speak upon
                                 privilege to be associated
aged Colleague :--" was my
Itevery

to his

with Dr. Smith at Homerton some six or seven years ; and he

has always treated me with such affection, that he will be en
I Ideared to my heart as long as live.
                                        will not trust myself
Ito refer to our private intercourse ; but cannot refrain from

making a remark or two respecting his mental, moral, and

religious endowments. Dr. Smith, it is true, is not possessed

of those brighter attributes of genius, which have enabled men

like Newton and Leibnitz to make great discoveries in science ;

but there are few men in the present day who have embraced

a greater sphere of knowledge, or mastered a greater number

of subjects : and, with the exception of the mathematical
sciences, --and in them he is far from ignorant, --there is no

branch of human knowledge cultivated in the present day in

which he has not made great progress, and in which he does

not hold a very high position among men of science. Beginning

with the languages and literature of Greece and Borne, which

he mastered to an extent which would do credit to persons who

had devoted their whole lives to the subject, he proceeded to

study the modern languages, botany, chemistry, mineralogy,

Iand geology, prosecuting all the while the various branches of

theological science. On a recent occasion was myself com

pletely astonished at the extent and accuracy of his classical
knowledge, considering his age. Again ; Dr. Smith, unlike

some who have earned for themselves a reputation, has never
rested satisfied with his acquirements. Although feeble in

health, he has attended with regularity, at a late hour in the

evening, the meetings of the Boyal, Microscopical, and other
Scientific Societies, in order that he might become acquainted,
as soon as possible, with the latest discoveries in science. On

his study-table every new book of value is to be seen, whether
pubhshed in this country, on the Continent, or in America.
Those who have been admitted to familiar intercourse with
him know what fragrance his piety sheds over the whole of his
character ; so that in conversation with him, you cannot fail to
602  SUMMARY OF HIS CHARACTER.                               [l850.

be convinced that  you are talking to  an   eminently  holy  and
                   Smith Testimonial,  pp.  33, 34.
devout man."--Pye

This love of all valuable knowledge, served to inform and

guide the love of hberty from which it had in a measure
sprung. The more widely he became conversant with the
principles of duty, with their practical relations, with the way

in which they had been modified in the past history of man
kind, and with their progress and apphcation in our own day ;--
so much the more was he qualified to advocate, or explain, or

carry into effect those views which he cherished respecting
freedom of thought and action. And even in some of those
instances in which what he said or did was disapproved by one

or another of his friends, the grounds of his conduct--as
reasoned out by himself -- could scarcely fail to secure their
approbation. --His piety also, great as it was, could never be

deemed enthusiastic, for it was held up and informed by such
a large amount of intelligence ;--light accompanied and radiated
from the heat. Great weight is due to a fact in his history

which has been already touched upon, and the evidence of

which is believed to be singularly ample :--namely, that his
reading was confined --if that term may be applied to a range
wide hke his --to Works which had a relation to the Power,

Wisdom and Goodness of God as they are unfolded hi the
Dependent Universe, in Providence, and especially in Divine

Bevelation. By thus excluding the deleterious, the useless,

the merely amusing class of publications, and by keeping

closely to the solid and the valuable, his time was employed in

the best way ; and the influence, direct and collateral, on his

devout exercises, and therefore on his conduct as a disciple of

Christ, was of the best kind. In looking over the books which

he had collected, including those presented by him to New

College, no little interest was felt in observing the number of
small Works of the simplest devotional and pietistic class

which was found among them. These were in various lan

guages, and that they had been read with great care, and it

may be said with great affection also, is evident from his

marginal and other annotations. It was not a little awakening

to find such a man unwilhng, unaccustomed to trust the

development of his Christian character to the force of principle

only, but resorting, as he plainly did, to aids, appliances, and

means, intended chiefly---as we are apt to think--for the use
®T- 76-J  HIS EMINENT PIETY.  603

of the early stages, or the cruder styles of a pious life. But,
in truth, his was the right method : nor is it easy to overrate
the service which the smaller streams were constantly render
ing to the great main current in one part or another of its long

course.

   The last of the three qualities by which Dr. Smith was dis
tinguished, was Eminent Piety. Of this as a fact it would
be superfluous to speak, for the belief of it prevails as ex

tensively almost as he was known, and wider still on the
testimony of his friends ; not to mention the evidence supplied

by his printed works, and his Letters. It is only necessary to

indicate the advantages which his piety conferred upon his

other leading characteristics --a love of liberty, and of all

valuable knowledge.

   Judging from his vigorous impulses, and from some early
feats in the political arena, he might have grown into an im

petuous partizan, had he gone on in life merely under the
bias of the dispositions and tendencies of his youth. But

consequent on his conversion, piety came in as a restraining
and regulating power; so that those departments of human
character and conduct over which the love of hberty is sup
posed to preside, were thenceforward placed under a new in
fluence, whose right to direct and control he never for one
moment questioned. Yet his piety never withdrew its high
sanction from the principle itself : a principle for the becoming

apphcation of which he felt himself accountable to his Creator ;

one, therefore, which he was bound to cultivate to the best of
his ability, and which ought not to be allowed to remain in

abeyance. In the strength of his piety, accordingly, the motive

power as well as the regulative was found, for the course which

he pursued in respect of some things, that on merely personal,

relative, and social considerations he would cheerfully have
left undone, unattempted. Whether right or wrong in the

several instances, it is not for us to determine ;--but his rule,
his principle was of the highest kind; it was that, namely,

which is so finely expressed in Acts iv. 19, 20, and which is

fitted to give an heroic form to a character.

  It has been seen how his piety was in many ways nourished

by his ardent love of knowledge ; but that piety would repay-
in its influence on his studies, the benefits which had been
604  SUMMARY OF HIS CHARACTER.  [1850.

Ifderived from them.  it tended to keep his pursuits in the

best line for his personal improvement, as well as for the
benefit of others, it would also increase his diligence to the

utmost practicable degree ; thus at once sanctifying and adding

to his learning. And the habit of imploring the Divine aid in
all his literary engagements --which he is known to have kept
up with great fervour of spirit-- could not fail to be much to
his advantage as a student, as well as a Christian. Thus his

piety may be compared to a stream of sufficient force, not

only to urge its own way onward, but also to cut a deep
and wide channel, in which many large tributaries are at
length confluent.

   These, then, were the three leading features of Dr. Pye Smith's

character. With these he had been endowed, and these he had

been enabled to cultivate, by that Divine Benefactor to whom

he ever gave the glory of all that he was as a Christian, a
Pastor, a Tutor, an Author. Could any one of them have been

wanting entirely, or could any one of them have fallen far short
of the measure actually attained, without impairing, or perhaps
destroying the symmetry of the intellectual and spiritual man
as a whole ? Had his love of liberty been less intense, duty

would not have been animated by the same amount of cheer
fulness ; -- with diminished ardour in the acquisition of know

ledge, his piety would have fallen in intelligence, so as to have
appeared fanatical; or in power, so as to have been on the

common level :--and if that piety had not been what it was,

the other elements of his character must have been left to
unfold themselves without a source of authority and of right
influence in himself, strong enough to secure for them the
numerous benefits, personal and public, which were actually
realized.

  It will not it is hoped be considered fanciful, as it is most
certainly not intended for flattery, if in regard to the partic

ulars now mentioned, Dr. Smith's characteristic qualities are
viewed as those which will be likely to prevail in the last and
best ages of human history in the present world. They gave
a noble independence to his nature and bearing ; yet such an
independence as is conjoined with an ever-watchful desire to
ST. 76.]  SUMMARY OF HIS CHARACTER.                          605

promote the welfare of others. Not only was he exempt from
the injustice of asserting rights while he neglected duties ; but

even the equitable compromise -- as it may be thought -- between

rights and duties, which is the watchword of our day, seemed
Ifless attractive for him than for many.
                                          therefore on a sudden

a state of society had come in when, speaking generally and of
the common heart and impulse of renovated humanity, Bights

would have been almost forgotten, and Duties have been exclu

sively thought of and pursued, he had the qualities in kind and

largely in measure also, which would have made him singularly at

home and happy in such an aera :--and that, whether the duties

were those on which there was a claim arising from any of the

varied relations in which he was placed, or were those which

could only be expected from Christian generosity and love.

  In this combination of high qualities, he may be said to have

belonged to the coming and noblest stage of human progress ;
a model in kind, though in dimensions somewhat reduced by

the exigencies of the times in which he lived, of the piety, and
intelligence, and safe and large freedom of the generations

which are to follow. For what excellence does the brightest

future promise to develop, which he was not prepared to hail

with the heartiest welcome, and to aid and help forward on a

scale of unusual magnitude and power ? He would not have
required --as many perhaps would -- a great deal of training to
reach even the starting point of that new career ; but having
acquired before the time the gait and pace, and very much of

the spirit which may then be expected to prevail, he would have

been able to step into it as one who could realize all its advan
tages at once, as one therefore whom even then it would be a
privilege and joy to follow. The expansion of liberty every
                           and new zest for the acquisition
where, the new facilities  wide and deep stream of piety     of all
valuable knowledge, the
                                                             :--the

union and co-ordination of the three, would just present that
exact state of things towards which he had been looking, and--

considering the drawbacks of an unfavourable time --rapidly
badyvStauhncachtinwgDaisfvoihrniesthceGhlaraarsactcetfeorwr, thyaicsyheeaxhrpsaadnodremdma,doerinefhoorimfmheiwds ,hliaafetn.dheregwualsa--teda

noble one surely, if ever there was a noble character ; and one

which was in no danger of being warped, except by the oc-
606                              HIS WORK COMPLETED.                    [i860.

casional influence of natures less noble than his own: --fitted
therefore, even in its highest impulses, for a perfect concert of
thought, feeling, and action with noble natures everywhere :--

     " When everything that is sincerely good

                And perfectly divine,   and love,  shall  ever shine."
                With truth, and peace,

Before Dr. Pye Smith was called, first to leave the post of

duty and then a few months later to die, we may, without

presumption, consider his work to have been carried to a degree

of completeness, not perhaps usually granted to such a variety

of important    syeeravricse' s   as those in  which he had been engaged.
   After fifty                   connection    with Homerton College, his

ceasing to be Tutor fell in with the time when the College itself

ceased as a separate Institution :--yet he was able, by preparing

the address on the founding of New College, to welcome and

encourage a set of arrangements designed to bestow higher

advantages than ever upon the rising ministry whose welfare

had always lain near his heart.

   Then, after having retained the office of Christian Pastor
for forty-six years, over a Church which he had been the means

of forming, he retired ; leaving his Successor firmly rooted in

the affections of the people, and growing in usefulness among

them.

  If we take the more important of his publications, in which

he spoke to alarger circle and will continue still to speak, the

demand for three or four editions of each of these during his

hfe gave him that opportunity, which he was always ready to

embrace, to carry the several works to a degree of completeness

beyond which, had he lived years longer, scarcely more could
have been expected. And besides the adaptation of each of these

works to the Author's design considered as a whole, he was
able to provide them with an apparatus, for the Beader' s profit

and to the saving of his time, in the shape of carefully chosen

Notes and especially of Indexes at the end, which left nothing
to be desired in that way. To this it may be added, that while
the most important of his publications were from time to time

carried nearer to his standard of adaptation to their respective

purposes, it does not appear from any of his papers that there

was any work commenced by him, or even seriously contem
plated, which he was unable to accomplish.
MT. 76.]              HIS WORK COMPLETED.      607

  In the earnest, truthful, devout, and eminently Christian

spirit in which his works are written, there were the evidences

of a moral completeness which left no occasion to the Author

to regret, that having done so much he had done it ill and
therefore could wish it undone.

   Even in his method of withdrawing from the Institutions and
Societies with which he had been connected, and in the testi
monies of respect and affection which followed him on his
retirement, we see all the signs of a completed term of public

service: --completed in his own estimation, and to the satis

faction of all who had the means of knowing how he had
" FULFILLED HIS COURSE."

From the date (1851) it would appear that Dr. Smith's pen
was employed for the last time in the public service, in prepar
                                               " The Seasons of the
ing a second edition  ;o"f  his Discourse on   seen, was " Enlarged
Protestant Beligion         which, as we have

and adapted to the Popish Aggression of 1850, with some

Bemarkable Disclosures of Bomanist Policy in the Age of the
Beformation."
                              CHAPTEB XXXI.

>fRS. PYE SMITH'S ACCOUNT OF HIS REMOVAL TO GUILDFORD--LETTERS
     AND NOTES --LETTER TO REV. GEORGE CLAYTON--TO JAMES BURN,

      ESQ.-- TO EDWARD BAINES, ESQ. -- HIS VIGOROUS WILL AND FAILING

      ENERGIES-- HIS LAST NOTE TO W. A. HANKEY, ESQ.--NOTES TO HIS
      CHILDREN --INCREASING DEBILITY-- LAST VISIT TO HOMERTON AND
     LONDON --THE PYE SMITH TESTIMONIAL: THE ADDRESS: THE REPLY
     --REMARKS ON HIS REPLY -- PATRIOT PAPER ON THE TESTIMONIAL--
      RAPID DECAY OF STRENGTH -- HIS LAST NOTES TO HIS . CHILDREN-
     MRS. NASH'S NARRATIVE OF HIS LAST DAYS --CONCLUDING REMARKS.

" As the period was approaching when the old College,

Plomerton, was to be vacated, many laborious efforts were

made by the Venerable Tutor, to obtain a suitable residence,
and different localities were explored--Aylesbury --Bexley --
Watford -- Harrow--Edgware --Highgate --Beigate.7 At length,
wearied with research, the choice fell on Guildford -- chiefly

because of the capacity of the house to receive, and allow a

commodious arrangement of his library, the ample residue of
books, after his liberal gift to the New College, --The retreat
to this secluded spot became an object of pleasing anticipation ;

the comparative leisure and quietude which it promised in
spired the hope that some period of sanctified domestic enjoy

ment might be granted, to crown the evening of a life of un

ceasing activity in the service of the best of Masters. The

ybeealorvseddevoDtoedc"totro  spoke of the future,     with animated hope of
                              his favourite pursuits,  Scientific and Literary.

The objects of study and course of reading which he had

sketched out for himself, would have required the gift of lon

gevity to accomplish.
   " On the evening of arrival at the new residence, [October
ffiT. 76.]      HIS REMOVAL TO GUILDFORD.                              609

2nd,] he complained of an indefinable sensation of illness, lassi

tude, and weariness. Yet he employed himself actively about
the house, till the hour of repose, and expressed his com
placency at the completion of the design. -- Next morning the
feebleness was perceptible, yet he announced his intention to

go to London on the following day, October 4th, to be present
at the initiatory devotional engagements at New College, -- and
also persisted in the determination to go alone, though strongly
entreated to take a companion.

  " Immediately after this journey he complained of an injury
sustained by the foot ; and it was with exemplary patience,

gratitude, and even approbation, that he endured for several

weeks severe suffering from this cause. It is imagined that

in his secret thoughts a persuasion of danger resulting from

this inflammatory action had arisen : for on one occasion
'Itan expression to this effect was heard--
                                                         would indeed be
melancholy, if this were to be the precursor of death.' No
reply was attempted to this distressing surmise, nor was there--
o'mn ehlaisncphaorlty--' any
                              repetition of the  presage. Doubtless,   the
                       was    not apprehended    for himself, but for  the

companion of his days, to whom his life was as a sun and

shield.

  "The sudden alleviation and almost cure of the disease,
brought not the expected relief. Intense dejection of the
animal spirits became apparent, and a consciousness of the

impotency   of  purely intellectual      resources     was pathetically
deplored.   He  exclaimed, ' Alas !    the relish   for books is gone ;'

as though he had suddenly sustained the loss of some in

valuable possession. Still the habit of reading was maintained ;

the spiritual taste, the craving for heavenly and divine truth
remained: Scott's Bible and Bunyan's Pilgrim supphed the
mental food of the last declining weeks."

Such is a detail of particulars furnished by Mrs* Pye Smith.
Her communication will again be used for subsequent facts ;
but the portion now given will serve the important purpose of
an (introduction to what is immediately to follow :-- namely,
Notes, or parts of Notes written by Dr. Smith to his family or
friends during the last three or four months of his life. Should
some repetition of a sentiment or a phrase occur, the Eeader
                                       interest of       period  at which
will not be displeased ;      for the               the
                                                                  2b
610 LETTER TO THE REV. GEORGE CLAYTON.                    [i860,

the venerated Writer had now arrived, and the fine traits of
character and feeling which were expressed in a manner so
appropriate to his condition and prospects, will fully sustain

and repay the attention of every one to whom tis memory is

precious.                                     '¦

In a brief note to his Pubhshers, Messrs. Jackson and Wal
                            business, under date October   3rd, he
ford,  ;_o»n   matters of  our removal hither yesterday,  hi great
says          We made

                   sbt&rriencng,ginhthgasthooafctcfuhurepniiemtduerneatbiooanunstd, te"bnoodckaasyn,S.w's-c'iathrdYeperayt cwskuianclhgk
Icomfort. The

and unpacking,
was his loss of

fifty

  In reply to a Letter from the Eev. George Clayton, con

gratulating him on his "honourable and well-earned [Eetire-
meht" from Homerton College, and on entering his new

residence ;--Dr. Smith wrote thus :--

              I" The Elms, Woodbridge Road, Stoke, near Guildford ; Saturday,
                      October 12, 1850. But, for the addressing of Letters,
                      wish my friends to write no other name of place than

                          Guildford.

  " My dear Brother and Friend,--It was a peculiar pleasure to my beloved

wife and myself, to receive your favour on Tuesday. But, ^ ·in many
human delights, that pleasure has been cheeked by the humiliating feeling
of being frustrated by the necessary occupations of entering upon a new
dwelling ; and still more, the consciousness of my infirmity, in yielding to
weariness and weakness, by procrastinating the due ,acknowledgment of
your prompt kindness. The forepart of each day has been, and for a little
time must continue to he, engrossed by demands for attentions to workmen,

and many little labours for my slow and feeble activity; and therij the
afternoon and evening have found me almost prostrate with weariness And
its consequent dejection of spirits.

   " The preparation and consummation of removal took up nearly a fort

night, and we finished by bringing ourselves on- Wednesday the 2nd. On
Ithe 4th went to town, for the same purpose as that which took you to
IPark Chapel.      saw you at a distance, but was obliged to withdraw early

on account of the time of the only railway train that would enable me to
get home by daylight. . . . During two months, we explored parts
of Middlesex, Hertfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, and a little in
Kept. Not one house of all that we saw was, according to my views of
suitableness, such as we could accede to. It is most clear and satisfactory
                                              unhappy Jacob meant, ' the Lord
Ito my mind that,   in a better   sense than  When the first fatigues are over,
                   to us' this   habitation.
our God brought
trust that we shall find sweet rest and retirement, exempted in a measure

from the incessant calls and applications which made a burden of our lives

at Homerton. Yet, O that we may not imagine a real rest to be attain,1-
&T. 76.]  LETTER TO JAMES BURN, ESQ.                                             611

able while we are in this tabernacle!     O, that  we  may  rise  superior  to  every
sinful affection ;--then will our joy be  full.
I"AV^day, Oct, 15. Much did desire, and indeed hope, to finish this
Ipoor Note yesterday, which was unable to do on Saturday ; for after the
Iexhausting fatigue of my book-lifting and placing, which cannot continue
beyond the forenoon, we were favoured with a friendly and very agreeable
call fromithe Rector of our Parish. . . .
I I" have worked this day as hardly as dare. One or two more such
Idays will nearly reach my point. But      recognise the duty of strict care,

lest this feeble frame be overworked."

 )T,he,next note was addressed to a member of the Church at
the,,Grayel Pit Chapel --James Burn, Esq. --on the death of an

only son. It is dated Nov. 15th : --

  " My dear Sir,--It has pleased the Most High to terminate a long pro

tracted affliction by the solemn event of death,--the departure from earth

and time and the entrance into the infinite futurity of being. Though this
issue has been probably long expected, and even on many grounds of reason
Iand religion, felt as desirable, it must 'have been a trial to the parental

affections of yourself and Mrs. Burn. But need not say that here the
great considerations of gospel-truth are brought into their appropriate

Iapplication. Your Christian knowledge and experience must have suggested

that application; and will, trust,- still further so suggest, in the variety of
reflections which the flow of time will revive or create. In all the events of

life, of which sorrow and bereavement make an inevitable part, you have the

high "privilege of saying, ' It is the Lord who hath taken away. Blessed' be
His name ! All are working together for good to those who love HIM.'
Mrs. Smith unites in assuring you and Mrs. Burn of our sympathy and
prayers. Grace, mercy, and peace be multiplied to you and your beloved

family ! May your remaining children be, in every augmented respect, the
of joy to their parents.
                          " am,
Icrown                           my  dear  Sir, affectionately    yours,"   &c.

   The next was addressed to the Bev. A. C. Wright on the

death of his infant child. It is dated Dec. 16th ; and the hand

writing, compared with that of the former Note, shows how

I Irapidly the power of using the pen was now passing away :--

  " My dear Brother,--Glad should be if could alleviate the

sorrow of your and Mrs. Wright's bereavement. Thrice has to

my .breast the shaft flown, with unspeakable distress. The

Holy Spirit pour his richest balm into your souls !--On October

2, we 'removed hitherto, seeking repose. My age             E(nngowlish7,6£S) coatnsd,;
infirmity require it. But friends and strangers,
and American, painfully invade my rest. Hand-writing is to
me tedious, and irksome. Pardon my present inability to

undertake a reply to your former Letter. Our united sympa

thising respects. Yours                            &c.

                                                                  2R2
612 HIS VIGOROUS WILL AND FAILING ENERGIES.                          [i860.

   The next was to Edward Baines, Esq., under date December
26th :--

  I" My dear Friend and Cousin,--Humbling and mortifying is

the consciousness that, at the last, have to goad myself to the
duty which should be a delight. Two or three days are com

monly required by my wayward nature for meditating a note so

little worth as this, and an hour or two for executing it. How

sad! This shrinking from writing is, no doubt, partly the
effect of having been for so many years compelled to write
                       The operation of hand-writing was always
much

If Iheavy and slow to me. But now the antipathy is most distress

ing. could overcome it at the first onset, my difficulty

Iwould be broken, the execution' rendered more easy; and my

mind somewhat relieved. Alas; cannot ! The physical poiwer,
from paralysis of the fingers; is hard to drive ; and, the moral,

Imost recalcitrant. Yet your generous consideration gave me

an indulgence. But, cannot avail myself' of it> . . . .
      ydu forgive my
Can   whole circle. .  infirmity ?  Grace, 'mercy, aridyoupresa,c"e to
your                    . . Ever    arid affectionately              &c.

Dr. Smith had been accustomed to such a long life of almost

incessant activity, in the course of which every power both of

body and mind had been broken in and trained to obey his
sense of the present duty, that he was evidently' slowsto realize
the change1 which was coming over his whole ftiamier at fjhe
period               was writing these somewhat; " bitter things
against  When he       He did not distinguish as yetibetweeh dis
          himself."

obedience to orders, and a. physical incapacity for further service.

But it tends admirably to show how high the standard of duty
                                                           forth!.'
had   been  uniformly  kept,  when  he  is  seen  putting            the,
                                                           ,

utmost efforts of his feebleness; to- hold it up stjll at an eleva

tion which none but    himself could have deemed         attainable in
his case, nor would'   have thought of or desired.        Hence, his

determination not to give way before ! the time ; and instead of

courting repose, he was reluctant to use it even when iplaced
within Ms reach. Yet by far the larger part of 'the* product pf

his exhausted energy was still appropriated to1 the benefit pf
others, arid but little terminated upon himself; just as though

he had been a piece of mechanism-- animated, indeed, , and
urged on                      --but which
benevolent  by a moral force                might be  worked ;up for
                               by his own  voluntary
             purposes --and                           agency --with-
ST. 76.]  HIS LAST NOTE TO W. A. HANKEY, ESQ.                                      613

out any regard to what was due to it. How rarely are such
generous life, such freedom from selfishness, such love and- zeal
on the behalf of others, found flourishing in the absence of
nearly all nutriment from the animal passions; --the will in

rigour, but its aids and instruments in decay and ruin !
Amongaghaiisn,"very latest efforts to do good, " hoping for
nothing         are two Notes which he wrote in reply to
· an application , relating to the Parliamentary Grant--the Ee-
¦gium Donum of an earher day. The first is dated, with evi

dent 'marks of care :--

                      "Guildford, Surrey; Dec. 21, 1850.
 I" Bev. and

signed my 50
                dyeeaarrs'Soirf,fi--ceInat.agHeom(7e6r$tonn,owi)n  and infirmity   re
                                                                   June last; and  on

Oct. 2nd, removed hither for retirement and quiet, and their
appropriate duties.--Harid-writing is slow and irksome to me.
I--From causes, which do not know, there is a sad stoppage
Iin the P. G. When may have any portion to distribute, G°d
I Ienabling, will at once write to you.
                                               hope, to know some
thing in a few: weeks, good or had. Then it is my indention. ,to

resign this Trust, the only one remaining to me. Yours, dear

Sir, faithfully^ &c.  ¦

The second Note was to the same party ; it was written three

weeks nearer the closing scene, but there was the same care, to

prevent 'mistake in the address in reply, and also to save the
applicant the unnecessary cost of a stamped receipt :--
          " Guildford, fno longer Homerton,) Jan. 14, 1851.
 Iv"Dear Sir,-- can                   -- Send
                      hardly  write.           me a receipt,       not  on         a
Istamp, and hope to   return          J. Pye   Smith."
                              £i.

To one of his oldest and kindest friends, William Alers

Hankey, Esq., at whose Banking House Dr. Smith kept an
account, he addressed the following characteristic Note :--
                                      "Guildford, Wed. Jan. 15, 1851. ,
' '"My invaluable Friend, --Accept my. best thanks ,for your
favour received this morning, announcing a credit of
                                                                                   .

Thus, it will be joined to all my other items of income ; which

I ask the continued kindness of your always retaining and per

I Imitting me to draw upon, as shall have need. Alas ! must
Igive this 'trouble.; but will write as few cheques as possible. .

 : "The Holy and Gracious One be your recompense ! Ever
                      &c, &c
and gratefully
614               NOTES TO HIS CHILDREN.                                       [i860-

The passages which will now be introduced, are from Notes

addressed to one or other of his children: The first was to his
                  is dated November 13th: --
daughter,

I I I" My beloved M. R. N.--Gladdening always: is a Letter from lyotii But
how can vanquish tny sad antipathy to writing ?                    fear never can* It

is in a great measure kept up by good men's writing to me at Homerton,
for their own various interests.--Through the remarkable mercy -of 'our Gody

I Iam in as perfect health as can ever reasonably expect to be.- On this*

Isubject, have been very much reserved, from my fearing that dear
Ebenezer, in his exuberant tenderness of filial duty, would suddenly come
down hither. . . . The cold which, had hung upon me from our,, coming

here is also happily overcome. --But, it would be sinfully absurd in me to
expect firm strength and health. Nervous and muscular debility must, in
Ithe order of God's natural providence, gradually increase.
                                                                   feel Some

vigour in the morning, after1 the night's 'Usually sound repose; but it
eyapofates towards the evening.
"I am much obliged by your various communications: --e.g. Mr. Burn,
IMr. Wells.
             that all sustaining grace may be afforded ! want to get to
a little reading. But,--more Writing awaits me, and fresh 'Letters are come."
                  ¦ ,,' ¦,,' !                               ,i i

The next was to Mr. Ebenezer ; Novenib^r l-ith :--
                          ¦·,,,,, 1
             ''-                                   , , , vv
I" My dear Son,-- greatly thank and honour you for your, active zeal and
Ienergy. -- know and highly esteem Mr. Milsom. -- The ' Script, and Geol.'
Ifirst edition presented to Mr. Grandpierre, tf^e .Pastor and Professor in
the Mission House at Paris, upon his assuring me that he wbuIST obtain an

Iimpartial notice of it in one of the French publications. That was, believe,
                  ' ' *' ¦           ;" '"'' f ''·' --:<')U^i..    :. /K1 '
never done.
" Messrs. J. and W. have copies of the fourth edition and of my otHer
                                                   Rue Tronchet. -- The ieop$&
writings, on sale at the  Librairie  PrbtestanteJ  encourage a translation or
                          and W.     For me to
right now belongs to J.
republication abroad, without their consent, though at present legal, would
be highly unkind and unjust. --To print an^ single portions would be
incongruous to the connected nature of the argument. That runs through
                  I.--VII. The last Lect.    (eVxhIIoIr.t)atmionigh: t,b' uint dteoe'dm, abkee

                  as a homily, a practical
J,the whole of Lect.                                                                            an

independent Tract,                                                                               it
such in G. B. without the approbation of and W. would be a VIOLATION
OF'DTJTY.                        ¦' '*'-·

I·V " fhe book was reviewed in Dr. Tholuck's Anzeiger,                         cannot
Irefer to it; for the whole series* is in the heart' of the                       have
Ipresented to the New College.                                     '(Halle.)
                                                                   pile which

                                 think that the sole objection lay in the
IReviewer's opinion, that my directive principle of interpretation 'Would

apply to the Hebrew poetical Books only, whereas apply it to the style of

Ithe O. T. and the Scriptures, throughout, T>iit with obvious modifications.

This objection mighthe easily and completely answered,/ know not of
any other review or notice. The friends of religion and holiness in France,

                          * "1832-- 1848.'V
MTt 760              NOTES TO HIS CHILDREN.                                                  615

and all over the Continent, have their hearts, heads, and hands too full of
their own immediate concerns.
"I I Ifhave one copy besides that which reserve for myself.
                                                                            you think
If I IiartetIpw"pla.Wicll2ee6h8iaat,vreetToagmbtohleoeerd,mclira,feusstwlulylilittnshve,e.rtpyhleiaTsws.he--eelrle.t^o 3-ygW5oe4uht asahctaocwnuo,oldpncydboeerfrrrfeo3ucm5ltl4y1a.J.mspaolenstnddmiWdor.twifeayainntdghere!wrroilrl
I Irecollect nothing like it.
oppressed to                                 look at it from my window. Alas,. am
with Writing!  a degree which sorely tries
nauseam."        'Letters,-- Letters,-- Letters;--                   my capacity of endurance,
                                                                     usque ad <angustias et pasne
                 ¦

To Mr. and Mrs. Nash ; November 22nd :--

¦¦nff.I am sorely hampered, notwithstanding, my abundance of impfeinente
atid: the best Ink (the Registration, ) in writing. It is too thick for. my
I J.steel-pens.
               have written for some others to and W. Notwithstanding
...window.
Ia little hstziness, nothing like London Fog. am always delighted with my
                     My 'general , health is admirable, yet weakness for
Iwalking, and thedaily mortification         of
                                                (  L--ettehrasvetoclebaen.eadnsowuetremd,yleinakdstmane.dto;
sit here at my sweet little landscape.
forgetful  pIr!i)nteHdapLpeitltyersn, o
discover                                 I'  more books   have       come.   Were it possible to
                                             'would that  they       might  all come to you, and

"they might all be well suppressed. -- It makes me feel irritable, to be obliged
to sacrifice so much time.7                  <¦ ¦'"·' . ¦¦ '· ¦·: '  ,:     ·-, ¦> n-' -

To Mrs. Nash; December 13 :--

 I" My beloved. Daughter, --In a painful embarrassment write to acknow

ledge and affectionately to thank you for your favour received this morning.

My .slowness in writing increases my repugnance to it; hut still more is
that infirmity augmented by the necessity of spending a large part of

almost every forenoon in executing the behests of friends, and of strangers,;
Scots and American as, well as English. Thus, my hoped for plans of
Iriding are broken and suspended ; Letters which long to write are put
Ioff; and the itemptgttion to a peevish temper is sadly increased.
                                                                            want to

write to my dear friend, Mr. Carter, for the "more encouraging account of
I¦whom render you and dear Fanny [a granddaughter] my best thanks;
Ibut, alas,  cannot write worthily of the occasion. --My mortification
I Iis aggravated by the inability to maintain epistolary order. My attempts

at- classification are baffled. Though , know that took pains to put
Iyour favour,, ten or fourteen days ago, into its proper place to be answered,
now cannot find it.  . . Please to present our love to Mrs. Foulger

Iand Fanny,: especially thanking her for her truly pleasing Letter, and the

transcript' of Mrs. Browning's poem, but which, own, is not calm enough
for my taste. Like most of her poetry, it seems

 I"A few words upon our projected visit the
                                                                     to me too intense. . .  .
                                                                     first week in January.

view it with much anxiety, dreading the necessary exposure and engage

ments. Those engagements fall into the following order. . . . Thus
.616                    NOTES TO HIS CHILDREN.                                [lP&l.

I apprehend that   we   shall be obliged to   trespass  on our dear Children  from
                  3rd,  to Wednesday the     8th."
Friday, January

  In a   Note to his daughter on the 18th, he thus refers to a

painful   bereavement, of which he had just been apprised :--
"The force of Christian Truth must be honoured, hy& full
admission and a believing application. Here lie aconflict and

a trial for faith :--a full belief of that which, in the particular
cases, lies shrouded in impenetrable darkness, but which* on
its reality and its evidence, stands forth as a grand pillar of the
temple ;--the unerring holiness, wisdom, and love of Him who

wept his human tears with Martha and Mary; but who also

Isays to us, ' Fear not, am the First and the Last and the
I ILiving One, and was dead, ;but behold am the Living One
Ifor ever!-- am the Eesurrection and the Life ;' and v. 26,
' Believest thou this ?'
" Our arrangements for January must be dismissed fou the
Imoment.-- It grieves me much that the journey must be at that
time.       have no choice or way of escape. Our desire is to

Ioccasion as little trouble as possible, to our dear Children: and
Friends.         hope to be able to walk to Meeting on theiLord's-

Iday morning, January 5 ; Mrs. Pye Smith holding me by the

arm. Coming back from the Lord's Table, indulge the 'hope
of calling upon Mr. Carter. Blessed be our God, Jehovah-
rophi !-- [thy Healer] -- other friends must kindly excuse me.
IAny part in the pubhc service is above my power.          With much

difficulty, do maintain our family

On the last day of the year, Dr. Smith wrote again to Mrs.

Nash, chiefly respecting his visit to Homerton and London,
when the Testimonial was to he presented to him :--
" My beloved Buth,--My warmest thanks, and sympathy. --
IForgive strange abruptness, and that cannot explain; now $iat
I Ifeel must      write ;--alas ! alas !
   " Saturday     is the necessary day.
"...of                                       .  .       .
                              an awful cloud' Upon
      dear  Mr.  WeWllsh."at   [The Eev. Algernon          the flock and family
                                                            Wells, whose death
"... Ebenezer kindly proposes that we remove from
had just occurred.]

Iyour to his hospitality,     hope that such an arrangemehtmay

Inot be adopted. Feebleness of body; and dejection of mind

will, fear, sadly obstruct. . . . ¦ ·
ST. 76.J                 SILENCE RESPECTING HIS FEELINGS.                                   617

" Love from both to all. Every blessing rest upon you
both, and all                 other dear
   " My love             the                "  ones, Mrs. Foulger, Arthur, &c. &c.
                         and
                              thanks to        Ever and affectionately, J. P. S.

                                               dear Philip Henry for the outhnes
Iof Mr. Davies's
   " With great
                         sermon ;    and       to my   oorthgeuridgeratnhdechpieldnr.e" n.
                         difficulty  can         hold

l The ^apprehension which Dr. Smith expressed in the pros
pect of going to London, evidently arose out of that state of

physical debility to which he was now reduced; but the silence

observed by him in the Notes generally, respecting his own
-religious convictions and feelings at this period, had its origin

in his constitutional 'temperament, confirmed as that had been

by the tenor of hislife. That he could have written or spoken

¦peelorqieunecnet,l'y,'    and with great      truth and   propriety,      of his 'ex
                         his consolations,     his 'hopes  ; that- he      could - have

aamexed admirable cautions or encouragements to what he

jmght have said concerning himself, will be readily conceded
on the ground of his actual, his realized state as a Christian

m&ncinor was courage wanting, for few could excel himin the
purpose to plead the claims of /religion with tongue or pen

whenever an .occasion offered : but having >for' a very long

period used his religious principles and emotions in the way
best snited to obtain from) them the, largest amount of service,

practically, he was not; able, even though the time for, active
duty was almost gone,, to turn the current-- so to speak-- into

the channel of conversation, of which in some form or other

himself was -to be the subject. His brief allusions to what was
                                               nareearjeursttoentohaatgh"                   signals
passing in his own history,                                                to serve  as           for
of his approach. nearer and                                                better

 which his ^whole life had- been a preparation of self-denying,
 vigorous, but loving l&bour; --about which, consequently, it

 might have been deemed somewhat strange, if one who had

 been all along striving as well as praying to be ' a doer ' of the
.fDTithivaeincsceiolem/nwcpaeall,niwbmaietdhntownhoaifcshhuidhsedeolonwonbkesdceoienmptoe1suethnnesreesuoenfrevxieptsdlorasenoddl'elmovaqnlulietayyc,;io--iusasas.
.jthough he could hardly venture to disturb the profound still
 ness by anything so .feeble as the sound of his own voice. Such
 a'lhinker as. he had been, devout, reverential, adoring, is now
 also wrapt in thought ; the infinite future is pressing upon the
618  LAST VISIT TO HOMERTON AND LONDON.                                                    [l801.

consciousness,  and  ntheeveerffbeecet nbercoobmuests,--in' ctrueransiinnggly'  visible    upon
a frame which   had
                  "it by
                          degrees to the  soul's  essence,                         <¦·¦¦¦
                be made   immortal."
     Till  all                                                 '<

  To resume Mrs. Pye Smith's narrative :--" In thisfcstate of

physical prostration, the generous design of friends in the

presentation of a Testimonial, was made known to ihim. Its

instantaneous effect was, the deepest self-abasement an op
pressive sense of unworthiness, affecting- avowals? of this

estimate, and of inability to meet in pubhc ! the kind and
liberal contributors to the Gift; combined with a strong con
viction of a moral necessity1 for compliance with their desires,
so deferentially submitted to him. --The struggle was severS,
and almost overpowering. The result was a determination to

obey the dictate of duty, and the law of love and gratitude
towards those dear and respected friends and patrons,! whose

personal and hereditary ; attachment had for so long a' term

blessed and cheered his life.                                                   '

"On the 4th of January, 1851, he undertook the journey to
London, and reached the house of his Daughter more com

fortably than was expected. On the 8th, the! memorable -trans

action took place. It was the last public appearance of this
illustrious advocate of the truth of Christ. A feeling of deep

sympathy pervaded the numerous assembly, attracted to the
spot by admiration,, love, and reverences Many hearts were

penetrated by sorrow at beholding the emaciated' and almost

ethereal form of this exalted servant' of the Eedeemer. < The

forebodings of many minds at that hour, were in the Divine

Counsels very speedily to meet their fulfilment. ; He appeared
passive, dignified, and serene, being enabled' to surmount the

fears which had so grievously assailed him, and painfully

excited the apprehensions of his family. -- On the day succeed

ing,, he remained at the house of his Daughter, receiving those

filial attentions which his children were delighted to render:

and on the ensuing day,i Friday the 1.0th,r his; earnest wish to
return home was gratified. Arrived at his own fire- side, he

sank down in his reclining chairj with an utterance ofi devout

thanksgiving for the achievement of this dreaded journey. &

The pubhc presentation of a Testimonial to Dr. Pye Smith,
ST. 76.]   THE PYE SMITH TESTIMONIAL.                                     619

the Beader will regard as the completion of a plan formed in
November, 1849, of which an account is given in page 550 of

this  narrative. The     Committee, to whom the management
had   been entrusted, "  having1 succeeded in obtaining donations

to the amount of £2600, for the purpose mentioned, invited

all ;the Subscribers to attend a Public Breakfast, on Wednesday,

Januarys, 1851, at the London Tavern, Bishopsgate Street.

.ii;. . The gathering was numerous and respectable, com

prising nearly all the principal Metropolitan Ministers and
leading Laymen of the Congregational Denomination. Near

the chair  sat the venerable Doctor,  woifthhihsisfalmadilyy,."  his      sons,
daughter,  and many other members
                                                                       .     ..
                                  --FuWnidlli,a" manAdleCrshaHiramnakney,onEstqh.e,
After a dejmner a la fourchette,

Treasurer of the " Testimonial

occasion, opened the business of the day by expressing his

warm feelings of admiration and friendship for Dr. Smith, and

by stating the special  object of the meeting.  name  of the Sub
                        C. Harrison, " in the
   The Bev. Joshua

scribers, then read the following Address to the venerable

Doctor which had been prepared by the Committee' :--

 It¦if is to us a source of real thankfulness and joy, dear and
honoured Sir, that your health and strength have allowed you

to accept our invitation, and to be present with us this day.

The object: of our meeting has exclusive reference to yourself
-- your past dife and your present position and prospects. We
are most anxious, at this' epoch in- your history, to assure you

that we are not unmindful of the important services which you

have rendered to the Church of Christ, and to the cause of

learning ,and freedom, but that we esteem it an imperative duty
to manifest our gratitude for those services in a public and
enduring form.-- Nations and Churches are deeply indebted to
their great men, --men who distinguish themselves either by
remarkable energy and purity of character, or by lofty genius

andlearniug. Such men illustrate the age in which they live,

bring to light its hidden capabilities and tendencies, and guide
its activity to objects of real utility and importance. They are
emphatically the gifts of God, and are raised up by him to
unfold and establish great principles, and to give a strong and
upward impulse to the public mind. They cannot live to them

selves, but confer lasting benefits on a wider or narrower circle,
whose opinions and character they are the means of forming.
620         THE PYE. .SMITH TESTIMONIAL.                                 [1851.

The career of men who thus enrich the Church or the world,

ought to be regarded with interest and gratitude ;; arid, when it
is brought to an honourable close, ought to be signaUzed by

some mark of respect and esteem.
   " You, dear and honoured Sir, have been permitted, during a

much longer period than is usually allotted to man, to serve

your generation with ability, faithfulness, and zeal. After

occupying   the important post of Tutor in the oldest of our
academical  institutions --Homerton College--for the space of

fifty years, you are now retiring from your official labours into

the calm repose of private life. Your friends, who have'watched
your whole course with admiration and thankfulness, and have
at length witnessed its honourable terriiination, are this day
assembled to offer you their hearty arid hbnest congratulations,

Atogether with the expression of their sincere veneration and

love. -- few of us--a very few -- began our intimacy with you

when, young in years and unknown to fame, you entered upon
your responsible office in Homerton College. The present
moment is therefore to us one of peculiar interest. We have
Uved to see the promise of youth more than realized in 'fee

labours of your ripened manhood, and in the honours of your

advancing age. Others of us were admitted to your friendship
when the seal of pubhc approbation had been placed on your

works, and found it no ordinary privilege to enjoy familiar

intercourse with one, who, forgetting his superiority, was
always ready to give pleasure, or to impart assistance and

instruction even to the humblest.

   " Some of us are members of that fldck over which for nearly

forty-six years you presided with so much wisdom and gentle

ness, and cannot too strongly express our sense of the value of
your pastoral oversight, and of your intelligent and faithful

ministrations. Others of us were your pupils, dwelt with

you under the same roof, had daily opportunities of witnessing
your profound and varied attainments, and enjoyed the advan

tage of your fatherly counsels, your invaluable teaching, and

your fervent prayers. All of us have been more or less inti
mately acquainted with your life and labours, and gladly join

in this pubhc tribute of gratitude and esteem.
   " We cannot doubt                                          ' all the
which the Lord your   thGaot dtheharsemleedmbyroaun,c'eanodf  of 'what   way by
                                                                         he has
enabled you to accomplish in the cause of truth arid righteous-
ST. 76.]           THE PYE SMITH TESTIMONIAL.                                             621

ness,  is.       source of real and grateful satisfaction to your own
         a

mind;, and that, although your own judgment may be more
severe than that of your friends, you rejoice in the conviction

that you have not lived in vain. Whilst, however; this con

viction your best earthly reward, we are persuaded that you
          is

are not indifferent to.the approbation and respect of the Church

Qf Chrisjt, in eyery branch pf which your name                                            known, and
rtijatj, you will not consider our present attempt to do you                 ;
honour, as unwelcome or valueless., --We thank God on your
                                                                                      is
behalf, ,that, .during your whole pubhc hfe, you have been
                           ,
enabled to preserve
                             a
                                           ,
                                                             character lofty and unblemished, free

from inconsistency, and beyond reproach and that, having

passed through remarkable and eventful times, you have never

feared ,to lift up your voice or use your pen in the defence o£

freedom,, .humanity, and truth.

As minister of the Gospel, you have taken the Scriptures
       ;a
as, your, unerring guide, and, withstanding the advances of ra
                                                                           spiritual despotism on the
tionalism on the one                                      'hand, and of   word,' and simply preached
Qther, have hej.d fast, to                                  the faithful
                           in Jesus.'
,'f{the. truth as  it

                       is

-,,$ As an anthor, your aim has been to concentrate your
strength in the defence or illustration of doctrines of vital
importance and interest., By your rebuke of the flippant and
.blasphemous attacks pf, Infidelity, by your demonstration of
the harmony..between Science and Bevelation, by your rules
ifpr. the, Interpretation of Prophecy, by your exposition of the
Principles of the Eeformation, by your defence of Evangelical
-N^gcaiformity, by your assertion of the Sacrifice and Priest
                                                             your    Scripture Testimony to the
hMoeossdiaohf,'  Christ, and                             by  only
                   you have                             not        won place in the first rank
               a                                                          a
                                                       ,
of theological writers, but have laid all who love Scriptural
,and Evangelical trutfi under lasting obligation.
  ,;?,,'As tutor, those only can estimate your worth, who en

joyed the privilege of your instructions. Possessed yourself
s¦plhotofjracsgoenfmisoct^uaaosnlsta,fd--etnietymlaxyaeaulnslclsldutabsbdsa,iotnsilouefiaogrdrenreemsddnuatop;tatifonporennlse^ieenaaavrcrcneuoccrilhfnu-cp.rgalara,teteresgYleieotoneucntrlaraansyerodysonwi,uccnloraibsuleecprxirasueaagcpnmlheitlopmisvflliieaceetr,nwhswtseha.,a--nipsdi,mWa--antphhdcoyieolrosontoutf
yo,u thus endeavoured to lead them forward in the attainment
       '
                       :

                                                   '
622 THE PYE SMITH TESTIMONIAL. [lSOl.

of true knowledge, you discountenanced all levity of mind and
love of idle speculation ; and, by your spirit, admonitions, and
prayers, sought to impress them with the feeling that learning
must ever be subordinate to piety, -- and that love to man, self-
denial, devotion, and heavenly-mindedness are the first quali
fications in a Christian minister.-- By your unvarying kindness
you secured their affection, as certainly as by your profound
erudition you commanded theu- respect. Your mild reproof of
theu- foibles, your generous encouragement of their efforts, and
your true sympathy with them in their afflictions, made them
look on you as a father ; nor will they to their last hour cease
to rejoice that they were allowed to call you tutor and friend.

   " Cherishing such sentiments as these, we felt that we could
not allow you to close your long and brilliant career, or retire

from the academical position which you had held for fifty years,
without some appropriate and enduring testimonial. The
contributions, which have been most cheerfully rendered for
this purpose, amounting to £2600, have been invested in the
funds, in the names of trustees, that you may enjoy the interest

accruing therefrom during life, (and we pray that it may be long
preserved !) and that the principal sum may remain in per
petuity to provide Divinity Scholarships, bearing your name,
in connection with New College, London.

   " And now, dear and honoured friend, permit us to repeat
the assurance of our profound respect and love. We shall

follow you into your retirement with our sympathies, our affec
tions, and our prayers. We trust that health and peace may
still attend you ; and that as your past life has been consecrated
to the service of your Great Master, so your declining years
may be sweetened by the consciousness of his favour, and by
the bright hope of your final reward.

   " Signed on behalf of the Subscribers." &c. &c.

   When the Chairman rose to put the Address into Dr. Smith's

hand, and the whole company rose to signify their concurrence

in the act, although his emotions on receiving it almost over
came him, "he could not resist the impulse to express his
feehngs in a few sentences, which, however, were inaudible
even to those nearest to him." The Eeply, therefore, which he
had prepared, was then read by his eldest son :--
ST. 76.]   THE PYE SMITH TESTIMONIAL.                     623

    " My dear and honoured Sir, and you, my numerous friends,

by  many titles beloved and   venerable.
                               find some
    " After many attempts to              expression  of my judg

Iment and my heart that might not be quite unsuitable to

respond to your most affectionate Address, am compelled to
reject them all. The looking back upon the years of life, but

especially the period of which you have taken so comprehensive

and indulgent a survey, revives the impression of events and

I Ifeelings, which, as to their variety, intenseness, and importance,
    cannot describe.  must now, at almost the last liour, re
nounce every such effort as beyond my power, -- every attempt
but increases my inability.
    " But there are some names to which the sense of love and

gratitude attaches in a manner which cannot be summarily

expressed. You, Mr. William Alers Hankey, among my earliest

friends in or near the metropolis, were pleased to take of me
favourable notice, and rapidly to expand that notice, through a
long succession of occurrences, private and personal, as well as
pubhc. You often dissipated doubts and darkness, you faith

fully warned and reproved, you cheered and encouraged in ways

ever adapted, with an efficiency and liberality which nothing

could turn aside, and which triumphed over difficulties, how

formidable soever they might seem to be, or to threaten.
 I" To you, my friend, Mr. Samuel Morley, then indeed an

infant, turn,-- as at that time the friendship of your honoured
father, Mr. John Morley, fixed itself on me with an original
sympathy of judgment upon all the practical questions of
evangehcal truth and national morality. He yielded, at great

sacrifices, to the request of another memorable friend, whom
                              to retire, and accepted the onerous
declining  health compelled   Homerton College Society. From
office of  Treasurer to the
the anxieties and labours inseparable from such a method as
Mr. Hale and he pursued, in fulfilling the duties of the office,

he did not shrink ; but maintained the toil with ardour, till he
had the happiness of transferring them into your hands. Then
he had the rare satisfaction of seeing the evidences in his son
                                    of principle, and devotedness
of  maturity of judgment, decision
to  the most enlarged apphcation     of Christian truth. In so

many and so well-known lines      of activity,  we have   witnessed
your pursuit of the best public  objects, that            be super-
                                                it would
621               THE PYE SMITH TESTIMONIAL.    [l851.

fluous and absurd in me to enlarge upon them. But to me
personally, your father's and your own universal kindness and
                                                period of our con
Iextraordinary liberality, through the long  '  love never faileth.'

nexion, have been a testimony that Gospel
" Another of my beloved friends behold in circumstances
beautifully similar. You, my beloved friend, Mr. Henry Butt,
have maintained the reputation of your honoured father, Mr.

George Butt, for wisdom and penetration, treading in his steps,

with the most amiable zeal and affection. To you and to your

family my obligations are too great for words.
   " You, my dear friends --many of you my former much-prized

pupils -- are the leaders in conferring upon me this peculiar-

testimony of attachment from yourselves ; and many have
united with you, who are objects of my indelible gratitude and
I Ilove, but whom cannot particularize as would.
  I" Of myself, have only to pray that your love may never
Iappear to have been misplaced.
                                 would reverentially assume
Ithe Apostle's words : ' am nothing, --not I, but the grace of
God.'

   " The thanks which reason and every feeling dictate are,
however, above my power to express. That the richest recom
penses of eternal love may ever flow to you, and your families
and Churches, is my heart's desire and prayer.

  I I" Above all, ' Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift !'

   " am, and ever, trust, shall be your grateful servant,
                                                      " John Pye Smith." :

   " Homerton, January 8, 1851."

   Several speeches followed, some by ministers and some by

laymen: --the representatives of Highbury, and Coward, as

well as Homerton College ; all marked by the same cordiality

of affectionate respect for the character, endowments, and

labours of the aged Tutor, now as full of honours as of years,

Iand ready to sink alike under the weight of both. In one

respect, however, the burden was alleviated: -- " was never "-p-
said Dr. Leifchild in concluding his address --" so reconciled

Ifor a short time to our friend's infirmity of deafness, as have
been this morning ; because it has allowed us the pleasure of

expressing these sentiments in his presence, without inflicting
                            pain he would have felt in hearing
on his sensitive  mind the
them."
^T-76-]  ON HIS REPLY TO THE ADDRESS.  625

   Dr. Smith's younger son, of Sheffield, closed the business
of the morning, by an appropriate acknowledgment, on behalf
of all the family, for the honours and pleasures of the festival.

   It was obvious throughout the day how very unequal Dr.

Smith was to the occasion. The light which had shone for
years with a strong and hallowed brightness had now, through
physical causes alone, sunk so low, that only by going back to
its Divine Source and Author, could there be any prospect of
its becoming bright and strong again :--the Fountain of Being

must be revisited, before such life as his had been could be

again attained or even anticipated,--but with what an incon

ceivable amount of gratuitous interest would the final change
be consummated in a case like his !--At an earlier period, prior
to the rapid decay of strength which the last few months had
witnessed, his meek and self-denying spirit would have been
scarcely able to bear such an expression of gratitude and vene

ration as the one now manifested. The list of subscribers to
the Testimonial contained names of the longest standing among
his personal friends ; names of honoured ministers and mem
bers of Christian Denominations beyond his own ; names of

not a few whose education for the work had been conducted at
 Colleges with which he had no personal tie ; and names also
of early as well as recent Pupils of his own Theological train
ing, towards whom his affection was most respectfully paternal :
--the amount therefore of the Testimonial Fund, liberal as it

was when all circumstances are considered, would kindle less

surprise in one of his retiring habits, than the wide variety of
contributors ; for he now saw to an extent beyond all precedent
in his history, and far beyond the range of his moderate anti

cipations, how large the circle was of his approving, and we may
say applauding friends. But when to all this the purpose
was added, of founding at New College Divinity Scholarships
which were to bear his name, the cup of gratulation --just as

it was, as coming from many, and appropriately generous,

on the part of others--was filled too near the brim, for one
enfeebled and tottering, and of his Christian diffidence, to

carry with steadiness, or even to receive with comfort.
   Hence, apart from the public engagements of the day, his

preparations beforehand put him to a sore trial. Bepeated

attempts were made to get a reply ready, and the unfinished

                                                                                                      2s
626  ON HIS REPLY TO THE ADDRESS.                                      [lSSl.

papers remain to show how thoroughly incompetent he was to

frame an answer, which could adequately express his sense of

the impropriety of his accepting these honours as due to what

he was, or what he had. done. The deep respect, the fervent

admiration of the many friends whom the Testimonial revealed,

stood, to his apprehension, in almost immediate contact with

the immaturity of his youth and a lowly consciousness of the

defects of riper years :--and the incongruity of the one with the
other was scarcely less than overpowering. In this difficulty,

from which he could not by a mental act disentangle himself,

the unsubdued simplicity and truthfulness of his nature came, to
his relief. Leaving the past of his own history -- not merely

the very early, to which with the salutary wont of age he was

now more than ever inclined to look, but, with a high Christ

ian instinct, the more recent also, around which fame had

gathered --he at length prepared that Beply which was deliv

ered on the occasion ; and which is remarkable for putting
other persons in the foreground. He was thus enabled to
speak out his humility, affection, and gratitude, by giving

honour to those whom he had ever regarded as some of his
valued helpers in the duties
-- as though they were the    or difficulties of his          public career ;
                               substantial figures            on which the
public gaze was to be fixed, he shrinking the meanwhile into

the shadow behind.

That instructive silence respecting himself, with none of the

customary modes of apologizing for was not only consonant
     :

                          it
                                           it,

                                                     a
with all his habits throughout hfe, but seemed to spring -- as
his unfinished papers show    did spring --from his then more

than ever proximate and intense realization of the great future

of his being evincing therefore such development of the

Christian man, now touching the very limit of the earthly pro
cess of ripening, as fully agreed with the structure of his char

acter hitherto, nor less with the liberty, expansion, and

growth which were soon to follow. In this, as in several other

instances, his taciturnity befitted the circumstances in which
he was then placed, in manner far beyond what any words,
                    a

                                       ;
even his own, could have done supplying the clearest of all
proofs of what he meant and     felt when he said :-- " am
nothing,-- not but the grace    oftoGobde ."r--eveWalietdh,"         aI
to appreciate the " glory thatI,
                                                                                  a
                              is                              what      power
                                                                 does  such
man pass into the future! "Before honour "--before the
JET. 76.]         RAPID DECAY OF STRENGTH.                                                   027

p"ocsosmesestihon,hunaniidlitj'e."specially before the sense and joy of it

   The Patriot    Somf itJahnuTaersytim9othniaclon;"tafinroemd           an admirable article
on " The Pye                                                             which the following
passage is quoted :--

  "This memorable celebration derives its principal charm, not from the
theological attainments and professional labours of Dk. Pye Smith, though

these are unsurpassed, but from the filial-like affection to the man which

mingles with every tribute to his peerless character and intellectual pre
eminence ; and we cannot but feel that the graceful terms in which the

author of the Address has described the claims of the honoured personage to
the gratitude of his contemporaries and to the veneration of posterity,

justified as they are by the unreserved frankness and simple fervour of the

Reply, and confirmed by the flood of unstudied individual testimonies which

followed, may well serve to convey to those who admire the man, the true
lesson of his conspicuous example. Not by talents, however brilliant ; not
by attainments, however extensive ; but only in proportion as these are con
secrated to the highest ends, and combined with integrity, candour, and

humility, with forgetfulness of self in the interests of humanity at large, and
with a reverential submission of the understanding and the will to the Will
and the Word of God, do men gain the whole heart of their own genera
tion, and impress their names in imperishable characters upon the monu
ments of their age and country. Pye Smith is one of those names which
will never perish ; and, in giving it to the Scholarships which, when a fund
so inferior to his merits shall have ceased to minister some little solace to
the declining days of him who is not more the pride of his own Community
than he is the admiration of all kindred bodies, will be founded with the

capital sum, the Trustees have taken no inconsiderable step towards securing
                                                                                             of his
a succession of   Pastors  hainsdmTaurvtoerlslouwshoerusdhiatilol nb."e  not  less  emulous
                  than of
moral excellence

We shall now resume Mrs. Pye Smith's narrative, from the
point where it was interrupted, in order to give the details of
the last occasion on which Dr. Smith appeared among his
friends at Homerton and in London. He returned, as we
have seen, to Guildford on Friday, January 10th:--
   "Very soon after commenced the conflict of                                       mortality.

Each successive day brought some additional indication of
                           appointment of his heavenly                                    Father
decay and failure. The     : he had no acute pain, but a                                 gradual
was exceedingly merciful
sinking of the vital powers. His patience, submission, and
constancy were edifying in a high degree. Owing to extreme
weakness, it became needful to retire to rest immediately after
tea. On these occasions he was always anxious, before he
                                                                                    2s2
628 HIS LAST NOTES TO HIS CHILDREN.                                 [1851.

quitted the family group, to offer up prayer ;-- a short exercise
of domestic worship ; and this he continued till strength
                                                                    yielded
wholly failed. Also  his inflexible habit of abstinence             passion
                     said to exemplify -- ' the ruling
not. It might be
strong in death.' A medical friend, on perceiving a rapid
diminution of power, recommended a slight infusion of¦=brandy

to the water beverage. This proposal was conveyed by writing

to the eye of the Doctor. He turned to his wife, and emphati
Ically said-- 'Never : -- My dear, charge you, if such remedy
Ibe proposed when      amliquinidc.o' mpetent to refuse, --let me die

rather than swallow the
" The impossibility of oral communication deepened the

grief of those who watched while life was ebbing. Mournful

to them were those hours; but not so to the Expectant of a
blissful eternity. His meek, resigned intelligence spoke im

pressively, though inaudible. Never can the impressions of

Ithat closing scene be obliterated from the tablet of memory.
It has been elsewhere described by an abler pen,                 therefore
sorrowfully lay aside mine, and terminate the narrative."

Within the space of time included in the brief account, ju$t

given, Dr. Smith wrote two Notes which must not be withheld,

serving as they do, to illustrate the unsubdued love and gene

rosity of his nature when all that was mortal was rapidly
falling into decay. -- The first is dated Guildford; Saturday,
      1851 ;-- and is unfinished :--
      M. B. N.,--Hither we were
 11,IJanuary                                         mercifully  brought,
dear" My
Dy 3a° yesterday.
                       was extremely terrified by the weather

I Iand streets of London.
   " Wonderfully ; when
                         got to my corner,           found my two
Ipoc"kLeot vbeo, okbse,stwiathndtheemrpinhagt;ic,in
Iwrite the papers when can."   my coat             pocket*     God  enable,
                              to all.
                                                     will, if

   The last was to his elder son, whose medical aid was highly
valued by Dr. Smith, though he was ever delicately scru
pulous not to call for his attendance without some urgent

necessity, and not to accept it without remuneration. --It

was a high excellency in his character, and a great proof of

his wisdom no less than of his paternal affection, that he was

accustomed to arrange with his children in matters of busi
ness on those principles of commercial equity and honour
JET. 76.]  HIS LAST NOTES TO HIS CHILDREN.                                                        629

which    prevail among upright   men in    the general intercourse
of life  :--principles which in  his case  were not dormant, even

at the time when the thoughts are apt to be absorbed by
exclusively personal infirmities and claims.-- The
                                                                                                  Note was
w- ri"ttDe"noMoymnedFertiahdrealyyf,baeJvaloonvuuerdaroyEf b1ea7nctcehezep:--rt,ing this cheque,  as an in
adequate tribute to your science and skill and generous kind
Iness. But do not come. 0, leave me in quiet ! . . . Trust
us for a little. Love to dear Buth.        will attend to her

papers when my low spirits and feebleness permit. Beg him,
Ebenezer, to give me a memorandum of the cheque which

he drew for me; and its connections, &c, to enable me to

make [up] the 'accounts. But let him not come. A few days
will be important.
                                 " Ever yours, J. Pye Smith."

   The following account of the deeply-interesting closing
scenes of Dr. Smith's earthly course, has been supplied by
his daughter; with the insertion, however, of one or two short
paragraphs from Dr. Harris's Funeral Sermon.

   " It was no doubt a merciful preparation of repose and with-

drawment, that the last few weeks of his life were spent at

Guildford; -- although to us the separating step had been in
expressibly painful. . . . We all enjoyed a visit of two
or three days which we separately paid about the end of

October. His conversation then was fuller and more animated
than had been his wont at Homerton ; and he pressed for

Ia prolongation of the visit, so that was obliged to give up an
Iengagement at home that might comply with his wish : --

little imagining at the time how precious would prove the

review of that visit.
   " Another favour was indeed granted us in the beginning of

January, 1851. The season was remarkably mild, and he was
enabled to be present to receive the Public Testimonial from
his kind friends. His visit to us from the 4th to the 10th of
January, was a lesson of love and thanksgiving, to God his
Eedeemer, first, and on all occasions; and to earthly agents
also, did they freely and fully flow. And amid the excitement
of nervous weakness and irritation of the system, lamentation
and apology would follow ; and it was clear that however un-
(330                           MRS. NASH'S NARRATIVE               [l851.

controllable were the bodily sensations, still the Divine Spirit

dwelt in the calm depths of his soul. It was on the evening of

his arrival at Homerton, that the little circumstance occurred
which is related in Dr. Harris's Sermon. He was explaining

to us how difficult it had long been to him to write, and how he
now found it necessary to assist the stiff and somewhat para

lyzed fingers with the help of his left hand. Taking up one of
the pieces of paper lying near, he traced some marks: -- and
                                                                   read--' To
these, hours after, we                   accidentally  found  and              be
                                         as He is.'
with Him-- to see Him
" Dr. Harris's Sermon mentions the interview in the vestry
on the Sabbath, January 5th. Our friends wept at the sight of

our beloved Friend, now pale and emaciated. He spoke to our

Pastor and the Deacons, together and separately; beginning

with his oldest friend, Mr. Underhill, Mr. Parker next, Mr.

Olding, and Mr. Butt ; then to Mr. Davies with a brightening

eye ; and lastly to Mr. Carter, before whom he rose from his

seat, and resting one hand on his shoulder, congratulated him,

and blessed God, for his recovery from a severe illness. He

remained in the vestry during the first service [the sermon,
&c] and came in afterwards --leaning on Mr. Davies's arm --
to his former seat in the Table-pew, where he partook of the

Lord's Supper with his attached friends. We sung 330 of the
Congregational Hymn Book, 4th and 5th verses. My Father

was too weak even to pray. When conducted back to the
vestry, he called the Deacons around him, and said :--' My
Idear Brethren, want to say a word to you. This is the last
I Ipublic service shall enjoy on earth.
                                                       have not attended the
Ipubhc celebration of the Lord's Supper since met you in
Ithis plLaocred, 'sb-duat y.'
                               have habitually  observed it in my own house
every                             Then turning  to Mr. Underhill, and taking
Ihis hand affectionately, he said :-- ' bless God for your long
                                         Ito Mr. Parker who stood next, ' and
yanodursv,amluyeddefarriefnrdiesnhdip.'
                                         Then, addressing Mr. Davies, ' con
Igratulate you, my dear Sir, on the great success given to your
ministry.  doubt not that you will prosper, and that here the

cause of the Eedeemer will still flourish.'
" The Pilgrim's Progress, Jay's Morning Exercises, arid
Warden's System of Divinity* were the only books (I think)

   * This work, of which Dr. Smith had a quarto copy, was published in 1769.

It is a digest of passages of Scripture in the words of our Authorized Version :
MT- TM-]               OP HIS LAST DAYS.                                                                                             631

into which he looked, at all continuously, during his visit
in our house.
" He spoke to some affectionate relatives on the design he
had at one time formed of renewing his acquaintance with the
Greek poets. But adverting to his perusal of the Persas of

I.ZEschylus, and the picture of the woes produced by the inva

sion of Xerxes, he added, 'How soon was fatigued with
the comparatively feeble and puerile narrative, and eagerly
turned to the Hebrew Scriptures ; comparing with the Greek
poet the majestic descriptions of Jeremiah in his Lamenta

tions. So     uWnsopreda.k' a"b--lyDrp.atHhaertricis,'spoSweremrfounl,         and satisfying                                        is
the Inspired                                                                    p. 49.
                                                                            :

In addition to these remarks, which were addressed to Mr.
dmaenoadtrhMeCrrsoo.ufsCMihnra"sr--.leBsmeBeedaene--din,"gDanrM.drSstme. lilBthhaeinsrea/srido, --wS"emnGe.,,iv--eofmyLeleovdes,*to
                                                                                                                                     my
                                                                                                                                     the

              " ' When nature sinks and spirits droop,

                       Thy promises of grace
                       IAre pillars to       support my
                          And there           write Thy  phroapisee, .'  "

Passing now to the after part of the day when the Testi

monial was presented, Mrs. Nash's narrative adds, that Dr.
Smith-- " was evidently relieved by our speedily returning

home, instead of prolonging the day's pleasure by joining the

family party at Ebenezer's. He spoke with much pleasure of
the many old friends he had that day recognised, though

he could not exchange a word with them. Otherwise, he

made no allusion whatever to the Meeting, nor any observation
nor inquiry at all concerning the purport of the speeches;
not a syllable of which had been conveyed to him.
   " At prayer time (earlier than common, and Searle was not
returned from Billiter Square) he begged me to read 2 Tim.
i. ch. He then offered solemn thanksgiving for the pecuhar
' mercies of that day, its unmerited favours : '--he supplicated
                                             against
m'perenptoaursatiodnay.'andHemepertnaeysesd  for his  another and a more mo
                                                       children, naming us all

--a book of texts      without comments, arranged so as to form a System of
                       great favourite with the Doctor.-- Ed.
Divinity. It was a                           this message   of Christian sympathy  was
                       lady, to whom         Smith, aged   75 years.-- Ei>.
   * The venerable     weeks after Dr.
sent, died just three
632         MRS. NASH'S NARRATIVE                          [lSSl.

separately, his ' beloved ones '--and then added --' Though we
part now, it is not for ever : and we can never part from
THEE ! ' This with extraordinary animation.

   "Next day he was exceedingly desirous of returning to
Guildford. Ebenezer had made most strenuous efforts, in

conjunction with Dr. Hodgkin, to retain him here a few

weeks, in hope that medical aid might invigorate his wasting

powers. But, for the first time, we heard our dear Father

I Iopposing such instrumentality. ' do not wish to live.

had rather not be kept here.-V He lamented that he could

not take leave, by calling on various friends, but named them

with many messages of love ; not forgetting to speak in accents
of prayer and blessing towards every individual who had iu

the least ministered to his comfort. January 10th he left our

roof for the last time, and got safely back to Guildford.

"January 23. My brother went to see him. He com
plained that sleep was often disturbed ; that he awoke un-

refreshed, came down cheerless, cold, and found little relish

I Ior refreshment from food. ' Sometimes before or after dinner
sleep, for  cannot read or write ;--no power or energy.
IEarly in the evening go to rest, with Mrs. Smith's kind help.
And so my days roll on :--

            ' A guilty, weak, and worthless worm--

' Yes, A guilty, weak, and worthless worm

            I' On Thy kind arms fall ;
            Be Thou my strength and
                                      righteousness,
               My Jesus and my all.'

I' shall never go to Town again, perhaps not out of the house

I Iagain : (though thank you for your encouragements) shall
bless God in either--in

  I I" Thursday, Jan. 30,
            every case.'                arrived       apt laGcue ildthfoartdda:y,'
            at ± past 3               had taken

was told of the ' great change which

both by the servant who opened the door and by Mrs. Smith.
IThus forewarned of what could only be felt when that noble

spirit should be released from its imprisonment, went to my
beloved Father who had been anxiously inquiring for my
arrival. He was slumbering in his chair, but as soon as he

saw me he expressed the most lively satisfaction ;--remarking,

however, in a voice scarcely articulate, upon his extreme
MT. 76.]        OF HIS LAST DAYS.                                 633

Ifeebleness.     wrote--' but  wwehaaktneassm,' ercy   that you   suffer no
                only this sad                     and  expressed  our love
positive pain,

and sympathy. He thanked me. Soon after he rose from the

Ichair ; and perceiving his intention to do so, helped him to
Ikneel down. He continued kneeling so long that feared he
would be exhausted. The manner and attitude indicated the

Ispirit and the habit of prayer ; but the flesh was weary :

raised him, and he was assisted up stairs to bed.

   " Friday, Jan 31. Our dear Father came down before 8
o'clock: --with increased difficulty and helplessness; but still

with determination to exert himself, and to be independent as

long as was possible. Ebenezer came from the Inn where he

had slept. We both endeavoured to comfort our Father with
words of Scripture and hymns :--

                ' Though painful at present,

                'Twill cease, before long :

                And then, O, how          pleasant,
                   The conqueror's        song.'

I" He replied, ' Yes ; yes ;-- thank

" During this forenoon, my Father looked better and was less
                                          Bible, opened at Mark iii.
drowsy ;    so that he read  in Scott's   for the day :--occasionally
ch. ; also   Jay's Morning    Exercises,

resting and also dozing, and between times taking a spoonful

of beef-tea or blaniange. The mouth was parched, and needed

frequently the refreshment of cold water ; yet he would try to
evade one's assistance in giving it to him. So in every respect,

his native independence and fear of giving trouble never for

sook him. [After dinner] he dozed again, and by five o'clock
had repeated the act of kneeling before preparing for the
night's rest, and according to the habitual reverence of his
manner in devotion. It was also apparent that when he took
                                                                  gentle
any food, (as before named,)   he   closed his eyes, and the
shake of his head betokened    the  accustomed engagement         of his

mind in thanksgiving and prayer.
" Saturday, February 1. My dear Father, after a restless
night, persisted in rising so early as three o'clock, and requested
to have on all his clothes, saying that he ' should soon want
                He sat up in an easy chair by the fire ; was
them no
Irestless and moved often, and would take nothing but about a

spoonful of milk. He said to me, ' have had such terrible
(134  MRS. NASH'S NARRATIVE                          [l851.

Ivisions about wicked people.'  wrote a few words on the slate

to remind him of a better presence ; the unchangeableness of

Jesus Christ, and the perfect peace of those who trust in Him,

&c. He slowly read, once and again, and emphatically thanked
me. At breakfast-time, though with increased difficulty, he

was assisted down stairs. He seemed more wakeful during

the morning, and observant of passing circumstances; re

membering that the hair-dresser should be paid on this the

third time of his attendance :--and also, with his usual courtesy,

Ihe endeavoured to introduce me as his daughter to the medical
friend, Mr. Stedman of Guildford, who called.  pointed to

Gerhardt's hymn, in the Congregational Hymn Book,

      ' Give to the winds thy fears :'

he said, 'Some persons spell that name erroneously;  be very
careful not to do so.' He read Toplady's hymn,

      ' Rock of ages cleft for me,'

but made no remark. In the afternoon of this day, Ebenezer

came in so early, that his attempts to kneel and pray, as on

former days, were prevented. Weakness had increased since
the morning, so that he could no longer lift up his feet in
walking. He was assisted to bed, and was greatly exhausted
and faint. He did not again desire to come down stairs. Nature

forbade exertion.

    [Lord's Day, February 2.] "Ebenezer came from the
Inn by six o'clock. My Father remarked as well as his in
p'aerthtoiecpulelaStaaebt,btahtaehl,m'Gorasatnvdeinl asPauiidtdibClsheoamppeeotlwh.'ienrgHweionuwlardesfevpreeernrymcefita,intotth, ahbtiustit'mowowasnts
patient. During the whole morning till two o'clock, we were
endeavouring to refresh him by blowing a cool air from a pair of
bellows, which he suggested to us : and he reiterated his

'thanks' -- 'thanks.' In the evening my dear husband came,

and lifted him out of bed into the easy chair. Our beloved
Father's weakness was by this time still further increased, so
that he seemed scarcely to recognise my husband ; he regarded
him earnestly, but spoke not. When, however, we were about
to leave for that night and go back to London, he opened his
JET. 76.]                             OF HIS LAST DAYS.                                     635

eyes, and  said distinctly,--'             The  Lord     bless  you        all  ;  and  he  un
doubtedly   will.'

"In the eourse of Monday, February 3, Mr. Davies [his
successor in the ministry ] very kindly went to see him : but
though he waited for opportunities, there was no awakening

Ifrom the slumber which prevailed, and he was not recognised.

In the evening, my brother and were there together. Though

much flushed and feverish, the beloved Patient did not appear

to be worse : indeed, both Mr. Stedman and Ebenezer believed

that life would be prolonged by keeping in bed. To me he
said--'                               '-- meaning with the bellows ; and -- ' thank
         'bthloawnkswyeoeutl.y'         Mr. Stedman and my brother had stood
     --

some time by him before he perceived them. At last he made

Ia great effort to take Mr. Stedman's hand : he said in the
lowest     whisper    and very slowly            :--  '  BFeafruegwee.l'l  : -- am greatly
obliged.      The   Eternal God be                                          Turning a little
                                                thy
to Ebenezer he added --' The Lord be your portion for ever.'
" Tuesday, Feb. 4th, my brother, John William, had come

from Sheffield this day, and had seen his beloved father a short
time alone ; and received some words of ' love ' and ' blessing '

for himself and wife and children.
   " Wednesday, Feb. 5, we were all summoned, and arrived by

an early train. The revered sufferer had passed a sad night,

and the laboriousness of breathing could be perfectly heard

down stairs. We saw him in these circumstances, and endeav

oured to meet as it were the throes of fainting nature, and

alleviate the feeble struggles which were in his case feeble

indeed, and every moment diminishing. There was no drowsi

ness now : he looked at all of us with intense earnestness and

affection; at each one successively, whispering, as the inspira
                                           more embarrassed -- '                            '--
t' iBonlesssibnegcsa,m' eandmotrheis  and                                  Blessings
                                      was  the last word audible.           Towards         the

afternoon, breathing became composed and lulled into quietness.
We did not, indeed, apprehend so near a termination of life ;
on the contrary, both medical opinions pronounced on the pro
bability of hfe being still lengthened for even days to come.

We passed the evening together, reciting hymns, and recounting
past scenes of blessing and privilege from our earliest recollec

tions of the beloved Parent, who was now apparently reposing
in slumber. --
   " Suddenly, and quite unexpectedly-- when it was near upon
636 CONCLUDING REMARKS.

I11 o'clock-- we heard the sound of his voice. We were all

assembled, and held our precious Father's right hand, which
                              The    sound was repeated ;
in       listening attitude.    is
        us.-- asked, ' What         this ?'--A third time
 toIwas raised asa

unintelligible
we heard it; and there was a slight noise in the throat, so
slight as to be scarcely audible. --But in an lnstant, the pallor

which can never be mistaken, which can nowhere else be seen

--the hue and the fixedness of death -- overspread the counte

nance. Nothing could be more momentary, as it seemed to us.

--And we felt that he was gone. --
   " Blessed spirit, emancipated --welcomed, in a Presence of

inconceivable glory ! We could only give thanks ; and we did

so from our inmost hearts for all that God had done iri him and
by him, and that ever he had been born."

   At the time of his death, Dr. Smith's age was 76 years 8
months and 11 days.

    Tn the above communications there are two or three closely-
related incidents, which deserve notice for the light they shed
upon human history and feelings, in circumstances that nO one
can either escape from or pass through a second time; -- circum

stances therefore marked by intense solicitude to the person

himself, and often of scarcely less intense to his nearest friends.
And as Dr. Pye Smith, while he was in the health and vigour

of his powers, had won the confidence of multitudes as a

singularly trustworthy guide, very many may be justly anxions
--not idly curious --to ascertain --provided it can be done without
impropriety --how he felt, thought, spoke through those weeks
when he was gradually, yet evidently to himself and others,
passing away from mortality to life. His words indeed are few,
but that is not a disadvantage, for at such" a time in particular

words must be estimated by weight, and not by number ; and

the fewness of his gives them tenfold emphasis :--they gleam
out like flashes of lightning in the night-season, the effect of
which, though instantaneous, in revealing the Eock of his

Salvation, is clear and vivid, dispelling for ever all possibility
of doubt.

  A few days after the removal from Homerton to Guildford,

the venerable Student saw himself surrounded in his new
                CONCLUDING REMARKS.                         637

dwelling by the quiet associates and guides of his numerous
years ; and thus that sense of home was called up, which one

who had hved among books even from his cradle, could hardly
be expected to feel while they were not in order. Yet, just at

that time, the time to which he had been looking forward for a
heartier renewal of ancient intimacies with the learning of the

past, than he had been able to maintain during the busy scenes
of. public life;--just then the discovery is made, nor does this

genuine man scruple to avow it-- Alas ! the relish for books
is gone !" How strange a confession from such lips !--how

premonitory to himself and others of what was soon to follow !

Not without emotion could even such a man observe the change

which was coming over him ; hence, one of his children, re

Iferring to a period near the closing scene, says :--" cannot
forget the earnest looks which for some time he fixed on those

ranges of volumes, as he sat opposite the companions of a long
life ; from which he had derived some of his purest delights,

and which had been made the means of unquestionable benefit

to others." -- This, however, is only one among countless

examples of the recoil, the sudden and absolute shrinking back

of our nature from created, finite things, at the very moment

towards which imagination, and hope, and well-laid plans, and

what may be deemed Providential arrangements had all been
converging, as admirably suited to afford those full draughts
which had long been coveted in vain. Had circumstances per
mitted, Dr. Smith might properly enough have begun in his
retirement a course of general reading, nor did he require a
specific preparation for eternity, which -- like a channel hastily

scooped out for the occasion--was to be distinct from the great

current upon which he had been borne along for more than

half a century : --only now, when the will could no longer exert
the directive authority of former years, his enfeebled powers

were mercifully not allowed to be taken possession of by pur
suits which were in any degree remote from the grand realities
of his future being. Yielding therefore to the instincts of his
renewed nature at this great crisis, he ceased to go out in quest

of other men's thoughts as treasured up in their works, and his
own life-- past, present, and approaching-- occupied the whole

field of view.  loss of 'relish'  for  books in the  large  sense,
   With this
mention is next made of a few volumes which he was seen to
  (138 CONCLUDING REMARKS.

 recur to again and again during the last few weeks, not only at
 Guildford, but also on his brief visit to Homerton ; and the
 catalogue is sufficiently select to serve as an index of the sim
 phcity and purity of his Christian belief, and of the source of

 his hope and consolation as a dying man. Of precisely the
 same import, -- charged with sentiments of intense lowliness
 and penitence, and of unbounded trust in the Divine Saviour,
 -- are the verses of hymns quoted, and the expressions of per

 sonal feeling to which from time to time he gave utterance.

    In passing through the closing period of Dr. Smith's earthly

 hfe, the Beader will have observed how unbroken is that
 silence respecting himself as a labourer in the Lord's vineyard,
which was an obvious characteristic along the whole of his
 extended course. No reference whatever seems to have escaped
from him, even as it were incidentally or in the apparently
modest form of gratitude, to what he had been enabled to
 accomplish in any one of those departments of service in which

his efficiency and success were warmly and widely acknow
ledged ; and with a commendable power to appreciate his
principles and motives upon this point, his friends did not dis
turb the deep humility of his spirit by suggestions borrowed
from the achievements of former years, or from the honours
which had followed. There was a philosophical completeness
and harmony between the articles of his religious belief and
his code of duty, and then between these and his character and
practice as a Christian, which cannot be over-estimated. Such

was his diffidence and meekness, that he scarcely knew how to
receive, or how to respond to that public Testimonial to his

worth, the bestowment of which had been reserved to cheer --as
it might be thought --his declining days : and the nearer he

approaches the closing scene, the more entirely does he with
draw from all recollections and all resources but one. Personal
testimony could not possibly be more explicit, nor evidence
more conclusive, than that which was supplied by the whole of

his history, from the beginning to the end --that the basis
of human salvation, and therefore of human succour and hope,
can never be met with in the creature himself; but must be
sought, if secured at all, by an exclusive trust in the sacrifice of
the Lord Jesus Christ. And when it is remembered that this ex
cepted, there is in truth no other foundation about which there
                  concluding remarks.                             639

is even an appearance of agreement among men of varied
attainments, and of competent sobriety of judgment-- no other
that gives the promise or that inspires the prospect of Eternal
Life when all earthly things are fading away--how much does
this one fact prove, in respect of the ultimate exigencies of our
moral condition,  and of
those exigencies  ;-- how  the really Divine provision for meeting
                           much, consequently, for the decision,
uniformity, and force with which the doctrine of Scripture
upon this point should be upheld and proclaimed. Learning
which had been well-directed, elevated Christian
unfaihng zeal and benevolence-- and of fifty years'    consistency,

                                                       duration --if
present at all to Dr. Smith's apprehension in the interval
which separated his labours upon earth from his rest and re
compense in heaven, are present only as incentives to a deeper

contrition, or to a more wondering, adoring gratitude. His
greater nearness to the Fountain of Light, rendered him com

paratively speechless with surprise and humiliation at the

Grace which he had been permitted to receive.

   In some instances probably, the fluency and especially the
exulting confidence of expression used by the dying Christian,

arises from a defective self-knowledge, an indisposedness to

search and probe the records of personal history in heart and

life ; and there is an aptness to lose sight of sin and demerit,

in the surpassing greatness of the Divine provision for showing

mercy. Such a tendency, however, instead of really enhancing

the estimate of that provision, may have an opposite effect; for
the facility with which some persons seem able to appropriate

the remedy, may induce a fear lest they should not ponder as

they ought to do their true state, as guilty and accountable

before a Being of infinite Purity and Justice as well as Grace.
" That some       --says the sagacious Howe -- "are less sensibly

and passionately moved with the great things of God, and

even with the discovery of His love, than some others, does

not argue them to have less of the Spirit, but more of that

temper which    better comports    twhiitnhgsd."eeper  judgment,  and  a
calm and sober   consideration of

Viewed under this aspect, Dr. Smith's dying experience is of

the utmost value in relation to those very doctrines concerning

the Person and the Sacrifice of Christ, which he had done so

much to defend and establish. The symmetry of his character
640                  CONCLUDING REMARKS.

and conduct completes his written testimony to the Truth. At
the period when an accumulated sense of personal unworthiness

pressed upon a moral nature which had become more than
commonly refined and sensitive, in consequence of long years
of study and prayer largely directed to the perfections and

government of GOD ; and when an intense silence might be

said to reveal as well as accompany the depth to which he was

pursuing his self-examination --suggesting the idea of a light

which is carried by the bearer with the most scrupulous care

into all the recesses of a cavern, and is therefore at times but
dimly visible to others --yet at this crisis, not a single fear, not
a doubt, not one word of hesitation or uncertainty escapes
from him, in regard to the trustworthiness of his ground of

hope as he was passing onwards to immortal life. His real

position, his bearings can be clearly ascertained from that sort

of brief soliloquy, committed to a stray scrap of paper when

his hand could scarcely form the letters, and without any
care to show the writing ;--" To be with Him ; to see Him as
He is :" and also from that fresh, life-like, heart-utterance at
        worship ;--  " Though
family                part from  wTeHpEaErt."nowA, llit   is not  for ever ;
and we   can never                                       that he  had ever

said or written upon that grand theme, which more than any
other had occupied his best attention during the prime of his

days, is now strikingly corroborated by his vivid consciousness

of his condition and necessities on the one hand, and by his

implicit, boundless trust in the all-sufficiency and grace of

Christ on the other. And this power to realize as he did, with
such clearness, such force, both sides of the vast subject --of
sin and of a Saviour -- and at such a time, around which the
deepest interest is sure to gather-- seems like an appropriate

moral close, as in point of fact it is the last, of the great services

of his long earthly career.

  It is scarcely less difficult to leave the written life of such a

man than it was to part with the real one, without a glance

into that infinite future upon which he has entered. Admitting

for a moment that relative distances, and even rates of speed in
the right direction, by which regenerate and sanctified persons
have been respectively distinguished on earth, will be found
and perpetuated in heaven -- then that order of endowments
and that constant ' pressing forward ' towards the highest point
CONCLUDING REMARKS.                                  641

of Divine culture by which Dr. Smith was known among men,

will ensure for him a recompense of gracious reward of corres
ponding value. -- But, in a world where the hght is infinitely too

pure and strong for any ensnaring shadow of a man's self to be

cast, with what surpassing meekness will he wear his honours !

with what an abiding ecstasy of gratitude and reverent love

to his God and Eedeemer ! and with what most gentle,

encouraging, and delightful expressions towards all who may

behold him ! Bich in the capacity of receiving from the

Infinite Fountain of Knowledge, Purity, and Happiness ;

skilled in the ability to appreciate all Divine communica

tions, with an inexhaustible freeness and joy will he diffuse

the advantages imparted to himself. The branches of his

family, the members of his Church, the Students whom he

trained for the Christian ministry, the multitudes benefited by

his Writings--if permitted to come within reach of any special

recognition and influence,-- will not fail to receive from his
example and from the hallowed contagion of his glorified spirit,

an impulse which will constantly  express itself in  new methods
and in higher forms of rendering   " Blessing, and   Honour, and

Glory, and Power unto Him that sitteth upon the Throne, and
unto the Lamb for ever and ever."
      APPENDIX.

Soon after Dr. Pye Smith's death was known, the various

Institutions with which, by office or from motives of benevo

lence, he had been connected, tendered to his bereaved family
their high sense of veneration for his memory and of gratitude

for his inestimable services. As a further mark of the honour

in which he was held, it was requested that the interment

should not be private, and that Eepresentatives of the several

departments of labour which had engaged his time and affections,

should be permitted and invited to attend on the occasion.

And as it was resolved that his remains should be laid in

Abney Park Cemetery, Stoke Newington, his body was removed

from Guildford to Homerton College with a view to the subse
quent arrangements. An account of the whole was pubhshed --

together with the Address at the interment and the funeral
Discourse--in a work entitled --Funeral Services Occasioned by
                                               dc. dc*
the   Death of the Rev. John Pye Smith, D.D.,              the  Old
                                               College to
   "  The Procession walked from Homerton

Gravel Pit Chapel, so long the sphere of Dr. Smith's pastoral
labours, in the following order : --

            Officiating Ministers.
      Former Pupils of Dr. Smith.

      Eelatives and Executors.

      Neighbouring Ministers.

      Deacons.

                       Church and Congregation.
      Deputation from the Homerton College Society.

                    Deputation from New College.

      Deputation from the London Missionary Society.

        Deputation from Mill Hill Grammar School.

                Deputation from the Peace Society.

      * London: Jackson and Walford, 1851.--Ed.
614 APPENDIX.

   " Each side of the road was lined with spectators. . . .
Most of the shops also in the neighbourhood were wholly or
partially closed. When the Body arrived at the Chapel, all the
space, except that allotted to those who composed the procession,
was occupied --and subsequently large numbers were unable to
obtain admission.

turAef,"tepr rathyeer,"  reading of several       appropriate passages of Scrip
                         and singing,
" The Bev. George Clayton delivered the Funeral

Another hymn was then sung, and a concluding prayer

offered.

" After the service at the Chapel, the procession moved on in

eighteen mourning        cCoaecmheeste(rfyo."llowAetd  by several  private carriages)
to the Abney Park                                      the grave,   " the Bev. John
Davies --Dr. Smith's successor in the pastorate --delivered a

short address and offered prayer, when the assembly dispersed,
leaving the body of their beloved and honoured friend in the
tomb ; with the joyful hope, that when the trumpet shall sound,

it shall come forth to the resurrection of eternal life." --Funeral

Services, dc.

The funeral Discourse was delivered in the Gravel Pit Chapel,

the day after the interment, by the Bev. John Harris, D.D.

The leading incidents in Dr. Smith's life and the prominent

features  o'Dfishciosurcshea,r'actteorg,ethaerer  briefly and eloquently depicted :
and the                                           with the affectionate tribute of

respect in the Bev. George Clayton's funeral Oration, will well

reward the attention of any Eeader who is interested in the
Subject of the foregoing narrative.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF WHICH THE LATE
        DE. PYE SMITH WAS THE AUTHOB.

....Inaugural Address to the Students at Homerton                     DATE.
An Essay on the Duty of Christians to enter into full Communion with
Congregational Churches
                                                                        1796

                                                                        1801

The Prosperity of a Christian Church : a Sermon at the Ordination of

the Rev. Thomas Craig                                                   1802

The Divine Glory displayed by the Permission of Sin : a Sermon . 1803

...Letters to the Rev. Thomas Belsham; first edition 1804; second     . 1805

A Concise Statement of the Evidence for the Obligation of Christian

Churches to Celebrate the Lord's Supper every Lord's Day .            . 1806

A Brief Memoir of Mr. George Hall                                     . 1807

Introductory Discourse at the Ordination of the Rev. John Bruce       . 1808
Charge, Delivered at the Ordination of the Rev. Alfred Bishop .       . 1808

A Sermon occasioned by the Death of the Rev. Joseph Barber .          . 1810

The Apostolic Ministry compared with the Pretensions of Spurious
Religion and False Philosophy : a Sermon
                                                                        1810

The Adoration of our Lord Jesus Christ vindicated from the Charge
of Idolatry: a Sermon
..... ....On the Sacrifice of Christ; its Nature, Value, and Efficacy:   1811
Charge, Delivered at the Ordination of the Rev. James Tait         .  . 1813

a Sermon                                                                1813

Vindiciaa Academics.                                                    1813
                              Part the Second.

       Sequel to Vindicise Academicee

Introductory Discourse at the Ordination of the Rev.  Henry      Forster
      Burder . .                                                               1814
                                                              .
The Reasons of the Protestant Religion : a Sermon                  . . 1815

A Manual of Latin Grammar : second edition                         .     1816
The Guilt of Neglecting the Knowledge of Christ: a Sermon             . 1816
646 LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

                                                                                  DATE.

The Sorrows of Britain : a Sermon on the Death of the Princess Char

    lotte. Three editions                                                         1817

    ....ment of His Kingdom on Earth : a Sermon
Prudence and Piety Recommended to Young Persons at their Entrance

    upon the Active Duties of Life : a Sermon (several editions)                  . 1820

The Connection of the Redeemer's Heavenly State with the Advance
    ... ...Prayer : a Sermon
                                                                                  1820

On the Comparative Advantages of Prescribed Forms and Free

                                                       . 1821
    ...Second edition ; Three vols.
The Scripture Testimony to the Messiah.

     First edition ; Two vols
    ...Third edition; Three vols.                      . 1818 and 1821
    .....Fourth edition ; Two vols.
                                      ..                                          1829

.......The Means of obtaining Satisfaction with regard to the Truth of Re.. .1837

                                                                          . . 1847

    ligious Sentiments : a Sermon                                                 1822

The Presence of God in Death : a Sermon                                           1824

A Vindication of those Citizens of Geneva, and other Persons, who
    have been Instrumental in the Revival of Scriptural Religion in

    that City, &c, &c.             .                                              1825

On the Evidence to the Divine Origin of Christianity from the Resur
    ......decimo), First edition
    rection of Jesus : a Sermon                                                   1827

Four Discourses on the Sacrifice and Priesthood of Jesus Christ (duo

                                                                                  1828

    Second edition, 1842 ; third edition                                          1847

An  Answer to  Sa oPcrieintyte."d  Paper entitled " Manifesto of the Christian
     Evidence                      The fourth edition. To which is annexed a
    ... ...tTTiaaaynyllooRrr'es,liAg".iBoD.ni,e.g"eenstiiSste"lecdond"
    Rejoinder to a Pamphlet by the same Author, the Rev. Robert
                                      Syntagma of the
                                      edition, with a  Evidences of the   Chris
                                                       Preface referring  to Mr.

                                                             .
....Principles of Interpretation as applied to the Prophecies of Scripture :      1830

    a Sermon -.--first edition, 1829 ; second edition                             1831

On the Personality and Divinity of the Holy Spirit : a Sermon .             . 1831

On Church Discipline, according to the Authority of Christ, Revealed

    in the New Testament. Tract 20 of Library of Ecclesiastical
    Knowledge
                                                                                  1831

The Labours and the Reward of a Faithful Minister: -- Funeral

    Sermon for Dr. Winter                                                         1833

The Necessity of Religion to the Weil-Being of a Nation : a Sermon 1834

On the Temper to be Cultivated by Christians of Different Denomina
      tions towards each other : a Sermon. Two editions . . . 1835
                 ....LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.                               647

The Protestant                                                                                                     DATE.
      Lee, D.D.
                 Dissent Vindicated, in a Letter to the Rev. Samuel

                 Second Edition                                        . 1835

The Protestant Dissent further Vindicated, &c, &c, in a Rejoinder to

Dr. Lee                                                                . . 1835

The Mosaic Account of the Creation and the Deluge, illustrated by
      the Discoveries of Modern Science. The first of a Course of
      Lectures to Young Men, delivered at the Weigh House Chapel . 1837

On the Relation between the Holy Scriptures and some parts of
Geological Science :--First edition, octavo .
                                                   .                     1839

Second edition, duodecimo                                              . 1840

Third edition, duodecimo                                               . 1843

Fourth edition, octavo .                                               . 1848

Lecture delivered at the London Tavern, before the Baptist Missionary
Society, on the completion of its Fiftieth Year .
                                                                       . . 1842

Second edition of the Sermon ' on the Reasons of the Protestant Reli
      gion : ' " Enlarged and adapted to the Popish Aggression of 1850,
with some Remarkable Disclosures of Romanist Policy in the Age
of the Reformation" .                                                  .1851
                                 .  .          .

   In 1830, Dr. Smith delivered Four Lectures to Sunday School Teachers
on Biblical Literature ; a summary of each of which was printed in a Tract
form by the Sunday School Union. And besides his large Contributions on
a variety of subjects to Works published periodically, he also in several

instances supplied, an Introductory Essay or a Recommendatory Preface, to
quicken the circulation of Treatises well adapted in his estimation to pro
mote knowledge, temperance, and piety.

                 HEED A5I) PARDON, PIUNTP.HS, PATETWOSTKB HOW, LOXMON
        YALE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

3 9002 03720 0921
"A

