Memoirs of John Abernethy, F.R.S. : with a view of his lectures,
writings, and character / by George Macilwain.

Macilwain, George, 1797-1882.
New York : Harper & Bros., 1853.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/wu.89094687308

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
                                         OF

STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY

              OF WISCONSIN.

  Wmtnkd lmy^/<l (I/'f. /wd/t?>A      > yJ

^'.'«g>m-.>wwim^^ " /r\r\ ' try.--  -
           MEMOIRS

                                                          01

JOHN ABEMETHY, F.R.S.

                                                        WITH

 A. VIEW OF HIS LECTURES, WRITINGS, AND CHARACTER.

              GEORGE MACILWAIN, F.R.C.S.,

        AUTHOR OP "MEDICINE AND SURQERY," "ONE INDUCTIVE SCIENCE,"
                                                            ETC., ETC.

-- TShheakesvpileathraet. men do lives after them. The good is oft interred with their bones.

                                        TUROAENSWFELRIRBERDARTYO

                      NEW YORK:

          HARPER <fc BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,
                    329 & 331 PEARL STREET,

                                      FRANKLIN SQUARE.

                                       1 853.
E 45
 .A Wo

          PREFACE.

   My father practiced on the borders of a forest, and
when he was called at night to visit a distant patient,
it was the greatest treat to me, when a little boy, to be

allowed to saddle my pony and accompany him. I used

to wonder sometimes what he could see so very disa
greeable in that which to me was the greatest possible
pleasure ; for whether we were skirting a bog in the
darkest night, or cantering over the heather by moon

light (the colder the better), I certainly thought there
could be nobody happier than I and my pony. My

father knew the forest nearly as well as his own gar
den; but still, in passing bogs in impenetrable dark
ness, the more refined topography of a forester would
be necessary ; and it was on one of these occasions that

I first heard two words, "Meward" and " Abernethy,"
the one from our forester guide, which I have never
heard since, and the other, which I have heard more
frequently, perhaps, than any other. The idea I then

had of Abernethy was that he was a great man who

lived in London. The next distinct impression I have

of him was derived from hearing my father say that a
iv PREFACE.

lady, who had gone up to London to have an operation

performed, had been sent by him to Mr. Abernethy, be

cause my father did not think the operation necessary

or proper ; that Mr. Abernethy entirely agreed with

him, and that the operation was not performed ; that

the lady had returned home, and was getting well.

This gave me a notion that Abernethy must be a very

good as well as a great man. I found that my father

had studied under him, and his name became a sort of

household word with us. Circumstances now occurred

which occupied my mind in a different direction, and

Ifor some years thought no more of Abernethy.

   As long as surgery meant riding across a forest with

my father, holding his horse, or, if he stopped too long,

Iseeing if his horse rode as well as my pony, thought
Iit a very agreeable occupation ; but when found that
Iit included many other things, soon discovered there

was a profession I liked much better. Some years had

rolled away, when, one afternoon in October, about the

year 1816, and somewhat to my own surprise, I found

myself, about two o'clock, walking down Holborn Hill

on my way to Mr. Abernethy's opening lecture at St.

Bartholomew's. Disappointed of being able to follow

I Ithe profession had chosen, looking on the one was

about to adopt with something very much allied to re
pulsion, voting every thing in this world flat and un

profitable, and painfully depressed in spirits, I took my

seat at the lecture.

IWhen Mr. Abernethy entered, was pleased with the
Iexpression of his countenance.
                                 almost fancied that
                  PREFACE.                                v

he could have sympathized with the melancholy with

which I felt oppressed. When he commenced, I listen
Ied with some attention; as he went on, began even
to feel some pleasure; as he proceeded, I found myself

entertained ; and before he concluded, was delighted.

What an agreeable, happy man he seems ! What a fine

profession! What would I give now to know as much
as he does ! Well, I will see what I can do. In short,

I was converted.
IYears again rolled on ; found myself in practice.

Now I had an opportunity of proving the truth and ex
cellence of the beautiful principles I had been taught.
I found how truthful had been his representations of
Ithem.
        was, however, grieved to find that his opinions

and views were very much misunderstood and misrep

resented, and I had very frequent opportunities of see

ing how much this restricted their application and
abridged their utility.

  ISome few years after his death, tried to induce

some one to endeavor to correct the erroneous impres

sions which prevailed in regard to him ; but to do Aber-

nethy full justice would require a republication of his
works, with an elaborate commentary. This was a

task involving too much time, labor, and expense for

any individual to undertake ; while any thing less, how

ever useful or instructive to the public, must necessa

rily subject the author to a criticism which few are dis

posed to encounter .
   But as it appeared to me that scruples like these

stood in the way of that which was alike just to the
vi PREFACE.

memory of Abernethy and useful to the public, I was

resolved, at all hazards, to undertake at least a memoir

myself. I shall say little of the difficulties of the task.

I feel them to have been onerous, and I believe them

to have been, in some respects, unexampled.

   Apologies for imperfections in works which we are

not obliged to write are seldom valued : the public very
sensibly take a work for what it is worth, and are ul

timately seldom wrong in their decision. I have only

said thus much, not in deprecation of criticism so much

as to show that I have not shrunk from what I deem

ed just and useful on account of the somewhat oppress

ive sense I entertain of the risk or difficulty which it

involves.

  The scientific reader may, I fear, think that, in en
deavoring to avoid too tedious a gravity, I may some

times have been forgetful of the dignity of biographical

memoir ; but in the difficulty of having to treat of sub

jects which, however important, are not always of the

Imost popular kind, have been obliged sometimes to

think of the "quid vetat ridentem." In the very del
icate task of discussing subjects relating to some of

my contemporaries, I have endeavored simply to do

Abernethy justice ; and beyond what is necessary for
that purpose, have avoided any quotations or other mat
ter calculated unnecessarily to revive or rekindle im
pressions which may as well be dismissed or forgotten.

It may appear to some that, in my remarks on the
present state of professional affairs, I may have been
too free. I can only say that I have stated exactly
PREFACE.  vii

what I feel. I am earnestly desirous of seeing a bet
Iter state of things, but have no idea that we can

materially improve that which we are afraid to ex

amine.

  I have to express my warmest thanks to several gen

tlemen for the readiness with which they have contrib

uted their assistance ; my most grateful acknowledg

ments to my respected friend, Mr. Fowler, of Datchet,

and his son, Mr. Alfred Fowler, Mr. Thacker and Mr.

Tummins, of Wolverhampton --three of them being old

school -fellows of Abernethy's ; to Mr. White, the distin

guished head master of Wolverhampton School, whose

acceptable services have been further enhanced by the

ready kindness with which they were contributed ; to

Mr. Belfour, the Secretary of the Royal College of Sur

Igeons, and Mr. Stone, the librarian, have to express

my best thanks for their kind assistance, and to the

latter especially for many very acceptable contribu

tions.

   I have also to acknowledge the kind interest taken

in the work by Mr. Wood, of Rochdale, Mr. Stowe, of

Buckingham, old and distinguished pupils of Abernethy.

My best thanks are also due to Dr. Nixon, of Antrim,

not only for his own contributions, but still more for

the personal trouble he was so kind as to take in rela

tion to some particulars concerning the ancestors of Mr.

Abernethy; as also to Mr. Chevasse, of Little Coldfield,

for very acceptable communications; to Mr. Preston,

of Norwich. I have also to express my obligation to
several gentlemen whom I have consulted at various
viii PREFACE.

times. My thanks are specially due to Professor Owen.
My old friends and fellow-pupils, Mr. Lloyd, Dr. Barnet,
Mr. Skey, and Mr. Wellbank, have shown as much in
terest as their opportunities allowed them, and deserve
my best thanks.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

                         CHAPTER I.

   " The Author of Nature appears deliberate throughout His opera
tions, accomplishing His natural ends by slow, successive steps. And
there is a plan of things beforehand laid out, which, from the nature
of requires various systems of means, as well as length of time, in
order to the carrying on its several parts into execution." -- Butler's
Analogy.
A it,
                              it
retrospect of the history of human knowledge

offers to our contemplation few things of deeper inter

est than the evidence             so repeatedly affords of some

great law which regulates the gradual development of

truth, and determines the Progress of Scientific Dis

covery.                                               a it

    Although knowledge has at times appeared to ex;
hibit something of uniformity in its advances, yet
can not have escaped the least observant that, as

whole, the Progress of Science has been marked by very

variable activity. At one time marvelously rapid at

another, indefinitely slow; now merged in darkness or
obscurity, and now blazing forth with meridian splen

dor.a

   We observe a series of epochs divided by intervals

of great apparent regularity --intervals which we can
neither calculate nor explain --but which, nevertheless,

exhibit periodicity, which the very irregularity serves
to render striking and impressive.

                                   A
2 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   We may remark, also, a peculiar fitness in the minds
of those to whom the successive enunciation of truth

has been intrusted : a fitness, not merely for the tasks
which have been respectively assigned to each in the

special mission of the individual, but also in the col
lective relations of different minds to each other. This

adaptation to ends which different minds have uncon

sciously combined to accomplish, might be illustrated
by very many examples, from the earliest records of
antiquity down to our own times. This would be in
compatible with our present purpose; we will, there
fore, only refer to one or two examples, which, as being

familiar, will serve to illustrate our meaning, and to

lead us, not unnaturally, to our more immediate object.
   We can hardly contemplate men like Bacon, Gali

leo, and Kepler, for example, without feeling how au

spicious the precession of such minds must have been

to the development of the genius of Newton.* It will

be observed that Newton was born the same year that

Galileo died. There is something very interesting and
significant, too, in the peculiar powers of Kepler. Pro
lific in suggestion, great in mathematical ability, elab
orate in analysis, and singularly truthful in spirit, Kep

ler exemplified two things very distinct from each oth
er, but both equally instructive, both alike suggestive

of the link he represented in the chain of progress. In

the laws he discovered, he showed the harvest seldom

withheld from the earnest search for truth, while in

* Galileo                                   Born.  Died.
   Kepler                              1564        1642
   Bacon                                    1571   1630
   Newton                                   1561   1626
                                            1642»  1727

           » The same year that Galileo died.
             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                   3

the limit prescribed to his discoveries, he exemplified
the vast additional labor, and the comparative short
coming of the greatest minds when proceeding too
much on hypothesis. Now it is interesting to remem
ber that this was coincident with the dawning of that
glorious light, the inductive philosophy of Bacon, and

shortly succeeded by the splendid generalization of
Newton.

   In like manner, if we think of the discoveries of Sir
Humphrey Davy --their nature and relations to phys

iology as well as chemistry, we see how much there
might have been that was preparatory, and to a mind
like Davy's, suggestive, in the investigations of preced

ing and contemporaneous philosophers. Priestley had
discovered oxygen gas, Galvani and Vol ta had shown

those remarkable phenomena --that powerful branch

of knowledge which we term a voltaic electricity, Ber-
zelius had effected the decomposition of certain salts

by the voltaic pile, and Lavoisier had even predicted
as probable what Davy was destined to demonstrate.*

   In medical science few things have been more talk

ed of than the discovery of the circulation of the blood.
Now it is curious to observe that every fact essential
to the demonstration of it had been discovered by pre
vious investigators, t but no one had deduced from

* Priestley  Bom.                   Died.
             1733                   1804

Galvani      1737                   1798

Volta        , 1745                 1826

Lavoisier    1743                   1794

Crauford     1749                   1795

Hunter       1728                   1793

Davy         1778                   1829

t The valvular contrivances in the veins and heart, which show

ed that the blood could only move in one direction, had been either
4 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

them the discovery of the circulation until Harvey, al
though it was a conclusion scarcely more important
than obvious.

   There is surely something very encouraging in the
reflection that the advance of knowledge results from

the accumulated labors of successive minds. It sug

gests that however unequally the honors may appear

to be distributed -- however humble in our eyes the

function of those who unconsciously prepare the way
to great discoveries, still it may involve a duty no less
important than the more lofty mission of enunciating
them.

   Humanly speaking, we naturally ascribe discoveries
to those who have practically demonstrated them ; but
when we examine all the clews which have been fur
nished by previous observers, we frequently have mis
givings as to the justice of our decisions. In our ad
miration of the successful labor of the recent inquirer,
we sometimes forget the patient industry of the early
pioneer. With regard to those laws which govern the
human body, we can not suppose that the development
of them can be destined to progress on any plan less
determined than other branches of human inquiry.
But in all laws of nature, we know that there are in
terferences which, until explained, serve to obscure or
altogether to conceal the law from our view.

   In relation to the Physiological laws, these interfer

ences are very numerous. 1st. Many are furnished
by the physical laws, many arise from the connection

observed, described, or their effects respectively remarked on by
Paul, Sylvius, Michael Servetus, Realdus Columbus, Andreas Cesal-
pinus, and especially by Fabricius ab Aquapendente, of whom Harvey
was a pupil.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  6

of the physical with the moral laws, and especially
from the abuse of a (responsible) volition. These in
terferences, however, when duly considered, only illus
trate the laws they at first obscure ; for the common

characters of subjects, in which the law is usually ex

emplified, are brought out into higher relief by the very
diversities in the midst of which they occur. The
progress of mankind at large toward this point is slow,
but still, we think, plainly perceptible. An individual

life, indeed, however distinguished, represents a mere

point in time. It affords little scope for considering,

much less for estimating the true meaning of various
events, which nevertheless ultimately prove to have

had important influence on the progress of knowledge.
    These are world-wide things, which we must survey

as the geologist does the facts concerning which he in
quires. We must endeavor to combine, in one view,

facts over which long periods of time may have rolled
away with such as are still passing around us. This
will frequently suggest designs and relations altogeth
er unobservable by the mere abstract inquirer. In the

course of the following pages, a further opportunity

may occur for a few remarks on such views--the elab

orate discussion of the subject would be altogether

beyond our present objects.

   It will be our endeavor to point out the position oc

cupied by Abernethy in that (as we trust) gradually
dawning science, to a particular phase of which our

object and our limits will alike restrict our attention --

we mean that period when Surgery, having approach
ed to something like a zenith as a mere practical art,

began to exhibit, by slow and almost imperceptible

degrees, some faint characters of science --a shadowy
6 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

commencement of a metamorphose, which we believe
promises to convert (though we fear at a period yet
distant) a monstrous hybrid of mystery and conject
ure into the symmetrical beauty of an inductive sci

ence--a science based on axioms and laws, powerfully

influential to the social progress and to the health of

nations.

   In considering Hunter and Abernethy, we shall see
not only a remarkable adaptation for the tasks in which

they were respectively engaged, but also how the pe
culiar defects of the one were supplied by the charac
teristic excellences of the other ; thus co-operating in
throwing open to us clear and definite objects, which,
though far as they were from fulfilling the requisitions
of an inductive science, were eminently calculated to
lead us to stumble on the necessity of it.

   We no sooner begin to inquire with clear and defin
ite purpose, than we are led to the means necessary for
the attainment of it.

   Abernethy himself, in speaking of the ordinary re

sources of daily practice, used to say, " If a man has a

clear idea of what he desires to do, he will seldom fail
in selecting the proper means of accomplishing it."

    So, in gathering the materials for building up a sci
ence, the first thing is to be clear as to those things
in which it is deficient. This once determined, all
may lend assistance ; and this very division of labor,
when directed with definite purpose, may render even
men most addicted to narrow and partial inquiries con-

tributary to a great and common object.
    In this way those blows and discouragements so

common in the infancy of science, which test our mo
tives and try our patience, may prove tolerable when
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  7

distributed over the many, instead of proving, as is too

common, depressing or destructive to the efforts of the

few.

  If we desire to shorten this labor, we need scarcely

say there is no way of doing it but by the rigid adop
tion of that mode of proceeding to which every other

branch of science owes its present position.

   I mean the rejection of all hypothesis, setting to

work by collecting all the facts in relation to the sub
ject, and dealing with them in strict compliance with

the precepts of common sense, or, what is the same

thing, inductive philosophy.

   This will soon show us the just amount of the debt
we owe to Hunter and Abernethy ; and, in leading us

onward, instructively point out why these great men
did not further increase our obligations.

   We shall see how the industry and circumspection
of the Argus-eyed Hunter, as Abernethy used to call
him, enabled him to unfold a legend in nature which

he had neither length of days, sufficient opportunity,

nor perhaps aptitude wholly to decipher, and how far

it was developed into practical usefulness by the pene
trative sagacity and happy genius of Abernethy, which,
like light in darkness, guides and sustains immediate

research, and animates and encourages onward inquiry.
To appreciate Abernethy, however, it is necessary that

the public should have correct views, at least, of the

general nature and objects of Medical Science.
   We hope to show in this volume that the public

have not only a very real interest in a sound common-

sense view of the objects of medicine and surgery, but

a far deeper interest than it is possible for any one
medical man to have merely as such, or all medical
g MEMOIRS OF ABERXETHV.

men put together. This may, to those who have not
considered the matter, appear new, and therefore start
ling, but we only beg the reader to be patient, and by-
and-by he will be able to judge for himself.

   It is right, however, at once to observe, that man

kind have been taught or induced to believe that the
objects of medicine and surgery are to prevent or re
lieve diseases and accidents by the astute employment
of drugs, or by certain adroit manipulatory or mechan
ical proceedings, and, par excellence, by "operations."

Now here is a great error -- an idea so far from true,

that nothing can more delusively define, or more en
tirely conceal the higher objects of the science.

    The converse of the proposition would be nearer the

truth. It would be more correct to say, that while

the object was to relieve diseases and accidents by re
moving all interferences with the reparative powers of
nature, that this was accomplished more perfectly in
proportion as we were enabled to dispense with the
employment of drugs or the performance of operations.

   The making the lame to walk, the blind to see, and
the deaf to hear, were chosen among the appropriate
symbols of a Divine Mission; and we need scarcely
observe, that in the restricted sphere of human capac
ity, this is a portion of the mission of every conscien
tious surgeon.

   We may well, therefore, be dissatisfied with the
narrow, not to say degrading definition of our duties

too generally entertained; but, on the other hand, if

we would make these more lofty views of our calling
practically useful, we should recollect there is only
one way of our attaining even human approximation
to these symbols, and that is by the applied interpreta
              MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                               9

tion of those no less miraculous symbols, no less cer

tain manifestations of Divine Power, the "Laws of

Nature." To name a science from something not es

ifsential to           like naming class of animals from
                       it a a
             it,
                   is
some exceptional peculiarity in an individual. It          if is

as we would infer the mission of the ocean wave

from the scum sometimes seen on its surface, or as

we would deduce the use of feather, not from its

common character of levity and toughness, so much
as from the use we make of in writing; treat an

exception as rule, or any other manifest absurdity.it, a

   We hope to return to this subject. At present we

must rest satisfied in having awakened the reader's

attention to           and proceed to the more ordinary ob

jects of Biographical Memoir.I. is

   John Abernethy was born in London, in the parish

of St. Stephen's, Coleman Street, on the 3d of April,
1764, exactly one year after John Hunter settled in

London. It also interesting to remark, that Aber-
nethy's first work --his " Surgical and Physiological
Essays," Part --was published the same year that

Hunter died, 1793, so that while his birth occurred

nearly at the same time as the commencement of the

more sustained investigations of Hunter, his opening
contribution to science was coincident with the close

of the labors of his illustrious friend and predecessor.
   The Abernethy family, in their origin, were possi

bly Scotch, and formed one of those numerous inter-

migrations between Scotland and the North of Ireland

which, after lapse of time, frequently render              diffi
                       A

                           2

                                                       it
cult to trace the original stock. There seems little

doubt they had resided for some generations in Ire

land.
10 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   John Abernethy, who was the pastor of a Coleraine
congregation in 1688, was an eminent Protestant Dis
senting minister, and the father of one still more dis
tinguished. The son (also named John) had been for
some time pastor of the old congregation of Antrim,
whence he removed to Dublin about the year 1733, to
take charge of the Wood Street, now Strand Street,
Dublin. He is the author of several volumes of ser
mons, which are not a little remarkable for the clear
ness of thought and earnestness of purpose with which
they inculcate practical piety. He had a son who
was a merchant, who subsequently removed to Lon
don, and traded under the firm of Abernethy and Don
aldson, in Rood Lane, Fenchurch Street. This gentle
man married a lady whose name was Elizabeth Weir,
daughter of Henry and Margaret Weir, of the town of
Antrim, and they had two sons and three daughters.

    James, the elder brother, was also in business as a

merchant, and died about the year 1823. He was a
man of considerable talent, spoke with an accent sug
gestive of an Irish origin, and was remarkable for his
admiration and critical familiarity with our immortal
Shakspeare. He was probably born before his father
left Ireland. John, the second son, the subject of our
Memoir, was, as we have already said, born in Lon

don. The register of his christening at St. Stephen's

is as follows:

                                                                                                   1765.

This register would suggest that he was born a year
Ilater than I have stated.
                            have, however, preferred

1764 as the year adopted by his family ; for, although
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  ' \\

a man's birth is an occurrence respecting the date of
which he is not the very best authority, he usually gets
his information from those who are. Besides, it was

no uncommon thing at that time to defer the christen
ing of children for a much longer period. The educa
tion of his early childhood was most likely altogether
conducted at home, but it is certain that, while yet

very young, he was sent to the Grammar School at
Wolverhampton. Here he received the principal part
of his education, and though the records are somewhat
meagre, yet they tend to show that at an early age he
manifested abilities, both general and peculiar, which
were indicative of no ordinary mind ; and which, though
they do not necessarily prefigure the future eminence
at which he arrived, were sufficiently suggestive of the
probability that, whatever his career might be, he would

occupy a distinguished position.

                        CHAPTER II.

                   " Ah, happy hills ! ah, pleasing shade !
                        Ah, fields beloved in vain,

                     Where once my careless childhood stray'd

                    A stranger yet to pain."--Gray.

    Mankind naturally feel an interest in the boyhood
of men of genius.

   But it often happens that very little attention is paid
to early indications, and, when observed, it is certain
that they are often interpreted very falsely.

    Nothing more emphatically suggests how much we
have to learn on this subject, than the obscurity which
so often hangs over the earlier years of distinguished
12 MEMOIRS OK AHEUNETHY.

men. At school, a number of variable organizations

are subjected to very much the same order of influ
ences ; the necessity for generalization affords little op
portunity for individual analysis. The main road is
broad and conventional; there is little scope for by
paths, even should the master have the penetration to
perceive, in individual cases, the expediency of such
selection. Hence the quickening of those impulses,
on which the development of character so much de
pends, is greatly a matter of uncertainty. The mo
ment boys leave school, on the contrary, this uniform
ity of external influences is replaced by an intermina
ble diversity, at home scarcely two boys being sub
jected to exactly the same. Thus, in many instances,
it would be easier to deduce the character of the boy
from the man, than to have predicted the man from
the boy. The evidences of the one are present to us,
those of the other may have been entirely unelicited,

unobserved, or forgotten.

   We can not wonder, then, that expectation should
have been so often disappointed in the boy, or that ex
cellences little dreamed of should have been developed
in the man.

    Dryden, who, regarded in the triple capacity of poet,
prose writer, and critic, is hardly second to any English
author, took no honor at the University. Swift, per
haps our best writer of pure English, whose talents
proved scarcely less versatile and extraordinary than
they had appeared restricted and deficient, was "pluck
ed" for his degree in Dublin, and only obtained his rec

ommendation to Oxford ^speciali gratia" as it was

termed. The phrase, however, being obviously equiv
ocal, and used only in the bad sense at Dublin, was,
        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                          13

fortunately for Swift, interpreted in a good sense at
Oxford, a misapprehension which Swift, of course, was

at no pains to remove.

Sheridan was remarkable for his readiness and wit;

as a writer, he showed considerable powers of sustain

ed thought also. He had an habitual eloquence, and

on one occasion delivered an oration before one of the

most distinguished audiences that the world ever saw,*
with an effect which seems to have rivaled the most

successful efforts of Cicero, or even Demosthenes. Yet

he had shown so little capacity as a boy, that he was
presented to a tutor by his own mother with the com

plimentary accompaniment that he was an incorrigible

dunce.

Some boys live on encouragement, others seem to

work best up stream. Niebuhr, the traveler, the father

of a son no less illustrious, with any thing but an orig

inally acute mind, seems to have overcome every dis

advantage which the almost constant absence of oppor

tunity could combine. Those who are curious in such

matters might easily multiply examples of the forego

ing description, and add others where --as in the case
of Galileo, Newton, Wren, and many others -- the

predictions suggested by early physical organization

proved as erroneous as the intellectual indications to

which we have just adverted.

*

                      is,
                                                   is
The truth we have a great deal to learn on the

subject of mind, although there                        no want of mate

rials for instruction. Medicine and surgery are not

the only branches of knowledge which require the aid
of strictly inductive inquiry. In all, the materials

(facts) are abundant.
      We allude to his first speech on the trial of Warren Hastings.
14 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

In Abernethy there was a polarity of character, an

individuality, a positiveness of type, which would have

made the boy a tolerably intelligible outline of the fu

ture man. The evidence is imperfect; it is chiefly

drawn from the recollections of a living few, who,

though living, have become the men of former days ;

but still the evidence all inclines one way.

We can quite imagine a little boy, "careless in his

dress, not slovenly," with his hands in his pockets,

some morning about the year 1774, standing under

the sunny side of the wall at Wolverhampton Gram

mar School;* his pockets containing, perhaps, a few

shillings, some halfpence, and a knife with the point

broken, a pencil, together with a tolerably accurate

sketch of "Old Robertson's" wig -- this article, as

shown in an accredited portraitt now lying before us,

was one of those enormous by-gone bushes which repre

sented a sort of impenetrable fence round the cranium,

as if to guard the precious material within --the said

boy just finishing a story to his laughing companions,

though no sign of fun appeared in him, save a little

curl of the lip, and a smile which would creep out of
Ithe corner of his eye in spite of him.
                                         have had the

good fortune to find no less than three school-fellows
of Abernethy who are still living: John Fowler, Esq.,

of Datchet, a gentleman whom I have had the pleas

ure of knowing for many years, and who enjoys in hon-

   * Wolverhampton School, founded by Sir Stephen Jermyn, Alder

man and Knight of the City of London, in the reign of Henry VIII.,
for the " Instruction of youth in morals and learning." Many dis
tinguished men were educated at the school, as Abernethy, Mr. Tork
fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, Sir William Congreve, and oth
ers. The present head master is the Rev. W. White.

   t Kindly sent us by Mr. Fowler, of Datchet.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.       15

orable retirement at his country seat, at the age of

eighty-two, the perfect possession of all his faculties;

William Thacker, Esq., of Muchall, about two miles

from Wolverhampton, who is in his eighty-fifth year ;

T. Tummins, Esq., of King Street, Wolverhampton,

who is in his eighty-seventh year, school-fellows. To

these gentlemen, and to J. Wynn, Esq., also of Wolver
hampton, I am principally indebted for the few remin
Iiscences have been able to collect of the boyish days

of Abernethy.

  The information which I gained from Mr. Fowler he

gave me himself; he also kindly procured me a long

letter from Mr. Wynn. The reminiscences of Mr.

Tummins and Mr. Thacker I have obtained through

the very courteous and kind assistance of the Rev.

W. White, the present distinguished head master of

the Wolverhampton School.

  To all of these gentlemen I can not too strongly

express my thanks for the prompt and kind manner in
which they have replied to all the inquiries which

have been addressed to them. The following are the

principal facts which their letters contain, or the con

clusions they justify. Abernethy must have gone to

Wolverhampton when very young probably, I should

say certainly before 1774.  He was brought by Dr.
Robertson from London with  another pupil, " his friend
Thomas ;" and the " two Londoners" boarded with Dr.

Robertson. When Mr. Fowler went there in 1778,

Abernethy was high up in the school, and ultimately

got to the head of the senior form. He must have left

Wolverhampton certainly not later than 1778, because

Dr. Robertson resigned the head mastership in that

year; and we know that in the following year, 1779,
10 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

when he was fifteen, he was apprenticed to Sir Charles

Blicke.

Mr. Thacker says he was very studious, clever, a

good scholar, humorous, but very passionate. Mr.

Tummins, Mr. Thacker says, knew Abernethy well.
Abernethy used to go and dine frequently with Mr.

Tummins's father. Mr. Tummins      says  Abernethy was
                                   and   a very passion
a sharp boy, " a very sharp boy,"

ate one too. Dr. Robertson, he says, was also a very

passionate man.

   One day Abernethy had to "do" some Greek Testa
ment, and it appeared that he set off very glibly, hav
ing a "crib," in the shape of a Greek Testament, with
a Latin version on the other side. The old doctor, sus

pecting the case, discovered the crib, and the pupil

was instantly " leveled with the earth." This fortiter
in re plan of carrying the intellect by a coup-de-main

has, as the present head master observes, been replaced

by more refined modes of proceeding. The more ener

getic plan was, however coarse and objectionable, not

always unsuccessful in implanting a certain quantity
of Latin and Greek. Abernethy was a very fair Latin

scholar, and he certainly had not a bad knowledge of

Greek also.

    There are, however, many other things to be learn
ed besides Latin and Greek ; and it is probable that

the more measured reliance on such violent appeals,

which characterizes modern education, might have

been better suited to Abernethy. To a boy who was

naturally shy, and certainly passionate, such mechan
ical illustrations of his duty were likely to augment

shyness into distrust, and to exacerbate an irritable

temper into an excitable disposition.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  17

    Abernethy, in chatting over matters, was accustom
ed jocularly to observe that, for his part, he thought
his mind had on some subjects what he called a "punc-

tum saturations so that "if you put any thing more
into his head, you pushed something out." If so, we

may readily conceive that -this plan of forcing in the

Greek might have forced out an equivalent quantity

of patience or self-possession. It is difficult to imagine

any thing less appropriate to a disposition tike Aber-

nethy's than the discipline in question. It was, in

fact, calculated to create those very infirmities of char
acter which it is the object of education to correct or

remove.

   It seems that neither writing nor arithmetic were

taught in the school; and "Tummins and Abernethy"

used to go to learn these matters at the school of a
Miss Ready, in King Street, Wolverhampton. This
lady appears to have had, like Dr. Robertson, a high
opinion of what the profession usually term " local ap
plications" in the conduct of education. Many years
afterward she called upon Mr. Abernethy. He was
 then in full practice in London. He received her with

 the greatest kindness ; begged her to come and d ine
 with him as often as she could while she stayed in
 London; and introducing her to Mrs. Abernethy, said,

 " I beg to introduce you to a lady who has boxed my

 ears many a time."

     Had Miss Ready, however, heard us call in question

 this association of boxing ears and quill-driving, she
 would probably have retorted on us that few men wrote

 so good a hand as John Abernethy. It is also perfect

 ly certain that, brusque as the discipline might have
 been, and ill suited to the disposition of Abernethy, it
IS MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

did not interfere with the happiness of his school-boy

life. He always looked back to his days at Wolver

hampton with peculiar pleasure, and seemed to regard

every association with the place with affectionate re

membrance.

   Mr. Wynn observes in his letter : " About twenty

Iyears ago accompanied a patient to Mr. Abernethy.

After prescribing, he said, ' Let me see you again in

about a week.' ' We can not, for we are returning

into the country.' ' Why, where do you live ?' ' Wol
              ' Wolverhampton ? Why, I went to
verhampton.'

school there. Come, sit down, and tell me who's alive

and who's dead.' After running over the names of

some of the old families, their health, circumstances,

&c., he wished us good-morning, saying, ' Ah ! I can

not forget Wolverhampton.' "

  IMr. Thacker's note subjoin, written in a good, firm

hand at eighty-five :

                              Murchall, near Wolverhampton, May 17, 1852.

  " Sir, --As a boy, I remember John Abernethy and

William Thomas coming from London to board with,

and as scholars to, Dr. Robertson, the head master of

the Wolverhampton School, in which there were two
masters, both clergymen. We were formed into sev
eral classes, in which John Abernethy, William Thom
as, Walter Acton Mosely, and myself, formed one.
Abernethy took the head or top of the class. The
boys used to change places in the classes according to

their proficiency, but I do not recollect that Abernethy

ever took a third place in the class. So also in his

sports, he usually made a strong side, for he was re

markably quick and active, and soon learned a new
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                             19

game. He had but one fault that I knew of--he was

rather hasty and impetuous in his manner, but it was

soon over and forgotten.

   " The ' Doctor,' as we used to call him (Robertson),

had a daughter grown up, and she used to hear the
boarders in the house read plays before her father, in
which, in particular passages, she showed where the
emphasis should be laid, and how to pronounce the

same properly ; this occasioned the use of the play of
' Cato,' and originated the boys' performance of that

play in the school-room before their fathers and friends.

I do not remember the part that Abernethy took in
that play. I have applied to Mr. Tummins, of Wol

verhampton, but his memory does not supply informa
tion. He knew Mr. Abernethy well.

   " If I recollect any others of my school-fellows who
Iknew him, will apply to them for information, and

3ommunicate the same to you immediately.
" I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                              "William Th acker.
" To George Macilwain, Esq."

   We learn from another reminiscent that in the play

at Wolverhampton Abernethy took a "principal part."
He certainly had a good deal of dramatic talent, in the
highest sense of the word ; and, as will be seen in the
sequel, could light up a story with rich humor, or
clothe it with pathos, as suited the occasion, with equal

facility. There is much in these school reminiscences,
scanty as they are, significent of his future character.

    As we have observed, Abernethy left Wolverhamp
ton in 1778. He was then head of the school, a quick,
clever boy, and more than an average scholar. He
returned to London, that world of hopes, fears, and
20 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

anxieties, that spacious arena, on which all are desirous
of entering as competitors who are ambitious of profes
sional or commercial distinction.

                CHAPTER III.

Nunquam ita quisquam bene subductd rations ad vitam fuit

Quin res, aetas, usus, semper aliquid apportet novi
Aliquid moneat ; ut ilia quae te scire credas, nescias :
Et quae tibi putaris prima, in experiundo repudias.

                                                        Tkr., Act v., Sc. 4.

Never did man lay down so fair a plan,     a           he knew,
So wise a rule of life, but fortune, age,         it,
Or long experience made some change in
And taught him that those things he thought
He did not know, and what he held as best
In practice, he threw by. -- Colman.

Circumstances in themselves apparently unimport

ant, often determine the selection of profession. Few

boys can do exactly what they please, and the pros

and cons are seldom placed before them in a way to

assist them in determining the just value of the rea

sons on which their choice may have proceeded. They

are not, indeed, unfrequently dealt with as            it if,    while

not incompetent to make choice of a profession, they

were held incapable of weighing the circumstances by

which alone such choice could be judiciously directed.

The absurdity of this appears when we think a mo

ment of what involves, which nothing less than
it              is
          a it            is
expecting them to do what impossible, viz., to form

an opinion on subject, when the main facts in rela

tion to are withheld from them. Be this as may,

every day shows us that men are too frequently dissat
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                             21

isfied with the profession which they follow.                     The

question of our boyhood recollections

                  " Qui fit Maecenas ut nemo quam sibi sortem,
                     Seu ratio dederit seu fors objecerit, ilia,

                 Contentus viratl"

is just as applicable as ever; and although human

nature has almost every thing ascribed to its natural

infirmities, yet it appears quite as sensible, and not a
whit less humble, to conclude, that paths chosen with

out consideration naturally lead to disappointment.
The evil, like most others, carries with it the elements

of self-correction.

    Parents are slow to encourage their children to im
itate a course on which they themselves look back with
regret. This, of course, tends to distribute their pro
fessions to other families. Mutual interchanges of this
kind tend to protect the interests of society from an in
definite multiplication of failures in men selecting the

pursuits best adapted to them.

   In almost all pursuits of life, success is determined,

much more than many are disposed to imagine, by the
homely qualities of steadiness and industry. We are

apt --and sometimes not improperly, certainly -- to as

cribe peculiar excellence to peculiar powers. Yet the
more we discover of the histories of great men, the more

we perceive how constantly the more special have been
aided by the more homely qualifications to which we

have adverted.

    No doubt some minds are so constituted as to be

moderately certain of success or distinction in almost
any pursuit to which they might have been directed,
 and we are disposed to think that Abernethy's was a
 mind of that order ; but there is abundant evidence to
22 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

show that his talents were at least equaled by his in
dustry. One paper of his, which contains a beautiful
and discriminative adjustment of a difficult point of
practice in Injuries of the Head, and which contains no
intrinsic evidence of such industry, was only prepared
after he had attended to every serious injury of the head
in a large hospital for almost twenty years, besides ex
amining the bodies of all the fatal cases. Nor can we
estimate this industry properly without recollecting that
all this time he was an assistant surgeon only, whose
duties for the most part neither required nor permittea
him to do more than to observe the treatment, and that

therefore the whole of this industry was simply in the

character of a student of his profession.* All biogra
phy is full of this kind of evidence; and art, as well

as science, furnishes its contribution. Who could im

agine that the peculiarly chaste composition, easy and
graceful touch of Sir Augustus Callcott, could have
owed so much to industry as it undoubtedly must have

done ? It is known, for example, that he made no less

than forty different sketches in the composition of one

picture. We allude to his " Rochester." Had Aber-

nethy been allowed to choose his profession, there can
be no doubt but that he would have selected the Bar.

It is impossible for any one to consider the various

powers he evinced, without feeling that, had he follow
ed the Law, he would have arrived at a very distin

guished position. " Had my father let me be a law

yer," he would say, " I should have known every Act

of Parliament by heart." This, though no doubt in
tended as a mere figure of speech, was not so far from

   * The assistant surgeons have no nt-patients under their care ex
cept in the absence or by permission of their chiefs.
                MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.       23

possibility as might be imagined, for it referred to one

of his most striking characteristics, viz., a memory alike

marvelously ready, capacious, and retentive--qualities

common enough separately, but rare in powerful com

bination.

   We may have opportunities by-and-by, perhaps, of

further illustrating it. We will give one anecdote
here. A gentleman, dining with him on a birth-day

of Mrs. Abernethy's, had composed a long copy of vers

es in honor of the occasion, which he repeated to the

family circle after dinner. "Ah!" said Abernethy,
smiling, "that is a good joke now, your pretending to

have written those verses." His friend simply rejoin

ed that, such as they were, they were certainly his

own. After a little good-natured bantering, his friend

began to evince something like annoyance at Aber

"Inethy's apparent incredulity ; so, thinking it was time
to finish the joke, "Why," said Abernethy,  know

those verses very well, and could say them by heart."
His friend declared it to be impossible, when Aber

nethy immediately repeated them throughout correct

ly, and with the greatest apparent ease. To return.

However useful this quality might have been at the

Bar, Abernethy was destined to another course of life --

a pathway more in need, perhaps, of that light which

I

                                         it
                                                                                  it,
his higher qualifications enabled him to throw over

and which his position "in time" afforded him an op

portunity of doing just when seemed most required.

He probably thus became, both during life and pros

pectively, the instrument of greater good to his fellow-
creatures than he would have been in any other sta

tion whatever.

have not been able to discover what the particular
 24 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 oiroumstances were which determined his choice of

the medical profession. It is probable that they were

 not very peculiar. A boy thwarted in his choice of a
 profession is generally somewhat indifferent as to the
course which is next presented to him ; besides, as his
views would not have been opposed but for some good
reason, a warm and affectionate disposition would in
duce him to favor any suggestion from his parents.
Sir Charles Blicke was a surgeon in large practice ;
he lived at that time in Mildred's Court, and Aber-

nethy's father was a near neighbor, probably in Cole
man Street.

    Abernethy had shown himself a clever boy, a good
scholar ; and he was at the top of Wolverhampton
School before he was fifteen. Sir Charles Blicke was

quick-sighted, and would easily discover that Aber

nethy was a " sharp boy." All that Abernethy prob
ably knew of Sir Charles was that he rode about in his

carriage, saw a good many people, and took a good
many fees, all of which, though probably presenting
no particular attractions for Abernethy, made a prima
facie case, which was not repulsive. Accordingly, in
the year 1779, being then fifteen years of age, he be
came bound an apprentice to Sir Charles, and proba

bly for about five years.
   This first step, this apprenticing, has a questiona

ble tendency as regards the interests of the public and

the profession. It exerts also a considerable influence

on the character and disposition of the boy, which we

must by-and-by consider. It is a mode of proceeding

which we fear has done not a little to impede the prog
ress of surgery as a science, and to maintain that
handcraft idea of it suggested by the etymology of the
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                           is

word. Where one man strikes out a new path, thou

sands follow the beaten track.

   A boy with his mind ill prepared, having no definite

ideas of the nature and objects of scientific inquiries,

and almost certainly uninstructed as to the rules to be

observed in conducting them-- knowing neither any
distinction between an art and a science --a boy thus

conditioned is bound for a certain number of years! to

a man of whom he knows little, and to a profession of

which he knows nothing. He takes his ideas and his

tone from his master, or, if these be repulsive to him,
Ifhe probably takes an opposite extreme.
                                          the master

practices his profession merely as an art, he furnishes

his pupil with little more than a string of convention

alisms; when, if the pupil has talent enough to do any

thing for himself, he is tolerably certain to have a

great deal to unlearn.

   We believe the system is in course of improvement ;
it is high time it was put an end to altogether. Ap

prenticeships might not have been an inauspioious

mode of going to work in former times, when there

existed barber-surgeons. This alliance of surgery and

shaving, to say nothing of the numerous other qualifi

cations with which they were sometimes associated,

conceivably enough furnished some pretext for appren

ticeships, since Dickey Gossip's definition of

" Shaving and tooth-drawing,

Bleeding, cabbaging, and sawing,"

was by no means always sufficiently comprehensive to
include the multifarious accomplishments of "the doc

tor." I have myself seen in a distant part of this isl

and, within twenty-five years, chemist, druggist, sur

geon, apothecary, and the significant &c. followed by
                                          B
26 MEMOIRS OF ABF.RNF.THY

the hatter, hosier, and linen-draper in one establish
ment ; but as we shall have to discuss this subject
more fully in relation to Abernethy in another place,

we may proceed.
    Sir Charles Blicke had a large and lucrative prac

tice. He had the character of taking care to be well
remunerated for his services. He amassed a consider
able fortune; but we incline to think the impressions

of the profession which Abernethy derived from the
experience of his apprenticeship were not unfavowblp.
The astute, business-like mode of carrying on the pro
fession, which seems to have characterized Sir Charles

Blicke's practice, could have few charms for Abernethy.
The money-making character of it had never much at
traction for him, and at that period of his life probably
none at all, while the measured pretensions of it to any
thing like a science could hardly have been at times
otherwise than repulsive.

    The tone in which he usually spoke of Sir Charles's
practice did not convey a very favorable idea of the
nature of the impression which it had left on him. In

relating a case he would say, "Sir Charles was at his

house in the country, where he was always on the look
out for patients." On another occasion, speaking of
patients becoming faint under peculiar circumstances,

he observed, "When I was an apprentice, my master

used to say, ' Oh, sir! you are faint; pray drink some
of this water.' And what do you think was the effect
of his putting cold water into a man's stomach under
these circumstances? why, of course, that it was often
rejected in his face."

    Sir Charles's manipulatory and operative proceed
ings seem, however, to have represented a tolerably
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                      27

adroit adoption of the prevailing modes of practice,
while his medical surgery consisted chiefly of the em

pirical employment of such remedies as he had found

most frequently successful, or, at all events, somehow
or other associated with a successful issue, with the

usual absence of any investigation of the cause of either
success or failure. By a mind like Abernethy's, this

sort of routine would be very soon acquired, and in a
short time estimated at its real value. Still, while a

clear head is all that is necessary to the reception of
what may be positive and truthful, it requires a vivid
perception and a cultivated understanding to detect

error. Many things, however, would creep out in Aber

nethy's lectures, showing that, young as he was, even

during his apprenticeship, he was not only a real stu
dent, but he had begun to think for himself.

   He mentions a case of " Locked-jaw," that occurred

as early as 1780, in the first year of his apprenticeship,
which he appears to have noted with great accuracy.

He mentions the powerful medicine that was given to

the man, the doses, and, lastly, the enormous quantity

of it which was found in the stomach after death. It

was opium, and amounted to many drachms.
   We also find him engaged in inquiries inyolving

much more extended views than were in that day gen
erally associated with the study of surgery. He very
early participated in those researches which had for

their object to determine the relation of the digestive

functions to one of the most recondite affections of an

important          (the kidney).

I was a
"Iextremely

   "When
            organ  said he,  half  ruined  my
           boy,"

self in buying oranges and other things, to ascertain
the effects of different kinds of diet in this disease."
2g MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHV.

    The same researches show how early also he began

to perceive the importance of chemistry in investiga
ting the functions of different organs, and in aiding,
generally, physiological researches. We have heard a
contemporary and a lecturer on chemistry attest Aber-

nethy's proficiency in that science. As his investiga
tions proceeded, he had the still higher merit of taking

just and sober views of the relations of chemistry to

physiological science.
   We mean that while he fully recognized the import

it
         it,

                 is
ance of he entirely avoided that exclusive reliance
on which too often created by some of the more

striking demonstrations of chemical science that one
                                   ;

                                           it
-- idea --tendency, which unconsciously wrests  to

the solution of phenomena which, in the present state

of our knowledge,    it      wholly inadequate to explain.

                         is

We have alluded to the foregoing facts touching the im

pressions derived from his apprenticeship, and his early
disposition for philosophical research, because both will

be found to have relations to his subsequent labors and

peculiarities. Diligent as he was, we suspect he found
little during his apprenticeship of those attractions

which make labor and industry sources of pleasure and

enjoyment.

As matter of course, he would have been allowed
a
                                a
to attend any lectures which were given at the hospi
tal to which Sir Charles Blicke was surgeon (St. Bar
tholomew's), and they would bring him in contact with

Mr. Pott, who delivered certain number of surgical

lectures there.

There were no courses of anatomical lectures given

at St. Bartholomew's at that period, but anatomical
lectures were delivered regularly at the London Hos
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                                     29

pital by Dr. Maclaurin and Sir William Blizard, and
afterward by Sir William Blizard alone. As Sir Charles
Blicke lived in Mildred's Court, and subsequently in
Billiter Square, Abernethy would be about equidistant
from the two hospitals, both of which he attended. We

incline to think that it was in attending the lectures,
and perhaps especially those of Sir William Blizard,
that he first found those awakening impulses, which
excited in him a real love for his profession.

   It was about this time, we think, that he began to

have more enlarged ideas of the nature and objects of
surgical science ; a state of mind calculated to enable
him to thoroughly understand and appreciate Mr. Hun
ter, and to deduce from the principles which he was
shadowing forth those relations and consequences which

we shall endeavor popularly to explain ; principles
which, though originally directed to the treatment of
so-called surgical maladies, were found equally to af

fect the practice of medicine.

CHAPTER IV.

There is not a more pleasing exercise of the mind than gratitude.

Were there no positive command which enjoined                                             nor any recom
it

                         a
                                                         it,

                                                                            it
pense laid up for hereafter, generous mind would indulge in
for the natural gratification which accompanies it. --Addison.

   Sir William Blizard was an eminent surgeon and
an enthusiastic student of the profession, as studied in
his day. He had a certain bluntness of manner, which
was not unkind neither. He was very straightfor

ward, which Abernethy liked and he had nothing of
   mercenary disposition, which Abernethy held in ab

horrence. He was kind of man very likely to excite
a
                                       a

                                                                                       ;
30 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

in one of Abernethy's tone of mind very agreeable im
pressions. He early perceived the talents, and was
probably the first to encourage the industry, of his dis
tinguished pupil. Enthusiastic himself, he had the
power of communicating a similar feeling to many of
his pupils ; and he appears to have contributed one of
those impulses to Abernethy which are from time to
time necessary to sustain the pursuit of an arduous

profession.
    Some men seem to like anatomy for its own sake ;

examinations of structure merely, by dissection or the
microscope, have a fund of intrinsic charm for them.
This was not the case with Abernethy. Mere anatomy
had few charms for him. He regarded it in its true

light, as a means to an end-- as the basis on which he

could alone found, not only the mere common or hand
craft duties of surgery, but also those higher views
which aim at ascertaining the uses and relations of the
various organs; to ascertain in this way what the proc
esses of nature were in the preservation of health and

the conduct of disease -- in short, a knowledge of what

he called physio-pathology.
    Sir William, therefore, in exciting Abernethy's en

thusiasm at this time, was probably of great service.
He was thus impelled to pursue the study of anatomy,
which perhaps might otherwise have failed to interest
him sufficiently, while it by no means diverted his at
tention from the real purposes of that study. On the
contrary, he always saw anatomy, as it were, through
a physiological medium. This threw a pleasure into
his anatomical studies, and was one of the means by

which, in his own lectures, he contrived to impart an
interest to the driest parts of our studies.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  31

    Many years afterward, he was fond of illustrating the
true relations of anatomy and physiology; and at the
same time contrasting the attractions of the one with

the comparatively repulsive requisitions of the other, by
saying with Dr. Barclay, of Edinburgh, that "he never
would have wedded himself to so ugly a witch (anat
omy) but for the dower she brought him (physiology)."
The impressions which he derived from Sir William

Blizard were deep and durable. More than thirty years
after, when he himself was at the zenith of his career,

we find his grateful feeling toward Sir William still
glowing warm as ever. He seems to have considered
it as the most appropriate opening to the first of the
beautiful lectures which he delivered at the College of
Surgeons in 1814. It must have been a moment of
no small gratification to Sir William, who was present,
now venerable with age, to have found that the honor

able course of his own younger days, and the purity
and excellence of his precepts, had all been garnered

up in the heart of his grateful and most distinguished
pupil ; nor could the evidence of it be more striking
than to hear it heralded forth before an audience com

posed of the most venerable and experienced, as well
as of the most rising members of the profession ; and,
to crown the whole, with an eloquence at once modest

and emotional, impressive of the depth and sincerity
with which the eulogium was delivered.

   It is difficult to imagine a scene more moving to the

master, more gratifying to the pupil, or more honorable

to both. As the style was very characteristic, we se

lect a few passages. He commences the lecture by

saying of Sir William Blizard that " he was my earliest

instructor in anatomy and surgery, and I am greatly
32 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY. .

indebted to him for much valuable information. My
warmest thanks are also due to him for the interest he
excited in my mind toward these studies, and for his

excellent advice. 'Let your search after truth,' he

would say, 'be eager and constant. Be wary in ad
mitting propositions to be facts before you have sub

mitted them to the strictest examination. If after this

you believe them to be true, never disregard or forget
any one of them, however unimportant it may at the
time appear. Should you perceive truths to be import
ant, make them motives of action. Let them serve as

springs to your conduct. If we neglect to draw such

inferences, or to act in conformity with them, we fail
in essential duties.'" Again, in remarking how Sir
William excited his enthusiasm by the beau-ideal which
he drew of the medical character, Mr. Abernethy ob

served: "lean not tell you how splendid and brilliant

he made it appear; and then he cautioned us never to
tarnish its lustre by any disingenuous conduct, or by
any thing that bore even the semblance of dishonor."
Abernethy then proceeding in a strain warm, yet apol
ogetic (Sir William being present), at length concluded
his public thanks to his venerable instructor by saying,

" What I have now stated is a tribute due from me to
Ihim ; and pay it on the present occasion in the hope

that the same precepts and motives may have the same
effects on the junior part of my audience as they were
accustomed, in general, to have on the pupils of Sir
William Blizard."*

   * Sir William was a good surgeon and an excellent man. He was
born at Barnes, in Surrey, and practiced his profession until his death,
which took place at the advanced age of ninety-three. One of his
eyes was affected with cataract, which was removed by operation
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                             33

Abernethy then proceeded to advocate similar lofty

views of the nature and duties of our profession in the

following manner : " That which most dignifies man is

the cultivation of those qualities which most distin

guish him from the brute creation. We should in

deed seek truth for its importance, and act as the dic

tates of reason direct us. By exercising our minds in

the attainment of medical knowledge, we may im

prove a science of great public utility. We have need

of enthusiasm, or of some strong incentive, to induce

us to spend our nights in study, and our days in the

disgusting and health-destroying duties of the dissect

ing-room, or in that careful and distressing observation

of human diseases and infirmities which can alone en

able us to alleviate or remove them ; some powerful
inducement," he adds, "exclusive of fame or emolu

ment (for unfortunately a man may attain a consider
able share of reputation and practice without being a
real student of his profession). I place before you the
most animating incentive I know of-- that  is,
                                                the en

viable power of being extensively useful to your fel
low-creatures. You will be able to confer that which

sick kings would fondly purchase with their diadems,
which wealth can not command, nor state nor rank

bestow -- to alleviate or remove disease, the most in

supportable of human afflictions, and thereby give

health, the most invaluable of human blessings."

When Abernethy entered the London Hospital, he

soon gave proofs that Sir William's lessons were not
unfruitful. He was early employed to prepare the

when he was ninety-one. He was enthusiastically fond of his pro
fession, and was chiefly remarkable for his zealous observance of its
honorable practice, and his indifference to lucre. He died in 1835.

                                      BSJ
        MEMOIRS OF ABERXETHY.

subjects for lecture. Anatomy is usually taught by

combining three plans.

   In one, the various structures, muscles, vessels,

nerves, &c., are exposed by the removal of their cover

ing and connecting tissues, and so displayed as to be

clear and distinct. This is "dissecting for lecture;"

and it is the duty of the lecturer to describe the con

nections and immediate uses of the parts so displayed.

The body is then laid on a clean table, covered with

a white cloth, and every thing is ready. There is some

difference in these matters in different hands ; but at

tention to order and cleanliness goes a long way in fa

cilitating anatomical pursuits. To many there may

be much that is disagreeable in anatomy, but we are

persuaded that a coarse and vulgar inattention to decen

cy has often alone rendered it disgusting or repulsive.

The other plan is not materially different from the

foregoing, excepting that it is generally done by the
anatomical assistant-- technically, the "demonstrator."

The parts, having been somewhat exposed, are left, as

much as is consistent with clearness, in their natural

and relative positions ; and vessels, nerves, muscles,

&c., which had been for the most part described sepa

rately by the lecturer, are now "demonstrated" (as the

        together. The relative positions of all parts
phrase  is)
                              is

                                      a
                                               is

                                                                                      is
are thus more specially impressed on the student. In
these " demonstrations" there the same attention to

covering the body with cloth, &c., as in the lecture.

   Lastly, the pupil required to make out the parts
by dissecting them himself, with such occasional as

sistance as may be at first necessary, and which

given by the demonstrator, who attends in the room

for that purpose.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                         35

    Now these duties (the lecture only excepted) were
early performed by Abernethy. We may safely infer

from this that he was distinguished by his industry

and zeal in the pursuit of knowledge, and that he be

gan thus early to cultivate that power of communica

ting what he knew to others, in the exercise of which

he ultimately acquired a success, a curiosa felicitas,

in which he excelled all his contemporaries.  That

special qualifications were already discernible, we may

infer from the post he occupied. This is usually filled

by a pupil of the hospital to which the school belongs,

whereas Mr. Abernethy was an apprentice of a surgeon

of St. Bartholomew's. On the testimony of a contem

porary and fellow-student, Mr. W. W. Cox, late of Wol

verhampton, we learn that he began to individualize

himself very early. That, at the London Hospital,

"he was for the most part reserved, seldom associa

ting with any of the other students, but sitting in some

place or corner by himself, diligently intent on the

business of the lecture." Sir William Blizard is known

to have felt proud of him, and to have soon indulged in

great expectations from his character and talents.

   I have already observed that Abernethy had the ad

vantage of attending also the Surgical Lectures of Mr.

Pott at St. Bartholomew's. Mr. Pott was a gentleman,

a scholar, and a good writer, and seems to have been

a spirited and attractive lecturer. In an oration de

livered by Sir William Blizard in 1815, it is said that

"it whs difficult to give an idea of the elegance of his

language, the animation of his manner, or the percep

tive force or effect of his truths and his doctrines," a

character which is by no means inconsistent with Mr.

Pott's more studied compositions.
 36 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.is
                                     it)
    Such opportunities were not lost on Abernethy. Heis
soon became possessed of what was known in the ordi    a
nary business of anatomy and surgery. His diligence,
too, had afforded him an opportunity of testing those

powers of communicating what he knew, to which I

have just alluded. As an apprentice of a surgeon of
Bartholomew's, his views were directed in that hospi
tal; and it was not long before the resignation of Mr.
Pott, and the appointment of Sir Charles Blicke, who
was assistant surgeon, to succeed him, opened to Aber
nethy an arena in which he might further mature that
capacity for teaching his profession, which had been,
as we learn from his own testimony, an early object of
his ambition, and for which he had already begun to
educate himself at the London Hospital.

                         CHAPTER V.

                  Terra salutiferas herbas eademque nocentes
                Nutrit, et urticae proxima saepe rosa est. -- Ovid.

   A large London hospital (if we may be excused the

Hibernianism, as Mr. Abernethy used to call
large microcosm. There little in human nature of
which an observant eye may not here find types or
realities. Hopes and fears, joys and sorrows, solace
and suffering, are here strangely intermingled. Gen
eral benevolence with special exceptions. There
no human good without its shadow of evil even the
benevolent must take care. Impatient sensibility
much nearer heartless indifference than people gen
erally imagine. The rose Charity must take care of
the nettle Temper. The man who chary or chafed
a  is

                     ;

                                is is
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  37

in yielding that sympathy which philosophy and feel
ing require, must beware lest he degenerate into a

brute.

    One of the brightest points in Abernethy's character
was that, however he might sometimes forget the court
esy due to his private patients, he was never unkind
to those whom charity had confided to his care. One
morning, leaving home for the hospital when some one
was desirous of detaining him, he said, "Private pa

tients, if they do not like me, can go elsewhere; but

the poor devils in the hospital I am bound to take

care of."

   But to the hospital. Here we find some that have

had the best that this world can give --some who have

known little but misery; the many no doubt lie be
tween, but all come upon the same errand. Disease
is a great leveler. There all flock, as to Addison's
Mountain of Miseries, to get rid of their respective bur
dens, or to effect such exchanges as benevolence may
have to offer, or the grave can alone supply. Our large
hospitals have a most efficient material ; the accommo

dations are extensive, the revenues princely. St. Bar
tholomew's, for example, has a revenue of between

twenty and thirty thousand pounds a year, and is ca
pable of receiving six hundred patients.

   As regards what is mechanically or physically nec
essary to the comfort of the inmates, the ample appli
ances of our large hospitals leave little or nothing that
can be desired. There is every facility, too, for the
execution of the duties that convenient space and or
derly arrangement can suggest; in short, every thing,
in the general sense of the word, that money can pro
cure. Then there are governors whose hearts are as
38 MEMOIRS OK ABERNETHY.

open as their purses, whose names are recorded in gold
letters as the more recent or current contributors to

the funds of the establishment, and who rejoice in the

occasional Saturnalia of venison and turtle --all duties

or customs which may be observed, with the gratify
ing reflection that they are taking the thorns out of the
feet of the afflicted, provided only that they do not in
volve forgetfulness of other duties, the neglect of which
may plant a few in their own. The governors determ
ine the election of the medical men, to whom the wel

fare of the patients and the interests of science are to
be intrusted.

    We have said that money can not procure all things,
and one of these is mind ; a remark requiring some
qualification certainly, but this we must refer to a sub
sequent chapter. Minds such as Abernethy's are not
to be found every day ; and, notwithstanding the sump
tuous bill of fare we have already glanced at, there are
many things in a large London hospital yet to be de
sired ; things which, though it imply no great penetra
tion to discover, may, for aught we know, require the
public eye and the plastic hand of power to supply.

    Abernethy was elected assistant surgeon of St. Bar

tholomew's Hospital on the 15th of July, 1787. Sir

Charles Blicke, an assistant surgeon, had been appoint
ed to the surgeoncy vacant by the resignation of Mr.
Pott, and Abernethy succeeded to the assistant sur
geoncy thus vacated. The election was contested by
two or three other gentlemen ; among the rest,>by Mr.
Heaviside. This gentleman was an eminent surgeon,
and a gentlemanly, facetious, and agreeable compan
ion. He was originally in the Guards, and practiced
in London many years with great credit and respecta
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  39

bility. He was fond of science, and expended consid
erable sums in the formation of an interesting museum.
In the earlier part of his life he gave conversaziones,
which were attended by great numbers both of the

scientific and fashionable.

   He lived in a day when, if a gentleman felt himself

insulted, he had at least the satisfaction of being re
lieved from his sensibility, by having his brains blown

out in a duel --professionally speaking, by a kind of

" operative surgery," viz., the demolition of the organ
in which the troublesome faculty resided. Mr. Heavi-
side, in his professional capacity, is said to have at
tended more duels than any other surgeon of his time.
This gentleman, albeit not unused to one kind of con
test, retired from that at the hospital, which then lay
between Mr. Jones and Mr. Abernethy, the former poll
ing twenty-nine, the latter fifty-three votes.

    This was an important epoch in the life of Aber

nethy. It is difficult to adjust the influence which it

ultimately exerted for good or evil on his future pros
pects and happiness, or on his relations to science.
The hospital, by this step, secured a man of extraor
dinary talent, it is true, and in spite of a system which
indefinitely narrows the field of choice ; still, for no
less a term than twenty-eight years, the "system"
(which we shall by-and-by describe) kept Abernethy,
as regards the hospital, in a position which, although
it did not exclude him altogether from the field of ob
servation it afforded, did much to restrict his cultiva

tion of it. His talents for observation, however, and

the estimation in which he was soon held, no doubt to

a certain extent, enabled him, notwithstanding, to
bring many of his views to the test of practice. Still,
 40 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 as an assistant surgeon, except in the absence of his
 chief, he had officially nothing to do; whatever cases
 he conducted were only by sufferance of his senior.

    This, for a man of his ability, was a false and mis
 erably cramped position ; one, in fact, much better
 calculated for detecting faults than for developing the
 best mode of correcting them. As assistant surgeon,

 he had no emolument from the hospital ; he had, there
fore, a very reasonable inducement to set about doing
that for which he felt himself calculated, and to which

he had early directed his attention -- namely, to teach

his profession. The event showed that he had by no
means miscalculated his powers. These proved well-
nigh unrivaled. The appointment to St. Bartholo
mew's, besides other advantages, gave him an oppor
tunity of lecturing with the prestige usually afforded
by connection with a large hospital. He did not,
however, give lectures at the hospital at first, but de
livered them in Bartholomew Close.

    There was at this time, in fact, no school, properly
so called, at St. Bartholomew's. Mr. Pott gave about
twenty-four lectures, which, as short practical dis
courses, were first-rate for that period. But there

were no other lectures, not even on anatomy, which
are essentially the basis of a medical school.

    Dr. Marshall, who was a very remarkable man, and

no less eminent for his general ability than for his
professional acquirements, at this time was giving an
atomical lectures at his house in Bartlett's Buildings,
Holborn. In a biographical notice of him in the " Gen
tleman's Magazine," in which we read that he was
giving lectures about the year 1787, it is incidentally

remarked that, "in all probability, he derived little sup
                  MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                   41

port from St. Bartholomew's Hospital, for that recent

ly an ingenious young gentleman, Mr. Abernethy, had

begun to give lectures in that neighborhood."

Abernethy, who seems to have been always seeking

information, certainly attended some of Marshall's lec

tures, because he would occasionally refer to anecdotes

he had heard there. He had thus attended most of

the best lecturers of his day-- Sir William Blizard,

Dr. Maclaurin, Mr. Pott, and Dr. Marshall. To the ex

perience which he had thus acquired, and with the

early intention of applying     it,

                                                        a
                                                                       a
                                he added remarkably

natural capacity for communicating his ideas to others.

We thus begin to see the means by which, as lec

turer, he attained so early, as we shall see he did, an

excellence in that mode of instruction.

We allude to this feature in his education, because

by-and-by will, with other things, assist us in a rath
              it

                           :
er difficult task we mean that of analyzing the means

by which he obtained such a power over his audience.

He thus became a teacher at the age of twenty-three,

at large hospital where he was about to commence
a
          a.
school, of which he would be at first the sole sup

port. This necessarily involved fearful amount of
                                 a
                                                is

                                                             it
labor for an organization active and energetic, but by

no means of great physical power.

Labor, to be sure, the stuff that life made of;
              a
                            is
but then, in fine organization like Abernethy's,

should be directed with economy of power, and in ap

plication to the highest purposes. Such an organiza

tion should,  if  possible, have been relieved from the

drudgery which lies within the sphere of more ordina

ry capacity. Ready as we are, then, to congratulate

the young philosopher, about to display his powers on
 42 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 a field where he was so successful, still misgivings
 creep in which restrain, or at least moderate our en
 thusiasm. Unusual ability, no doubt, allows men to
 anticipate the order which, as the rule, Nature seems
 to have assigned to the pursuits of intellect. Still, we
 must not suffer ourselves to be blinded to the rule by
the frequency of the exception. Youth is the time for
acquiring knowledge ; and although there is no reason
why the fruits may not be imparted to others as fast
as they are gathered, still, when the larger space of a
man's time at twenty-three is devoted to teaching
merely, it may be reasonably doubted whether it be

such a disposition of it as is best calculated to econo
mize his power, or develop the maximum of its influ
ence in extending the science to which it is devoted.

    John Hunter declined undertaking to teach anatomy
at forty (1768), because it would have " engaged his
attention too much to admit of that general attention
to his profession, to forming habits and established
modes of thinking, which he thought necessary." In
Abernethy's after life we think we saw a good deal of
the wear and tear that early and diversified labor had
impressed on his physical organization. In advancing

life, the natural desire for ease, if not carefully guard

ed, may not be without its perils ; but precocious labor,
stinted rest, and the malaria of large cities, crowded

hospitals, and filthy dissecting-rooms, too certainly bring
on a train of evils not less grave because more distant.

    We mention these points now. We shall have to
return to them when, in conclusion, we consider the

variety and importance of his contributions to the sci
ence of his profession, and why they were not still more
numerous. The latter, though sometimes the less grate
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  43

ful, is not seldom the more useful portion of biograph

ical analysis.

    Commencing his lectures in Bartholomew Close, they
soon seem to have attracted notice. His anatomical

lectures, which were always on a similar plan, were
very skillfully framed to interest and instruct the stu
dents. The arrangement of his matter was such, that

the dry details of anatomy were lighted up by a de
scription not only of the purposes served by the various
parts, but by as much as could be conveniently in
cluded of the diseases or accidents to which they were
subject, and this juxtaposition of the structure, func
tion, and diseases naturally tended to impress the whole.

    Diseases of more general site, and which did not,
therefore, fall conveniently under discussion in describ

ing any one part, were reserved for a separate course

of lectures. It was in this course that he more fully

developed those general principles on which his reputa
tion more especially rests. Of his inimitable manner

we shall speak hereafter.

    He was one of the first who insisted on the great

importance of Comparative Anatomy in studying the

uses of the various parts of the human body. Were it

not for the comparison of the relations of various parts

in different animals, we should be continually the vic
tims of hypotheses which the juxtaposition or other
characters of organs in any one animal are constantly

suggesting. Here necessity compels the observance
of that rule in inductive philosophy which seeks not
 for the true relation of any one thing in itself, but from
universal*, from uses and applications which are com

 mon to other things. In one case nature makes that
 luminously clear which is only dimly shadowed forth in
44 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

another; and in seeing organs under every conceivable
variety of circumstance, we learn to estimate at their
full value characteristics which are common and insep

arable from all--the only point whence we can securely

deduce their real uses in the animal economy. Of this

Abernethy early inculcated the advantages.
   As it was impossible to combine any thing like a

comprehensive study of a vast science in the same
course with lectures on human Anatomy, he was ac
customed, at the conclusion of the course, to devote a
lecture or two to select illustrations of this very im
portant subject. This he ultimately relinquished, the
universal admission of the fact rendering it no longer

necessary.

   We shall have occasion, by-and-by, to record the cir
cumstances under which one of the most important
steps was taken for securing the interests of Compara
tive Anatomy in this country ; arrangements in a great
degree owing to the good sense and personal influence
of Abernethy, and exemplifying in the admirable fit
ness of the individual* the penetrative perception of
character which distinguished his early preceptor in

Anatomy.
   We have little doubt that we have now entered on

the most laborious part of Abernethy's life, and that
during this and some succeeding years his exertions
were so great and continued, that he laid the founda
tion of those ailments which at a comparatively early
period of life began to imbitter its enjoyment, and
stcewed the onward path with the elements of decay
and suffering.

   He lectured himself on anatomy, physiology, and

                                       * Professor Owen.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  4.5

pathology, besides surgery, subjects which are now
usually divided between three or four teachers. There
is abundant evidence that he was an attentive observer
of what was going on in the hospital. He was assidu
ous in visiting most places where any information was
to be obtained. We find him attending Mr. Hunter's

lectures, and constantly meditating on what he heard

there, thus seeking opportunities of making himself
more and more familiar with those opinions, which in

his view, on most of the points to which they related,

were definite--cautiously deduced --not always clear,

but, when understood, truthful.

   He endeavored further to mature an accurate per
ception of Mr. Hunter's views by seeking private con
ferences with him, and Hunter kindly afforded him fa
cilities for so doing. We have Abernethy's own ac
knowledgment of this, coupled with his regret that he
could not more frequently avail himself of them. In
deed, when we consider that Abernethy lived at this
time in St. Mary Axe, or in Mildred's Court in the Poul

Itry, that he was lecturing on the sciences have men

tioned, that he was observant of cases at the hospital
(a very timeful occupation), and consider the distance
between these points and Mr. Hunter's residence in
Leicester Square, or his school in Windmill Street, we

see there could not be much time to spare. It was

not, however, merely during the time at which he was
delivering his lectures that he was thus actively em
ployed. We have not unfrequently evidence that he
was often at the hospital late in the day in the most
leisure season in the year, when perhaps his senior had,
during his absence in the summer, confided the pa
tients to his care.
46 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    We used to get occasionally such passages as these

in the lectures: "One summer evening as I was cross

ing the square of the hospital, a student came running
to me," &c. Very significant of continued attention
during the summer of leisure season, he not being, be
it remembered, other than an assistant surgeon, and
not, therefore, necessarily having duties at the hospital.

   At this period it was a common practice with him
to rise as early as four in the morning. He would

sometimes go away into the country, that he might
read more free from interruption. He also instituted
various experiments, some of which we shall have

shortly to notice for the philosophical spirit by which
they were conducted. His visit to France must have
been made about this time, when the celebrated Des-
sault was at the height of his reputation. His stay
could not have been long, in all probability; but we
have evidence showing how quickly he perceived, amid
the success of Dessault, the more important defects of

the hospital -- the Hotel Dieu -- to which he was chi-

rurgien-en-chef, and the influence exerted by them on
his practice.

    As we shall be obliged again to mention Dessault in
connection with a material item in the catalogue of

our obligations to Abernethy, we postpone for the pres
ent any further remarks on that distinguished French

surgeon.
    Abernethy now continued actively engaged in the

study and teaching of his profession. The most re
markable circumstance at this time of his life, and for

several years, was his peculiar diffidence-- an uncon

querable shyness, a difficulty in commanding at pleas
ure that self-possession which was necessary to open
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

his lecture. Every thing connected with his lectures

is of importance to those who may be called to lecture,

or to those who may desire to learn. No man has at

tained excellence more varied or attractive, yet many

years elapsed before he had overcome the difficulty to

which I have alluded.

An old student, who attended his lectures not ear

lier than 1795, told me that he recollected several oc

casions on which, before beginning the lecture, he had

left the theatre for a time, to collect himself sufficient

ly to begin his discourse. On these occasions a tumult

of applause seemed only to increase the difficulty.

The lecture once commenced, I have no evidence of

his having exhibited further embarrassment. He seems

early to have attained that happy manner, which,

though no doubt greatly aided by his peculiar, and, in

some sense, dramatic talent, we shall by-and-by see

reason to believe had been carefully cultivated by

study and observation.

His lectures continued to attract a larger and larger

class, so that it became difficult to find the required

accommodation for them. The governors of the hos

pital, therefore, in 1790, determined on building a reg

ular theatre within the hospital. It was finished in

1791, and Abernethy gave his October courses of anat

omy, physiology, and surgery of that year in the new
theatre. He had thus become the founder of the School

of St. Batholomew's, which, for the approaches it made

toward giving a more scientific phase to the practice

of surgery, was certainly superior to any other.  »

In expressing this opinion, we except, of course,

John Hunter's lectures, for the short time that they

were contemporaneous with those of Mr. Abernethy ;
4S MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

John Hunter dying, as we have said, in 1793. As St.
Bartholomew's Hospital was our own Alma Mater, we
may perhaps speak with a fallible partiality, but we
think not. We are far from being blind to the faults
which Bartholomew's has, in common with other
schools, and, we believe, regret, as much as any body
can do, that the arrangements at our hospitals, excel
lent as in many respects they are, still should so de
fectively supply many of the requisitions which the
interests of science demand. These defects we shall
endeavor to point out in their proper place. We shall
now leave the subject of Mr. Abernethy and his lec
tures, and begin to consider some of his earlier efforts
at authorship, sketch the objects he had in view, and
the mode of investigation.

                        CHAPTER VI.

                  All things are but altered, nothing dies,
                    And here or there the unbodied spirit flies.

                                                                                  Dryden.

    The most universal character impressed on all cre
ated things that sense allows us to recognize, or phil
osophical inquiry to demonstrate, is " change."

    While nothing is more certain, few things pass less
observed, or when first announced, more stagger con
viction.

    An old man sees the yew-tree of his boyish days
apparently the same. Gilpin tells us eight hundred
years is " no great age for an oak !"*

    The cliff, though "beetling," seems to beetle still;

                                  * "Forest Scenery."
           MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.   49

mountains appear to be everlasting ; yet, were seas

and rivers to disclose even a small part of their mission,

the Danube or the Volga might tell of millions of tons

of soil carried from higher levels to the Black Sea and

the Caspian. Animals, too, are mighty agents in re

cording the mutability of the matter of the universe.

Cora lreefs, never spoken of in smaller terms than miles

and fathoms, are the vast ocean structures of countless

millions of animalcules, which serve, as it were, to link

together the two great kingdoms of organic nature--

the animal and vegetable creation. The microscopic

geologist informs us of whole strata well-nigh entirely

composed of the silicified skeletons of insects. Sir

Charles Lyell further impresses on us the reality of
continual change by referring (and, as it would ap

pear, with increasing probability) even the stupendous

changes deduced by geology to the agency of causes

still in operation.

Animals, however, besides the curious structures

which they combine to contribute, are individually un

dergoing   constant   change.       Man is not only no excep
tion, but             glaring"     example.
           he is a "

    The whole human race are in hourly progress of
mutation. In the midst of life we are in death, is a

truth to which physiology yields its tribute of testimo

ny. Every moment we are having the old particles

of our bodies silently taken away, and new materials

as silently laid down. Surrounding agencies, which

during life are necessary to existence, the moment the

breath leaves us, proceed to resolve the body into the

elements into which it was composed. In all cases
change many be regarded as the combined result of

two forces--the force acting, and the body aoted on--

                                C
60 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

that is to say, of certain external agents, and certain

forces inherent in the thing changed.
   Animals are no exceptions to this view, and diseases

are among a multitude of other exemplifications of it;
but, in order to distinguish these more clearly, it is de
sirable that we should be familiar with those more

ordinary changes in the body which are constantly go

ing on, and to some of these were Abernethy's early

investigations directed.

   In proceeding to give some account of his works,

we must be necessarily more brief than a scientific
analysis would require.

    To do him full justice, it would be necessary to re
publish his writings with appropriate commentaries.
We shall hope, however, to do enough to relieve his
memory from some of the numerous misconceptions of
his principles and opinions, and to endeavor to show
his claims to the respect and gratitude of posterity.

   In every thing Abernethy did we find evidence of

the acuteness of his mind, and his general qualifica
tions for philosophical research.

    His lectures had gradually attracted an increasing
number of students ; and he seems, about 1791, to
have been desirous of prefacing his lectures on Anat
omy by discussing the general composition of animal

matter.

     The rapid advance of chemistry had given a great
impetus to this kind of investigation. Abernethy was
not only well up in the chemistry of the day, but also

not unskilled in the manipulatory application of it;

 and he felt interested in the great diversity of sub
stances that appeared to be made up of similar ele
ments. Boyle has recorded a vast number of faots,
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  51

many of which would even now well repay the study
ing ; and Fordyce was certainly one of our most phil

osophical physicians.
    Boyle had grown vegetables in water and air only,

and found they produced woody fibre. Fordyce found
that gold fish placed under similar conditions not only
lived, but grew. Abernethy's experiments had for
their object to inquire how far organized bodies (ani
mals and vegetables) were capable of deriving their
various structures from similar simple elements.

   He grew vegetables on flannel wetted from time to
time with distilled water, and then analyzing them,
compared the results with those of the analysis of veg

etables grown in the ordinary manner.
    Other curious experiments consisted in pouring con

centrated acids on vegetable structures, with a view
to dissolve any alkali or iron which they might contain,
and then analyzing the vegetables so treated.

    He now found in the burned vegetable, lime, iron,

&c., which, had they been free to combine, should have
been taken up by the acid to which he had subjected
the vegetable before he analyzed it; but he found nei
ther in the acid, while both were discovered in the veg

etable.

    He also inquired whether tadpoles and leeches would
live when kept only in distilled water with the admis
sion of air. For example, he placed twelve leeches in
two gallons of distilled water. They weighed, in all,
twelve scruples. In three months two had died, but

the remaining ten weighed twelve scruples, showing
that they had grown. He next inquired whether veg
etables grown in air and distilled water would admit
of further conversion into the structure of animals, and
52 MEMOIRS OF ABKRNETHY.

for this purpose he fed rabbits on vegetables so reared.
His rabbits appear to have eaten about six plates at a
meal of young cabbages thus reared on flannel wetted
with distilled water.

   He also experimented on eggs both before and at the
time of incubation.

    He wished to ascertain the quantity of lime in the
chicken and the egg respectively, and whether any of
the lime was absorbed from the shell, which it appear

ed not to be.

   It is curious to observe the time and labor he gave

to these experiments ; they evince a very perfect knowl
edge of the chemistry necessary ; and the circumstan
ces calculated to interfere with or obscure the conclu

sions from them are judiciously stated.
    Many of his remarks exemplify the caution with

which he reasoned, and they are interspersed with in
genious suggestions. In speaking of his experiments
on leeches and tadpoles, many of which latter had be
come perfectly developed frogs, he says, " The experi

ments which I made on this plan (in vessels of distill

ed water covered with linen) were made in the sum
mer, when to prevent vegetation was impossible; and,
on the other hand, when the vessels were covered over,
even leeches died. In the winter vegetation might
cease, but then the torpid state of the animals would
render the experiments inconclusive."

    He reduced an equal number of eggs and chickens
(at the time of incubation) to ashes, sometimes in
crucibles, sometimes in retorts. On the ashes he

poured some distilled water, and ascertained the salts

(as lime, &c.) contained in them. In some experi

ments the quantity of these found in the ashes of the
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  53

chickens greatly exceeded that found in the ashes of
the eggs. In other experiments the quantities were

equal.

   In some of his experiments, after using the best

chemical tests for detecting iron, lime, salt, and then
washing the residue with distilled water, he burned it
in a crucible, and found more lime and iron ; on which

he makes the following remarks, which suggest what
we apprehend, even at this time, is a very necessary
caution :

   " This circumstance proves to me that the substan

ces found in the ashes of burned animal matter do not

formally exist in the mass before its destruction, but
are only new distributions of the same ultimate parti
cles which, under their former mode of arrangement,
made the animal substance, but which being driven,
as under, by the repulsive power of fire, are left at lib

erty to form other modifications of matter." --Page 97.
Just what happens in the formation of ammonia, when

animal matter is burned, by the union of the nitrogen

and hydrogen gases then set free.
    He investigated also the question of how far the re

sults of the decomposition of animal matter would be

identical if the analyses were conducted by heat or by
putrefactive decomposition. In this experiment he se

lected blood, and he found that blood which had been

allowed to putrefy yielded a much larger quantity of
iron and lime.

    The whole of the experiments are very suggestive,
full of thought, and of extensive views of the relations
of organic with inorganic matter. He concludes by
observing that he had undertaken these experiments
for the reasons already assigned, and because he had
54 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

imbibed the idea that the ultimate particles of matter

were the same.
   He remarks that the progress of chemistry had not

been applied, in every respect, to the best purpose ; that
men's views were becoming contracted by being di
rected to individual objects; and that they had ceased
to contemplate the beautiful and extensive prospect of
matter and its combinations ; and he complains that
even Fourcroi, Lavoisier, and Chaptal either avoid the
subject, or do not sufficiently consider it. We must
recollect this was said before Sir H. Davy had made
his splendid discoveries. Abernethy, after observing

that he hopes his experiments will induce others to in

"Ivestigate the subject, concludes thus:
          know not any thought that, on contemplation,
can so delight the mind with admiration of the sim
plicity and power evident in the operations of the Cre
ator, as the consideration that, by different arrange
ment and motion of similar atoms, He has produced
that variety of substances found in the world, and
which are so conducive to the wants and gratification
of the creatures who inhabit it."

                                   SECTION I.

                                                       Mors sola fatetur
                       Quantula sint hominum corpusoula. -- Jov.

    Among a multitude of examples, which teach us how
little we can infer the importance of any thing in na
ture from its size or other impression which it may con
vey to mere sense, we might adduce the wonderful little
tubes, certain relations of which were the objects of
this paper. Those constant mutations in animal bod
ies, which are every moment in progress, are in great
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  55

part due to a very curious order of vessels of such ex
treme minuteness and tenuity, that, being in the dead
animal usually empty and transparent, they are very
commonly invisible, and thus long eluded discovery.
There is one situation, however, in which circumstances

combine to expose them to observation. Transparent
though they be, they are here rendered visible, first by
being loaded with a milk-like fluid, and secondly by
running along between the folds of a beautifully trans
parent membrane (the mesentery). This fluid they
have just taken up from the digestive surfaces on which
their mouths open, and they are now carrying it off to
pour it into the blood-vessels, that it may be added to
the general stock of the circulation.

   In the situation above mentioned they were at length
discovered about the commencement of the seventeenth

century. Every thing destined to support the body
with new material, as well as the old, which is to be

taken away, must first be sucked up by the myriads
of inconceivably minute mouths of these vessels, which,
from their office, are called the absorbents. These ab

sorbents may therefore be regarded as the sentinels of

the body. They are very sensitive and excitable; but,
beside this, they have in the course of their journey
from the surfaces whence they bring their contents,
and the blood-vessels to which they are carrying them,
a number of douaniers, or custom-house officers (the
glands or kernels, as they are popularly called), where
by, as we have every reason to believe, the fluids they
are importing are subjected to rigid examination, and

if found to be injurious, to some modification, tending

to render them more fit for admission into the system.

  If the contents are very irritating, these vigilant
50 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETIIY.         if,    if
                                     it
guards --these kernels -- become very painfully affect
;
ed, and sometimes inflammation is set up, sufficient
    iteven to destroy the part, as faithful to their trust,
they perished themselves rather than give entrance to
                               a
any thing injurious to the body.
it We should never advance, however, in our story,

           iswe were to tell all the interesting peculiarities of these
                 a
curious vessels.
it
    When first discovered, and the office assigned to them

could no longer be disputed, the general distribution
of them was still doubted. As was usual to render
them visible by filling them with quicksilver, so, with
a kind of reasoning which has too often characterized
mere anatomical research, when they could not be made

visible, became the fashion to doubt their existence.

Among other structures formerly, Bone was one in
which people found difficulty. How could such del
icate vessels exist in such an apparently dense struc
ture but Mr. Abernethy who had always opposed mere
eye-reasoning, used to observe, with equal simplicity
and good sense, that, for his part, he could see no more
difficulty in an absorbent taking up a particle of bone,
than he would in comprehending how a vessel could
lay down, which nobody doubted. We now know
that bone not only supplied with all the vessels which
characterize living structure, but so liberally, that, in
comparison with some other structures of the body, we
regard as a part of high organization.

    Nevertheless, the extreme minuteness and transpar
ency of these vessels conferred a great interest, in ob
taining any magnified view of them, such as that af
forded in larger animals. In the paper before us,
which was published in the "Philosophical Transac
MKMOIRS OF ABERXETHY.  57

tions" for 1793, Mr. Abernethy gives the account of his
examination of the absorbents as a whole, and his ob

ject was to help to determine a question long agitated,
whether the glands or kernels were composed of cells,
or whether they were merely multiplied convolutions
of vessels. He selected the absorbents from the sit

uation to which I have already referred. He threw

into the arteries which carry blood to nourish the gland
a red solution containing wax, which of course became
solid on cooling; and into the veins which return the
blood from all parts a similar solution, only colored
yellow. He filled the absorbents with quicksilver.

   He found, in filling the absorbents, that wherever
the quicksilver arrived at a gland, there was a hesita

tion --its course became retarded, and that this retard

ation was longest at those glands which were nearest
the source whence the vessels had drawn their con

tents, viz., the alimentary canal; as if the surfaces

over which the fluid had to pass were more multiplied
where most necessary, or, recurring to our metaphor,

as if the more strict douanier had been placed on the
frontier. He says that he found that some of the ab

sorbents went over the glands, while others penetrated

these bodies ; that he found that the melted wax which

he had thrown into the vessels had formed round nod
ules of various sizes. He then extended his examin
ation of these vessels to those of horses and other large

animals, and the result of his investigation was, that
it inclined him to the conclusion that the glands were
not merely made of convolutions of vessels, but a real
ly cellular structure.

    The paper is very modestly put forth, and he con
cludes it by observing that he offers it merely for the

                                     C2
58 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

facts which it contains, and not as justifying any final
conclusion; but, "as all our knowledge of the absorb

ents seems to have been acquired by fragments, I am

anxious to add my mite to our general stock of in
formation on the subject."

   It may not be uninteresting to some unprofessional

readers to know that the glands here alluded to are the
organs which are so seriously diseased in those lament-

Itable conditions, popularly expressed, believe, by the

term mesenteric disease, or disease of the mesentery.

                                  SECTION II.
 CURIOUS CASES PUBLISHED IN THE " PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS,"

                                                                1793.

                                                  " The Universal Cause
            Acts to one end, but acts by various laws." -- Pope.

   However paradoxical it may appear, it is not the
less true, that nothing more teachingly impresses the
inquirer into nature with the actual presence of gen
eral laws than the apparent exceptions to them. Fi
nite capacities, in dealing with the Infinite, must, of
course, encounter multitudes of facts, the meaning of

which they can not interpret --portions of the Divine

government, as Butler has said, which they do not as
yet understand.

    In philosophical investigations they are properly re
garded as facts which, in the present state of knowl
edge, can not be made to fall under any of our very
limited generalizations.

   At one period, departures from the ordinary struct
ure or form in animals were simply regarded as unin

telligible abstractions, and no more philosophical ex

pression was given to them than " Lusus Naturae" --
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  59

sports of nature. Progressing science, however, has
thrown considerable light on such phenomena, and in
vested many of them with a new interest.

    Physiologists have not arrived at the explanation of
all such facts, but much has been done by comparative
anatomy to show that many of them are merely arrests
of development, and cases of interference with the or

dinary law.
    That, in fact, they show the mutual harmony and

connection of the laws of nature to be such that the

development of any one law implies the concurrence,

so to speak, of some other, just as the successful incu
bation of an egg, or any other familiar fact, implies the
presence of certain conditions. We can not boil a drop
of water without the concurrence of various laws ; we

say it boils ordinarily at 212° of Fahrenheit ; but how
many conditions this involves !

   Until understood, how few could have guessed that
mechanical pressure could have so modified the de
gree of heat necessary as to exalt it to more than
double or reduce it to less than half; and again, how
few would have looked for the force which, under com

mon circumstances, governed the point at which water
was thus converted into steam in the pressure of the
atmosphere ; yet so mutually influential are these con

ditions --namely, heat and a certain pressure in modi
fying this change of form or matter -- that some of Far

aday's most interesting results in experimental chem
istry (we allude to his reducing several gaseous bodies
to the liquid form) were obtained by abstracting heat
and increasing pressure.

   It is of very great consequence to remember these

interferences in regard to disease, because most dis
60 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

eases may be regarded     as   examples.    Regarded as
                          are  necessarily  unintelligible
" abstract wholes," they

entities ; but when looked at as natural processes ob
scured by interferences, they either at once become in

telligible, or, at least, as open to investigation as any

other facts are in natural philosophy.
   When we investigate the laws of nature with a view

to the development of the sublime objects of natural

theology, the concurrence of the various conditions nec

essary to the most ordinary phenomenon inclose the

most irresistible proofs from natural evidence of the

Unity of the Creator.

Regarded in the light of facts which we may not be

able to generalize, the cases here recorded by Aber-

nethy are very interesting, although we much regret

that both cases were bodies brought in for dissection,

in times when the circumstances baffled, if they did
not forbid, any inquiry into the histories of them. It

is lamentable to think of the state of the law with re

spect to Anatomy at that time.
   Any surgeon who was convicted of mala praxis, re

sulting from ignorance of Anatomy, was severely fined,

perhaps ruined ; and yet so entirely unprovided were
the profession with any legitimate means of studying

Anatomy, that they could only be obtained by a con

nivance at practices the most demoralizing and re

volting.

Bodies were, in fact, chiefly obtained by the nightly

maraudings of a set of men, who, uninfluenced alike

by the repulsions of instinct or the terrors of law, made

their living by the plunder of grave-yards.

Many a tale of horror, no doubt, might be told on

this subject.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  61

it, Graves were sometimes watched, and severe nightly
                  isconflicts took place with a deadly spirit, which it is not
difficult to imagine. We believe all this has now pass

ed away ; there is no necessity now for such revolting
horrors. The public began to think for themselves,
the real remedy for abuses. But to our cases. Both

were curious ; the one was the body of a boy, who did

not appear to have been imperfectly nourished, but in
whom the alimentary canal was found to be less than
one fourth of its natural length, and in which also the

relative length of its two grand divisions was reversed;

the smaller in diameter, being usually very much the
longest, was so much the shorter as to be only half the
length of the division of larger diameter.

    The other case presented a no less curious departure
from the usual plan than a reversed position of the
heart, which, instead of being placed with its apex on

the left side, was situated on the right. In the ordi

nary arrangement, there is a difference on the two sides

of the body in the manner in which the large vessels
are given off to supply the head and upper extremities.

These existed, but were reversed ; those usually found

on the right being now on the left side, and vice versa.

    The heart, however, would not be thus prevented

from pumping the blood to all parts as usual, but an
other very singular arrangement was found in relation
to the liver. To the unprofessional reader we should

observe, that usually, while all parts are made, or se
creted, as we term from the purer or arterial blood,
in the human body the Bile secreted from a vein

which enters the liver for that purpose.
   Now, in the case before us, this great vein never

entered the liver at all, so that in this instance the
62 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

Bile was separated, like other animal fluids, by the arte

ries ; in this case, the arteries going to the liver being

larger than usual.
   Mr. Abernethy examined the bile by submitting it

to various tests, and, comparing the results with those

obtained from ordinary bile, found them to be the

same. His remarks are, as usual, ingenious and to

the point, and very characteristic of the penetrative

perception   with which he seized on the proximate         and
practical   relations of facts. " When we see the          un
usual circumstance," says he, " of secretion taking

place from a vein,* we are apt to conclude that the

properties of such a secretion require that it should be

made from venous blood. But in this case we see that

bile could be prepared from arterial blood ; and we are

led, therefore, so far to modify our conclusion as to in

fer, not that venous blood is necessary but that it can

be made to answer the purpose."

We must not omit that these remarks are supported

by comparative anatomy. As we descend in the scale
of creation from the more complicated organizations to
those which are more simple in their structure or their

relations, the arrangement which I have stated as usual

in man no longer obtains, but the bile is secreted from

the arteries as the other fluids of the animal, showing,
in fact, that the inference drawn by Abernethy was

the legitimate conclusion.

Since the discovery of this case, one or two others

have been observed ; and the opinions of several emi

nent men in relation to the bearing such cases have on

the ordinary sources of bile, are described in Mr. Kier-

nan's interesting paper on the Anatomy and Physiology

* The ordinary plan in respect to bile in the human body.
             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  03

of the Liver, in the " Philosophical Transactions." It

is very interesting, particularly to a professional reader,
to peruse that discussion, in order to estimate Mr.
Abernethy's comparatively simple, ready, and, as it
would seem, correct view of the subject.

   One other thing we learn from these cases --the ex

treme importance of examining bodies while their his

tories and symptoms can be recorded. It might have

been highly useful to science had the histories of these

cases been known; and the circumstance should be

mentioned as, in some measure, tending to counter

balance in the public that not unnatural but (as re

gards their  real interest)   not less to be lamented aver
sion to the  inspection of
                             the dead --a branch only, it is

true, but a very important one of physiological inquiry.

It is the only means by which we can have the com

fort of knowing that, however unable we may have

been to arrest disease, we were at least right in the

seat we had assigned to it ; but it is infinitely more

valuable in disclosing to us affections of organs which

had given no sign, and in thus impressing on us the

necessity of taking a wider range in our investigations,

and comprehending in them all those injurious influ

 ences which have, at various periods, acted on the

body, for we thus obtain an insight into the nature of

'disease which no mere symptoms can ever afford us.
     The repulsions which the public have to overcome

 are admitted ; but let us not, in common justice, forget
 those sacrifices of time, labor, and too often of health
 also, which are made by the profession. Nor is it im
 material to mention that it is a service for which they
 seldom receive any remuneration, the usual incentive

 being one which, if it excite no sympathy, is at least
64 MEMOIRS OF ABERXETHY.

entitled to our respect, namely, the desire to improve

their knowledge of their profession. There is no doubt

of the deep and common interest which the public and

the profession have in this question, and it is from that

conviction that I have ventured on these few remarks.

Abernethy, when he introduced any subject in his lec

tures, was accustomed to say at once all that he in
Itended to remark on it.
                             beg, in the foregoing observ

ations, to follow his example, which I trust the reader

will accept as an apology for the digression.

             CHAPTER VII.

   Ii'art (de delicatesse) consiste a ne pas tout dire sur certains sujets,
a glisser dessus plutot que d'y appuyer ; en un mot, a en laisser pen-
ser aux autres plutot que Ton n'en dit. --Bouhours.

   One of the most beautiful poems in the English

language, perhaps, is Armstrong's "Art of Health."

Whether it be that the title is uninviting, or from

some other cause, I know not, but it is very little read ;

but scarcely any one who has read it has done so with

out pleasure. Besides containing many admirable and

valuable instructions, it shows how an ordinary, and,

to many, even a repulsive subject can be treated with

such discretion, taste, and even elegance, as to render

it pleasing and attractive.

Such a writer could have conveyed, even in prose,

explanations of disease, so as to interest and instruct

his readers. With no such power, we are almost in

clined to regret the impossibility of doing Abernethy

justice without saying something of nearly all his

works.  If,  however, in so doing, we make one more
          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                    . f£

step toward familiarizing the public with matters

which affect their best interests, we shall not regret

any labor which this, the most difficult part of our

task, may have required.

We usually connect pain with disease, and in our

"Ihaste are prone to imagine that pain is not only the
worst feature, but the only sign of it.              am very
Iwell, am in no pain whatever," is a common expres

sion, and yet a person may be irremediably stricken
without suffering any pain. Pain in fact, often the
                           it

                                            is,
                                                  a
best possible monitor, and has saved many thousands

of lives by the necessity  has imposed of observing

what      the best of all remedies in large class of
a
cases. Among hundreds of examples, we may cite vais

rious affections of joints, wherein pain alone has some

times secured that which surgeons were a long time
before they had learned the full advantage of, and

which, when they had been taught by Abernethy,
they have often failed with all their endeavors to ac
                           it

                               is
                                               by
complish, and which, singly considered, of more con

sequence than any other remedy --we mean "absolute

repose." There are plenty of diseases marked                       lit

tle or no pain, or which, at all events, are not painful,

but they are among the most fatal and insidious of

human maladies. Let us, for the sake of registering

one among the numerous improvements we owe to the

genius of Abernethy, mention one of them.

We have too many of us, dare say, observed some
                           I

                                                                a
thing like the following on the assembling of family

of morning; the usual greetings interchanged, and

that cheerful meal, breakfast, fairly begun, our atten

tion has been directed to some fine, comely, perhaps

beautiful girl, who, to the hilarious spirits of her laugh
66 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ing sisters, has contributed a somewhat languid smile
We may, perhaps, have remarked that she is a little
more spoken to by her mother than any other of the
family circle; we may, too, have observed a tone com
pounded of confidence and gentleness, somewhat dif
ferent from that addressed to her sisters. Still, though
less hilarious than the rest, she has chatted away with
considerable cheerfulness. But she has a languor in

her manner, which, but for the surrounding contrast,

might not have occurred to us. On rising from the
breakfast-table, we observe that her gait is peculiar.
She is not lame, but her step has something between
firmness and faltering, that seems to indicate more ef

fort or less power.

   Poor girl ! she is about to have, if she have it not

already, a stealthy and hitherto almost painless dis
ease; a stealthy, because it is so far a comparatively
painless malady. Deep in the loins there has been the

smouldering fire of disease, which is to result in what

is called "Lumbar abscess." This grievous malady,
which in many instances begins not less insidiously

than I have mentioned, is found, on inquiry, not to

have been wholly without some of those premonitory
signs with which the beneficent laws of the animal

economy almost invariably precede even the most in

sidious malady. Inquiry generally elicits that, how
ever little complained of, there has been at times more
or less of uneasiness or pain felt in the loins ; that it
has not been so much lately, but that it has become
less in force or frequency since the appearance of some
swelling, which may be in the loins, or some other

part lower or more or less distant.

   It is a malady very commonly connected with dis
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  67

eased spine, but frequently without any such compli
cation; and it is curious that Mr. Abernethy at first

met with as many as, I think, eight cases in succes

sion which were not complicated with any disease of
the spine. Under any circumstances, it is a serious
malady, and usually, when the collection bursts or is

opened, severe constitutional symptoms supervene,
which, though not without exceptions, gradually usher
in what Armstrong calls

                    " The slow minings of the hectic fire,"

and destroy the patient.

    Now Mr. Abernethy's plan was intended to prevent

this last and dreaded issue. The chief points of ex
cellence in his recommendations are, first, the emphatic

recognition of the constitutional origin and nature of
the malady ; secondly, the consequent necessity of a
greater attention to the general health of the patient ;

and, lastly, if it could not be dispersed, to relieve the

interior of its contents, so that its extensive surface

should never be exposed.

    The mode of proceeding was extremely simple, and
there is no doubt that a great many lives have been

saved by the practice thus recommended. But I have
heard that some surgeons think the merits of the plan

overrated, which I can only suppose explicable on the

ground that the plan has been imperfectly followed ;

and I am the more disposed to this view, because noth

ing can be more entirely opposed to Mr. Abernethy's
views and intentions than the treatment of many cases
said to have been treated after Mr. Abernethy's plan.

    As a considerable number of families have really a

painful interest in this question, I will, at the risk of

being a little professional, state what has occurred to
68 MEMOIRS OF ABERXETHY.

me on the subject, in explanation of the apparent dis

crepancy. My own experience obliges me to coincide
with those authorities on this subject who, approving

Mr. Abernethy's practice, adopted it. Among a host

of eminent men, I will mention only two, Sir Astley

Cooper, and a scarcely less eminent authority, Mr. Sam

uel Cooper, the laborious and distinguished author of
the " Surgical Dictionary," who observes that Mr.

Abernethy's plan deserves " infinite praise." Sir Ast

ley Cooper, too, in speaking of a very dangerous period
of the case, to which Mr. Abernethy's plan has an im

portant relation, says, " We should adopt the plan sug
gested by Mr. Abernethy, as it is the best ever invent

ed by any surgeon." The apparent discrepancy in the

results of experience of different surgeons is a matter

of degree, and admits of easy explanation.

The feature whence the disease derives its name is

merely a partial exposition of an exceedingly deranged

state of the whole economy, not unfrequently compli
cated with organic disease. Although Mr. Abernethy's

cases show that even these cases are not necessarily
fatal, still, in general, such will, sooner or later, ter

minate unfavorably under any treatment; but in many

others, the explanation which I first suggested is a

satisfactory solution of the failure. In some, the lo

cal relief has been by no means conducted with the

observance of those conditions which Mr. Abernethy
has enjoined; in others, there has not been any rea

sonable approximation to that careful attention to the

general health which is the necessary basis of the plan.

Another point which has, in some cases, impeded the

adoption of the practice, is the increased responsibility
Ifit seems to involve.
                        a surgeon is to be mistrusted,
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  (59

 and charged with either, the "laisser mourir" is less
 injurious to him than the "tuer." What we mean is
 this: Every thing sometimes is going on well until the

opening of the deposited fluid. If it be left to open by

 the ordinary processes of nature, the subsequent symp
 toms are ascribed to the usual course of the disease;

but if the surgeon has interfered, and, from any cir

 cumstance whatever, the opening does not heal, or

 bursts soon after from some slight accident (which has
 now and then happened), the surgeon is blamed. The

 only remedy for this is to impress the necessary cau

tion--repose of the part, and so forth.

     There is, however, a third point of great practical
consequence on which Mr. Abernethy has been mis

understood --I allude to the local condition under which

the puncture should be made. When, notwithstand
ing our persevering observance of all measures calcu
lated to repress the diseased actions, or to procure the
absorption of the deposited fluid, we perceive it to be

 increasing or approaching the surface, then, before any
inflammation of the skin has taken place, it should be

discharged.

   In many cases, this opening has been delayed until

the skin has become inflamed or much attenuated.
Now this risks the accomplishment of an object which

it is a material point with Mr. Abernethy to secure,
namely, the immediate healing of the puncture.

    On this point, even so good an authority as Sir Ast-

ley Cooper has given a misdirection. "Let the ab
scess proceed," says Sir Astley, " until you observe a

blush or redness on the skin, and then adopt Mr. Aber-
nethy's plan." Now this direction does not absolutely
prohibit the opening of the cyst with the object which
70 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY. *

Mr. Abernethy had in view, but, as before stated, it

deprives us of one desirable condition. To settle this
point, we quote Mr. Abernethy's own words. In dis

cussing the point of time at which the opening should

be made, he asks, "Are we to wait until evident signs

of inflammation appear? I think not." Accordingly,

in a case where the surface had become red, we find

he took care to avoid opening it at that part, because
it risked the security of at once healing the puncture.

it

    is ;

                it

                         is,
                                                                            is
The truth that the whole of the plan most val

uable, but must be carefully followed in its integ

rity and that this may be done, the principles on which

founded must be constantly kept in view. These

are: the improvement of the general health with the

view of arresting the action of disease and producing

the absorption of the morbid secretion; this failing, to

puncture the abscess, so as to secure the evacuation

of its contents without the admission of air, and on

conditions calculated to insure the healing of the

wound then to favor the approximation of the sides
it ;
                        it

                             it
of the cavity by relieving of its contents, by punc

turing anew before  shall have become so much

distended.

   Another misapprehension has arisen with regard tois
Mr. Abernethy's object in excluding air, and unnec
essary pains have been taken to show that the pres

ence of air not injurious to living surfaces. It was

not from any apprehension of this kind that he was
anxious to exclude the air, but from the tendency that

the presence of air had to favor the putrefactive de
composition of the new secretion. We must not omit

to mention the origin of this beautiful paper, as                               it
highly characteristic of Abernethy's acuteness of ob
                                                                                    is
             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                      71

servation, and his promptitude in the practical appli
cation of it.

   A lumbar abscess had been opened by caustic, and

when the eschar partially separated, the cyst was part
ly emptied ; the sides of the cavity collapsing on the

imperfectly separated eschar, the opening was closed,
and none of the usual constitutional disturbance fol

lowed. When, however, the eschar, finally separating.
exposed the cyst, within twelve hours the usually dread
ed disturbance of the system supervened. Abernethy
took the hint thus disclosed to him, and produced the
improvement, the merits of which we have endeavored
to give a brief representation.

             CHAPTER VIII.

                             HIS ESSAY ON THE SKIN AND LUNGS.

  "It is madness and a contradiction to expect that things which

were never yet performed should be effected, except by means hith
erto untried." -- Bacon, Nov. Org., Aph. 6.

Tins simple and instructive aphorism, when we con

sider the object of the distinguished author in the im

mortal work whence it is taken, is highly suggestive

to those who are aware of the present state of medicine

and surgery, and who desire to see them become a def

inite science. Nor does it appear inappropriate to the

consideration of Abernethy's experimental inquiries into

the functions of the skin and lungs. An extended in

vestigation, of which this paper contains an excellent

a
                   is,
                                     a

                                                                     a
type, and    in part, practical application, would be

   great step toward the creation of real science, and

would certainly fall within the " means untried" of

Lord Bacon.
72 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    Although the latter part of the last century, and the
first half of the present, have been very remarkable for
the number of distinguished men who have flourished

during that period, in almost every branch of knowl
edge, yet neither the bar nor the senate, neither litera
ture nor any of the sciences, can boast of greater men,
nor lay claim to more positive improvement than Chem

istry.

  If we only consider that interval between the dis

covery of oxygen by Priestley in 1774, and the con
clusion of Sir Humphrey Davy's labors, Chemistry al
most seems like a new science; and it continues to
advance with such rapidity, and is daily opening out
so many new questions, that the most accomplished
chemist of one year is never sure how much he may
have to learn the next, nor, unless he reasons with great
caution, how much he may have to wwlearn.

   To a physiologist who requires assistance from all
branches of science, Chemistry must always be an in

teresting study. When we lay aside all speculations
as to what is the abstract nature of Life, and study

that which is the proper object of philosophy--that to
which it seems the faculties of man are limited --

namely, the laws in obedience to which the phenomena
in nature occur, and apply the knowledge thus obtained
to the occurrences which take place in the human
body, we soon discover that, whatever the abstraction

" Life" may be, we live proximately in virtue of certain

changes in various forms of matter, as food, air, the va
rious constituents of our bodies, &c, and that these con

sist of multiplied separations and re-arrangements of
their respective elements, which it is the special prov
ince of Chemistry to examine.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  73

  If we investigate the changes of the living or the

structure of the dead with these objects, we shall be in
no danger of abusing Chemistry to purposes to which
it is inapplicable. When, however, we proceed a step

further, and seek to give a chemical expression to va

rious uses and relations of different parts of the body,

the greatest caution is required.
   In the first place, in a machinery which is a prac

tical application of a great many sciences, it is to the

last degree improbable that they can be expressed by

any one.
    Again, to estimate the true meaning -- the physio

logical interpretation of many changes, which might be

in their proximate sense chemical -- a greater famili
arity with the phenomena of disease is necessary than
usually falls within the inquiries of the most scientific

chemist.
   To a person acquainted only with the ordinary phe

nomena of health, Chemistry is forever suggesting
tempting analogies, which are constantly tending to
mislead him to conclusions on insufficient data, and to

examine and rest too much on the chemical facts de-

ducible from one or other function, without sufficiently
attending to the physiological relations of that func
tion with all others.

   In fact, for want of due caution, or, it may be, of a
sufficient range of information, the assistance which
Chemistry has hitherto rendered to Physiology has
been attended with so many assumptions, that it is
extremely difficult to say on which side the balance
lies -- of advantage or error. We are aware that at
this moment there is a contrary feeling-- a kind of
furore for chemical solution of physiological phenom-

                                        D
74 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ena. We believe the caution we venture on suggest
ing was never more necessary.

    The discovery of oxygen gas by Priestley not only
gave a great impetus to chemical inquiries, but affect
ed Physiology in a very remarkable manner ; when it
was found that the more obvious phenomena of all
cases of ordinary burning, lamps, candles, and fires of
every kind, consisted of the chemical union of charcoal
and oxygen (carbonic acid), and again, when it was
discovered that animals in breathing somehow or other
produced a similar change, one may conceive how

Iready every one was to cry, " have found it ! The

heat of animals is nothing more than combustion !
We inhale oxygen ; we breathe out carbonic acid ; the
thing is plain. This is the cause of animal heat!"

   It has always struck us as a curious thing that

chemists should have attached such a dominant influ

ence in the production of heat in animals to the union

of carbon and oxygen, because nobody is necessarily
so familiar as they are with the fact that the evolution
of heat is not at all peculiar to the union of these bod
ies, but is a circumstance common to all changes of
every kind, in all forms of matter, there always being
either the absorption or the evolution of heat.

    There is no doubt that the analogy is very striking
between the changes which appear to be wrought in
respiration and those which take place in ordinary
combustion. A very little consideration shows that
the idea that respiration is the cause of animal heat,
or that it is due to any other change of oxygen, is no<
only an assumption, but in the highest degree doubt

ful. In the first place, the carbonic acid thrown out

when we expire is certainly not made by the imme
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  75

diate union of oxygen with charcoal expired ; secondly,
nothing is so clear that in respiration there is an im
mense quantity of heat thrown out of the body. But
as it is very desirable that the subject of this paper of
Abernethy's on the Skin and Lungs should be under
stood, we will give the reader a simple view of the
nature of these important organs ; and as one (func
tionally considered) is as much a breathing organ as
the other, we will say a few words first of the lungs.

   In all animals, the blood, or other fluid in which the

elements of nutrition are sent to all parts, is exposed
to the action of the air, and this is what we call breath

ing or respiration ; and the exposing of the blood to air
is so arranged that both fluids are in more or less rap
id motion. The staple constituents of the air, so to
speak, are about one fifth oxygen and four fifths nitro
gen gases, with about two parts perhaps in a thousand
of carbonic acid ; and although, as we too well know,
the air is occasionally polluted by many additions, yet,
whether we take air from the top of Mont Blanc or a
cellar in London, the staple principles of oxygen and
nitrogen have their proportions unchanged. The air
breathed by animals who live in the water is somewhat
differently constituted ; the proportion of oxygen is con
siderably greater, probably about as much as one third,
or thirty-two parts in one hundred ; so that fish breathe
a more highly oxygenated air than we do.

   Now it is found that when we inhale the air of the
atmosphere (that is to say, one fifth oxygen and four
fifths nitrogen), we expire some oxygen, some carbonic

acid, and some nitrogen also ; and to ascertain the act
ual changes which took place was the object of Aber

nethy's inquiry.
76 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    The subject is one of great interest to the public,
and, in justice to Abernethy, we should remark that
this essay was written more than half a century ago--

1793.

    Thousands die every year of affections of the lungs;

and many diseases of these organs, if not in their na

ture incurable, have too generally, in practice, proved
to be so. There are not wanting, however, many per
sons who ascribe these mournful results, not so much

to the abstract difficulty of the case, as to imperfect
and erroneous views of the functious and relations of

these important organs, and who entertain the opinion
that the investigation of the subject has been either
from preconceived notions, from a too limited view of
the phenomena, or from some other cause, so infelici-
tously conducted, that the conclusions arrived at have
been either merely assumptions, extremely doubtful,

or absolutely erroneous.

   It is sufficiently obvious, that if we are ignorant of

the use of any part of a machine, it must be the most
unlikely thing in the world that we should know how
to set about repairing it when it is out of order, and

the matter must be still worse if we should happen to

ascribe a use to it which is different or contrary to that

which it really fulfills. So, in an animal, if we are ig

norant of the use and relations of any organ, it is very
improbable that we can understand the nature of its
disorders, or treat them in any case successfully, except
by the merest accident, which, though it may waken
us up to a sense of our ignorance, leaves us so blind to
the causes of our success that we have no power of re

peating it.
   Now this is pretty much the actual state of affairs
MEMOIRS OK ABKRNKTHV.  77

in respect to diseases of the lungs. No investigation
of any organ is worth any thing, unless it include its

relations with other organs in the same machine.
   What should we ever learn by looking at the main

spring of a watch apart from the general maohinery
to which it belongs? Though we should look forever,
and employ a microscope to boot, it is clear we should
never arrive at the perception of its true relations.

   Abernethy's inquiry derived great interest from the
investigation of the skin by which it was preceded, and

which seems to have formed his primary object. A

few words on this wonderful organ may help the un
professional reader to form some estimate of its rela
tions and importance. As in all animals it is the sur

face in immediate contact with external influences --

the first which attracts our notice --^so it is of all oth

ers the first which presents to us the evidence of de
sign and adaptation. We tell the climate an animal
inhabits -with moderate certainty by looking at the

skin ; and if we occasionally meet with apparent ex

ceptions, further examination usually shows that they
exemplify the more strikingly the unity of plan. Thus

wo may find animals who inhabit hot regions furnish
ed with a somewhat warm covering of the skin, as the

tiger, for example ; but when we examine the eye,

and inquire into the habits of the animal, we find that

he preys or feeds at night, when the atmosphere is
charged with damp and cold.

    We know that the animals whence we obtain our

furs inhabit cold regions. The changes in the same
animal are not less instructive. Animals placed in

certain circumstances, in which they require greater
warmth, have increase of covering, and vice versa.
76 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

Again, the tendency to become white, in those inhab
iting cold regions, is a very interesting adaptation, al

though I am not aware that it has been satisfactorily

explained. Two things, however, are certain, that they
are placed in different circumstances as regards the
relation to heat, and would reflect great quantity of
light, which, in its intensity in snowy regions, might
be prejudicial, as there is no doubt of the influence of
this principle in animals. Again, it is a very common
arrangement that animals should take the color of the
ground they occupy ; and this is sometimes very curi

ously exemplified. I have observed in the common

hunting-spiders, which inhabit some palings in a gar
den in the country, that they are of different shades,
but they all more or less resemble that part of the
old paling on which they are found. Those which we
see on the ground are generally of some darker color.
Birds exemplify in a very remarkable manner the
adaptation of their external coverings to the requisi

tions which their habits establish. All animals may

be said to be surrounded by an atmosphere of their
own, and they are not, therefore, strictly speaking,
in contact with the atmosphere; but when they are
exposed to air in motion, this stratum is blown aside,
and the atmosphere is brought in contact with the
surface. Its refrigerating influence is now felt ; and
just as a boy cools his broth by blowing on
fresh stratum of cold air constantly brought to the

surface.

    This variously met in different animals; in the
healthy human subject, by increased activity of the ves
sels of the skin, which induces greater heat. Birds, in

their rapid flight, and especially in the more elevated
is
                               is
                                                                   it,
                                                                               a
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  79

regions of the atmosphere, are exposed to intensely re
frigerating influences. These are met by the surface
being clothed first by fine feathers, the worst of all con
ductors of heat, and these are overlapped where they
meet the atmosphere in such a way that the bad con
ducting property of the feathers is increased by the me
chanical arrangement of them. Again, the respiration
of birds, which, as we contend, is a refrigerating process,
is very restricted, although, for want of due considera
tion of all the circumstances, and especially of certain
analogies afforded by insects, very opposite views have

been entertained. Domestic animals (birds inclusive)
impressively suggest the refined adaptation of color
even, of the whole surface, to the altered position of the
individual. Nothing is more striking than the general
uniformity of color in wild animals, few things more
familiar than their infinitely varied hues when domes
ticated. Now it is certain that these differences have

a meaning, and that their relations are important ; but
when we extend these thoughts from the coverings of
animals to the consideration of surface whether of ani

mals or vegetables, what wonderful things occur to us.

Every variety of coloring which we observe in domestic
animals, every spot on an insect's wing, every penciling
on a flower, places the individual in a different relation,
so far, to light, heat, and other powerful agents in nature.

   Or, if we look from another point of view, we can

not walk by a hedgerow in summer without observ
ing how very small the differences of light and aspect
are, which seem, on the same soil, to confer on the same

Ispecies of flowers such numerous varieties of color.

have most frequently observed this in the common
crane's-bill, or wild geranium.
80 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

In order to estimate correctly the value of these sur

faces to the animal or vegetable, it is obviously of great

importance to us to know what they do, and, if they

give off any thing, to ascertain its nature. That either

animal or vegetable may be healthy, the processes of

nature, whatever they are, must be carried on ; and

we may be assured that the fragrance of the rose is

just as necessary an exhalation from the plant, as it is

an agreeable impression to us.

But all animals may be said to breathe quite as

much by their skin as by their lungs. Leaves, too,

are the breathing surfaces of vegetables ; and therefore,

to ascertain the facts in the one without inquiring into

those observable in the other, would be likely to fog

our reasoning and falsify our conclusions. The first

impression we obtain from all animals is from external

form and appearance --from, in fact, its outward cov
ering. It was the first organ to which Abernethy de

voted his most particular attention, and here again his

investigations show how little those knew of his mind

who imagined that his thoughts were restricted to any

one set of organs.              it,the skinin all ani
                                                    is,
   In whatever light we view                                  is

mals, a most important organ, and so much so as drolly
enough, with the exception of the human subject, to

have been long popularly familiar. Yet so imperfect

have been the investigations of its functions, that we

are at this moment chiefly indebted to the early ex

periments of Abernethy for what we know that pos

itive on the subject. The original experiments of

Sanctorius were quantitative, and, as general truths, of

sufficient importance to have excited more attention.

Cruikshank's were highly acceptable, but they were
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  81

less numerous and less varied than those of Abernethy,
while the labors of Edwards, though exhibiting great
industry and zeal, were by no means so conclusive as
those of Abernethy. Edwards's experiments served to
strengthen and confirm, by the analogy afforded by
other animals, conclusions drawn by Abernethy from
the more secure premises furnished by the observation
of corresponding functions in man.

    Mr. Abernethy's inquiry was first directed to ascer
tain what the skin actually gave off from the body,
and, secondly, what changes took place in the air
which we draw into the lungs (inspiration). We
will endeavor to give some idea of these experi

ments. They were very simple -- they involved no
cruelty like those of Edwards -- and they were many

of them such as the public might repeat without dif

ficulty.

   Very useful would it be if persons who have leisure

would sometimes engage in physiological inquiries.
They would find them to be extremely interesting,
and a series of facts would be easily collected, from

which the physiologist might obtain the most valuable

information, but which, engaged as most of them are
in applying physiology to the correction of disordered
functions, they can seldom collect for themselves, ex
cept in a few hours stolen from those occupied in an
arduous profession, and perhaps by the sacrifice of par
amount duties.

    Mr. Abernethy's experiments were very numerous,
and commenced in the summer of 1791 ; but the win

ter's cold obliging him to desist, they were renewed
in the spring of 1792. Having referred to the experi
ments of Ingenhous and Cruikshank, together with an

                                        D2
82 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

allusion to a paper (not then made public) by Lavoi
sier, he proceeds to describe his own.

Having a trough containing a large quantity of

quicksilver, he filled a glass jar (sufficiently capacious

to contain his hand and wrist) with that metal. He
inverted it into the trough in the usual way of pro

ceeding in collecting gases. He fixed the glass jar in

a sloping position, that he might introduce his hand

the more readily beneath the quicksilver. In this way,

whatever was given off from the skin of the hand, ris

ing through the quicksilver to the top of the glass, and

of course displacing a proportionate quantity of quick

silver, could be made the subject of analysis.
"IHe describes his first experiment as follows:
                                                 held

my hand ten minutes in the jar beneath the surface

of the quicksilver, and frequently moved it in that sit

uation, in order to detach any atmospheric air that

might accidentally adhere to and afterward intro
it
                                       it,
duced into the inverted jar. The quicksilver soon

acquired a degree of warmth which rendered      it  not

unpleasant. Minute air-bubbles ascended to the top

of the quicksilver more speedily in the beginning of

the experiment, more tardily toward the conclusion.

After an hour had elapsed withdrew my hand; the
bubbles of air which now appeared on the top of the
quicksilver were, suppose, in bulk equal to one scru
I
    I

          I

                               a
ple of water.                               half-ounce measure

   "In sixteen hours collected

of air, which makes fifteen grains the averaged prod

uct of an hour. No kind of moisture appeared on the

surface of the quicksilver. Some sucking-paper was

put up, which was withdrawn unmoistened. My hand
was always damp when taken out of the quicksilver.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHV.  83

Whatever aqueous perspiration was produced adhered

to its surface, while the aeriform ascended to the top

of the jar. To the air I had thus collected I threw up

lime-water,* when about two thirds of it were rapidly

absorbed ; to the remainder I added a bubble of nitrous

gas,t but could not discover any red fumes, nor any

diminution of the quantity. I repeated this experi

ment six times with similar, though not uniform re

sults. I believe it will be found that the air perspired

consists of carbonic gas, or fixed air, a little more than

two thirds; of nitrogenous gas, a little less than one

third. In one experiment the nitrogen made only one

fourth part of the air collected; in another I thought

it exceeded one third."

    He then made a series of experiments of the same
kind, but substituting water for the quicksilver, some
times heating himself previously by exercise. The re
sults of these were not materially different from those
in which he held his hand in quicksilver, but they are
less clear, because the carbonic acid gas given off

seemed absorbed by the water. In the next series of

experiments he held his hand and arm in atmospheric
air. In this case he found that, in addition to the
giving off of carbonic acid, a portion of the oxygen of
the air became absorbed. This is exactly what hap
pens in the lungs. Now, as the carbonic acid, when
given off, is in both cases accompanied by the disap
pearance of oxygen, and as carbonic acid is composed
of oxygen and carbon, it had been usually conceived

that the oxygen taken in contributed to form the car
bonic acid given off, and the idea is still entertained

very generally.

                        * The test for carbonic acid.
                      t A test for the presence of oxygen.
84 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

The experiments of Abernethy, however, presently

to be adverted to, in regard to the skin, and those of

Edwards long after, in regard to the lungs, satisfacto

rily prove, we think, that the carbonic acid is not at

all derived in the manner supposed.*

To test this matter, Mr. Abernethy confined his hand

and arm in various gases containing no oxygen, as

hydrogen, and then in nitrogen, but he found the car

bonic acid gas still given off as before. He then placed

his hand in a gas containing oxygen (nitrous oxide),
and lastly in oxygen itself, to see if it increased or

otherwise affected the elimination of carbonic acid,

but in neither of those experiments was the carbonic

acid thrown off increased, or in any way affected by it.

In a subsequent part of the paper, he remarks on

the idea that physiologists entertained of the carbonic

acid given off by the lungs being made by the oxygen

inspired ; but he says very justly that the quantity of

oxygen is too small for the formation of so much car

bonic acid gas as we find given out by those bodies,

and that his experiments on the skin clearly prove

that the exhaling vessels of the skin emit carbonic

acid in a state of complete formation, and then adds,

what it is difficult to estimate the merits of, without

recollecting that it was said half a  century   ago (and
before the experiments of Edwards),            doubtless,
                                      and, "

those of the lungs perform a similar office."

This is one of those bold, and, we believe, success

ful reasonings from analogy which were very character-

  *It is in this paper that he uses the significant expression "ven
tilating the blood," which looks as if the refrigerating effect of res

piration--and which we have endeavored to show is the real purpose
of it--had not wholly escaped his notice.
           MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.         85

istic of Abernethy. The truth is, that even the exper

iments of Edwards, some of which some years ago we

repeated ourselves with the same results, are not, I con
ceive, so conclusive as the analogy of Abernethy. It is

true they consisted of placing frogs and other animals

in gases not containing oxygen, when it was found not

withstanding that there was no difference in the car

bonic acid produced, and which therefore could not

have been compounded of any oxygen in the gas. But

even here many possible sources of fallacy suggest

themselves. The previous expulsion of all the oxygen

from the animal is obviously a matter of uncertainty.

These are, besides, those sources of fallacy which are

inseparable in some form or other from all experiments

on animals which disturb their natural habits, espe

cially when these disturbances are so great as to

amount to suffering. From all such experiments Aber
nethy instinctively shrunk. His repulsion to them
seems not to have rendered it necessary to him to have

shown that they were as physiologically inconclusive

as they are morally questionable. At all events, his

present experiments were not obscured by any such

source of fallacy.

Still, the idea of the carbonic acid exhaled by the

lungs being made up of the union of the carbon ex
haled with the oxygen taken in, continue to be very

extensively entertained. We can only say that to us

it seems entirely a child of the imagination --what Hor

ace calls  " Mentis gratissimus error,"

and shows not only how few people can find leisure to
investigate, but how few venture to observe or think for

themselves. Abernethy also experimented by holding
86 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

his hand in carbonic acid, when he found that in about

nine hours three ounces, by measure, of carbonic acid

were absorbed by the skin; and in the remaining gas,

a considerable quantity of other gas which had been

given off, which appeared to be nitrogen.

Desirous of ascertaining the quantity of carbonic acid

gas given off by his hand in different gases in a single

hour, he introduced his hand into various gases. In the

experiment with                            Drs.
                                             6
      Nitrous oxide, there came off

Hydrogen,                                  4

Atmospheric air                            3

The test for the carbonic acid was, as before, in all

cases, lime-water. He also found that the skin absorb

ed oxygen much more readily than most other gases.

One remarkable experiment we will notice, to show

how laborious all these investigations were, and for the

interesting nature of the result. He placed his hand

alternately in vessels containing each twenty-four

ounces, by measure, of nitrogen and oxygen gases.
After eight hours' exposure in each, two thirds of the

oxygen had disappeared, whereas only one twentieth of

the nitrogen was absorbed. Indeed, there is no one feat

ure of these experiments, perhaps, more interesting than
those which suggest the stronger aptitude of the skin
to absorb oxygen in comparison with other gases. For

example, Abernethy found that the skin absorbed, by

measure,

Of oxygen gas, in eight hours              OlB.
Of nitrous gas, in five hours               8
                                            3
Of hydrogen, in five hours
Of nitrogen, in eight hours                 1$
                                            1

Mr. Abernethy then made some experiments on his
               MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.          87

own lungs, after the manner that Mr. Cruikshank had

done, to ascertain the quantity of water exhaled, by

breathing into glass jars filled with and inverted in

quicksilver, and by other methods, and also to ascertain

the change produced in the air by respiration. These

are all interesting, but we can only give general results,

referring to the work itself as full of material for thought

and future observation. He considered that, on the

whole, the change in the air was, that in one hundred

parts, consisting of                  Farts.
                                       80
       Nitrogen

Oxygen                                18
Carbonic acid                          2

that about three parts of oxygen were absorbed, while
about twelve parts of carbonic acid were exhaled, the

nitrogen being little altered, or even receiving some
small addition. The quantity of inspired oxygen which
disappeared varied in different experiments, probably
depending on the depth of the inspiration, and the dura

tion between it and the following expiration --the time,

in fact, during which it was retained in the lungs. The
smallest quantity which disappeared was one twelfth,
the largest one sixth. The moisture (water) exhaled
he found to be about three drachms in an hour.

    These experiments, for the particulars of which we
must refer to the book itself, contain a calculation of

the extent of surface of the body, which he estimates

at about two thousand seven hundred square inches,
and about thirty-eight times that of the hand and wrist

on which he experimented. Thus, if we multiply any

of the results he obtained by thirty-eight, we shall ob
tain some idea of the prodigious power of this wonder
ful organ, and of the vast influence which its various
88 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

conditions must exert on the whole animal economy.

The whole of the experiments in the paper are just as
interesting as ever, and would, we are well persuaded,
be found amply to repay further investigation.

    They exemplify in every line his clearness of thought,
and his care in deducing no other conclusion from the
premises than they logically justify. The observations
which he has annexed to his paper also are just and
of great practical value; they discuss the bearing that
the whole has to the relation which exists between the

-skin and lungs, and the influence of this on the causes
of that fell destroyer, popularly known under the title
of Consumption.

    They are a portion of that investigation of relation
between various organs on which any thing like the
formation of a definite and practical science must ulti
mately depend. We shall endeavor in the sequel to
explain the ulterior consequences which necessarily
arise out of such considerations, when they are duly
followed out. We shall endeavor to point out the
share they had, in conjunction with other considera
tions, in leading to those beautiful and simple princi
ples which Mr. Abernethy was led more especially to
advocate; and show how far he went, as describing
the starting-point of those who have endeavored at a
 fuller development of the consequences of his views.

    He remarks justly enough on the determination to
the lungs consequent on the repression of the surface,
and the necessary additional duty thrown on these
important organs, engaged in a common function with
the skin, where the duty of the latter is not perform
ed ; and on the elements thus supplied for disease,

especially in persons of restricted chest -- relations,
                      MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.            89

is,be it remembered, which exist between the various   is
        is
other organs of the economy, and which exemplify in       if
a single case truly what has been, we trust, since

shown in regard to organs generally ; how the organ,

which may be the seat of the disease, may not be the
seat of the original cause, but really a secondarily af

fected organ, a hint which, when followed out, is of
immense practical importance.

    The skin is by no means the only organ which has
a community of function with the lungs, or through

which these important parts become affected ; but if

this be so, and diseases of the lungs be treated as an
integral thing, it requires no great penetration to see

how diseases so handled may be incurable, since the

real cause may never be ministered to.

   Again, if a case should be successfully treated by
means which afford all possible relief to the lungs,
while the primarily affected organ is also properly
treated, it by no means follows that the treatment

should be the same in every case; for the primarily

affected organ may be different in different cases.

There in fact, no organ in the body which, when

subjected to disordering influences, may not seconda

rily affect the lungs.
   The liver especially apt to affect them. It en

gaged, like the lungs, in throwing off large quantities

of carbon or charcoal from the system, and has been

not very improperly termed the " abdominal lung." It

   constantly, also, sending through the medium of the
heart a large quantity of blood to the lungs. Now,
this blood have not the proper quantity of carbon ex
tracted from by the liver, or even the blood be ex
cessive in quantity, why, the lungs must have more to
is                    if

                  it
90 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

do ; and many diseased lungs have been produced in
this manner in cases where the chest has been well

formed.

    There are, however, may intimate relations between
organs which do not depend on mere community of

function. It is very important that the public should
have clear views on this subject; and if they would

only give a little of that attention which they so often

bestow on things infinitely more difficult, there is no

doubt many lives would be saved that are irremedi

ably damaged, as Abernethy says, sometimes even be

fore any symptoms have suggested that there is any
thing the matter.

   But if there be a shadow of truth in Mr. Abernethy's

views, and still more in those extensions of them to
which they naturally lead, we may learn how neces
sary is that discrimination which traces disease to pri

marily affected organs, and how little success we may
expect by treating the lungs as the integral seat of dis

ease, by specifics or such remedies as tar, naphtha, cod-
liver-oil, various gases, &c., which come in and go out
of fashion in a manner sufficiently significant of the
claims they can have in a scientific point of view.

    Mr. Abernethy also remarks on the comparatively

rtieosnt.ricte"dAitnfoluneenctiemoef,"scrhoefuolabsienrvceosn, st"itIuteinxgamcionnesdumtphe

bodies of many people who died of consumption."

After describing other appearances which he found, he

says, "the greater number were bestudded with lar

ger or smaller tubercles, or made uniformly dense (con
                He says,
solidated)."               this disease (consolidation) is
very insidious  --that it  is often established beyond the

possibility of removal before it is suspected ; but, he
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  91

says, he thinks it might be known, for the capacity of
the lungs is diminished ; and suggests that this should
be tested by allowing a suspected case to breathe into
a glass vessel over water, by which the quantity of

air they can receive is rendered perceptible.
   His remarks, too, on the treatment are highly inter

esting and discriminative, and will not only well re
pay attentive perusal, but that study which is necessary
to the perception of their full force and beauty. When
we have to sum up the various influences of the views
of Abernethy, we may probable find space for a few
facts on that which they exert on the treatment of the

lungs and skin ; and this not merely as affecting the

health in general, but also complexion, and other con

ditions of these curious and important organs.
   We are unwilling to dismiss this paper without di

recting attention to the illustration it affords of the er
roneous views of those who imagine that Abernethy's

investigations were confined to the digestive organs,

and still less, of course, to one of them (the stomach).

It would, on the contrary, be difficult to find any pa

per on physiology so comprehensive in its views, so

simple and clear as to its objects, so cautious and log

ical in its reasonings, so free from any bias, or with so

little reference, either directly or indirectly, to what are

usually understood by the digestive organs. On the
other hand, it is an investigation which (as regards
the relation which exists between two organs having a

common function) is an exact type of what physiolog
ical investigation should be ; for we have only to ex
tend the idea of a relation which exists between two

organs to those which exist between all organs ; to

regard as their combined functions the sustentation of
9a MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

the life and health of the individual, just as we have
been regarding respiration the common function of the
skin and lungs ; and we thus arrive at what must be
the basis of any sound or comprehensive inquiry into
the true relations of the various parts of the economy,
by which alone we can interpret the phenomena of
health or disease.

Moreover, however presumptuous the assertion may

appear on the one hand, or however humiliating the

view it implies of the present state of medicine as a

science on the other, we must regard this investigation

itnheev"ermy eapnhsilousnoptrhieicda"l  sense of the term   as still among
                                        of the illustrious  author whose

words we have ventured to place at the head of this

chapter.

                        CHAPTER IX.

                                 HIS PAPER ON TIC DOULOUREUX.
                                                            " Quis talia fando

                            Temperet a lachrymis." --Virgil.

   Perhaps of all known torments, there is none that
can be compared, either in intensity or duration, with
that curious disease which has been called Tic Doulou
reux. Like the term Neuralgia, it is merely a hard
word to express a violent pain in a nerve. Conven
tionally, the term neuralgia, or nerve-pain, is general
ly used to express a case where the suffering is of a
more or less diffused character. The term " tic" is
more usually applied in cases where the seat of pain
is found in some superficial nerve. Neither term has
much claim to the character of scientific nomenclature ;
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  93

they are merely equivalent to saying that we know
very little of the matter. This obscurity, however,

may be soon lessened, if not entirely cleared, by any
one who will go to work in the way suggested by Mr.

Abernethy's principles, and in which, to a certain point,
they will conduct him. He must, however, recollect
that the pain, though a most distressing symptom, is
still a symptom, and not the disease which gives rise

to it.

    This disease teaches us how beneficently framed we
are in relation to all around us, and how small a de

viation from a healthy condition of our sensations con
verts all usual sources of pleasure into so many ele
ments of agony. The breeze, of late so grateful and
refreshing, may produce more suffering than would be
excited by the most intensely-heated furnace. In oth
er cases, the cool spring, or the most delicious fruit,
become causes of torture. We should exceed all rea

sonable limits if we were to enumerate all the usual

sources of pleasure which, in different cases, are con
verted into so many instruments of suffering.

    Tic douloureux is indeed a horrible malady, but one
which, when properly considered, becomes very in

structive. It admirably illustrates the views of Aber-

nethy, and how ready he was to concede all that ex
amination of the views of others which modesty and
common sense requires, as well as how superior his
own were both in philosophical acumen and practical
value ; first examining the views of others, and finding
them defective, he, with the true philosophical spirit

which first discovers what is wrong--

                " Primus gradus est sapientiae falsa intelligere,"

then proceeds to develop his own.
94 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   The nerves are the organs from which we receive
impressions from without, and when their ordinary
sensibility is thus morbidly augmented, we may be per
suaded that there is something very wrong within.

    The tic douloureux is one of the examples showing
how cautious and circumspect, and how modest with
al, Abernethy was in advancing to his own compre
hensive views of disease, and how entirely antithetical
the method he pursued in arriving at them was to that
which attempts to cut the knot of difficulty by gratui

tous hypotheses.

   When this disease first began to attract attention, it
was suggested that it might be cured by the division
of the nerve. The phenomena of the nervous system
afforded abundant grounds for mistrusting the sound
ness of this view. The tendency, however, to confound
the more salient symptom of a disease with its intrin
sic nature, caused such phenomena to be overlooked
or little considered ; and the consequence was, that

where the nerve was divided, the treatment was some

times entirely confined to that proceeding.
   In the end, the operation disappointed expectation ;

and that which careful reasoning might have predict
ed as probable, was left to be determined by experi

ment. In some cases circumstances concurred to pro

duce temporary relief, but, on the whole, the operation
was a failure.

   In the case he here published, Abernethy removed

a little bit of nerve from a lady's finger. As she had
suffered severely, and he was anxious to give her more
permanent relief, he did not rest with merely dividing
the nerve. For about nine months the lady was in
comparative ease, but then the sensation returned. He
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  95

remarks on the interest attached to this return of sen

sation, and observed on the analogy it suggests between

the supply of blood and nervous power ; for if the ves

sels conveying tho former be tied or obstructed, the
supply is gradually restored through collateral chan
nels. The return of the nervous functions after the

removal of a portion of the nerve seemed to favor that
view of the nervous system which regarded as the prox
imate cause of the phenomena some subtle principle or
other, like electricity or magnetism, or some analogous
power of which the nerves might be the conductors.

    Perhaps the most interesting fact of this case, how
ever, was the significant bearing it had on those views
which he was beginning to deduce from a multitude

of other sources --the fact being that, when the lady

died, which she did about four years afterward, she
died of disordered digestive organs; showing therefore,
at least, the coincidence of the most severe form of
nervous disturbance with disorder of these important
functions.

    We shall see by-and-by that Mr. Abernethy made
this and other cases the instruments of much future

good ; but as we shall not be able to digress from that
Summary of our obligations which we shall then be
employed in taking, we will add a few words here in
aid of removing that difficulty which some people have
in understanding how such dreadful pain can result
from any organ in the interior of the body, where no
pain is felt at all. In order to this, it is only neces
sary to have a clear general notion of the nervous sys

tem. If you could take away every thing but the

nerves, you would have the brain, spinal marrow, and
certain knot-like pieces of nervous substance (gangli
96 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ons, as we term them) from which myriads of cords
proceeded, varying in size from the smallest imagina
ble filaments up to moderate sized cords; the ends of
the delicate filaments terminating in the various or
gans and on the surface of the body; millions of mes
sengers of the most extreme sensibility, by which im
pressions are telegraphed with the swiftness of light
ning between all parts of the body. There is, however,
a habit or rule which is ordinarily observed, and that

is one of the most curious things in the whole range

of physiology --namely, that the immediate cause of

our recognition of sensation is never in the part itself,
but the action is constantly transferred to the extrem
ity of the nerve. When you strike the ulnar nerve at
the elbow (popularly termed, sometimes, the funny-
bone), you feel it in the finger to which its branches

are distributed.

  If you place your finger in cold or warm water, the

action that makes you feel it is in the brain; and we

infer this, because if we divide the communication be

tween the brain and the finger, you no longer feel the
sensation. Now, bearing this in mind, you easily un
derstand how any thing disturbing the nerves of any
internal organ may produce pain in some distant
branch; and that this is really so, many cases of tic
douloureux have furnished conclusive and triumphant
proofs. Now as to why it should be seated in this or
that particular site is a question of extreme difficulty,
as also in what organ the primary disturbance is seat
ed, supposing it to have been in any of them. The

former, I believe, is a question we have yet been un

able to solve ; the latter may usually be accomplished,

if sufficient pains be taken.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                    97

   Abernethy, in his lectures on this subject, when ob
serving on the inefficiency of this division of the nerve,
which was ministering to effects only, was accustomed
to remark, with that peculiar archness of expression

which his pupils must so well remember, " I wonder

that it never entered into the head of some wise booby

or other to divide the nerve going to a gouty man's
toe." This was a very characteristic mode of term

inating a discussion of any point which he wished to
impress on the memory of the pupil.

                     SECTION.

ON OCCASIONAL CONSEQUENCES OK BLEEDING.

   In these days of improved statistical inquiry, it

would be a very curious document which should give
us the comparative number of persons who are now
bled, and that of only fifty years ago ; and while it
would present very instructive data as to the progress
of medical science, it would give also some significant

hints as to the relations of fashionable remedies. First,

almost every barber was a bleeder; and within my
own recollection, a lady, who for any serious ailment

consulted the most eminent physician in the neighbor
hood in which she lived, would allow no one to bleed

her but the barber.

   The multitude of people lost a little blood every
"spring and fall." Accidents of all kinds afforded a

fine opportunity for bleeding. The papers announced

accidents generally by the usual " It is with regret that

we learn that Sir Harry        was thrown from his

horse in the Park. It was feared that the honorable

Baronet had sustained serious injury ; but, fortunately,

Mr. Sharpe was on the spot, so that the patient was

                                 E
 98 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

immediately bled. He was conveyed home, and we

rejoice to hear that he is doing well. The accident,
which it had been feared was a fracture, proved to
be only a ' dislocation.' "

    The questions in regard to bleeding were said to be

who, when, and how much (quis, quando, quantum ?) ;
but, to our minds, Aretaeus has a better saying : "When

bleeding is required, there is need of deliberation (cum
sanguinem detrahere oportet, deliberatione indiget)."
We like this better, because, in addition to the little

words quoted above, it suggests another more import

ant than either--namely, cur? why? --on many oc

casions, a favorite inquiry of Abernethy's.
    We recollect a surgeon being called to a gentleman

who was taken ill suddenly, and he found two or three

servants and the medical attendant struggling very
vigorously with the patient. While this was continu

ing, the first question put to the surgeon by the medi

cal attendant was,

   "Shall I bleed him, Sir?"

   " Why should you desire to bleed him ?"
   "Oh! exactly; you prefer cupping ?"
   " Why should he be cupped ?"

  "Then shall I apply some leeches?"

   This, too, was declined ; in short, it never seemed
to have occurred that neither might be necessary, still

less that either might therefore do mischief.

   It is the most curious thing to see the force of a

well-grown conventionalism. As long as it led to
moderately bleeding plethoric baronets in recent acci

dents, no great harm would have been done ; but the
frequency in other cases, in which bleeding was insti

tuted with " apparent impunity," was too commonly
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  99

construed into "bleeding with advantage," until the

practice became so indiscriminate as to be very extens
ively injurious. Now, comparatively, few persons are

bled ; and some years few ago I had a curious illustra

tion of it.

    In a large institution, relieving several thousand
patients annually, and in which, a very few years be
fore, scarcely a day passed without several persons
having been bled, nearly a month elapsed without a
single bleeding having been prescribed by either of the

three medical officers.

    No doubt many persons are still bled without any

very satisfactory reason, but we believe that the abuse
of bleeding is very much diminished, and that the
practice is much more discriminate and judicious.

From this, and perhaps other causes, a very important
class of cases which engaged the attention of Aber-
nethy, as it had that of Hunter before him, is become
comparatively infrequent. But when bleeding was
practiced with as little idea of its importance as some

other of the barber-surgeon's ministrations, on all sorts
of people, and in all sorts of disturbed states of health,
and probably with no attention at all to the principles
which should alike guide the treatment of the largest
or the smallest wound, bleeding was very frequently
followed by inflammation of the vein, nerve, or other
contiguous structures. These cases were most of

them more or less serious, often dangerous, and occa

sionally fatal.
   Taking up the subject where it had been left by Mr.

Hunter, Abernethy refers to the cases published in the
two volumes of the "Medical Communications" by Mr.
Colly, of Torrington, and by Mr. Wilson, and then pro
100 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ceeds to give some of his own. It is in this paper that

he first moots two questions which have since grown
into some importance by an extension of some of the
practices to which they refer. We allude to the divi
sion of fasciae and tendinous structures, and also of

nerves in states of disease or disorder.
   In many cases we see, in the application of such

measures, how much that clear and quick-sighted dis
crimination is required which so eminently distinguish

ed Abernethy. He, however, only mooted these ques
tions at that time, for he observes that he had not suf
ficient experience to give an opinion. The chief value
of the paper now is the good sense with which it incul
cates a more careful and cleanly performance of bleed
ing; a more scientific treatment of the puncture, by
neatly bringing its edges into apposition, and by keep
ing the arm quiet until it has healed. Neglect of these
cautions in disordered states of constitution had no doubt

been not infrequently accessory to the production of
some of the serious consequences against which it is

the object of this paper to guard. I need scarcely ob

serve that the whole subject is important, and should
be thoroughly studied by the young surgeon.

    In 1793, Abernethy, by his writings and his lectures,
seems to have created a general impression that he was
a man of no ordinary talent. His papers on Animal
Matter, and, still more, his Essay on the Functions of
the Skin and Lungs, had shown that he was no longer
to be regarded merely in the light of a rising surgeon,
but as one laying claim to the additional distinction of
a philosophical physiologist. The subject (of the skin
and lungs) had engaged the attention of Boerhaave a
long time before ; Cruikshank also, and other very able
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                101

men, had followed in the same wake of investigation ;

therefore there was an opportunity of that test which

comparison alone affords. Abernethy was, in fact, re

garded at this time more in the light of a rising man

than merely a promising surgeon. He now moved from
St. Mary Axe (as I am informed), and took a house in

St. Mildred's Court, in the Poultry.                    I
   Sir Charles Blicke had moved to Billiter Square.

find by the rate-books, which Mr. R. L. Jones was so

good as to inspect for me, that this was in April, 1793.

He could hardly fail at this time to have had a very

acceptable portion of practice, although we apprehend
it was not as yet extensive. His reputation was, how

ever, fast increasing, which the attention paid to his

opinion at the hospital at this time must have materi

ally accelerated.

Certainly not later than 1795, there were very few

cases of doubt or difficulty in which, independently of

that participation in the consultation at the hospital

common to all the medical officers, there was not es

pecial value and influence attached to his opinion ; and

I have heard a pupil of that day assert, that in cases of

real doubt and difficulty, there was nothing more beau

tiful in itself, nor more characteristic of Abernethy, than

the masterly way in which he would analyze a case,

bring the practical points before his colleagues, and at

the same time suggest the course he preferred. As
from his other occupations it would often happen that

some consultation might be pending while he was en
gaged at the theatre or in the museum, it would often

happen that a consultation would terminate for the

time by some one observing, "Well, we will see what

Mr. Abernethy says on the subject."
 102 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    In 1796 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society,
his old preceptor, Sir William Blizard, being one of
those who signed the proposal for his election. He
only contributed one paper after this to the " Philosoph
ical Transactions." After his death the Duke of Sus
sex pronounced a very well-deserved eulogium, of which
a copy will be found in a subsequent chapter. He had
not been idle, however, but in 1797 published the third
part of the " Physiological Essays," and which we will,
in the next place, consider.

                        CHAPTER X.

                           HIS PAPER ON INJURIES OP THE HEAD.

                        " Utiliumque sagax rerum." -- Hor.

    In estimating the practical penetration and clear
judgment of Abernethy, it was almost necessary to see
him placed by the side of other men.

    His mind was so quick at perceiving the difficulties
which lay around any subject, that it appeared to ra
diate on the most difficult a luminosity that made it
comparatively easy, by at least putting that which, to
ordinary minds, might have been a confused puzzle,
into the shape of an easy, definite, and intelligible prop

osition.

   It was immaterial whether the difficulties were such

as could be overcome, or whether they were in part
insurmountable; both were clearly placed before you;
and while the work of the quickest mind was facili
tated, the slowest had the great assistance of seeing
clearly what it had to do.

   All this was done by Abernethy in a manner so lit
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  103

tie suggestive of effort, that, like his lecturing, it was
so apparently easy, that one wondered how it happened
that nobody could ever do it so well.

    But when we saw him placed in juxtaposition with

other men, these peculiarities, which, from the easy
manner in which they were exhibited, we had perhaps
estimated but lightly, were thrown into high relief,

and by contrast showed the superiority of his powers.
    The second series of Essays he had dedicated to his

old master, Sir Charles Blicke. The third, the subject
of our present consideration, he inscribed to his early
instructor in anatomy, Sir W. Blizard. The dedica
tion is straightforward and grateful.

    The first paper of the series is interesting in two
points of view. First, it was an important improve
ment in the management of a difficult form of a very
serious class of accident, "Injuries of the Head ;" and,
secondly, it derives a peculiar interest from the parallel
ism it suggests between Abernethy and one of the most
distinguished surgeons of France, the celebrated Pierre
Joseph Dessault-- a parallelism honorable to both, yet
remarkably instructive as to the superior discriminative

powers of Abernethy. Dessault's pupil, Bichat, him
self one of the most accomplished anatomists of his

time, has left an eloquent eulogium on Dessault, which,

although somewhat florid, is by no means above his
merits. He says he was the father of Surgical Anatomy
in France; and certainly few men evinced more sa

gacity in that immediate application of a fact to prac
tical purposes, which constitutes art, than Dessault.

    Bichat, in his glowing analysis of Dessault's charac
ter, among other things in relation to his study of the
profession, observes of him that, " Un esprit profond
104 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

et reflechi, ardent a entreprendre, opiniatre a continuer,

le disposa de bonne heure a surmonter des degouts qui

precedent, et les difficultes qui accompagnent son etude.

A cet age ou Fame encore ferm6e a la reflexion semble

ne s'ouvrir qu'au plaisir, apprendre fut son premier

besoin --savoir sa premiere jouissance --devancer les

autres sa premiere passion."*

  A quick and clear perception, for the most part un-

trammeled by preconceived opinions, led Dessault to a

vivid appreciation of the immediate results of surgical

proceedings ; and as these were definite, successful,
doubtful, or abortive, he either persevered with a char

acteristic tenacity of purpose, or at once and forever
abandoned them. He was remarkably happy in his

selection and appreciation of the mechanical parts of

surgery, and his quick perception disclosed to him sev

eral useful points in practice which depend on the more

important truths of medical surgery.

Now almost all this, as applied to the active portion

of Abernethy's life, is equally true of both. But Des

sault was by no means so deep or so original a thinker
as Abernethy. Like Abernethy, he was clear and pen

etrative, but he did not see nearly so far, nor were his

views nearly as comprehensive. Dessault was quick

at detecting an error in practice, and in sensibly reject

ing it. Abernethy would unfold  it,   examine            and
                                     it
                                           is

                                                    it,
by his talents convert the very defect into usefulness.

Dessault had by no means, in the same degree, that

power of reflection, that suggestive faculty which, in

endeavoring to interpret the meaning of phenomena,

can point out the true question which  desired to

ask of nature, as well as the mode of inquiry.

* Bichat, Eloge de Dessault. CEuvres.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                105

   All this and much more was strikingly developed in

Abernethy. The paper before us involves a subject
which had engaged the attention both of Abernethy
and Dessault. They had met with the same diffi
culty; and the practical solution of it which each ob
tained, though somewhat different, was extremely char
acteristic. We will try to make this intelligible. In
severe injuries in which the cranium is broken, it fre
quently happens that a portion of bone is so displaced
that it presses on the brain. The consequence of this,
in many cases, is a train of symptoms sufficiently
alarming in themselves, but the actual cause of which

many circumstances sometimes concur to complicate

or obscure.

    The same forces which produced the accident not
unfrequently involve a violent shock to the whole

body -- sometimes fracture or other injury of other

parts. Sometimes the patient is deeply intoxicated.
Then, again, patients are presented to the surgeon in
different cases at extremely different periods after the
reception of the injury, so that the case is very differ
ent as you see it first at one or other phase of it.

    These, and many other circumstances, give rise to
various modifications of the symptoms, and, under some
complications, constitute a class of cases which yield
to none in importance or difficulty. There is some
thing in the idea of a piece of bone pressing on the
brain, which instinctively suggests the expediency of
raising it to the natural level. This in fact, the ob
ject of what called " trepanning," or, as we gener
ally term "trephining."

   This consists in nothing less than perforating the
cranium, and then, by means of an instrument adapt
it,
     is

                   E

                              2
                                                is,
 106 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 ed for that purpose, restoring the piece of bone which

has been depressed to its natural level. In many in

 stances the operation was very successful, but. in many
 others the cases terminated unfavorably. From what
 has been already hinted, it is clear that in many in
 juries of the head this operation must have been un
 necessary, in others inapplicable, and in both (as add
 ing to the injury) mischievous. Still surgeons went
 on trephining, so that, in a large class of injuries of

the head, there was, if the bone was depressed, an al

 most uniform recourse to the trephine.
    Again, in cases where it did not immediately ap

 pear that the bone was depressed, too often very un
necessary explorative operations were undertaken to

determine that circumstance. In short, there was too

much of analogy between the same matter-of-course
adoption of the trephine in severe injuries of the cra
nium which we have noticed in regard to bleeding in

more ordinary accidents.
    For correcting the abuse of this very serious opera

tion, we are under great obligations to Abernethy and
Dessault, and we couple these illustrious names to
gether on this occasion, because, although the amount
of our obligation to Abernethy is much the greater, we
would not willingly omit the justice due to Dessault.

    Dessault may have been said to have given that first
blow which so often determines the ultimate fate of a

mischievous conventionalism --that blow which com

pels the consideration of its claims on our common

sense.

   Dessault had become extremely disgusted with the
results of the operation of the trephine in his hands at
the Hotel Dieu, and on consideration, although, as it
MEMOIRS OK ABERNETHY.                                      107

would seem, from Bichat's edition of his works, that

he did not in theory absolutely ignore the occasional

propriety of the operation, he practically forever aban

doned thus at once cutting the knot he felt diffi
is it,                              it
cult or impracticable to unravel. As this was manyit is
     it                                             it
                        ityears before his death, the principal argument on which
                                                    if it
he supported the relinquishment of the operation was

simply that his success in the treatment of injuries of

the head had been much greater since he had alto

gether laid aside.

This eminently characteristic of what people call
"a practical man," but, after all,
                                        not very sound

reasoning. Now here was that the discriminative

excellence of Abernethy began to tell.

In the first place, he observed that the raising of the

bone could only be necessary where produced symp

toms. He also observed that experience had recorded

certain cases in which, notwithstanding that the bone

had been depressed, the patients had recovered with

out any operation. Then, again, he thought not im

probable that where the depression was slight, even

though some symptoms might at first arise, yet we

were not too precipitate, we might find that they would

again subside, and thus so serious an operation be ren

dered unnecessary. These and similar reasonings led

him to recommend more cautious practice, and to re
a
frain from trephining even where the bone was de
              ;
pressed, except on conditions which referred to the

general effects of pressure on the brain rather than to

the abstract fact of depression of the bone.

He did not stop here but having thus placed re

strictions on the use of the trephine where had been
                                              it

too indiscriminately employed, he then describes the
108 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

practice which is to be pursued where the pressure is

produced from effusion on the brain.
   Although, in laying down the rules to be observed

in such cases, there is much of painful uncertainty as

to the existence of effused blood, the site it may occu

py, and other circumstances of embarrassment, still the

rules he proposes in relation to the avoidance of large

vessels, the condition of the bone as indicative of the

                                                 it,
                                                                     is
actual state of the parts beneath &c., are all clearly

and beautifully stated as deducible from the anatom

ical and vascular relations of the parts. The result of

all this discrimination is, that the trephine seldom

employed, while the treatment of the various injuries

of the head much more successfully conducted.
ly

                     is
He next proceeds to consider the distinction between

those cases in which the brain has been shaken mere

(concussion), and those where has been subjected
                                                 it

to mechanical pressure. There are two points in this

part of the paper of great interest to the practical sur

geon the one, in which he treats of the distinction of
:

the two cases; the other, in which he marshals the

discordant practices of different surgeons in cases of

concussion, and defines the proper phase of the case

in which we may make them respectively applicable

-- when, for example, we may by warmth maintain,

or even by cautious stimulation excite, the depressed

powers; or, by judicious abstinence from either, avoid

provoking too violent reaction and, lastly, how we
                          if
should combat the latter
                             it
                                              ;
                          unfortunately supervene.

His Remarks on the Assistance to be derived from

consideration of the Phenomena of Apoplexy, his refer

ence to the cases which had occurred in the practice

of other surgeons, and the observations he makes on
                                                        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                       109

the lamentable omission of facts in the record of cases,aI

are all worthy of profound attention. Equally excel                             a
lent is the ingenuity with which he attempts the dis
tinction between the cases of concussion and compres                           it,
sion of the brain. His endeavor to discriminate the
                                                                                                Ia
cases in which the effusion, or inflammatory action re

spectively, affect one or other membrane, is also ex

tremely sagacious and characteristic. Whether we
consider all or any of these features in the paper be
fore us, or, lastly, that triumph of science and hu
manity with which he has so defined the limits of a

dangerous operation as to have achieved a compara

tive abandonment of we think most surgeons will

be inclined to regard this essay as one of his hap
piest contributions to the improvement of practical

science.

   In 1804 he added some oases in illustration of the
views unfolded in this paper, and one case which ap
peared to be exceptional with what he considered to
be its appropriate explanation. He also gives an in
teresting case of a suicide, in whom he had tied the
carotid artery, in which the operation was followed by
an inflammatory state of the brain. Here, again, his
quick perception suggested to him the significant idea
that similar states of brain might result from different
and even opposite states of the circulation; conclu
sion now, believe, well established, one of great prac
tical importance, and one for which, so far as know,
we are greatly indebted to the observations of " Dr.
Marshall Hall on Blood-letting." In this case, Aber-
nethy eulogizes the plan recommended by Dessault, of
feeding patient by tube introduced through the left
nostril. In concluding this remarkable paper, which
 110 MEMQIRS OF ABERNETHY.

shows how much a great mind may extract from com
mon subjects,

                  " Tantum de medio sumptis accedit honoris,"

we quote one remark which impresses the importance
of a requisition, the essential basis of all scientific in

quiries --namely, a careful collection of facts.
   "In proportion as we advance in knowledge," says

Mr. Abernethy, " we are led to record many circum

stances in the progress of the disorder which had be

fore passed without notice, but which, if known and

duly attended to, would clearly point out to us the na
ture and remedy of the complaint. Hence the records
of former cases are of much less value, as the symp
toms about which we are now anxious to inquire have
in them been entirely overlooked."

CHAPTER XL

   abernethy's experiments on the muscles IN FROS8, &c.

" There are more things in heaven and earth than

are dreamt of in your philosophy, Horatio," is a senti
ment which, in some form or other, occurs to the most

uninformed peasant and to the most profound philoso

pher.
    The very small difference between the acquisitions

of the two, however marvelous when viewed abstract

edly, sinks into nothing when compared to the secrets
of nature which yet remain unexplored. This com
parison is the true source of that humility which,

while it adds dignity to the acquirements of intellect,

is the foundation on which we may most securely rest

the hope of increasing possessions.  ..
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  Ill

    The intellectual vision of the wisest man confines

him to a very small area when compared with the
boundless realms of nature. There are, indeed, a
number of objects within the range of his perceptions
whose ^nature and relations he has the power of exam
ining, but there are also a multitude of others which,

from their dimly-sketched outline, he feels to be beyond
the bounds assigned to his limited faculties.

    One of the most curious things in animals is the

rigidity or stiffness of their muscles after death. It is

the last effort, as it were, of the living principle. This

phenomenon may be indefinitely modified by particu
lar states, by lightning, by poison, and other peculiar
conditions, induced by the manner and the period at

which the death may have occurred ; and in all cases

it continues but for a short time. It is the last exer

cise of that power which resides in muscles or flesh,
of contracting, and thus moving the various parts to
which it is attached. In a very large sense this power
is under the dominion of the will, and enables animals
to move as their instincts or their wants suggest.

   Now it is a curious thing to think that this power

can be excited after death by placing the part between
two pieces of metal, or galvanizing them, as it is call
ed, after the name of the discoverer, Galvani.

   It is difficult at this day to imagine the astonish

ment of the wife of Galvani, or his pupil, when first

they observed the leg of a dead frog thrown into con
vulsions on being touched by a piece of metal ; such,

however, was the apparently simple origin of a long

series of wonderful discoveries. It has been well ob-

observed, however, that "discoveries, apparently the re
sult of accident, always imply the exercise of profound
112 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

thought ;" and this was no less the case in respect to

galvanism. A fact which, but for the mention of it to

Galvani by his wife, might have passed unobserved,
was, by the scarcely less than creative power of mind,
improved into a most important branch of human sci

ence.

   Ignorant as men still remain of the intrinsic nature
of the principle or power which gives rise to the phe
nomenon, the observation and study of its laws and op
erations have led to discoveries which, in their value,

their importance, and their surprising character, yield

to no other yet achieved.
    Abernethy, who at this laborious period of his life

had his observation directed every where, made some

experiments on this power --galvanism --in its relations

to the muscles of frogs.

   His object seems to have been as follows : Fontana
(a celebrated physiologist, born in the Tyrol about

1734) had showed that a muscle which could no lon
ger be excited to contract under water, might be ex

cited anew if taken out of the water and exposed for
some time to air. This observation had suggested the

idea that air was in some way or other conducive to

this " irritability," as it was termed. Dr. Girtanner
had also endeavored to prove that the irritability de

pended on the oxygen taken into the blood during res
piration, and that the irritability was in a direct ratio
to the quantity of oxygen respired, " an opinion which
some writers in this country seem disposed to adopt."

    Abernethy doubted the soundness of such a view,
and he accordingly instituted some experiments, in the

hope that, if he could not absolutely determine the

question, he might throw some light on it. His exper
           MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  113

iments were very numerous, but he published only a

few of them. We will give one or two. " Having
killed a frog (for he properly objected to experiments

on living animals), he experimented on the muscles of

two legs ; one was put into a bottle containing oxygen

gas procured from manganese, and which was very

pure ; the other into a bottle containing atmospheric

air ; the quantity in each bottle was about six ounces
by measure; the limbs were supported in the airs, and

wholly surrounded by them. After five hours the mus

cles had nearly ceased to act in both limbs ; those,

however, of the thigh belonging to that limb inclosed

in the common air acting more vividly than the oth

ers, but in a little time even these could no longer be

excited. Upon comparing the limbs afterward, the

muscles of that which had been exposed to the oxygen

gas were evidently the most flabby. Several other tri

als were made with a similar result ;" whence he ob
"Iserves,
           am disposed to conclude that oxygenous gas

has no greater power of supporting the irritability of

parts separated from the animal than the common at

mosphere."

   In some of his experiments the limbs continued to
be excitable after eighteen hours, but with little differ

ence in the two gases.
   He next made several experiments by placing the

limbs of frogs in nitrogen and hydrogon ; the limbs in
nitrogen lost their irritability in about two hours and
a half, those in hydrogen in about four hours.

    Experiments then follow which consisted in placing
limbs in carbonic acid and nitrous gases respectively,

both of which ceased to act in an hour and a half.

He also placed limbs in carbureted hydrogen, and
1 14 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

found that they ceased to act in one hour and a half.

In other experiments he found the correctness of Fon-
tana's results--that limbs placed under water, and

which had lost their irritability, had for a time recov

ered it by exposure to air and moisture.

Perhaps the most interesting of the whole series are

"Ithose in which he compared the results obtained in
vacuo and atmospheric air. He says,       put one pre

pared limb of a frog under the exhausted receiver of

an air-pump; it lay on a plate of glass, supported by a

cup ; zinc was placed beneath the thigh, and gold un

der the leg; and by means of a probe passing through

Ia collar of leather, could touch both metals, so as to
excite the muscles to contraction. This I did occa

sionally, and found the limb capable of excitement for

twenty-two hours. The corresponding limb, which

was left exposed to the atmosphere, also contracted at
the end of that time, so that it was doubtful which of

them retained their powers in the greater degree. The
same experiment was repeated several times with re

sults so nearly alike that I am inclined to believe ir

ritability continues very little longer in common air
than it does in the exhausted receiver of an air-pump.

  "I have frequently produced numerous contractions

in the limbs of frogs inclosed in azotic, hydrogenous,

and other gases, which likewise tend to show that the

cause of irritability does not depend on oxygen for its

power of action."

    He then remarks that, notwithstanding the great im
portance of oxygen, he thinks it has been overrated, for
says he, " Different tribes of animals partake of it in

different degrees, and those who have the least of it are

far from being the least vivacious."
          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  US

   He here reasons on premises which were then uni
versally admitted, and which form at present a portion
of many very questionable impressions in relation to

respiration.

    We mention one, " that fish, frogs, &c., breathe less
oxygen than warm-blooded animals." But while in

respect to the frog, there are many conditions relating
to the skin to be considered before we can admit this
position, we hold it to be demonstrable that fish breathe

more oxygen than most other animals--due attention

not having been paid to the enormous proportion of

oxygen in the air found in water--being, in fact, about
one third. In his concluding remarks he says, that as

regards nitrogen, hydrogen, and carbonic acid, it only
shows what we knew before, that they are injurious to
life, and that oxygen is not more beneficial than com
mon air. The experiments "showing the long contin
uance of life and action in muscles in an exhausted re
ceiver he considers worthy of notice, as tending to show
that the cause of irritability in muscles, when once

formed, does not require the assistance of external

matter."

   Lastly, he gives an experiment on the blood (which
shows how he was working in every direction), in aid

"Iof ihe opinion that the blood derives its scarlet color
from the action of oxygen.  took the coagulum of

venous blood left in a basin after bleeding, and, turn

ing it bottom upward, waited till its surface had be
Icome of a scarlet color.
                            then took slices of this sur

face, and similar slices of the interior part of the coag

ulum, which had a very dark appearance, and exposed

them repeatedly to azotic and nitrous gases. The scar

let color gradually faded upon such exposure; and the
    116 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY       it,

a   azotic gas being afterward examined, was found to con
           istain oxygen, while nitrous gas was much diminished,
. doubtless by combining with the same principle. The
                               itgases to which the dark-colored blood was exposed
   underwent no change in this experiment. That blood
a  takes oxygen from the air when it becomes florid, will

  Inot, I suppose, be denied, and the experiment have;

   related shows that it will again part with though
   slowly, without any alteration in its temperature."

        The principal interest, as we think, of this paper on
   " Irritability," the evidence affords of his determ
    ination to keep his mind free from preconceived no
    tions on subject which was at that time calculated
   to mislead him, especially as he then participated in
   the general impression that the Oxygen was "the great
    source of animal heat," view which he afterward, and,

    as we think, for excellent reasons, mistrusted.
       This view has been revived, but, so far as we know,

   in no very philosophical spirit. While we would re
    spect the opinions of men, we can only reason on the
    paramount authority of nature and we see increasing
    ground to believe that he who would leave out of phys
    iological inquiries so large a portion of the necessary
    induction as the phenomena of disease, no matter what
   be his authority, will only add to the number of those
    who have shown that, the moment we neglect the most
    comprehensive search for facts, of which our knowl
    edge admits, we fall into error. Mr. Hunter has re
    corded his opinion of the impossibility of obtaining a
    knowledge of functions without considering the phe
    nomena of disease, and all experience hitherto has
    tended to give this observation the validity of an

    axiom.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  117

                       CHAPTER XII.

                                  OF EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

         " Know, Nature's children all divide her care,
           The fur that warms a monarch warmed a bear." -- Pope.

   In the foregoing experiments, the reader will have
observed the significant words, " having killed a frog."
Abernethy not approving of experiments on living ani

mals. When we reflect for a moment on the thousands
of dreadful experiments which have been made on liv
ing animals, and the utter inconclusiveness of them
for any useful purpose, there are, among the numerous
errors by which so many philosophical inquiries have
been delayed or defeated, few that are more lament
able.

   This mode of investigation has not, so far as we can
see, produced any one useful discovery, while it has
tended to obscure, by all that is disgusting and re
pulsive, the true mode of cultivating a most alluring
science.

   But as we write, however humbly, as physiologists,
we may be regarded as advocating the claims and at
tractions of that science with something of the esprit
de metier, rather than in the cautious spirit which
should characterize a philosophical discussion, let us
for one moment consider the claims of physiology on
the attention of mankind.

    Physiology has for its object the investigation of the
functions and relations of the whole organic kingdom
(the vegetable and animal creation), and can not be
118 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

successfully cultivated without consulting the phe
nomena in both these kingdoms of nature.

    The branch of physiology most interesting to the
medical philosopher is that which deals with the func
tions of animals in general, and of man in particular.
The special interest to the medical philosopher is there
fore obvious; let us just glance at its more general
claims. Linnseus said that the world was one vast

museum; and it illustrates the nature and attributes

of the Deity.

   But how ? In the first place, by the numerous evi
dences it every where presents, even to our finite ca

pacities, of design, wisdom, and power; and further, of
the Unity of that power. But, to our finite percep
tions, it does not every where present evidences of love,
mercy, and parental care; not because they may not
exist universally, but because our faculties do not al
low us to connect these ideas with any but "sentient

beings."
    This alone renders physiology one of the most ele

vating of all human studies --most general in its ap
plication -- most comprehensive in the attributes it un

folds to us, and, therefore, most refining to our moral

nature.
    Although, therefore, we would claim the special the

ological evidences of physiology as the distinguishing
excellence of this science, it is not less commanding as
regards the evidences which it affords in common with
other parts of the Creation.

   In animals, we see not less indications of design,

wisdom, power, and beauty than elsewhere, but we
also see a provision for their wants and comforts, of
such a kind as leaves no room for doubting that both
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  119

have been the objects of design. We need not here go
into the multiplied proofs of this proposition. 'A priori,
then, it would seem very unlikely that a mode of in
vestigating the functions of animals would be product
ive which begins by ignoring one of their most striking
relations.

    This, too, at once suggests the moral question ?
Is it right? There is no necessity, for our present
purpose, to moot that question. We have, over and
over again, challenged investigation, but the case is too
clear to admit of discussion. Again, although we
humbly submit that the moral bearing of philosophical
questions is always a legitimate subject of inquiry,
yet it is inexpedient to introduce that question where

it is not required. The questions whether the progress

of physiology has been accelerated by experiments on
living animals, or whether the treatment of diseases
has been improved by that mode of inquiry, or wheth
er it has tended to mislead people into erroneous and
mischievous views, are all things that admit of proof
entirely independent of moral considerations. Now we
should be sorry to appear to undervalue that which we

most highly prize, or to represent that to be irrelevant
which is, in all subjects, the great consideration ; but
it is wise to take the ground chosen by those who ar
gue in support of a fallacy, not that which they would

ignore or regard as disputable.
   As we have already observed, we think it demonstra

ble that experiments on living animals, involving cru
elty, have been entirely unproductive, while they have
tended to mislead more than any other mode of inves

tigation whatever. Some years since we corrected some
very unaccountable misstatements in regard to the ex
 120 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 periments of Orfila, Sir Charles Bell, and others, which
 could only be accounted for by a want of attention to
 the works from which they were selected ; for it is
 curious to observe that (though different in kind) the
 most conclusive evidence of the erroneous value attrib

 uted to the experiments is furnished by the distinguish
 ed authors themselves.

    Orfila wished to know what would be the effect of
various poisons on the animal economy. He therefore
set to work as follows : He opened the gullet of a living
animal, put in the poison, and then tied the tube ; and
this to ascertain how the stomach dealt with substances
of this kind taken into that organ. Now there have

been, unfortunately, too many instances afforded by ac
cidents and by suicides of these very things in the hu
man subject, presenting us with a series of facts deplor
able enough, it is true, but which, regarded merely as
grounds of philosophical inquiry, are free from objec
tion, while the experiments made by Orfila on his tor
tured animals are obviously loaded with all the ele
ments of fallacy. We say nothing of the horrible cries
that Orfila describes these animals as uttering ; but

surely if the object had been to interfere with and ob

scure the processes of nature by every conceivable in
genuity, one could not have imagined any conditions
better calculated for this purpose.

    Sir Charles Bell was a physiologist who distinguish
ed himself by a really important discovery, and it has
been cited as an example of the successful application

of the mode of inquiry in question. Whoever will read
his book will at once perceive the truth of that which
he himself judiciously observes --namely, that physi

ology is much more a science of observation than ex-

                                  '
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  121

periment. As to the influence of experiments on ani

 mals in his own discoveries, we have his own authority
for denying it. He states very clearly the object with
 which he was reluctantly induced to make some ex
periments. They had, in fact, nothing to do with his

 discovery. They were made in reluctant concession

to the slowly-paced perceptions of others.

     This he had the manliness to acknowledge, and the

benevolence to regret. In short, examine what series
of experiments we may, we always find them either
wholly unproductive, or, if they appear to prove any
thing of value, it is always something that is much

more logically deducible from sources altogether unob

jectionable. But if this be so, is there no mischief in

unproductive modes of inquiry? Again, putting aside

the brutalizing tendency of such practices as part of
the moral question, Is life so long? Is Science so easy ?
Is Physiology, and especially the deplorably halt con
dition of Medical Science, in such a state that we can

afford to waste time in vicious modes of inquiry? We
think not. Is there nothing mischievous in our en
deavor to obtain by the evidence of sense (the eye)
that insight into nature which Lord Bacon has so em
phatically warned us is the office of higher--in fact,

of our intellectual perceptions? If we are not allowed

to indulge in feelings of disgust and abhorrence at all
that is revolting to common sense, and our best and
kindliest sentiments, can we read without distrust of

experiments which so disgust by their nature that we

know not how to describe them, or which are so re

volting, from their cruelty, that the mind recoils from
the contemplation of them? Is it possible to read
many of the experiments of Spallanzani without feel-

                                F
  122 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 ing the same disgust that Abernethy used to express
 in regard to them, or to read of opening animals alive,
 dividing them with instruments, breaking their bones,
 or running red-hot wires into their cavities, without

 feelling (if, indeed, any thing better is to be regarded
 as merely "mawkish sentimentality") that at least
 valuable time has been wasted in pursuits which have

 been brutalizing and unproductive?
    In a review of some Biography in the " Quarterly,"

 one of the experiments was characterized by the writer
 as "hellish;" we have no desire whatever to use un
 necessarily strong terms, nor do we think that the one

 above mentioned was too strong for the case to which

 it referred ; but we think that this extremely fallacious
 mode of investigation will be most quickly abandoned,
 by meeting fairly, and in a mild and moderate spirit,
 any allegations in its favor Dr. Hull, of Norwich,

 and several other eminent persons, have expressed
 their dissent from this mode of inquiry.

    For our part, we have several times stated our will
ingness to discuss any class of experiments which

 may be selected; for, although we may not express
ourselves so well as a late writer in the " Quarterly,"
yet to our minds heaven and hell do not present an
idea of greater contrast than that afforded by the no
tion that laws which govern the whole animal king
dom, and which present, at every moment, accumu
lating evidences of goodness and mercy, should be au
spiciously sought, much less have their nature and re
lations developed by torture of those very objects for
whom such benevolent provisions have been designed.
We have paid some attention to this subject, and it is
very curious to remark that observations or experi
         MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.           123

ments, when they cease to be cruel, become instruct

ive.

    Indeed, if we reflect for a moment, we shall see that
Ifit must be so.
                  we desire to know the actual nature

of any living being, it must be as if we were ourselves
unseen --that that the animal may be in perfectly
         is,                           a
undisturbed condition. The moment we lose this, eleaa

ments of interference immediately arise and fog our;is,

reasoning; and the more refined the inquiry, the moreisit
                             it,
the avoidance of disturbance becomes essential; so

that, in fact, the utmost success in obtaining the con

ditions philosophically necessary depends on maintain

ing as nearly as possible the natural condition--that

is, the comfort of the animal.

     itIn every path of life there are unpleasant duties,

and might have happened that the functions of ani

mals could only have been investigated by the means

we would repudiate but the simple truth  that

is  demonstrably otherwise.

    Abernethy had decided objection to experiments
involving cruelty. He never made any himself thai

could fairly be so called, and he never alludes to the

subject without some remark tending to show his dis

approval of them. Nor             in our view, any dispar

agement that his benevolent feelings were largely in

fluential in governing his opinions on this subject. He
began his researches with the ability and inclination
to investigate Life under every phase, at time when

no one had begun, so far as we know, to question this
mode of investigation. But while he left no other un

tried, he only recognized experimenting on living ani
mals so far as to show that his benevolence could be

sufficiently discriminative to select experiments where
124 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

the existence of suffering was doubtful, and that tho
doubt alone was sufficient to induce him to abandon

the pursuit.
   We are sorry to dismiss a subject of so great im

portance with what we feel to be so meagre a discus
sion. But it would require more than our whole space
to examine the many thousand torturing experiments,
and expose the uselessness and fallacies which they
exemplify. We have elsewhere discussed the subject
somewhat more at large; here we have only the op
portunity of just touching on it. The greatest respect
we can pay the memory of a great man is to apply
carefully any principles which he may have left suffi
ciently matured for practical purposes, and so to treat
those of which he may have only left us hints or ele
mentary suggestions as shall most searchingly exam
ine their nature and claims to further development and

cultivation. If every opportunity is not sufficient to

do this in full, we must comfort ourselves with the
hope that where there is not ability to produce convic
tion, there may appear sincerity of purpose to induce
the still more valuable result, "patient inquiry."

    That is a duty which we owe to every subject on
which we venture to form any opinion, either in the
study or the practice of our profession, and we have
the utmost confidence that the scientific investigation
and the moral argument will be found to coincide.

                  " Heaven's attribute is universal care,
                     And man's prerogative to rule, but spare."
       MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                  125

       CHAPTER XIII.

                                      HIS REMARKS ON TUMORS.  Appetitus im-
                                                              The Passions
   " Cogitatio in vero exquirendo maxime versatur.
pellit ad agendum." -- Cicero.

   " The Intellect engages us in the pursuit of Truth.
impel us to Action."

In our brief sketches of Abernethy's works, we are

quite as desirous of showing why he did not do more,

as we are of setting down faithfully our many un

doubted obligations to him. This, indeed, is the best

mode of giving an onward impulse to those approach

Ifes toward a definite science which (John Hunter ex
cepted) he was the first to secure.      we would in

crease the usefulness of those beautiful principles which

he has left us, we can hardly do better than endeavor

to point out any error or deficiency in the investigation

opflicaanbyle.subHjeicstswotorkwohnich"   such principles may be ap
                                         Tumors" contains much that

is interesting in regard to the peculiar character of his

mind, and his aptitude for simplification. He does not

undertake a thorough investigation of the subject. His

object seems to have been to place in an intelligible

order; to chronicle and mark that which was really

known; to pack together, as it were, that which was

clear and positive, in a form convenient for consider

ation ; to remove that disorder and obscurity which

seem to hang about the threshold of all inquiries, and

substitute so much of arrangement and perspicuity as

might invite, and perhaps facilitate, further investiga

tion.
 126 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    He states the more important facts which he had

observed, and conducts his classification of the so-call

ed " Tumors" on a basis as scientific as it could be on
an imperfect induction of facts. He did this in a

 way eminently characteristic of his quick perception,
in seizing those properties on which a nomenclature
 should be based, and in marking those distinctions

 which, in a practical science, must always be regard
ed as of the greatest value. He founded his nomen
clature chiefly on certain resemblances observed in
these diseases to well-known structures of the body.

     The simplicity of this plan, so long as the resem
blance is obvious, is just that which constitutes excel
lence in nomenclature. To take an example among
others, he says there is a tumor, the structure of which
resembles the Pancreas, or Sweet-bread, as it is pop

ularly called, and to this tumor he gives the name of
Pancreatic. Now every one knows a sweet-bread, and

the name implies no opinion whatever as to its nature ;

it simply declares a fact. Whatever we may ulti
mately discover with regard to tumors, a name of this
kind, though it may possibly be exchanged for one
more significant of the nature of the disease, will still
leave us nothing to unlearn, for the tumor in question
will always have that resemblance from which Mr.
Abernethy named it; and if we should find (as indeed

we do find), in course of time, that diseases undergo al
terations of type, the rarity of a tumor resembling the
sweet-bread would record that circumstance.

    Had he examined them by the microscope, and se
lected the appearances so elicited as grounds for his
classification, it would have been much less useful.

In the first place, comparatively few persons would
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                              127

have had the opportunity or taken the pains to observe ;

and, secondly, we should have had the inconveniences

resulting from that variety which we generally find in

the reports of microscopic researches. There is just

now a great disposition for microscopic inquiry, per

haps somewhat too much ; but no channel should be

neglected if it be not too exclusively relied on. Aber-

nethy amused himself at one period in examining ul

timate structure by the microscope, but he seems to

have had but a very measured reliance on this mode

of investigation.

Judicious nomenclature is of immense importance

in the frame-work of a science, and a want of care in

this has probably done as much as any thing to impede

the course of rational investigation. There is nothing,

perhaps, in the whole range of science more to be la
mented than many --indeed, I might say all --parts of
Ifmedical nomenclature.
                         our ignorance prevents us

from giving a name to a thing which is descriptive of

its nature, we might easily avoid applying such as are

calculated to mislead ; we can imagine the confusion

owfhwicahterwo"upldoisroens,u" ltanfdroamveassdelrucgognitsatinlianbgelpinogisona  bottle

                                                                                   " wa

ter," yet we doubt whether he would more imperfectly

express the true relations of these fluids than the terms
" fever" and " inflammation" do the real nature of the

conditions which they are employed to designate.

Abernethy's arrangement of tumors not only illus

trates his disposition to seize on the more salient points

of a subject, but also his inclination to seek for the es

sential relations of (so-called local) disease in the gen
eral condition of the body. He consistently, therefore,

mentions them in an order founded on such relations.
128 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

He places those first which he had found least danger
ous in their nature, least destructive in their effects,
and which appeared to him to have been attended by
the least disturbance to the general economy. In like
manner, he placed those which had manifested more
malignant or dangerous characters in the order of their
severity, inferring their characters respectively from
the disturbance of the constitution, the resistance of

the disease to treatment, and the variety of structures

destroyed in its progress.
    Between these two extremes, he placed, as the stop.

of transition, that tumor which he had observed to par
take most strongly of intermediate characters. But,

besides the desire to throw some light on the subject
of tumors generally, he had another special object in
view. Few diseases exemplify the absence of scien
tific research more than tumors. In regard to most of
the morbid depositions, it may be remarked that, even
now, whenever a patient with one of these so-called
tumors applies for advice, the practicability of removal
is too often the only thing thought of; and it must be
obvious to common sense that the mere cutting away
of a deposition of this kind (however proper under some
peculiar circumstances) can hardly ever exert any in
fluence on the causes of its production. Indeed, the
manner in which these diseases are continually re
moved, without any previous inquiry that is really wor
thy of the name, is among the many grounds on which
we found the opinion expressed in the sequel on the

present state of medical surgery, as contrasted with
that in which it was left by Abernethy. Now, while
the gravity of the subject rendered the consideration of
airtumors important, there was one which in an espe
                                     MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                        129

is al                   cial manner had eluded all efforts to expose its nature it
                       a                                                                   it,
                        and dependencies --this was the justly-dreaded cancer.
                        In regard to this, Mr. Abernethy hoped that further in               it a a

                        formation might be obtained, by investigating other tu                                 a
                        mors more closely, and thus bringing, as he expresses
                        a
                        it, collateral knowledge to bear on " like light shina

                        ing from various places to illustrate the object of ourit

                        researches."

                           Here was suggestion in the true spirit of philo

                        sophical inquiry, while, in taking so simple a basis for
                        the names of tumors, and then associating them in ar
                        rangement with their respective constitutional tenden
                        cies, he adopted the best mode of recording in gener

                           sense their more important relations. But the fault
                        lay in the suppressed premise that the relations of the
                        so-called tumors were comprehended by division which

                           not founded in nature. Nothing, indeed, can be more
                        artificial than that division of diseases to which sur

                        geons usually restrict the term tumor -- defect which

                        besets all medical inquiries. The old division, in which

                        all sorts of diseases were jumbled together under the
                        general name of tumors, defective as might be, was
                        much more auspicious, had ever been made the ob

                        ject of really philosophical inquiry, because the very
                        diversity of the phenomena they presented would, by
                        the ordinary process of common sense or inductive rea
                        soning, have only served to bring out their common

                        characters -- most important first step in all investi

                        gations of this nature.
                            Had Mr. Abernethy extended that collateral view

                        which he justly insists on to all sorts of new deposi
                        tions, instead of confining to the so-called "tumors,"

                        he would have detected how artificial was the division,

                                                      F2
130 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

and taken it at its just value ; he would have found
that he had excluded circumstances which not only
led to a much more intimate knowledge of the rela
tions on which those so-called tumors depend, but
which confer a power of demonstrating easily, and in
a more particular manner, to the most ignorant or prej
udiced, those relations to a disordered state of the body
which, without such assistance, it required a mind no
less penetrative and suggestive than Abernethy's to
give even a general enunciation. This defect essen
tially consisted in the vice we have before alluded to,
and is nothing else but a violation of one of the rules
most insisted on by Lord Bacon.*

   It proceeds, perhaps, from the habit of looking at

subjects through a medium too exclusively anatom
ical, and by which even Mr. Hunter was sometimes,
though exceptionally, hampered. Popularly, it was
deducing conclusions from only a portion of the facts

of the subject; but if Abernethy did not get the whole

of the facts, and therefore missed some portion of the
conclusions to be drawn from them, he at least avoid
ed the error of inferring any thing positive which the
facts did not warrant. We hope, however, that the
paper has been valuable in enabling some of us to ar
rive at further views, which serve to confirm the truth,
and extend the application of those entertained by

Abernethy.
     Now, to put the whole thing popularly, and to direct

the public view to the common sense of the matter, it
is obvious that if we want to know the real nature of

any growth whatever --say a tumor, a plant, or an ani-

    * That the nature of a thing is not to be sought only out of itself,
 but from things more in common.
        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                     131

mal -- we can not do this by any examination of its

structure alone. If we desire to know its nature, we

must also examine its habits, food, climate, and the va

rious influences to which it is subjected. If, indeed,
this were once done, then it is very possible, on again

seeing the structure merely, we might recognize its
real relations, although we might still be glad to have

any well-known substance to which we could compare

it,only to record its identity. This right enough,
                                    I
  if                                          is
thus to obtain the general knowledge before we assume
     I
the particular. Again suppose had some ground
            I
growing all manner of plants and twenty different sorts:
of fungi, what should get by merely examining the?

fibres of one or the other

   But should easily discover that some plants grew
best in one soil, some in another, some with more

moisture, some with less while the very circumstan
        a
                                 ;
ces of soil, moisture, and so on, which were essential

to some, might be enfeebling or destructive to others.

No one will for moment doubt that the kind of nu

trition was of great importance in all, and this would
"Ifnecessarily lead me to infer that,
                                     is I         desired to get

such fungus, must have more moisture, less air,
aa      I

less heat or light, or another soil," and so on.

   In plant, you must also look to the roots and
other parts of the organism. Now this exactly what

should be done in regard to tumors, and for no reason

more strongly than that the great beauty and benefi

cent effects of Mr. Abernethy's views may become prac

tically useful; for, in the same manner that we would

desire to influence the plant or the fungus through the
sources whence derives its nourishment, as air, wa
        it

ter, various ingredients in the earth, and so on, so the
132 1KEM0IRS OF ABKRNKTHY.

only channels by which we can effect any influence

are those organs by which these matters are ultimate

ly changed into the structures we wish to maintain

there, or we desire to get rid of, as the case may be.

Now, although the number and relations of these or

gans may render the investigation more difficult in one

case than in another, as their relations are more mul

tiplied as the animal or vegetable is more or less sim

ple or complicated in structure, yet, whether we take

our example from man or any other animal --or, in fact,

any organized being of the countless modifications we

find in nature --still the instrumentality through which

the vital power acts is neither more nor less than the

assimilating organs.

  If we have been too professional in this discussion,

we plead as an apology that in no one point in the

whole range of surgical practice would unnecessary

suffering be avoided more frequently than on the sub

ject before us, provided only that what is clear and

positive, as distinguished from what is conventional and
erroneous, were once popularly familiar; for, among

other evils, most   oofntlhyesuoppeerrafltuioonuss--intothuisse  department
of surgery are not                                               no stronger
term --but they yet practically interfere, more than any

one thing whatever, with the progress of the scientific

investigation of the nature of these maladies.

The removal of them by operation is too commonly

undertaken, not only under circumstances which, as

Abernethy said, " add cruelty to calamity," but for

reasons which logically forbid such a proceeding ; and

although there are conditions which call for such in

terference, yet those under which it is usually insti

tuted help only to obscure the real relations of the dis
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                133

case, and to throw the shadowy veil of an irrational
empiricism over the operations of nature.

    Those who recollect the remarkable results which

Abernethy sometimes obtained in regard to this in

tractable and often formidable class of diseases, will, I

think, be disposed to agree in thinking that few dis
eases are more open to improved investigation, or prom
ise a more encouraging prospect of enlarging the bound
aries of philosophical medicine.

SECTION.

HIS PAPER ON A CURIOUS CIRCUMSTANCE SOMETIMES FOLLOWING INJURY
                                               TO THE LUNOS.

Fractured ribs are common accidents, and illustrate

very beautifully those conservative principles in ani
mal bodies which give such interest to the study of
their economy.

    When first we consider that the ribs form the great
er part of that box in which the lungs and heart are
inclosed, and by which they are protected, we are dis
posed to regard a fracture of one or more ribs as a very

serious affair.

    Nevertheless, these accidents generally do extremely
well. In the first place, the gristles, or cartilages as
they are called, by which the ribs are attached to the
sternum in front, give, in conjunction with the spine

behind, considerable elasticity to the whole structure

of the chest. Most injuries have therefore to overcome

the elasticity before any thing gives way ; and when

the rib has done so, and is fractured, the resiliency of

the cartilage or gristle to which it is attached tends to

restore it to its place, or to set as we phrase it.
          it,
                                 is     the in
Another very common thing in accidents
134 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

stantaneity with which muscles which are ordinarily

under the dominion of the will become reluctant to

      or altogether repudiate its authority. In all
obey  it,
                it
                       is

                          is
                                                                 a

                                                                         is
fractures, of course, the most material thing absolute

repose, and there very little chance of man moving

his rib when    broken. He instinctively begins to

expand his chest for the admission of the necessary air

by other muscles, usually to the exclusion of those

which are attached to the broken bone.

The Lung, which may be considered as a series of

tubes, some conveying blood and others air, often
it

     is
               is is

                       is,

                        it, it

                                             is
                                                is

                                               is it

                                                                  is

                                                          it
                                                                           is it, is

                                                                                              a
wounded, but the blood immediately stops the leak,
from its tendency to coagulate when out of the ves

sels, and no harm ensues. Occasionally, however, a

circumstance occurs, which, until       understood, ap

pears curious and alarming. Either from the extent,

the scratching of the surface, or some other peculiarity

in the wound of the lung, the air escapes from                               and

the patient   as were, blown up, as in the chest,

neck, and face, by the air impelled from the lung be

neath the skin into the connecting tissue, exactly in

the same manner as the butcher does when he pre

paring veal. This blowing-up       called, from the

Greek word for  Emphysema, and was on this

feature in these accidents that Mr. Abernethy wrote

short paper.

   There not much which absolutely new in it.

It chiefly remarkable for the clear manner in which

    places before us what required, as distinguished
from what officious and unnecessary, and, in fact, re
duces the treatment to that of ordinary cases with one

clearly defined modification.
   He shows his familiarity with Pneumatics, so far as
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  135

they are touched by the case, just as he does his knowl
edge of Chemistry elsewhere. The exceptional cases,
in which the air is confined in the chest, the mode of
procuring it an exit by operation, and the condition
regulating this proceeding, are very simply and clear
ly laid down.

    The paper also contains remarks on the collapse of
the lungs when the chest is opened, and on certain ex
ceptions which have been observed, which, from their
general interest and suggestive character, will well re
pay an attentive perusal.

    He next offers a few remarks on those mothers'

marks, as they are popularly called, and which are
technically styled naevi; these are usually little more
than clusters of enlarged blood-vessels, and are usual
ly removed by excision or other operative proceedings.
As the essential character of these marks is increased

action and size of vessels, Mr. Abernethy thought that

if well-regulated pressure were made on them so as

to impede the flow of blood into them, and this were
conjoined with Cold (which represses vascular ac
tion), many of them might be got rid of in this man
ner. He found his idea realized, and published three
cases of its success. The value of these suggestions
consists, first, in the opposition they offer, pro tanto, to
that absurd tendency there is to remove every thing
like a tumor, and the impediment thence arising to
any searching inquiry into the causes on which they

depend.

   But there is another inconvenience which occasion
ally renders the excision of these nsevi very unadvisa-

ble. It sometimes happens that they are so situated

that they can not be removed without making the dis
136 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

figurement greater, or from some other still more seri

ous objection ; as, for example, when small ones occur
in the face, or when they are placed near the eye.
Under such circumstances, the contraction consequent

on a wound of any extent is a serious inconvenience;
in some of these cases the adoption of Mr. Abernethy's
plan allows us to dispense with the operation by ex

cision, as I have myself experienced. As it illustrates

the advantage of the plan in a case where it was par

ticularly applicable, I will briefly refer to one example.

A young lady had one of these marks at the root of

the nose, where, from the position, as well as from the
contiguity of the eyes, any dragging from the contrac
tion of a scar would have been particularly undesir
able. She was brought from the country to have it
removed, but, on representing the objections to that
course, it was agreed to try Mr. Abernethy's plan,

which was completely successful.

   At this period Mr. Abernethy published sundry other
interesting papers, showing, in his observation of all

that was passing around him, that his views were not
less circumspect and comprehensive than they were

clear. His "surgical cases" are all excellent; and if

they do not contain so full an account (the great vice
of medical records) of all the circumstances which pre
ceded them as are sufficient to furnish future investi
gators with the elements of accurate generalization,
they are remarkably valuable for the qualities of clear

ness and candor.

   We may have an opportunity of briefly alluding to
some of these papers in our Summary ; but they are

hardly practicable subjects for popular analysis, al
though they form some of the most valuable contribu
                MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                       137

tions to the practical literature of the profession.

They show, also, that he was as penetrative and effi

cient in regard to the operative department of practice

as he was in those higher and more extended views,

which, in enlarging the science of surgery, has tended

to diminish, of course, the number of operations.

About the year 1785, John Hunter had invented his

celebrated improvement in the treatment of a disease

of the arteries called "Aneurism." It was a very sim

ple deduction from observations on the state of the arte

ries ; and although it was one of those inquiries which

had been made the subject of experiments on living

animals, it was one on which not the smallest light

had been thrown by such investigations.

Mr. Hunter had found that, in addition to many

other serious objections to an operation which had

been usually performed for the relief of this disease --

a giving way,   or enlargement  of a    --veasseglre(afotr   it is
sometimes one,  sometimes the   other)
                                                            cause

of failure had been, that the ligature, which was

placed round the tube, was too near the disease, and,

in fact, involved a portion of the tube which was un

sound. He accordingly proposed tying the artery a

little further off, and thus substituted, for an opera

tion which was extremely severe, very hazardous, and

too commonly fatal, a comparatively short and simple

proceeding, which, under moderately favorable auspi

ces, is almost uniformly successful.

Like most other discoveries, accident and similarity

of views had suggested similar proceedings to others,

so that Continental surgeons were disposed to dispute
the merit of the discovery in favor of Guillemeau, Gu-

tani, Anel, Dessault, &c., as their views favored one
138 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

or other; but there can be no doubt that the immedi

ate institution of the operation for the definite pur
poses to which it was applicable was due to John
Hunter.

John Hunter's operation applied to the main artery

supplying the lower extremity, and surgeons have since

extended the operation to many other arteries. The

            is                  however, occurred to Mr. Aber-
                           it,
first extension of
nethy, who about this time-- 1797 --placed a ligature

on what called the external iliac artery; and as he

seldom touched any thing which he did not improve,

he made an important modification in the mode of pro

ceeding.                        it      true, has in some meas
    Subsequent experience,
                                    is

ure rendered that improvement no longer necessary;

yet, whenever circumstances arise which lead to any

material disturbance of the artery from its situation,

we apprehend the caution of Abernethy, in tying in
                                                               it

two places close to its connection with the surround

ing parts,  valuable condition.
it
He also sent, about this time, an ingenious paper to
    is
the Royal Society on certain small openings into theis

cavities of the hoart. They are called the " Foramina;a
                                      is

                                                            a
of Thebesius," from an anatomist who particularly de
scribed them. This to us one of the prettiest of his

physiological contributions. The facts are stated with
great simplicity, their relations to disease beautifully

pointed out, and the inference from the whole very
striking, as being in harmony with the facts whence

       deduced Abernethy's idea being that the holes
were for the purpose of obviating excessive repletion of
the nutrient vessels of the heart by allowing them to

relieve themselves by pouring portion of their blood
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  139

through these holes into the general mass of the circu

lation. It could hardly, however, be made interesting

to the general reader without going into the subject

more than is suited to our present object.

   In 1799, Abernethy's reputation had gone on rapid
ly increasing. His numerous pupils, too, had become

the media for frequent consultations, in addition to

those which arose from his own connection and repu
tation with the public.

   He now moved from St. Mildred's Court, and took

the house in Bedford Row. This was some time pre
vious to October, 1799, the September of that year be
ing the last time his name appears on the rate-book
of St. Mildred's Court. He never again changed his

professional residence. The move was an important

step, but it was only the precursor to one still more

interesting.

   In the January of the following year, an event oc

curred which seldom fails to exert a greater influence

on a man's future prospects and happiness than any

other --this was no less than his marriage --of which

we must say a few words in a separate chapter.
140 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

CHAPTER XIV.

HIS MARRIAGE.

" Ye solvers of enigmas --ye
     Who deal in mystery--say

  What's cried about in London streets,
      And purchased every day.

" Tis that which all, both great and small,

Are striving to obtain,

And yet, though common and quite cheap,

Is daily sought in vain."                '.

                           Old Riddle.

   There are few subjects on which people are more
agreed than the value of " good matches," neither do
they seem to differ very widely as to what that phrase
is intended to convey. Not that every body's beau-
ideal implies identity of composition, but they are pret
ty well agreed as to the more essential elements.

   But if we observe the different ways by which peo

ple seek to obtain a common object, we are puzzled to
know how folks that set out in such various directions

should ever arrive at the same point. The travelers

are said, too, to provide themselves not unfrequently
with various disguises, not only in dress and externals,
but even in manners and sentiments, which they do
not usually entertain. Thus we have heard of one
who professed a great love of music, who scarcely had
an idea of melody ; of another who expressed an admi
ration of poets whom he had never read, or voted un

mitigated bores. Others have been known to avow a
perfect indifference to wealth who have had scarcely
            MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                     141

 an idea unmixed with an instinctive admiration of the

as in presenti.

    We once heard a curious fellow say that he could

marry any lady he liked, if he could only "bring him

self to take the trouble ;" and we thought how happy

lie would be if he could live on as good terms with his

wife as he appeared to be on with himself. Some start

with an apophthegm which they carry about like an
amulet or charm, such as " No greater rogue than he

who marries only for money, and no greater fool than

he who marries only for love." Apophthegms, however,

like many things in this world --Macintoshes and um
brellas inclusive --are very apt to be left at home when

most wanted.

We are not informed whether table-turning or mes

merism have yet discovered any prophylactics against
the undoubted perils of an expedition in search of a

partner.

   We are unfortunately not sufficiently versed in these
mysteries to know the "latest accounts," but, from the
reputed effects of platinum and other metals, we should
not be surprised to hear that a person well mesmerized
would be found very clairvoyant of gold. We know
not how far it is required to go to obtain the lofty in

signia of so exalted a position as to become a professor,

but it is   said that  "toPrtohfees"sodrsig"ginfignsd."gold  without  the
             of going
necesssity

Table-turning, we hear, has not as yet been found

successful. By shooting too much ahead of the slow

ly moving current of human affairs, it skipped over

one generation, and thus recently entrapped an Irish

gentleman of the "highest respectability" by giving a

fortune to a lady too soon, it happening to be found still
142 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

in possession of its "right owner" --or, as the technical
        "in expectation."
phrase  it

           is,
                                 a

                                                                                          by
Many aspirants for wedlock have sundry misgivings

about certain traditionary repulsions which are said to

exist between love and poverty, and, uninfluenced

the charms of matrimony, think only of the possible

consequences. Not few, however, regard marriage

too serious an affair for sport or speculation. They

think very difficult for mortals who know so little

of themselves, to know much about other people, and

that, though matches in rank and money are daily seen

to be very practicable, yet that matches in mind are

still as difficult as Dryden represented them --

" Minds are so hardly match'd, that e'en the first,
  Though pair'd in Heaven, in Paradise were cursed."

People of this sort contemplate marriage in a very

unpoetical manner. They have great faith that cor

rect intention and common sense are the best guides
                                          if
and, although they may not feel less transported with
                                              a
their prospects than other people, they are apt to re
                                                     it
member that    "transportation for life."
A                                                          is ;
                it

                        is

                                  it
great deal has been said of the marriage of Aber-

nethy, and very much of in proof of his eccentricity

of character.

If, indeed, the routine which many adopt as the

preliminaries of marriage be the symbol of wisdom

in such matters, Mr. Abernethy's proceeding might not

improperly be regarded as eccentric; but   steady

reliance on common sense on an occasion on which

sometimes laid aside, and the employment of the high

est qualities of the mind for the most important purif

poses be wise, we must, we allege the eccentricity
of Abernethy, concede to him the less equivocal merit
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  143

of practical wisdom. Himself a sensible and clever

man, a great admirer of these properties in others, he
was not very likely to ally himself to any lady who
appeared deficient in such characteristics.

    Abernethy had a very quick perception of character,
and his profession afforded him ample opportunities
for the exercise and the cultivation of this quality.
He would not have been very likely to lay it aside on
occasions similar to those on which he had been ha

bitually called on to employ it. There are difficulties
in getting at the details on such occasions too obvious
to require the mention of them, and we can not, there

fore, be understood as pledging ourselves for the ac
curacy of the version we are about to give of the mat

ter, but we would not give even that if we had not

good reason to believe it to be substantially true.
    Miss Anne Threlfall was the daughter of a gentle

man who had retired from business, and who, it ap
pears, had been residing in the town or neighborhood
of the far-famed Edmonton. This lady had been stay
ing with some friends near London (at Putney, we be
lieve), where Abernethy was visiting, and, as we have

been informed, in his professional capacity.
    He had there an opportunity of observing her kind

ness and attention, with which he was much gratified.
But to these were added personal attractions of no

common order, and lively lady-like and agreeable man
ners, which have been invariably appreciated by all
who have had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Abernethy.

    The " situation" was not ill calculated to allow two

clever people to form some opinion of each other, since
they would meet under circumstances favorable to the
exhibition of character. We shall have to deal with
144 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

the subject of manner by-and-by ; and, whatever ex
ceptions we may have to record, we may here observe,
that no man could be more kind in his manner than
Abernethy, and, at all events, he was pretty sure to be
unaffected. He had always, too, a most sensitive ap
preciation of kindness to patients in others. Now, sup
posing his opinion formed, his resolution taken, there
was still for Abernethy a difficulty: he was very shy,
and extremely sensitive ; wholly absorbed in teaching,
studying, and practicing his profession, his rising am
bition just grasping at success. How was resolution
or opportunity to be found for the tardigrade, time-
consuming progress of a regular siege? But we sus
pect that "shyness" was the real Rubicon he felt a dif
ficulty in passing. Common sense said, you are about
to ask a lady to intrust her happiness for life to you.
Conscience said it was a great deal to ask, and timid

ity was equally afraid to make the request or to brook
a refusal. Surely it was a question not to be answer

ed, as he used to say, "off-hand."
    Should not some time be given for consideration ?

Now a short note would cut the (xordian knot of all
these difficulties, and this was the course he adopted.
He wrote a note expressive of his wishes, pleading the
nature and variety of his occupations in apology for
the method of making them known, and requesting the
lady to take a fortnight to consider of her reply. We

are not sure that something might not have been said
in deprecation of the time wasted in too much "dan
gling" on these occasions. Be this as it may, as the
world knows, the request was successful.

    The marriage took place accordingly in the parish

church of All Saints, Edmonton, on the 9th of Janua

ry, 1800, and is thus entered in the Register :
                 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                              145

" John Abernethy, Bachelor, of the Parish of St. Andrew's, Hol-

born, to Anne Threlfall, of this Parish, Spinster, were married in this

Church by license, the 9th day of January, 1800, by me,

                                                 "D. Warren, Vicar.

" This marriage  was solemnized         between  us :

" In the presence of                             " John Abernethy,
   " William Patten,
  "William Hodgson,                              " Anne Threlfall.
                           " Charlotte
                                                    J. Hodosok,
                                                   Mary Threlfall,

                                        Hodgson."

   As we have said, we believe the foregoing is sub

stantially the correct version of Mr. Abernethy's mar

riage ; but if there be any inaccuracy, this is at least

certain, that on this occasion he secured a partner for

life every way worthy of him --a lady who to personal

beauty added those social and moral excellences which
combine to form a superior woman, and one to whom
even such a man as Abernethy could look up with
equal respect and affection, as the wife, the mother,
and the friend.

   If we forbear to enlarge on this subject--if we fore

go any particular mention of the reverence in which

Abernethy's memory is held, and other evidences of

the superior cast of mind to which he was so long and

so happily united --we need only say that Mrs. Aber

nethy is still living, and well enough, we trust, to look
back with pleasure on a retrospect such as, perhaps,
comparatively few have been permitted to enjoy, and
with enough of her characteristic kindness to excuse
the few observations in which we have ventured to in

dulge.

   One circumstance on the occasion of his marriage is
very characteristic of him, namely, his not allowing it
to interrupt, even for a day, a duty with which he

                                     G
146 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

rarely suffered any thing to interfere, namely, the

ILecture at the hospital.  met him coming into the
   Many years after this,

hospital one day, a little before two (the hour of lec
ture), and seeing him rather smartly dressed, with a

white waistcoat, I said,

"You are very gay to-day, Sir?"

"Ay," said he; "one of the girls was married this

morning."

  "Indeed, Sir," I said. "You should have given

yourself a holidayon such an occasion, and not come

down to lecture."

  " Nay," returned he. " Egad ! I came down to lec
ture the day I was married myself!"

  IOn another occasion, recollect his being sent for

to a case just before lecture. The case was close in

the neighborhood, and it being a question of time, he

hesitated a little; but being pressed to go, he started

off. He had, however, hardly passed the gates of the

hospital before the clock struck two, when all at once
he said, "No, I'll be      if I do!" and returned to

the lecture-room.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  147

                       CHAPTER XV.

  op abernethy's book on "the constitutional origin oF LOCAL

                          DISEASES," OTHERWISE " MY BOOK."

             " From the barr'd Vizor of Antiquity
                Reflected shines the Eternal light of Truth
                  As from a mirror ; all the means of action,
                 The shapeless masses, the materials
                 Are every where around us. What we need
                Is the celestial fire, to change the flint
                 Into transparent crystal bright as fair."
                                          Longfellow's " Spanish Student."

   In all that Abernethy had hitherto published, it was
easy to perceive that, although he was carefully exam
ining the prevailing opinions and practice of the day,
he was emphatically one of those independent thinkers
who had power to overlay the most established con
ventionalisms with opinions of his own; that although
hitherto his publications had related to particular dis
eases or accidents, and which were held as within the
ordinary province of the surgeon, he was shadowing

forth principles --views which, if they were true, must

necessarily have a much wider range of application
than to the particular cases which it had been his ob
ject to consider. In 1804, he had sufficiently matured
his general views to think it right to publish them;
and this he did in his book on the Constitutional Ori

gin of Local Diseases, popularly known as the "My

Book," to which he not unfrequently referred his pa
tients for a more detailed account of his views than he

could find time to give in the consulting room. When
148 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

we reflect that diseases consist entirely of altered con
ditions in the structure or function in some part of the
body, a formal announcement that they must be great
ly influenced by the organs on which the whole body
depends for its nutrition seems to have so much the
aspect of an obvious truism, that we scarcely know
whether most to wonder at so formal an announce
ment of it having been necessary, or the astonishing
number and variety of the reservations with which it
has been admitted.

   But, strange as this may appear, and although all
the facts have been before the eyes of man for ages,
nay, though their relations have been more or less felt
and acknowledged in cases usually submitted to the
physician, we venture to say that nothing like an at
tention at all adequate to their importance was obtain
ed for them in the practice of physic, and scarcely any
at all in surgery, until the time of Abernethy.

   At the present time, a great deal has been done to
establish, by the most clear and indisputable demon
stration, the practical usefulness and necessity of the
principles to which Abernethy conducted us in the cure
of diseases, whether medical or surgical. Still, these
principles are much neglected, much misunderstood, or
so imperfectly carried out as to excite, even in many

of the public, expressions of astonishment. It is, in

deed, not too much to assert that even in those cases
in which their successful application has been most
incontestably exemplified, his principles are fairly car
ried out on comparatively few occasions.

    The causes of all this are, we fear, too clear ; the re

moval of them is more difficult. We may possibly dis
cuss both in the sequel.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  149

    Instead of the exquisite simplicity and clearness of
Abernethy's views, so far as he had gone, being care
fully studied, and with a view to the extension of them
beyond those limits which his time, his opportunities,

and his caution had assigned to them --instead of ex

amining into and testing the practical value of the de-
ducible, and, in fact, necessary sequences, on views of
which he had demonstrated the truth and value, prac
tice appears to have taken a retrograde movement.

   He who would advance even as far as Abernethy is
in danger of being regarded as crotchety or peculiar,
while any who should strive, by a more careful exam
ination of his views, to render their practical applica
tion more definite and analytical, must be prepared to
be looked on simply as an enthusiast.

   This has, indeed, been the case more or less in all

sciences from the earliest times. The facts which con

duct us to a true interpretation of the laws in obedi
ence to which they occur, have been always before us ;
the very same facts on which, as Professor Whewell*
observes, we have raised the stately structure of mod
ern sciences. Butlert had before made the same re

mark. Poets too, as even the motto to our chapter
shows, have held the same sentiment ; what every
body knows, how few consider! Neither Copernicus
nor Galileo altered or invented facts. Those they ob

served ! what they discovered were conclusions inter
preting their true relations. Bodies fell to the earth,
and the crystal rain-drop had shown the composite na
ture of light in the beautiful colors and wonderful il
lustrations of the rainbow ages before Newton's discov-

                       * " History of the Inductive Sciences."
                    t Butler's "Analogy."
150 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ery showed the true explanation of the one, and the

greTahtelawobjeecxtemopf li"fiethde  in the other.  set  forth  the  great
                                      Book" is to

fact of the reciprocal influence existing between the

nervous system and the digestive organs, and the pow

er they mutually exert in the causation and cure of
diseases; and this, whether the diseases originate in

disturbance primarily directed to the brain or any oth

er portion of the nervous system, or to the digestive or

gans; whether the result of accident, such as mechan

ical injury, or other local manifestations more common

ly termed disease. In the book before us we shall find

an ample refutation of many misconstructions and mis

apprehensions of Abernethy's views ; misconstructions

which have tended to obscure principles which were

remarkable for their simplicity and truthfulness; to

impede the beneficial application of them in a manner

which has been equally injurious to the public and the

profession, and which have impressed on mankind a

very inadequate idea of the obligations due to the dis
tinguished author. His views were said to be theoret

ical and exaggerated, while they were the strictly de-

ducible conclusions from facts; and so far from their

pervading power in the causation and cure of disease

having been exaggerated, the onward study of them

only serves, by the discovery of more multiplied and

refined applications of them, to fill in with additional

illustrations the accurate outline which he has so truth

fully drawn. He never wrests a fact to a conclusion

to which it does not legitimately lead. In virtue of

that suggestive quality of his mind (so important an
aid in philosophical inquiries), he occasionally, in all

his writings, puts forth suppositions, but these only as
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  151

questions, the next in the order of inquiry, and these

he asks of nature alone.
   Mr. Hunter had been the first in this country to

make the true use of anatomy--I mean in the sense

that while it was no doubt the basis of our investiga
tion into the functions or uses of parts, still it was only
one of an extensive series of inquiries. He had exam
ined the dead with no purpose more earnestly in his
mind than to assist him in his endeavors to observe

the living--examined parts that he might better un

derstand the whole. He had made himself familiar
with the economy of animals, and generally with the
habits of organized beings, whether animal or vegeta
ble, that he might know their relations to each other,
and that of the whole to the phenomena, habits, and
laws of the Human economy. As ho neglected no
source whence it had been customary to seek for in
formation, so, notwithstanding his fondness for ani
mals, he made various experiments on living creatures.

But while these experiments afford additional proofs of
the poverty, so to speak, of this plan of investigation,
they impress on us the truth of Sir Charles Bell's as
sertion, that physiology is essentially a science of ob
servation. We have only to place Mr. Hunter's observ
ations and experiments here referred to in juxtaposi
tion, in order to bring out in high relief the great mean

ing and value of the one, and the unnecessary or in
conclusive character of the other. He also examined

the various facts presented to him in the living body
with unequaled patience and circumspection.

    Among others, he had paid particular attention to
those which exemplify that vivid, that watchful con
nection which exists between various parts and organs,
152 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

and by which impressions or sensations excited in any
one part are telegraphed, as it were, with the swiftness
of lightning, to any or all of the organs of the body ;

facts which may be observed by any body --by no one

better, and by few so well, as patients themselves. To
take a common example : every body is familiar with

the fact that certain disturbances of the stomach pro
duce pain or other annoyance to the head. Every one
is equally familiar with another fact, that there is very
often no pain, and sometimes no sensation of annoy
ance in the stomach, so that were it not from an innu
merable succession of such conditions, in accordance
with particular influences on the stomach, we should,

from the feeling of the stomach only, never dream of
the cause being in that organ. Now about these sim
ple facts hang not only the most practical of all John
Hunter's observations, not only the most valuable of
Mr. Abernethy's, but, as far as we can see, the phe
nomena through a philosophical examination of which
we shall still most auspiciously seek to extend our
practical knowledge of disease. We see here just that

which Mr. Hunter had asserted, namely, " that the or

gan secondarily affected (in this case, the head) some
times appeared to suffer more than the organ to which
the disturbance had first been directed."

   He observed, also, that the connection thus mani

fested existed equally between all other parts and or
gans ; that, although it might be exemplified in differ
ent forms, still the association it implied was indispu
table. He adopted the usual terms by which these

phenomena had been designated. Parts were said to
sympathize with each other, and no term could be
better, as it simply expressed the fact of associated
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  153

disturbance or suffering. It is true the facts were not

at all new; they had always existed; nay, they had

been observed and commented on by many persons

Iever since the time of Hippocrates ; and, if were to

mention the whole of them, there is scarcely one which
would not strike some one or other as just as familiar
an acquaintance as a headache from disturbance of
the stomach. Mr. Hunter, however, had a kind of in

stinctive idea of the yet unseen value of the clew thus
afforded to the investigation of disease, and he observed
these facts with a greater attention to all their details,
than any one, or all who had preceded him.

    Hunter's observations on the subject in his lectures
were extremely numerous, and elaborate even to tedi-
ousness ; Abernethy, who used to give us a very hu
morous description of some of the audiences of John
Hunter on these occasions, was accustomed to say,
" That the more humorous and lively part of the audi
ence would be tittering, the more sober and unexcita-
ble quietly dozing into a nap, while the studious and
penetrative few appeared to be seriously impressed with
the value of Mr. Hunter's observations and inquiries."
Mr. Cline, an honored name in our profession, and one
who, had he lived in later times, would probably have
been as distinguished in advancing science as he was

for his practical excellence, significantly expressed his
impressions of the future importance of the inquiries
in which Hunter was engaged. Addressing Mr. Clift

after one of the lectures, he said,
   " Ah ! Mr. Clift, we must all go to school again."
    Mr. Abernethy carefully treasured up and pondered

on what he heard. He placed himself as much as he
could near Mr. Hunter, and took every pains which his

                             G2
154 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

time and occupations allowed thoroughly to understand
him ; and with his characteristic tendency to simplifi

cation said, "Well, what Mr. Hunter tells us resolves
itself into this, that the whole body sympathizes with

all its parts."
   His perceptivity, naturally rapid, was evidently em

ployed in observing the bearing of this axiom on the
facts of disease. The digestive organs, which, if we
extend the meaning to all those engaged in assimila
ting our food, compose nearly the whole viscera of the
body, could not escape his attention, nor, indeed, fail
to be regarded in all experimental investigations of any
one organ. Accordingly, we have seen a very import
ant application of the relations between organs engaged
in concurrent functions in his paper on the skin and
lungs, in which, from physiological evidences of their
being engaged in a common function, and the sympa
thetic association it rendered necessary, he had ob
served relations of great moment, and pointed out the
practical bearing they must have on consumption. He
had, however, been paying attention for some time to
the digestive functions, when his intimate friend, Mr.
Boodle, of Ongar, in Essex, gave a fresh stimulus to
his exertions. This gentleman requested him to inves

tigate the functions and conditions of the liver in va
rious nervous diseases, as also in certain affections of
the lungs, which had appeared to him, Mr. Boodle, to

"Ioriginate in the former organ ; Mr. Abernethy says,

soon perceived that the subject was of the highest con
sequence in the practice of surgery, for local diseases
disturb the functions of the digestive organs, and con
versely a deranged state of those organs, either occur
ring in consequence of such sympathy, or existing
                  MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                      155

previously, materially affects the progress of local com

plaints."

   At the very commencement he hits on a great cause

of evil, and boldly assails one of the most mischievous

of all conventionalisms. " The division of medicine
and surgery," he observes, "is mischievous, as direct

ing the attention of the two orders of practitioners too

exclusively to the diseases usually allotted to them."

It

             is,
                                                                          a
There indeed, no exaggerating the evils of that par
tial mode of investigation to which such custom al
most necessarily leads. We fall into error, not because

of the difficulty of the subject, but because we never

can, by looking at one set of diseased processes only,
learn the whole of the facts belonging to the subject.

   was just this that prevented Fordyce from arriving

at correct views of fever. Nothing could be more ex
cellent than the way he began to consider it; but he

hardly begins before he tells us that he intends to ex

clude those febrile affections which fall under the care
of surgeons. Now, in doing this, he at once abandon,

ed series of facts which are absolutely essential to
a Aa
the investigation. It must be obvious, on moment's
      a                                    aa
reflection, that  if     particular condition of part have
                     if a
relation to the whole body, the study of one without

the other, or even both be taken up by different per

sons, nothing but the most imperfect views can result.

       jury, still more a judge, might in some cases guess

from partial evidence the issue of legal investigation,
                                      ?a

                                                 it

                                                         is
but who ever heard of either determining to examine

       portion only of that evidence  Yet                                    not too

much to say, that hardly any legal question can be so

recondite as many questions on physiology. The na

ture of the case always more or less obsoured by
                  is                                                         a
156 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHV.

number and variety of interfering circumstances. Dis
eases may be regarded, in fact, as nothing more than

natural laws, developed under more or less complicated
circumstances of interference.

Lord Bacon had warned all investigators of nature

of the danger of attending only to a portion of the facts

--it had been one of the great bars to progress of

knowledge in general. I regret to say that it still

continues the bane of almost all medical inquiries.

   Abernethy's inference from this mutilated sort of
investigation is too true when he observes that "the

connection of all local diseases with the state of the

constitution has obtained little notice," whereas the
truth is that " no part of an animal body can be con

siderably disordered without affecting the whole sys
tem." Now here Mr. Abernethy claims --what? sim
ply this : he claims for function -- that
a                                                                            the various

             it itbofofdicye--s ftuhlafitllewdhicbhythe several parts and organs of the
                                    Cuvier has so beautifully insisted
                         a

                                              is it

                                                                        is,
on, and which our own Owen has so instructively ex

emplified in regard to structure or formation, namely,
   necessary relation between the whole and all its

parts.

   In speaking of affections of the nervous system,

Abernethy observes that the brain may be affected by
the part injured, and that then may affect the vari

ous organs by "reflected" operation; but that, what

ever may be the mode (thus carefully separating the
opinion from the fact), "the fact indisputable." He

adds that may affect some organs more than others,

and thus give a character or name to a disease. For

example, might affect the liver, we will say, when

the name which would be given would probably be
              MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.           157

expressive of what was a secondary circumstance,
namely, a disturbance of the liver. This does not so

frequently happen, perhaps, nor so mischievously, in re

lation to local injuries, but in other cases it is the cause

of a great deal of erroneous and misleading nomencla

ture.

As we have seen, it often occurs that, when the or

gans of the body are disordered, the more salient

"symptoms," perhaps the whole of those observed, are

referred to a secondarily affected organ, and the dis

ease is named from that circumstance. The too fre

ly itquent result            that attention  exclusively directed
                                             it is
              isto that organ, while the cause, being elsewhere, and
                 a                                a
where there are no symptoms, wholly escapes observ            is,
                        is,
ation.                                                                               ;

This          very important branch of inquiry and as                             a

closely connects what Abernethy left us with what

appears to us to be one of the next things to be clear

made out, we will endeavor to illustrate it.
                                             severe injury--
Suppose a person meets with

cut, bruise, fracture, or any thing that we have seen a

hundred times before, and instead of being succeeded

by the usual processes of repair, be followed by some

others the simple expression of the fact that some;
thing has interfered with the usual mode and progress

of repair, and as former experience had shown us that

there was nothing in the nature of the injury to ac

count for this, we are naturally led to look for the ex

planation of in the state of the individual. But
              it

                          a

                                                                   if
the unusual appearance be one which we have agreed

to call "Erysipelas," and we are accustomed to see

long papers written upon this appearance as a distinct

disease, we acquire tendency, as every day's experi
158 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ence shows, to regard it as a kind of abstraction, or as

an entity --something composed of precise and defin

ite relations, contained in that particular description of
case. Yet these relations may not be in any two suc
cessive cases exactly alike. Again, all of them may
be subordinate to some more general character, prob
ably a relation without which we can not readily ex
plain the phenomena, but at which we can not arrive
because we have not comprehended a sufficient num
ber of facts in our inquiry to include it.

   "Erysipelas" is nothing more than a natural law
obscured, because, as we have just hinted, it is devel
oped under circumstances of interference (from disor
dered conditions of the economy) which distort the
natural features of the law, modify its effects, or which
may prevent altogether its full development. But now,

if we study it by the means afforded by the various con

nected links which other varieties of disease furnish,

the ascertainment of the real relations becomes compar
atively easy; and we find that while there are certain
general relations which belong to all cases, there are
certain others which may, in a given succession of
cases, be identical, or in no two exactly the same.

    Partial investigations, leading, of course, to errone
ous views, are sure to entail on us a defective nomen

clature, and then the two do very materially contrib
ute to continue the fallacies of each other. We may

have an affection of a lung --perhaps the cause may

not be in the chest at all, although the lung may be
inflamed or otherwise; but we call it pneumonia, or
pleuritis, or some other name which simply refers to
what is happening to the part; but all these have ref

erence only to effects; they are extremely defective,
        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                        159

therefore, as comprehending only a portion of the na

ture, and having no reference whatever to the seat of

the cause of the malady. The consequences of all

this may not be necessarily mischievous, but they are

so lamentably common as to continue to form a very

large sharge of the routine practice. The cause is

elsewhere, but the remedies are directed to the chest
--that
        is,

                                                                         it
        they are, in such cases, applied to effects,
Ifnot causes.
               we must retain names so defective,

would be very practicable to combine them with some

thing which should indicate that we had at least look

ed for the cause. This would, at all events, encourage

a habit of looking beyond mere symptoms, and carry

us at least one link higher up the chain of causation.

Abernethy, in demonstrating the connection between

local disease or injury and general disturbance, judi

ciously takes cases where the relation was most une

quivocal -- that where the local disturbance consisted
of mechanical injury -- such as in gentleman who
a
     a

                       is,
                                                                  a
had undergone an operation, in another who had met

with bad fracture of his leg. In order to amplify his

illustrations of the connection between the brain and all

parts with the digestive organs, he draws them from

all sorts of sources -- from diseases the most severe and

dangerous as well as from affections which are resrard-

ed as most common or trivial-- from the last stages of

cancer and serious diseases of the loins, to the common

disturbances of teething in children --sources which,

from their apparent dissimilarity, confer, of course, the

strongest force on testimony in which they combine.

His delineation of the features by which disorders

of the digestive organs may be generally detected                    is

remarkably simple, clear, and truthful.
160 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   Every word has the inestimable value also of being
alike intelligible to the public and the profession. His
statement is interspersed with remarks of great value,
which, we trust, have not passed away altogether un
improved ; such as, that he had observed disorder of the
digestive organs produce states of health "similar to
those" said to be characteristic of the absorption of par

ticular poisons --a most recondite subject, but one the

obscurity of which has entirely, as we think, resulted
from the determination to regard the diseases to which
it refers as abstractions, and to investigate them under

the impenetrable shadow of preconceived conjectures.
    Almost every thing, he remarks, has received more

or less confirmation from the experience of the whole
civilized world. There are few things in his observations
more interesting than the emphatic way in which they
ignore the vulgar impression that he referred all dis

eases to the stomach. In the whole round of scientific
literature, it would be difficult to find, in the same
space, so complete or comprehensive a view of all those
which we usually term the digestive organs.

    Abernethy was very far from any such narrow views,
while, in regard to other organs, to which some of our

most distinguished men had paid particular attention,
it is not too much to say that, more clear and precise
than Curry, and equally careful with Hunter, not less
painstaking than our excellent Prout, he is more prac
tically penetrating and comprehensive on this subject
than any of them. But as to the charge of exclusive
reference to the stomach, we shall easily see there was
no foundation for it.

   In speaking of the reciprocal affections of the brain
and the digestive organs, he says, "The stomaoh is
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  161

said to be chiefly concerned in producing these effects,
but the cause of the sympathetic affection is probably

more general." --Page 48. He then goes on to ex
emplify causes acting on the Liver, and so forth. --

Page 49.
    He distinctly contends that other of the chylopoietic

organs may disturb the brain as well as the stomach.
Again, at page 52, he repeats a similar opinion, and
especially adds, that when the alimentary canal is af
fected, we can never be sure that it is primarily so.

   He also says, at page 53, that in some cases the dis
order of the digestive organs is dependent on disease
of the brain.

   I have alluded to these passages because nothing is

more unjust to Abernethy than to suppose that he at
tributed every thing to the stomach, or restricted his
attention to that or any other organ. Such a misap

prehension also tends indefinitely to impede the prac
tical application of his principles, and to deprive us of
the advantages which are so constantly derived from

them.

    This is so important, that it may be useful to con
sider a little the circumstances which may have thus
misled the public, and, we fear, not unfrequently the
profession also, in the interpretation of Abernethy 'a

views.

    In conducting the treatment of diseases of the di

gestive organs, whatever organ we may desire to in
fluence, either by inducing tranquillity of the nervous
system, or by the selection of food appropriate to the
actual condition of that organ, the stomach is neces

sarily a primary consideration.
    The reasons for this are sufficiently obvious, but
1C2 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

have not, perhaps, been always adequately regarded.

is,Digestion on the whole, manufacture, so to speak,
       is                         a
                                        a
of a raw material (food) into fluid (blood) which
                                                it
to be absolutely adapted to purposes for which
                                                    is
                                                           is
                                                       de

signed. This     effected, not by one, but by several

organs, which each produce their respective changes

in the materials submitted to them. If we desire,

therefore, to adapt the work to any organ which en
                                           it
                                                         it is

                                                                   is
gaged in this process, however remote may be from
the stomach, which, with the teeth and other auxilia

ries, execute the first process in the manufacture,
quite clear that we must begin with the first process

to which we subject the said raw material or food.

Say that, in machine for the manufacture of cloth,
a
          a
the spinning apparatus were out of order, we must be

gin by giving out less quantity of wool to the card-

ing-machine, or whatever represented the first process,

because, having once delivered the wrong quantity or

quality, we have no means of recalling     it,  and we

should only still further derange the defective ma

chinery.      ;
   So in the body the liver, kidney, and other organs,

not excepting the lungs and skin --their work must

all bear relation to the quantity or quality of raw ma

terial, whether their function be the manufacture of

the new product, or the rejection of that which use
                                                is is
less. So that, supposing there were no other reason,

no other than this mechanical relation (which very
far from the real state of the case), still we must de

facto begin with the stomach, even where we enter
tain no idea of any special derangement of that organ.

The stomach, however,             very important in another
              a
                              is
sense, and has power of indicating the necessity of
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  163

Iattention to those points which have endeavored to

illustrate by the homely similitude of a manufacture.
    Wherever impressions first act on the body, Nature

has placed a most vigilant guard. This is variously
managed in different cases; the result is the same,
and, as it would appear, the final cause also. In the

eye there is the most beautiful contrivance for moder

ating the ingress of light, as also any abrupt increase

of intensity. Fringed curtains are provided which can
close with electrical celerity. Again, the aperture by

which light is finally admitted into the eye is vividly

contractile or expansive, as the occasion may require;

then, again, there are various media of different densi
ties, through the influence of which even the velocity
of light undergoes practical retardation by repeated
refractions; and, lastly, there are powers of sensual
adaptation in the nerve with which the light is ulti-
mntely brought in contact more wonderful than all.

    The ear, being likewise a portal for external im
pressions, is guarded with equal care. Not a single
vibration of air can ever reach the nerve of the ear

with the crude intensity (if I may use the expression)

with which it is generated. Passing over preliminary
apparatus, by which the vibrations of air are first col

lected, the impressions of sound are first received on
the parchment of a little drum, which parchment can
be relaxed or tightened with the quickness of thought,
so as to modify the force of the impression. This im

pression is then, by means of a little chain of bones,
conveyed across the drum, which is filled with air.

It then reaches a portion of the ear in which are found

very curious cavities and canals, of various forms, and
taking different directions, and which, from the curi
164 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ous and complex arragement of the whole, is not inap-
propiately called the labyrinth. This is the mysteri
ous seat of those nerves which convey impressions to

the brain. There is, however, here, an arrangement
more exquisite than any we have yet mentioned.

   In these cavities and canals, which are themselves so

small as to be not unfit objects for magnifying glasses,
there are corresponding delicate sacs and tubes, and
these are filled with a limpid fluid. On this delicate
apparatus, so exquisitely calculated to modify any un
due force of impression, the sensitive extremities of the
auditory nerves are spread out, which convey impres
sions to the brain. We see, therefore, how carefully
these portals of the body are guarded ; arrangements
equally conservative prevail throughout. We might
show a similarly exquisite arrangement in the laws
governing the mind, but that is not our present ob
ject. We have seen hitherto that, beautiful as the

arrangement is for securing us against painful impres
sions, it has been in a great degree mechanical.

    The stomach, however, is the portal to a vast series
of important organs, and is protected by a phalanx of
sentinels endowed with powers proportioned to the im

portance of the organ which they guard. There is lit
tle that falls within any idea which we can express by

the term mechanical; every thing is subjected to an

examination essentially sentient--to powers residing in

the nerves, the laws and operations of which we can,
with proper attention, trace out, but which exhibit pow
ers demonstrative of an intensity and refinement of
which our limited perceptions scarcely enable us to
form a definite idea.

   First, there is the olfactory nerve, between which and
the stomach there is the most vivid sympathy.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  165

Until our tastes become vitiated, the stomach seldom

admits any thing of which the nose reports unfavorably.

The sense of smell, even in the somewhat measured

power possessed by man, is capable of detecting forms
of matter so subtle as to be beyond our powers of im

agination. Nothing which so plainly deals with " mat

ter" impresses more strongly the immense range which
must exist between the chemistry of life and that of

the laboratory. We all know the extraordinary pow
Iers of musk.
               have myself a small mass of odorous

matter (a Goa ball), which, from the circumstances
under which.it came into my possession, must have

been emitting the odor for little less than a century. It

has been exposed to air, is covered by a film of gold (I

believe), and is in no respect visibly changed, and for

the last thirty years not detectably in weight, and yet
at this moment it emits as strong an odor of musk as

ever. How exquisitely subtle must be the matter thus
emitted, or how still more wonderful if it merely so

modifies the atoms of air in its neighborhood as to pro
duce odor. We have no intellectual powers which en
able us to realize a conception of such infinite tenuity
of matter, yet the sense of smell instantly detects its

presence.
    Next come the nerves of the tongue ; and here again,

in natural conditions, there is a constant harmony be

tween them and the stomach --that to which the taste

readily gives admission being, in undisturbed condi
tions of the economy, some guarantee that it is innox

ious ; but what these functions are to the stomach, the

stomach is to the other organs. In the first place, in
natural conditions it usually at once rejects any nox

ious material which, from being disguised or from any
166 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

other circumstances, may have eluded the vigilance of

Ithose sentinels have mentioned ; but it has a vivid
sympathy with every organ in the body. If any thing

deleterious be once admitted, it has to go through va
rious processes which may render it a source of indef

inite disturbance ; therefore, if any organ in tho series
of the blood-manufacture be materially disturbed--that
is, as to be disabled -- the stomach usually refuses food,

because there is no other way of stopping the mischief.
Illustrations of this occur in many disorders of the kid
ney, other portions of the alimentary canal, and other
parts of the liver.

    No doubt the stomach is therefore a most important
organ; but to suppose that it is therefore always the
seat of disorder, is not only a most mischievous error,
but a complete blind to its most beautiful and instruct
ive relations, and as opposite to Mr. Abernethy's views
as the most narrow can be to the most comprehensive.
Proceeding with his illustrations, Mr. Abernethy cites
a number of most instructive cases, in which were va

rious nervous affections of the most serious character,

including palsy--affections which we are accustomed

to refer with too much truth to organic disease or me
chanical pressure on the brain or spinal marrow, but
which, in the cases cited, depended on disorder of the

digestive organs.

   It is impossible to exaggerate the interest or import

ance of these cases, not only from the fact that they
almost certainly would have led to organic disease, but
also for the value of that practical discrimination which
they exemplify. Again, the very treatment which
would have been proper, which had sometimes been
begun, and which was not inappropriate to cases of
                MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.   167

organic disease with which the symptoms were in part

identical, would have inevitably, in the cases in ques

tion, only served to exasperate the very conditions they

were intended to relieve, and to hasten those processes

against which they were intended to guard.
   No one can understand the force of these cases with

out recollecting the intense difficulty of ascertaining

that point at which disorder ceases to be merely func
tional, and at which organic disease begins. This
                                        it
of all things, the most difficult to determine in the
                                                   is,
whole circle of physiological inquiry.

    The symptoms alone are absolutely useless in any
case of real difficulty; of that Abernethy was well

aware, and he did much to guard us against the error

into which reliance on them was calculated to lead.
     ;
He knew that organs which were diseased would some
         a
times afford indications not distinguishable from those

of health and that, conversely, organs essentially sound

would sometimes only afford those signs which were in- .
dicative of disorder. We have, we trust, made some

little progress in this very difficult branch of inquiry;

and although  it      true that organic disease not unfre-

                  is

quently escapes detection during life, yet, so far as we

have observed,  it      only in those cases in which there

                    is

is,  notwithstanding the daily lessons of experience, an

improper reliance on what are called the symptoms.

We assert, without the least hesitation, that organic

diseases should seldom elude detection where the in

vestigation sufficiently comprehensive; but mustis

include all the facts of the case, the early history, and

such circumstances which, however remote, have been

over and over again proved to be capable of exerting

an influence on the body --an investigation which, how-
168 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ever vainly pleaded for in medical science, however re
garded as too exacting, involves nothing more in prin
ciple than is required as a matter of course in all other
scientific investigations.

   When these conditions are observed, it is very rare
ly that we can not detect organic affections in organs
in which there may be no present symptoms. In re
lation to the extent to which they may be affected, it
is true we have yet much to learn ; still, if cases be

judged of, not by the history merely, nor by the symptoms

merely, but by both in conjunction, and if to these be

added a careful observation of the amount of work that
the organs are separately or collectively doing, as com
pared with their natural proportions, together with a
careful estimate of that which the actions of any visi
ble disease may be eliminating from the body, then,
indeed, we have good ground for hope that means will
be opened to us of distinguishing more accurately va
rious states of the system, and additional principles and
powers disclosed of readjusting the disturbed balance
of the various functions, which is the essential element
of disease.

                       CHAPTER XVI.

                      " M v book" continued.

   " La premiere chose qui s'offre a l'Homme quand il se regarde,
c'est son corps. Mais pour comprendre ce qu'elle est, il faut qu'il la
compare avec tout ce qui est au-dessus de lui, et tout ce qui est au-
dessous, afin de reconnoitre ses justes bornes." -- Pascal, Pensees,
Nature des Hommes, vol. ii., p. 57.

   Abernethy, in impressing any anatomical fact, would
sometimes say that we carried about with us in our own
            MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                    169

bodies excellent means of refreshing our impressions on

many points of anatomy; but we may say this in a

much more extensive sense with regard to the inter

pretation of that for which anatomy is alone useful,

namely, the uses or functions of the body. It would

be very possible for any observant person who was mod

erately versed in the ordinary principles of correct rea

soning to detect many defects in medical investigations

and practice, in the correction of which many of Aber-

nethy's practical contributions consisted ; but the mind,

restlessly impatient to arrive at conclusions, often over

looks the most important facts, and infers consequences

from the evidence of the eye or other senses which can

alone be safely trusted to the intellect. Nothing can

exceed the mischief of this in serious matters, nor the

absurdity of when we think a while.
a
              byWe should hardly refrain from laughter we saw
                                         a
man try to see with the point of his nose, or endeav; it,
                                               if
or to examine the odor of rose by his ear, or to listen
                           is                           by
                                a
                                                                                  ;
                                      a
with his eye yet this not whit more absurd than

to try to deduce conclusions from the impressions fur

nished      the eye which can alone be afforded                      the

rational faculty. Nothing more common than thisis

sort of fallacy, nothing more easy than its correction

but then people must bestow at least little of that

time on their highest faculties which they so lavishly
expend on inferior powers. How much time we con

sume, for example, in the study of various languages

--those instruments for the communication of ideas --

as compared with that bestowed on the collecting and

marshaling of ideas themselves, which little better
            a
                                                               a is
than grasping at the shadow and losing the substance,

or, to use  humorous illustration, like                            friend of our

                             H
170 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

own, who, having a new dog, sent his servant forth
with to purchase sundry articles for him, in the shape
of kennel, chains, engraved collars, and food, all of

which, at some expense, he safely accomplished to his
master's satisfaction, expressing his sorrow, at the same

time, for having accidentally lost the dog!

   It is curious, however, to observe how the real busi

ness of the human mind is shadowed forth in the very
abuses of its powers ; nothing so bad but it is charged
with a certain quantity of good ; no error so great but

it carries with it the element of its own correction.

The mind, in its greatest aberrations, is followed by
the shadow of its real duty, which, as it were, waits
on the time when clearer views shall burst on it. Noth
ing shows the real tendencies of mind more than its
restless desire to arrive at some conclusion, some. tan

gible evidence of its highest functions. It is the im
pulse of this instinct --the ungoverned abuse of a high

faculty, impatient for illegitimate fruition, which lies
at the bottom of much false reasoning, and which
blinds men, even of great power, to obstacles which
are luminously evident to the most ordinary capacity.
Important as the next series of illustrations cited by
Abernethy are, the conclusions he deduced from them
were the necessary sequences of clear and correct rea
soning on familiar and established facts.

    The illustrations in question were those afforded by
various cases of injuries of the head, in which certain
consequences, however exceptional they may be, are
too commonly referred to the abstract nature of the in
jury. We see that a man has a blow ; we see that he
does not recover in the usual way in which we have
known many others recover ; but we do not perhaps
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                            171

consider, that if a similar, nay, perhaps an identical

force produces very different effects in different cases,

the cause will probably not be in the nature or di

rection of the force so much as the condition of the

body. Now the value of these cases of Abernethy's

consists, first, in impressing the influence of this con

dition as modifying --in other words, sustaining --the

disturbance consequent on injuries (in their origin)
purely mechanical ; and, secondly, in showing that in

the cases in question that condition depended on a dis

ordered state of the digestive organs. We hardly know

any cases more valuable than those in question. When

a patient receives a blow, and the immediate conse

quences having subsided, there still remains any im

pairment of sense or motion, the most usual thing, and

no doubt, very often, the true view, is to refer it all to
lesion of nervous structure. It
                                  a      therefore, of the
                                    is,
highest consequence to know the facts of these cases;

they not only prevent the hasty institution of treat

ment which would be injurious --not only secure the

patient from being abandoned in despair, but supply,

at the same time, the clews to rational treatment

and the hope of favorable issue.
I
There can now be few observant surgeons who have
     a
not met with cases in illustration of these circumstan
    Ia
ces, and yet know not to whom the perusal of Mr.

Abernethy's cases might not be useful.   It      not with

                                             is

out regret that forego transcribing at least one of

them, forgetful how impossible  it       to do Abernethy

                                     is

full justice in work intended for all readers. In his

"Book," the cases in question begin at page 97, and

occupy but a few pages.

The next class of cases, from which Abernethy    il
172 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

lustrates the prevailing influence of the digestive or
gans, receives additional importance from the imper
fect manner in which the phenomena have been in
terpreted in a vast variety of diseases, like small-pox
and others, ascribed to the action of particular pois
ons. We may possibly have an opportunity of saying
something more on this subject, but we may remark
that when any disease has been presented to the phy
sician or surgeon, supposed to be the result of specific
poisons, it is just the last case in which any special
attention is paid to the digestive organs. Now Aber-
nethy observed that disorders of the digestive organs
would sometimes produce diseases resembling mala
dies said to result from specific poisons ; this is about
the first indication or hint, which, duly carried out by
an advancing science, will, we trust, ere long demon
strate what to us has long appeared only part of a
general law ; of this we may by-and-by say a little
more, when we endeavor to show the small quantity
of truth which there is mixed with some of the pre
vailing errors, and the dependence they have for their
occasional success for blundering, as it were, on small
portions of the principles enunciated by Abernethy.

   In the mean time, we may refer to the illustration

afforded by small-pox of the remarkable influence of
the digestive organs in diseases called specific. We
adduce this, because it is one which is popularly fa
miliar, and a disease that, had it been studied under

any but one particular phase, would have proved, of
all others, the most instructive. There is no malady,
under certain circumstances, more extensively fatal.

   In the Spanish conquest in America -- a history

scarcely less interesting in a medical than in a moral
        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                         173

point of view --it seems that not all the cruelties of

the Spaniards were more destructive than the small

pox. In less than a century after the arrival of Co
lumbus, it was computed that it had destroyed more
than half the population; and in one year (1590), it
so spread along the coast of Peru that it swept away

nearly the whole of the Indians, the Mulattoes, and

the Mestizoes in the cities of Potosi and De la Hay.*

   As is well known, before the discovery of vaccina
tion, persons were inoculated with the small-pox, be
cause it was found that the disease could be thus ren

dered comparatively harmless, while if it was taken

naturally, as it was termed, it was always serious,

and too frequently extremely fatal. The preparation

for inoculation consisted of measures addressed to the

digestive organs; now the effect may be judged of by

this fact: Inoculation was at first violently opposed, and

        I

                                                 it,
in reply to the alleged safety of an opponent wrote to

prove that one in one hundred and eighty-two had died

of it.  wish we could say so of many other diseases.

That such persons had nevertheless the genuine mal

ady, was proved by the fact that they were capable of

infecting others, unprepared, with the disease in its

most malignant form. But our notions of the mode in

which the laws of the animal economy deal with in

jurious influences of this kind are mischievously con

ventional. What quantities, for example, of mercury,

in its different forms, have been administered in al

most all diseases and yet unquestionably there
a

                                                     ;

                                                it
                                                                                    is
   great deal of false reasoning in regard to this pois
on. Effects are attributed to as mercury which

   * Clench's History. Letter from Ch. Uslano to Gonsalvo de So
lano, July, 1590.
.174  MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

only belong to it in its general character of an injuri;
ous agent. All the specific effects of most of which
are become popularly familiar, may occur without anya
mercury at all. We have seen them induced by al
                                     it,
oes, by scammony and in case where no medicine
it
had been given, and where the only detectable poison;
was one which was to be sure bad enough, an enorit
                                          is
mously loaded liver.                                                             a
    We are obliged to say but little here in connection
                                                                          a
with this subject. Abernethy's cases were very im                                     al
portant in relation to the influence of the digestive or

gans, although he did not see the generalization to
which, as appears to us, they help to conduct the
pathologist. The subject too extensive for discus
sion here we will attempt something of popular view
of when we endeavor to explain, in subsequent
part of the volume, the fallacy to which we have

ready referred.
    Abernethy next adduces various illustrations from

cases of other diseases, as indurations, tumors, carbun

cles, scrofulous affections, and others, in proof of the
dependence of a "numerous and dissimilar progeny"
of so-called local diseases on that fruitful parent, dis
order of the digestive organs. Of one of the most in
teresting and remarkable cases of tumor, Mr. Aber

nethy did not live to see the termination. It was of

    lady who consulted him previous to the proposed in
fliction of an operation. She had been recommended
by my father, in the country, to consult Abernethy be

fore submitting to --because he disapproved of as

did Abernethy, not because they doubted of the nature
of the disease, but because was not confined to the
part on which was proposed to operate.
a

                     it
                           it

                                        it
                                                                                it,
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  175

    The lady used to call on Abernethy when she came
to town, and after his death she came to me, as she

said, just to report her condition. She had, at times,
various disturbances of her digestive organs, but al

ways from some imprudence, for, although habitually
very simple in her habits, she would be sometimes

careless or forgetful.

   She died at a very advanced age--between seventy
and eighty--but there had been no return of the dis

ease for which she had originally consulted Abernethy,

nor had she undergone any operation. It is a signifi

cant circumstance, too, that she had a sister who died

of cancer.

    The whole of the cases are, however, scarcely less

valuable. In the fifth section he treats of disorders of
parts having continuity of surface with the alimentary

canal, certain affections of the nose, of the eye, and of
the gullet or oesophagus. His observations on the lat
ter are especially valuable. They strike at that med
dling practice which is too common in the treatment
of diseases of these parts. Many of us have endeav
ored to induce surgeons, without neglecting either, to

depend less on manipulatory proceedings and more on
measures directed to the general health in such cases,
as producing effects which are not to be obtained by

other means; but, if we are to judge from the medical

periodicals, without much success, so inveterate is the
habit of imagining that, whatever the causes of dis

ease may be, if the results be but mechanical, me

chanical means can alone be applicable. Public at
tention and the perusal of such cases as those of Aber

nethy can alone correct these errors.
   Lastly, he describes the results of his dissections as
1 7G MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

bearing on the whole subject. Here he shows that
while disordered function may take place coincidental-
ly with or as a consequence of change of structure, yet
that such change, so as to afford visible or detectable
departures from natural appearances, is by no means
necessary, in organs which, during life, had afforded
the most incontrovertible evidence of impaired func
tion. He also shows that disease has terminated in

disorder which had its original seat in the digestive
organs; and again, that in cases where the cause of
death had been in the abrogated function of the brain,
he found no actual disease in that organ, but in the
abdominal viscera. He very justly observes that the
conclusions he has drawn can not be either ascer

tained or disproved by anatomical evidence alone. He
mentions especially, and illustrates by a remarkably
successful case, how diseases of the lungs may be en
gendered by disorders of the digestive organs, and en
tirely subdued by correction of that disorder.

   He speaks also suggestively of the possibility of that
which is certainly now an established fact. He says:
" In cases of diseased lungs, where no disease of the
digestive organs is discovered, yet considerable disor
der does exist, and may continue for many years with
out any organic disease being apparent, it is possible
that such disorder may excite disease of the lungs, and
thus produce a severer disease of the latter organs than
what existed in the former. Accurate attention to the

digestive organs may determine this important sub

Iject, and lead to the prevention and cure of the sym

pathetic diseases which have mentioned." "This

attention must not be merely of that general kind
which adverts only to the quality of the ingesta, &c.,
             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                                                 177

but one which more strictly observes whether the vis

cera" (that  is,

                                                                                                                :
             reader, not merely the stomach, not

merely the digestive organs, but the whole viscera of

the body) "and whether these secretions are healthy

or otherwise." After speaking of the heart also as af

fected by the digestive organs, and of the infinity of

diseases which arise from the reciprocal disturbance

excited between them and the brain, he says " But

even these are not the worst consequences. The dis

order of the sensorium, excited and aggravated (by

the means which he has described), affects the mind.

The operations of the intellect become enfeebled, per
plexed, and perverted; the temper and disposition irri

table, unbenevolent, and desponding. The moral char
acter and conduct appears even to be liable to be af

fected by these circumstances. The individual in this

case not the only sufferer, but the evil extends to his
is
              if,

                                                            is

                                                                      it
connections and to society. The subject, therefore, ap

pears to me to be of such importance, that no apology

need be offered for this imperfect attempt to place

under general contemplation." Here  that sugges

tion which, when carried out, leads to the detection of

cases of insanity which depend on disturbances of the

digestive organs.
   Lastly, as notwithstanding his own previous at

tention to the important question of the influence of

the digestive organs in disease, he felt that the inquiry

had grown upon him in consequence of Mr. Boodle's
endeavor to concentrate his attention to the subject, he

concludes by expressing his past obligations to Mr.
Boodle; for he says, with admirable modesty and can
dor, "for Mr. Boodle first instructed me how to detect
disorders of the -digestive organs when their local symp

                            H2
178 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

toms were so trivial as to be unnoticed by the patient."

He urges Mr. Boodle to publish also his own observa

tions on the subject, because any remarks from one

who observes the progress of disease "with such sa

gacity and accuracy can not but be interesting." We

are quite aware how feeble our attempt has been to do

justice to this admirable book. But nothing can do

that but a careful study of the various principles which

it either suggests, dimly shadows forth, or deeply and

beautifully unfolds.

Through not a very short life, we have had ample

opportunity of testing these principles by the bedside,

and of endeavoring to connect some of them with the

laws in obedience to which they occur ; and we are

free to declare our impression, that when the book is

studied with the requisite previous knowledge and free

dom from preconceived opinion, and when tested and

carried out in principle, as distinguished from any

adhesion to mere matters of detail, we think it infin

itely more valuable that all other professional works

whatever. In examining the truths it unfolds, or in

our humble endeavors elsewhere at a more analytical

or extended application of them, like Abernethy, we

have rested our reasoning wholly on facts and observa

tions which are acknowledged and indisputable.

While other views have only led to a practice in the

highest degree empirical, or, what is worse, conject

ural, those of Abernethy lead often directly, but al

ways, when duly studied, to a practice at once clear,

definite, and in the sense in which we shall qualify
the word, " positive" --that
a
                                         is,

                                                                              is
                              one which gives us the

power (when we really have the management of the

case) of predicting the success or failure, which                                 at

least ripple indicative of a coming science.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  179

   In order, however, to carry out this clearly, we shall
at once add what we think necessary to the profession
and the public on the subject. The general relation
of Abernethy's labors to a real and definite science will

be better developed in our concluding Summary, when

we may have an opportunity of stating what further

appears to have been done and what is yet required.

It will have been, perhaps, already observed that Aber

nethy's views involve a few very simple propositions :
first, that disturbance of a part is competent to disturb
the whole system ; and conversely, that disturbance
of the whole system is competent to disturb any part.
That the disturbance may commence in the brain or

nervous system, may then disturb the various organs,
and that these may again, by reflected action, disturb
the brain, and so reciprocally ; and that in all these

cases tranquillity of the digestive organs is of the very
first consequence, not merely from its abstract import
ance, but from the influence it exerts on the state of

the nervous system.

   With respect to any influences immediately directed
to the nervous system, these we apprehend to be few
and simple ; some kinds of medicine are, no doubt, in

particular cases, useful --none are susceptible of gener

al application. Nono of them are certain; and seda
tives of all kinds, which appear to have the most direct

influence on the nervous system, either require to be
employed with the utmost caution, or are in the high
est degree objectionable. But there are other direct

influences certainly, and very important they are.

Quiet, avoidance of disturbing external impressions,
whether of light, sound, temperature, &c., whether,
in fact, of mind or body ; but in the majority of man
180 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

kind, how few of them we can, in a strictly philo
sophical sense, command. We are therefore driven to
other sources of disturbance; and in the digestive or
gans we find those on which we can exert great influ
ence, and in which tranquillity, however procured or
under whatever circumstances, is certain, pro tanto,
to relieve the whole system. This Abernethy attempt
ed, and with a success which was remarkable in no

casus more than those which had resisted all conven

tional modes of proceeding -- by general measures, by

simplicity of diet, by occasional solicitation of this or
that organ, by air and exercise, and measures which
were directed to the general health. No doubt in some
cases he failed, and so we shall in many ; but let us
look boldly at the cause, and see whether we do not
fail a great deal more from our own ignorance than
from any natural impossibility.

    To examine the question, we must for the moment

forget our admiration of Abernethy --be no longer daz
zled by his genius, but look only to our duty --endeav

or to discover his defects, or, rather, those of the state

of the question when he left us, and see what further
investigation has afforded in aid of supplying them.

   In the first place, we must examine a little further
that proposition which we have seen both in Hunter
and Abernethy under different forms. Hunter says the
disturbance of the organ sympathizing is sometimes

more prominent than that of the organ with which it
sympathizes. Abernethy says that the organ primari
ly affected is sometimes very little apparently disturb
ed, or not even perceptibly so.

    Now, from both these statements, we find that there
may be no signs in the primarily affected organ, which,
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  181

practically rendered, is nothing more or less than say

ing that in many cases we must not seek for the pri
marily affected organ where the symptoms are; and
this is a great fact ; because, although it does not nec
essarily teach us what we must do, it exposes the

broken reed on which so many rely. Now the further

point, which, as we would contend, time and labor
have supplied, is first this : that what Hunter mention

ed as one feature in the history of the sympathies of

different organs, and Abernethy as an occasional or not
unfrequent occurrence, is, in disorders of any standing,
and with the exception of mechanical injury, in fact,
the rule, the symptoms of disorder being almost never

in the primary organ --nay, even organic change (dis

ease) is for the most part first seen in a secondarily
affected organ. In regard to primarily affected parts,
the skin only excepted, they will be found, in the vast
majority of cases, to be one or other of the digestive

organs.

  I will endeavor to render the cause of this intelligi

ble. A minute examination of what happens in a liv
ing person, especially if it be extended to some thou
sands of cases, will soon disclose to the most unletter

ed person a few instructive facts, showing that Nature

has a regular plan of dealing with all injurious influ

ences, which, however various many of the details may
be, is in general plan exquisitely simple, surprisingly
beautiful, and intelligibly conservative ; and that the

various modes on which she exercises this plan, from
the cradle to the grave, are in frequency directly in the
order of their conservative tendency. Let us explain.
There is no dearth of illustration ; the facts are bewil-
 deringly abundant; the difficulty is which to choose,
182 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

and how to give them an intelligible general expres

sion. Let us take a single case. We know that if a

mote gets into the eye, there is irritation; immediately

there is a flow of blood to the part ; a gland pours
forth an abundant supply of tears, and the substance

is probably washed out. Very well ; we say that is
intelligible. But suppose you have the vapor of tur

pentine, or any other irritant, the same thing happens,

but still you can not give the same mechanical ex

planation.

    Again, substances which affect the mouth, nose, and

stomach, will irritate the eye without any contact,

and cause a flow of tears.

Lastly, you know that affections of the mind will do

this, and where even we have no mechanical irritant

at all.

In all these cases there has been activity of the ves

sels of the eye, and in all it has been relieved by se

cretion. Now this is the universal mode throughout

the body ; all irritation of the organs is attended by se

cretion, and where this is done there is no disorder, or,

rather, the disorder is relieved ; but if organs are irri

tated continuously, another thing happens, and that

is, that an organ becomes unable to secrete constantly

more than is natural, and then some other organ, loss

irritated in the commencement, takes on an additional

duty --that the duty of the animal economy still
         is
                 is,

                                             It

                                                                is
                                                                                is
done, but not equally distributed.
   This the state in which most people are in crowd

ed cities, and who live in the ordinary luxury or the

ordinary habits of civilized society, according to the

section to which they may belong.  easy in such

cases to detect those differences which distinguish this
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY. v  183

state from what is called condition or perfect health,
as we have elsewhere shown.*

    But of course there is a limit to this power in organs
of taking on additional or compensating actions, and
when this limit is exceeded, then those actions are in

stituted which we call Disease. The site is seldom

found to be that of the original disturbance, and usu
ally for a very plain reason, because it would be more

dangerous or fatal. It would be scarcely less serious

in many cases, even though placed on organs second

arily affected, and therefore it is more usually determ

ined to the surface of the body, where, taking them
simply in the order of their greatest number or frequen
cy, we find the first class of diseased appearances, and
which strikingly impress the real nature of the law.
They are the most numerous, most obviously depend
ent on general disturbance, and most conservative, as
being least fatal. Diseases of the skin are those to

Iwhich we allude, and they exceed in the characters

have mentioned all other diseases.

    Again, the next surface is that involution of the skin
which covers the eye, and which lines the mouth,
throat, and the whole of the interior surface of the res

piratory tubes and the digestive organs. Here again
we find the next seat of greatest frequency, and the
conservative tendency to coincide. We need only refer
to the comparative frequency of what are called colds,
ordinary sore throats, and so forth, as contrasted with
those more serious diseases which occur in the corre

sponding surfaces of the respiratory organs and aliment

ary canal. In tracing diseases onward in the order of

their number, we never lose sight of this conservative
            * " Health and Disease j" see Treatise on Tumors.
184 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

tendency. When organs become involved in disease,

we find that for once that the substance of the organ

is so affected, the membrane covering it is affected a

hundred, perhaps a thousand times. This is equally

observable in respect to the brain, heart, lungs, digest

ive organs, and some other parts, and it is of great im

portance practically to know how readily affections are

transferred from the lining of the alimentary canal and

other parts to the membrane covering                    rather with
is
                                 is a
                                                        it,

                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                 it
out than to the intermediate texture of the organ, again

impressing, though now in dangerous type, truly the

conservative tendency of the law.

Finally, then, we arrive at diseases of Organs and

here we see this conservative tendency still typed in

the site first chosen, which almost always (where we
can distinguish the two structures) not so much in the
actual tissue of the organ as in that which connects

together-- what we term the cellular tissue.

   This remarkable in the lungs, where tubercular

deposits are first seated --not in the essential structures

of the organs, but in those by which they are joined

together. All those various depositions which are call

ed tumors generally begin and are very frequently en

tirely confined to the cellular tissue, and although there

in some malignant forms disposition to locate them
is
                                         is

                                                     a
selves in organs, there a very curious tendency to

ward such as may have already fulfilled their purposes

in the animal economy.

We might multiply these illustrations to a tedious

extent. We might show, for example, in the eye, how

curiously the greatest number of diseases in that organ

are placed in structures least dangerous to the organ
                         is
                                                                                                      ;
and even when the organ                                 spoiled, so to speak, how
       MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                            185

much more frequently this is in relation to its function

as an optical instrument, than to the structure which

forms the link with the brain as an organ of sensation.

I must, however, refer* those who wish to see more of

the subject to the work in which it is more fully dis

cussed, under the term the "Law of Inflammation,"

which is a bad phrase, as imperfectly expressing the

law; but as the greatest evils it exposes occur in cases
of Inflammation, and as it shows the essential nature

of that process to be entirely distinct from the charac

ly

      is I

                                ;

                              a

                                 it
                                                                   it,
ters which had usually been ascribed to every one

of which may be absent, so that expression was some

what hastily given to the generalization which seemed

best to express great practical fact.

To return to the bearing of all this on Abernethy's

views, and in relation to organs primarily or secondari
    affected. In obedience to the conservative law to

which have above alluded, defective function in one

organ  usually accompanied by increased action in

some other and thus happens that the symptoms

are almost always in one organ, while the cause, or

originally injurious influence, has acted on another.
The general reader will of course understand that we

are not speaking of direct mechanical injury to an or

gan. Now all the most recondite diseases of the kid

ney are already acknowledged by many to be seated

in secondarily affected organ. Still, the practice
is is
    a

                         it,
                                       it
                                                                            it is is
in too many instances a strange mixture of that which

in accordance with the true views, and much that

in opposition to because often includes that which

certain more or less to disturb the organ which

should be the object to relieve.

* " Medicine and Surgery one Inductive Science," London, 1838.
  hley.
186 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

     In the same manner, the lungs and heart are con

tinually disordered and ultimately diseased from causes

which primarily act on the liver, and I have seen such

a case treated with cod-liver-oil and bitter ales with a

result which could not but be disastrous. The liver

sends an enormous quantity of blood to the heart and

lungs, from which it ought to have extracted a certain

quantity of carbon (bile) ; if this be not done, the heart

and lungs are oppressed both by the quantity and the
Ifquality of the blood sent to them.
                                      nothing happens
Iin either of the various sites have mentioned, the

blood must be got rid of, and it is so. In many cases

a vessel gives way --or blood is poured out from a ves
sel--or the blood is employed in building up the struc

tures of disease; but then the symptoms are frequent

ly altogether in the chest, and not a sign of any thing

wrong in the liver.

  I can not go on with the multitudinous illustrations

of these principles. The law is to determine injurious

influences to the surface. Deposition in the cellular

tissue of the lung is bad enough, but it is better, that

is,  less certainly fatal there than in the respiratory

tubes, and that the explanation of it.
     is
     But now comes the practical point how the pria
                            ;

                                 is
                                        is
mary organ to be got at, because that the way to

carry out the removal of the impediments to the sana

tive processes of nature, which in many cases no mere

general treatment can accomplish. This to be found
                                        is

by an examination into the real history of the case, and

adding the further test of real and careful observation

of the various secretions.

By going back to the former life of the patient, we

shall seldom fail to discover the various influences to
                MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                 187

which he has been subjected, and the organs to which

they have been originally addressed. Having made

up our minds, from our previous knowledge of injuri

ous influences, on what organ they will most probably

have acted, we now test this, not merely by inquiry

after symptoms, and, it may be, not by symptoms at

all, but by careful observation of the actual work of

the suspected organ ; in this way we almost certainly

discover the real offender --in other words, the organ

primarily affected. This is of immense importance ;

for we confidently affirm that one single beneficial im

pression made on it will do more in a short time--nay,
in some rare instances, in a single day--than years of

routine treatment, that has been nevertheless of good

general tendency.

   In treating  it,    e., the primary organ, however, great
                   f.
discrimination
                is     Ifnecessary.                     be already organ
                                                        it

                                                                           ;

                                                                                  is
ically affected, that treatment which would be, under

other circumstances, necessary, becomes either objec

tionable or requires the utmost caution for although

an organ diseased in structure will, under some cir

cumstances, yield its characteristic secretion, yet, un

less we know the extent of the disease, which just

the thing we can almost never be certain about, excite

ment of    never without danger. We should there
         it
fore excite the primary organ with more or less energy,a is
with more or less caution, or not at all, according to
                                                  ;
circumstances. If we determine on not exciting we
                                                        it

                                                                           it,
should then act on organs with which has ordinarily

closest community of function, or on whose integrity

we can most depend for choice, we prefer organs

which, in  natural state, have nearest identity of

function, as having the readiest sympathy, may be,
                                                        it

                                                     j
 188 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

with each other. Yet so universal is the sympathy be
tween all the organs, that there is no one that will not,
under certain circumstances, or which may not be in
duced, perhaps, by judicious management, to take on

compensating actions.
    We must not here pursue this subject further. We

have endeavored to sketch certain extensions of the

views of Mr. Abernethy, and can only refer the profes
sion and the public, for the facts and arguments which
demonstrate and illustrate them, to those works in

which they have been* enunciated. They have now
been subjected to severer trials and abundant criti
cisms; so far as we know, they have not been shaken,

but if there be any merit in them, if they shall have

made any nearer approach to a definite science, or
sketched the proofs that Induction alone can place us
in a position to talk of science at all, they are still se
quences easily arrived at by a steady analysis of Aber

nethy 's views. It was he who taught us, in our pupil

days, first to think on such subjects; to him we owe
the first glimpse we ever had of the imperfect state of

medical and surgical science ; and if we do not wholly
owe to him the means by which we conceive it can

alone be rendered more perfect and satisfactory, he has,
at least in part, exemplified the application of them.

If we have made some advances on what he left us,

and added to his beautiful and simple general views
something more definite on some points, something
more analytical on others, still, inasmuch as they are
clear deductions from the views he has left us, and

from such views alone, such advances remind us that

   * " Medicine and Surgery one Inductive Science, and on Tumors,"
art. Treatment of Organs.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  189

the study of his principles serves but to demonstrate
their increasing usefulness, and to augment the sum
of our obligations.

                                         SECTION.

    Mr. Abernethy's book "On the Constitutional Origin
of Local Diseases" had an extensive circulation, and

excited a great deal of attention from the public as
well as the profession.

    As a work which may be read, as it were, in two
ways, so as a person read it with one or other object,

it produced a great variety of impressions. It may be

read simply as a narrative of a number of facts, with
the inferences immediately deducible from them. All

this is plain and intelligible at once to any body, and
of great practical value; but the work contains numer
ous observations of a suggestive kind, that require care
ful thought, and some previous knowledge, to enable a
person to estimate their value or to trace their onward
relations. The impression made by the work on dif
ferent minds varied, of course, with the reader, his in
formation, and, in some sort, with the spirit in which
it was studied; some who had, in their solitary rides,
and in the equally solitary responsibilities of country
practice, been obliged to think for themselves, recog
nized in the orderly statement of clearly enunciated
views facts and principles which they had already
seen exemplified in their own experience, and hailed
with admiration and pleasure a book which realized
their own ideas, and supplied a rational explanation of
their truth and value.

    Some, who had never thought much on the subject,

and were very ill disposed to begin, regarded his ideas
190 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

as exaggerated, and hastily dismissed the subject with
the conclusion that he was a clever man, but too full

of theory--too much disposed to look to the stomach

or the digestive organs. Others, making very little
distinction between what they heard of the man, the
book, or his practice, and probably not having seen

either, but deriving only a kind of dreamy notion of a
clever man with many peculiarities, would say that he
was mad or an enthusiast. Still, a great many of the
thinking portion of the public and the profession held
a different tone. The book was recognized as an in

telligible enunciation of definite views--rather a new

thing in medical science. The application of them be
came more and more general; his pupils were every
where disseminating them more or less, in the navy, in
the army, in the provinces, and in America.

    Still, it must not be imagined that his principles
were disseminated with that rapidity which might have
been inferred from his numerous and attentive class.

Constituted as medical education is --but more espe
cially as it was at that time, for it is slowly improving
--pupils were almost entirely absorbed in the conven

tional requisitions for examination. There they were
not questioned as to the laws of the animal economy, nor
even real axioms in approximation to them, but simply
as to plain anatomy, the relative situation of parts, and
such of the ordinary surgery of the day as had received
the approbation of those who were, for the time, the
authorities in the profession. Therefore, out of a large
number, there were comparatively few whose atten
tions were not too much absorbed by the prescribed

curriculum of hospital routine to study principles --a
curriculum constructed as if the object were to see
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  191

how much could be learned in a short time without

detriment to the very moderate requisitions of the ex

amination at the College of Surgeons. But if compar

atively few had time to study Abernethy's lectures at
the time, a great many had treasured up his remarks.
As the impressions we receive in our childhood, before
we are capable of thinking of their value, are vividly
rekindled by the experience of real life, so many of the
more suggestive lessons of Abernethy's lectures, which
passed comparatively unheeded at the time, or were
swamped in " getting up" the conventionalisms of
an examination at the College, recurred in after days

in all their force and truthfulness. Many, however,
with more time and perhaps more zeal, endeavored to
thoroughly master his views, and he was now and then

gratified by evidence that time had only served to ma
ture the conviction of the pupils, in dedications and
other complimentary recognitions, in the works of such
of them as had been induced to publish any portion of

their own experience.

    However various, too, the impressions made by his
book, there are two things certain, viz., that he was

much talked of, and the book had an extensive sale,

went through several editions, and served to give the

Public some notion of those principles which he was so

beautifully unfolding to the younger portions of the pro
fession in his lectures. Besides, although there were
not wanting those who spoke disparagingly of him, still,
as an old and very far-seeing colleague of our own used
to say, with perhaps too much truth, when canvassing
the various difficulties of a medical man's progress in

the metropolis, "A man had better be spoken ill of than

not spoken of at all." He was now beginning to be
192 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

very largely consulted. The Public had "got hold of

him," as we once heard a fashionable physician phrase

it, and he soon obtained  aa  large practice.  ;A            great
     it
many consulted him for very good reasons, and prob

ably many for little better reason than that he was the

fashion. Abernethy had great deal more practice

than he or any other man could do full justice to find

ing impossible to make people understand his views

in the time usually allotted for consultation, he now

referred his patients to his book, and especially page
72. This has been made the subject of great deal
                                 aa
of quizzing, and of something besides not altogether
quite so good-natured. For our parts, we think the
                                               it

                                                       a
most natural thing in the world to refer patient to

Book, which may contain more in full the principles

we desire them to understand, than we can hope to
find opportunity to explain at the time of consultation.

We think that asking few questions and writing
         a        it a                         a
                                                        a
prescription (and we are here only thinking of reaif
sonably fair average time visit) be worth guinea, the

explaining principle, or so placing plan before pa
                                 a                           a
                                           a

tient that his following may be assisted and secured,

is  worth fifty times as much; and came particularly
                                 it

                                             if

                                                         aa
well from Abernethy, one of whose lessons, and most

excellent lesson too, was the remark, "That                medi

cal man thought he had done his duty when he had

written prescription, and patient regarded his as
         a                a
fulfilled when he had swallowedisthey were both
          if
                                      it,
                                          it
deceived." As we are convinced that, cceteris paribus,

success in medical treatment indefinitely promoted

by both patient and surgeon clearly understanding

each other as to principles, we think would be of

great use every medical man who has any definite
      MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                               193

principles of practice were to explain them in short

printed digests --nay, we have sometimes thought it

would be useful to both parties in addition to the
ly
inquiries and advice given at consultation, a medical
             ;
man should have brief printed digests of the general
        it it a

                                               aa
                                                     if,

                                                                   is
                                                                      is

                                                                      it
nature and relations of most of the well-defined dis

eases; careful perusal of one of these would help the
patients to comprehend the nature and objects of the
advice given, tend to the diffusion of useful knowledge,

and in time help them to understand whether their

treatment were conducted on scientific views, or mere

a respectable sort of empiricism. What here in

tended might be printed on sheet of note-paper; and,

while would be of great service to the patient, would

form no bad test of the clearness and definite princi
ples of the medical attendant. There no doubt that

Abernethy did good service by referring patients to his

book  led some to think for themselves, and also

assisted, pro tanto, in doing away with that absurd

idea which supposes something in medical practice in

appreciable by the public.    considerable indifference

   At this time, while, with

to money, he was making a large income, still he was
obliged to work hard for it. He had yet no emolument

from the Hospital --he was still only an assistant sur

geon. The tenacity of office, which assistant surgeons

so commonly complain of, they have themselves seldom

failed to exercise when they have become surgeons (as
we shall see, Mr. Abernethy excepted). This long ten
ure by his senior wearied him, and was at times
      I
                                                      a
source of not very agreeable discussions.
   On one occasion, Sir James Earle, his senior, was

reported to have given Abernethy to understand that,
194 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

on the occurrence of a certain event, on which he

would obtain an accession of property, he, Sir James,

would certainly resign the surgeoncy of the Hospital.

About the time that the event occurred, Sir James,

happening one day to call on Abernethy, was remind

ed of what he had been understood to have promised.

Sir James, however, having, we suppose, a different im

pression of the facts, denied ever having given any such

a pledge. The affirmative and negative were more

than once exchanged, and not in the most courteous

manner. When Sir James was going to take his

leave, Abernethy opened the door for him, and as he

had always    swoimthe,thhiengsaiqduaatinptarotrinhgu, m"oWroeulsl,  to close a
conversation
                                                                     Sir James,

it comes to this : you say that you did not promise to               is,
resign the surgeonoy at the Hospital ; I, on the con

Itrary, affirm that you did ; now all have to add

the liar      !"
                                                    a
In 1813 Abernethy accepted the surgeoncy of Christ's

Hospital, which he held until 1828, short time before

he retired from practice.

   In 1814 he was appointed Professor of Anatomy and
Surgery to the College of Surgeons --an appointment

which could be, at this period, of little service to him,

whatever lustre might reflect on the College, where
              it

                          a
he gave lectures with result which has not always

followed on that appointment, namely, of still adding to

his reputation. He was one of the few who addressed

the elders of the profession without impressing the con

viction that they had been too much employed in ad

dressing pupils. He had given lectures two years in

succession, when, in 1816, circumstanoes occurred

which will occupy us for some little time new scene
                                                       ;

                                                         a
MEMOffiS OF ABERNETHY.  195

will be opening on us, and this suggests the time--
1815--16 -- as convenient for taking a retrospect, and a

sort of general view of Abernethy's position.

                      CHAPTER XVII.

                  " Sperat infestis metuit secundis
                     Alteram sortem bene preparatum Pectus."

                                                               Hot

                  " Whoe'er enjoys th' untroubled breast,
                   With Virtue's tranquil wisdom bless'd,
                   With hope the gloomy hour can cheer,
                     And temper happiness with fear."

   When we look abroad among mankind, nay, even
in the contracted sphere of our own experience, it is
interesting to reflect on the varied current of human
life in different cases. In some, from the cradle to the
grave, life has been beset with difficulties --it has been

a continued struggle ; the breath seems to have been
first drawn, and finally yielded up, amid the multifa

rious oppositions and agitations of adversity. In other
instances, Life seems like an easy, smoothly gliding

stream, gently bearing Man on to what had appeared
to be the haven of his wishes, and the little voyage
has been begun and completed without the appearance

of a ripple. All varieties are no doubt the result of
constantly operating laws. Of these, many are prob
ably inscrutable by us ; still more, perhaps, escape

our observation. The unforeseen nature of many events
confers the character of a mystery on any attempt at
foresight ; yet, when we take a careful retrospect of a
life, it is curious to observe how naturally the second
ary causes appear to have produced the results by
196 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

which they were followed, but which, beforehand, no

one had thought of predicting. -'

Varied, however, as is the course human life, few

men have arrived at eminence without difficulty. We

do not mean that conventional prominence of "posi

tion" which makes them marked in their day, but

that which leaves the impression of their minds on

the age in which they lived, or on the science or other

pursuit which they had chosen --original minds, who

have striven to enlarge the boundaries of our knowl

edge. Such men usually have the ample gifts of na
ture with which they are endowed somewhat counter

balanced by the difficulty experienced in the success
ful application of them.

   Abernethy had not been altogether exempt from
such difficulties. With a sensitive organization, he

had had to make his own way ; he experienced the
difficulties which attend the advocacy of opinions and

principles which were opposed to, or, at all events, differ
ent from those generally entertained. He had had to

encounter that misconstruction, misrepresentation, rid

icule, even malice, save the mark ! which is too fre

quently provoked by any attempts to tell people that

there is something more correct than the notions which

they have been accustomed to value. Still, when we

compare Abernethy's course with that of many, we

had almost said most, benefactors to science, he might
Ifbe said to have been a fortunate man.
                                         a man has

power and a "place to stand on," and Abernethy had

both, truth will tell at last.

   A retired spot in an obscure street near St. Barthol

omew's had been, by his almost unaided talents, ex

panded into a theatre within the walls of the Hospital.
         MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  197

This was becoming again crowded ; and although it

formed a satisfactory arena for the development and

illustration of his principles, the increasing audiences

were significant of the coming necessity of a still larger

building, and which, in fact, was a few years afterward

constructed. He had, in fact, arrived, as we imagine,

at a point which was comparatively smooth water, and

which we are inclined to regard as the zenith of his

career.

In the opening of his beautiful lectures at the Col

lege, Abernethy, in one of his warm and earnest en

deavors to animate his audience to regard the love and

the search for truth as the only impulse which could
urge on and sustain industry in'the " Science" of our

profession, had observed that, "unfortunately, a man

might attain to a considerable share of public reputa

tion without being a real student of his profession."

There have been, indeed, too many examples of that,

as also of those who, after years of labor, have failed

to attain a scanty living.  v

Abernethy had been a real and laborious student in

science, and he was now reaping an abundant and

well-deserved fruition. Few surgeons have arrived at

a position so calculated to satisfy the most exacting am

bition ; although the full extent and bearing of his prin

ciples were by no means universally understood, yet

the general importance of them was so, and in some

measure appreciated. In a greater or less degree, they

were answering the tests afforded by the bed-side in

all parts of the world.

Ample, therefore, as the harvest he was reaping in

a large practice, he was enjoying a still higher fruition

in the kind of estimation in which he was held. He
        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

had a high reputation with the public, one still higher

among men of science. His crowded waiting-room

was a satisfactory evidence of the one, and the man

ner in which his name was received here, on the

Continent, or in America, a gratifying testimony of

the other. He was regarded much more in the light

of a man of enlarged mind as a medical philosopher,

than merely as a distinguished surgeon.

From the very small beginnings left by Mr. Pott, he

had raised the school of St. Bartholomew's to an emi

nence never before attained by any school in this coun

try. I think I may say that, in its peculiar character,

it was at that time (1816) unrivaled.
   Sir Astley Cooper was in great force and in high re

pute at this time, and combining as he did the schools

of two large hospitals, had, I believe, even a larger

class. Both schools, no doubt, endeavored to combine

what is not, perhaps, very intelligibly conveyed by the

terms practical and scientific; but the universal im

pression assigned the latter as the distinguishing ex

cellence of Mr. Abernethy, while the former was held

to express more happily the characteristic of his emi

nent contemporary.

    Whatever school, however, a London student might
have selected as his Alma Mater, it was very common

for those whose purse, time, or plans permitted
      I it                                                                                                                                             to

                                                                               it,

                                                                                                                                                      ;
attend one or more courses of Abernethy's lectures

and was pleasing to recognize the graceful conces

sion to Mr. Abernethy's peculiar excellence afforded by
the attendance of some of Sir Astley's pupils, and his

since distinguished relatives, at the lectures of Aber

nethy.

As have said, his practice was extensive, and of
               MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                               199

the most lucrative kind --that
ly                              consisted largely
           it

                                                         is,

                                                   it
                                                                       it
of consultations at home. Still, he had patients to

visit, and as he was very remarkable for punctuality

in all his appointments, was therefore not unfrequent-

    obliged to leave home before he had seen the whole

of those who had applied to him. The extent of his
practice was the more remarkable, as, however exag
gerated might be, still there was a very general im
pression that his manners were unkind and repulsive.
His pupils were enthusiastically fond of him, and
was difficult to know which was the dominant feel

ing, their admiration of his talents or their personal

regard.

   Some of the most distinguished men had been of
their number, and would be gratifying to us to enu
               it

                                                                                               ;
merate the very complimentary catalogue of eminent
men who have been indebted for much of their emi

nence and success to the lessons of Abernethy but as,
in so doing, we might possibly, in our ignorance, omit
some names which ought to be recorded, we forego,

therefore, this pleasure, lest we should unintentionally
appear to neglect any professional brother whom we

ought to remember.

   In 1812--13, the pupils had presented Mr. Abernethy
with a piece of plate " as testimony of their respect
               it
                   is

                                   a

                                       I

                                                                                                ;
and gratitude." The arrangement of the matter was

confided chiefly to the present Sir James Eyre, Mr.
Stowe, of Buckingham, and Mr. William Bullen. In

a very interesting letter with which have been fa

vored by Mr. Stowe, among other matters hereafter to

be mentioned,       stated that the plate was delivered

at Abernethy's house on the 1st of April and as he

had no more entirely escaped such things than other
 200 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 medical men, he at first regarded it as a hoax ; but

 when the contents were exposed, and he discovered the

 truth, he became much affected.

     The regard of the pupils was always the thing near
 est his heart. On meeting the class at the hospital,
 he essayed to express his feelings; but, finding that he
 should only break down, he adopted the same course

 as he had employed on another memorable occasion, and

wrote his acknowledgments, a copy of which was sus
pended against the wall of the theatre.

   It is due to our worthy and kind-hearted contempo

rary, Sir James Eyre, to add, that Mr. Stowe observes
in his letter, that of all others, Sir James was the most

zealous promoter of a movement so creditable to all

parties. Some years after this, another subscription
was commenced by the pupils for a portrait of Aber-
nethy, which was painted by Sir Thomas Lawrence,
and engraved by Bromley. Sir Thomas, and the en
graver after him, have been most successful. He has

caught one of Mr. Abernethy's most characteristic ex
pressions. We see him as he often stood when address

ing the anatomical class. In his surgical lecture he
was generally seated. We think it impossible to com
bine more of him in one view. We fancy we see his

acute penetration, his thoughtful expression, his arch
ness and humor, and his benevolence, all most happily
delineated, while the general position and manner is
eminently faithful.

   In 1815 he had been appointed surgeon to the hos

pital, after twenty-eight years' tenure of the assistant-
surgeoncy; a subject that we merely mention now, as
we shall be obliged to revert to it when we consider

the subject of the " Hospital System."
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  201

    At the time to which we allude, lecturing had be-

 oome so easy as to appear little more than amusement
 to him, yet there were (we speak of about 1816) no
 signs of neglect or forgetfulness. His own interest in
 the subject was sustained throughout ; but, as his un

rivaled lecturing will be more fully described, we must
not anticipate. Few old pupils visited London with

out contriving to get to the hospital at lecture-time.
 The drudgery of the early morning anatomical demon
stration was taken off his hands by Mr. Stanley, who
performed his task with credit to himself and with ad

vantage to the pupils.
    Every morning, punctually at nine o'clock, would Mr.

 Stanley, in an amusingly declamatory tone, shout forth
the dry but necessary truths of descriptive anatomy.
His delivery was accompanied with not a little of met
ropolitan peculiarity, numerous facial gesticulations,
and with occasional solemnities of tone which assorted
oddly with the homely subject of the course of an artery.
But this excited no satire ; it was always received with

smiles and good-nature, and gave room for a little fun,
which served to light up the foggy mornings of a Lon
don winter, and the occasionally not very lively details

of an anatomical demonstration.

  If the style was faulty, the duty was well done. The

endless, but perhaps necessary repetitions, impressed
the facts; a subordinate but important branch of the
school was well supplied, and Mr. Stanley had a nu
merous and attentive class. Abernethy, at this time,
in addition to a successful school, a large and attached

class, a solid and world-wide reputation, was receiving
numerous proofs that his principles were recognized ;
that, however imperfectly adopted, they were gaining

                            I2
it,                        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ground; and that, if all his suggestions were not uni

versally admitted, they were becoming axiomatic with
some of the first surgeons, both in this and other coun
tries.

    He had not, we think, as yet sustained the loss of
any member of his family, nor hardly experienced any
of those ordinary crosses from which few men's lives
are free, and that sooner or later seldom fail to strew
our paths with enough to convince us that perfect peace
can not be auspiciously sought in the conduct of human
affairs. He was soon, however, to receive an impres
sion of a painful nature, and from a quarter whence,
 whatever might have been his experience, he certainly
little expected it. Long accustomed to be listened to
 by admiring and assenting audiences, whether in the
theatre of the hospital, or in those clusters of pupils
which never failed to crowd around him whenever he

had any thing to say, he was now to have some of his
opinions disputed, his mode of advocating them im

pugned, his views of "Life" made the subject of ridi

cule, and even his fair dealing in argument called in

question. All this, too, by no stranger--no person

known only to him as one of the public, but by one
who had been his pupil, whose talents he had helped
to mature and develop, whose progress and prospects in
life he had fostered and improved, and to whom, as was
affirmed by the one and attested by the other, he had
been a constant friend.

    That this controversy was the source of much suffer
ing to Abernethy, we are compelled to believe ; and it
is altogether to us so disagreeable and difficult a sub
ject, that we should have preferred confining ourselves
to a bare mention of and a reference to the works
                MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                                              203

wherein the details fnight be found. It however,
;

  it
                              ;
                  it

                                            a
                                                               ;"

                                                                                                             ;

                                                                   is,
too important an episode in the life of Abernethy to be

so passed over  suggests many interesting reflec

tions exhibits Abernethy in new phase illustrates,

under very trying circumstances, the

              " Virtus repulsae nescia
Intaminatis fulget honoribus

and brings out, in stronger relief than any other trans
action of his life, the best and most distinctive traits

of his character (benevolence and Christian feeling),
under temptations which have too frequently disturb
ed the one and destroyed the other.

                      CHAPTER XVIII.                                                                            a
                                                                                                                        a
   " Opinionum commenta delet dies, naturae judicia confirmat." --
Cicero.

    " Time, which obliterates the fictions of opinion, confirms the de
cisions of nature."

   Whoever has wandered to the south side of Lin
coln's Inn Fields will have found himself in one of the
" solitudes of London" --one of those places which, in

terspersed here and there amid the busy current that
rushes along every street and alley, seems quite out of
the human-life-tide, and furnishes a serene spot, a dead
calm in the midst of tumult and agitation. Here

lawyer may con over " glorious uncertainty," sur

geon difficult case, mathematician the general doc
trine of probability, or the Chevalier d'Industrie the
particular case of the habitat of his next dinner but,
unless you have some such need of abstraction from
the world, these places are heart-sinkingly dull. You
a
                              aa

                                                                                                                ;
204 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

see few people ; perhaps there may be a sallow-look

ing gentleman, in a black coat, with a handful of pa

pers, rushing into " chambers," or a somewhat more

rubicund one in blue walking seriously out ; the very

stones are remarkably round and salient, as if from

want rather than from excess of friction. The atmos

phere from the distance comes charged with the half-

spent, booming hum of population.

Immediately around you, all is comparatively silent.

If you are in a carriage, it seems every moment to

come in contact with fresh surfaces, and "beats a roll"

of continued vibrations; or, if a carriage happen to pass

you, it seems to make more noise than half a dozen

vehicles any where else. You may observe a long fa

cade of irregular elevations --upright parallelograms
called habitable houses --but, for aught you see, half

of them may have been deserted ; the dull sameness
of the facade is broken only by half a dozen Ionic col

umns, which, notwithstanding their number, seem very

serious and very solitary. You may perhaps imagine

that they bear a somewhat equivocal relation to the

large house before which they stand ; you may fancy

them to be architectural relics, inconveniently large

for admission to some depository within, or that they

are intended as a sort of respectable garniture to the

very plain house which they partly serve to conceal or

embellish ; or quiz them as you please, for architects

can not do every thing, nor at once convert a very ugly

house into a very beautiful temple.

But stop there ! for temple it ay, perhaps, as hu
is,

              it
                    It

                                                          ;
man temples always are, not altogether unprofaned

but not so desecrated, we trust, but that may yet

contain the elements of its own purification.  en
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  205

shrines, reader, a gem of great value, which nothing
extrinsic can improve, which no mere art can embel

lish --a treasure gathered from the ample fields of Na

ture, and which can be enriched or adorned only from
the same exhaustless store. Though humble, indeed,
the tenement, yet, were it humbler still, though it were
composed of reeds and covered in with straw, it would

remain hallowed to science.

   It holds the monument of the untiring labor of a
great master, the rich garnerings of a single mind--

the record, alas ! but of some of the obligations man
kind owe to the faithful pioneer of a science, which,

however now partially merged in clouds and darkness,
and obscured by error, still exhibits through the gloom

enough to assert its lofty original, and to foster hopes
of better times.

   The museum of John Hunter (for it is of that we
write) is one of the greatest labors ever achieved by a
single individual. To estimate that labor aright, to
arrive at a correct notion of the man, the spectator

should disregard the number of preparations --the mass

of mechanical and manipulatory labor which is in

volved -- the toil, in fact, of mere collection, and, look
ing through that, contemplate the thought which it

records; the general nature of the plan; the manner
in which the Argus-eyed author has assembled to

gether various processes in the vegetable creation ; how
he has associated them with their nearest relations in

the animal kingdom, and'how he has traced the chain
from link to link, from the more simple to the more
compounded forms, so as to throw light on the laws
dispensed to Man. The spectator should then think
of the Hunterian portion of the museum as the ex
 206 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

hausting harvest of half a life, blessed with no greatly

lengthened days --a museum, gathered not in peaceful

 seasons of leisure, nor amid the ease of undiverted

thought, but amid the interrupting agitations of a pop
ulous city, the persistent embarrassments of measured
means, the multiform distractions of an arduous pro
fession, the still more serious interruptions of occa
sional indisposition, and, finally, amid annoyances from

quarters whence he had every right to expect support

and sympathy --annoyances which served no other pur

pose but to imbitter the tenure of life, and to hasten
its termination.

   Our space will not allow us to dwell more on this
subject, or the museum just now. But where is our
excellent conservator --where is Mr. Clift, the assistant,
the friend, and young companion of John Hunter? He,

too, is gathered to his rest. He, on whose countenance
benevolence had impressed a life-long smile; he who
used to tell us, as boys, so much of all he knew, and to
remind us, as men, how much we were in danger of
forgetting, is now no more. How kind and communi
cative he was, how modest, and yet how full of infor
mation; how acceptably the cheerfulness of social feel
ings mantled over the staid gravity of science; how
fond of any little pleasant story to vary the round of

conservative exposition; and then, if half a dozen of us

were going round with him, the "conticuere omnes,"
when, with his characteristic prefatory shrug, he was
about to speak of Hunter ! Then such a memory !
"Why once, in a long, delightful chat, we were talking
over the Lectures at the College, and he ran over the
general objects of various courses, during a succession

of years, with an accuracy which, if judged of by those
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  207

it,which had fallen within our own recollection, might
have suggested that he had carried a syllabus of each
in his pocket.

    We had much to say of Mr. Clift ; but, in these times
of speed, there is hardly time for any thing; yet we
think that many an old student, when he has lingered
over the stately pile reared by John Hunter, may have
paused, and felt his eyes moistened by the memory of
William Clift.

    When Mr. Abernethy lectured at the College, there

was no permanent professor, as is now the case--no

Professor Owen, of whom we shall have to speak more
in the sequel. Both the professorship of anatomy and

surgery, and also that of comparative anatomy, were

only held for a comparatively short time.

   It is not very easy to state the principle on which the

professors were selected. The privilege of addressing
the seniors of the profession has never, any more than
any other appointment in the profession, been the sub
ject of public competition ; nor, unless the council have
had less penetration than we are disposed to give them
credit for, has " special fitness" been a very dominant

principle. Considering the respectability and position
of the gentlemen who have been selected, the Lectures
at the College of Surgeons, under the arrangements we
are recording, were certainly much less productive, as
regards any improvement in science, than might have

been reasonably expected.
    The vice of "system" could not be always, however,

corrected by the merits of the individual. One result,
which too commonly arose out of was, that gentle
men were called on to address their seniors and contem

poraries for the first time, who had never before ad
208 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

dressed any but pupils. It would not, therefore, have

been very wonderfula              among the other difficulties

of lecturing, that most inconvenient one of all shouldif,

have sometimes occurred, of having nothing to say.

    Mr. Abernethy was appointed in 1814, and had the

rare success of conferring a lustre on the appointment,
and the perhaps still more difficult task of sustaining,

before his seniors and contemporaries, that unrivaled

reputation as lecturer which he had previously ac

quired. As Mr. Abernethy had been all his life teach

ing a more scientific surgery, which he believed to be

founded on principles legitimately deducible from facts

developed by Hunter, so every circumstance of time,

place, and inclination disposed him to bring Mr. Hun

ter's views and opinions under the review of the audi

ence at the College, composed of his seniors, his contem

poraries, and of pupils from the different schools. He

was, we believe, equally desirous of disseminating them

among the one class, as of having them considered by

the others. At this time, no lectures of Mr. Hunter

had been published and Mr. Abernethy thought that,
         it
                               ;
to understand Hunter's opinions of the actions of liv

ing bodies, was expedient that people should have

some notion of what Mr. Hunter considered to be the

general nature of-- " Life."

    We hold this point to be very important; for all ex

perience shows that speculation on the abstract nature

of things to the last degree, unprofitable. Nothingis is,

is  so clear in all sciences as that the proper study of

mankind          the Laws by which they are governed.

Yet we can not, in any science, proceed without some

thing to give an intelligible expression to our ideas,

which something essentially hypothetical.is
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                   209

   If, for example, we speak of light, we can hardly ex;it
press our ideas without first supposing of light that it   it is
is some subtle substance sent off from luminous bodis,
          by
ies, or that it consists in undulations, as we adopt the
          it
corpuscular or undulatory theory. It would be easy
                                                a
to form a third, somewhat different from either, and
;
yet to pretend to no more than to give a still more in
                is
telligible expression to phenomena.          ;
   Now this as appears to us, just what Mr. Aber-

nethy did. He did not speculate on the nature of life
for any other reason than to give more intelligible

expression to Mr. Hunter's other views. At that time
there was nothing published showing that Mr. Hun

ter's ideas of life were what Mr. Abernethy represented

them to be they might have been remembered by men
of his own age, but this was not very good for contro
versy; and as that was made a point of attack,*
well that the since collected " Life and Lectures of
John Hunter," Mr. Palmer, have given us a written

authority for the accuracy of Abernethy's represent

ations.

   In theorizing on the cause of the phenomena of liv

ing bodies, men have, at different times, arrived at va

rious opinions but, although not so understood,

seems to us that they all merge into two-- the one
which supposes Life to be the result of organization,

or the arrangement of matter the other, that the or
ganization given, Life, something superadded to it,
just as electricity or magnetism to the bodies with
which these forces may be connected. The latter was

is * " For this Hunterian Theory of Life, which its real author so
stoutly maintains, &c, nowhere to be found in the published writ-

                         '."-- See Lawrence's Two Lectures (Notes).
210 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

the opinion which Mr. Abernethy advocated as that
held by Mr. Hunter, and which he honestly entertain

ed as most intelligibly and rationally, in his view, ex

plaining the phenomena.
   That this was Mr. Hunter's view, a few passages

from the work, as published by Mr. Palmer, will show.
" Animal and vegetable substances," says Mr. Hunter,
" differ from common matter in having a power super

added totally different from any other known property
of matter, out of which various new properties arise."*

So much for a general view. Next, a reference to
particular powers : " Actions in animal bodies have
been so much considered under a chemical and me

chanical philosophy, that physiologists have entirely
lost sight of Life ;" again showing how correctly Aber
nethy had interpreted Hunter's notion of the necessary

" Key," as Abernethy phrased to his views Hunter
says " For unless we consider Life as the immediate

cause of attraction occurring in animals and vegetables,

we can have no just conception of animal and vege

table matter."! Mr. Hunter, in relation to the idea
:

                                         it,

                                                                                                                      ;

of life being the result of organization, shows how

faithful an exposition Abernethy had given of his views.

"It appears," says he, " that the Living Principle can

not arise from the peculiar modification of matter, be

cause the same modification exists where this principle
no more."--Vol.
                    221; and in the same page:
it is

     is

                     i.,
                             p.

                                   i.,
                                            p.
                                                              t
                                                                                 is

                                                                                                                   p.
                                                                                                                                      :
" Life, then, appears to be something superadded to

this peculiar modification of matter."

    Then as to one of the illustrations employed by
Abernethy. Hunter, after saying that he aware that

         difficult to conceive this superaddition, adds

» Vol.  214, note.                      Vol. xvi., 317.
MEMOIRS OK ABERNETHY.  211

" But to show that matter may take on new properties

without being altered itself as to the species of matter,
it may not be improper to illustrate this. Perhaps

magnetism affords the best illustration. A bar of iron,

without magnetism, may be considered as animal mat
ter without life. With magnetism, it acquires new
properties of attraction and repulsion," &c.

   Mr. Abernethy, as we have said, advocated similar

views, and, we repeat, founded his reason for so doing
on what he conceived to be the necessity of explaining
Mr. Hunter's ideas of life before he could render his

(Hunter's) explanation of the various phenomena in

telligible. In all of this he certainly was expressing
Mr. Hunter's own views, with that talent for ornament

ing and illustrating every thing he discussed for which
he was so remarkable.

    Abernethy multiplied the illustrations by showing
the various analogies which seemed to him to be pre
sented in the velocity, the chemical, and other powers
of Life and Electricity; and with especial reference to
the extraordinary discoveries of Sir Humphrey Davy,
added such illustrations as more recent achievements

in chemical science had placed within his grasp; and
thence concluding it as evident that some subtle, mo

bile, invisible substance seemed to pervade all nature,

so it was not unreasonable to suppose that some simi
lar substance or power pervaded animal bodies. He

guarded himself, however, both in his first, and again
in his second course of Lectures, from being supposed

to identify Life with electricity, in a long paragraph
especially devoted to that object. In his second course,
in 1815, he proceeded to enumerate John Hunter's va

rious labors and contributions to science, as shown by
212 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

the museum, in which he gave very great interest to

every subject, and in so popular a form, that we won

der now, when (as we rejoice to see) there are some
small beginnings of a popularization of physiology,

that there is not a cheap reprint of them.

With regard to the object in view, we can not see

how, as a faithful interpreter of John Hunter, Aber-
nethy could have done less; and if any theory of life

at all is to be adopted as necessary to give an intelli

gible expression to phenomena, one can hardly quarrel
with that which takes the phenomena of life on the

one hand, and those of death on the other, as the means

of expressing our ideas. When we see a man dead

whom we had contemplated alive, it certainly seems

that something has left him; and whether we say
" something superadded," the " breath" or " Life," or

a
              it,
by whatever term we call we appear really to ex

press, in as simple form as possible, the facts before

us. It seems to us that, after all, John Hunter did lit

tle more, for the illustration or similitude by which we

endeavor to render an idea clear has in strictness noth

ing necessarily to do with the idea itself, any more

than an analogy, however real the likeness, or paral
                                             a

lelism, however close, represents identity.

We should have thought  it,  therefore, of all things

in the world, the least likely that any theory of Hun

ter's should have disturbed the harmony which ought

to exist between men engaged in scientific inquiries.

It shows, however, the value of confining ourselves to

phenomena, and the conclusions deducible from them,

as strictly as possible. Nothing could possibly be more

philosophical than the terms in which Mr. Abernethy

undertook to advocate Mr. Hunter's views of life. His
                       MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                           213

     definitions of hypothesis, the conditions on which he

     founded its legitimate character, the modesty with which

     he appliesa       and the clearness with which he states

                  it,
     how easily our best-grounded suppositions may be sub

verted by new facts, are very lucid and beautiful, and

     give tone to the Lectures, the very last calculated,

     as we should have thought, to have led to the conse

     quences which followed.

                            CHAPTER XIX.it
                                             a
                       " Oft expectation fails, and most oft there
is                       Where most promises."is,
    a
                                             All's Well that Ends Well.a

        No man, perhaps, ever made happier application                      la it
     of Divine precept to the conduct of human pursuits
     !than Lord Bacon, when he said that the kingdom of
     man founded in the sciences must be entered like the
                       !
     kingdom of God--that as a little child.
                         is
         Independently of the sublimity of the comparison,  !
         no less remarkable for its practical excellence.
        How many broken friendships, enmities, and heart
     burnings might have been prevented, had even very
     moderate degree of the frame of mind, here so beauti
     fully typified, been allowed to preside over human
     bor How charitably should we have been led to judge
     of the works of others how measured the approbation
     of the most successful of our own No doubt in the
     pursuit of truth there great difficulty in command
     ing that combination of fearlessness toward the world,
     and that reverential humility toward the subject, both
     of which are alike necessary, although the one may be
214 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

more essential to the discovery of truth, the other to

the enunciation of it.

To pursue truth regardless of the multiform errors

and conventionalisms amid which experience has gen

erally shown almost all subjects to have been involved,
unmindful of the rebukes and obloquy by which too

often the best conducted investigations are opposed and

assailed, and yet to let no angry passion stir, no con

viction that we are right engender an improper ideais,

of our own superiority, or a disregard for the claims of

others --this overcoming of the world, we had almost
said, is intensely difficult, for it in fact, overcoming

ourselves; yet we dare not say  it      that of which hu

                                    is

man nature incapable, for there nothing that theis
                                     is

heart suggests as morally right which really impos
                                         is

sible to us, and instances have not been wanting of

the combination of the greatest knowledge with the

most sincere humility.

On the other hand, must be admitted that there
                        it
                                                         if

were any thing especially calculated to bring down the

cultivators of science and literature to the level of those

who are regardless of the claims or insensible to the

attractions of either, we could hardly find a series of

facts more fatally influential than are furnished by the

disputes of men who have been employed in the culti

vation of these elevating studies. Powerful intellects
in teaching the comparative nothingness of man's knowl

edge seem to give great assistance in the acquisition of

humility; but how few are the intellects of such pow

er The contemplation of nature, however, may, we
?

conceive, infuse feelings of humility which can rarely

be attained by the efforts of intellect alone.

We have seen in Lord Bacon that the highest pow
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  215

era of intellect afforded for a while no security against

the subtle, but one would have thought feeble, sug

gestions of a degrading cupidity. We all know, in lit

erature, how much the fruits of intellect depend on the
dominant feeling under which they are reared and nour
ished. Even men like Pope and Addison, who had little
in common but that which should elevate and adorn

human nature, were so dragged down by the demon of
controversy, that, commencing with little more than the

irritability of poets, they ceased only when they had
forgotten even the language of gentlemen. In the
controversy in question, Mr. Abernethy's position was
a very difficult one, and one which shows how easily a
man with the best intentions may find himself engaged
in a discussion which he never contemplated ; be wound

ed on points on which he was most sensitive, and yet
defend himself with dignity, and without compromise
of any of those principles which should guide a gentle

man and a Christian.

    Mr. Lawrence was appointed Professor of Compara
tive Anatomy in 1816, and we know that Mr. Abernethy
hailed his appointment with considerable interest. He

was regarded as a gentleman of some promise, and had

already, if we mistake not, distinguished himself by a

singularly nice, level style of composition, as well as

by careful compilation.

    Nothing could seem more auspicious than such a

prospect. Mr. Abernethy was a man remarkable for

the original view he took of most subjects--a vast ex

perience gathered from various sources by a mind com
bining vividly perceptive powers with great capacity
for reflection, a conformation well adapted for opening
out new paths and extending the boundaries of science.
                          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

Abernethy was now to be associated with a colleague
who had already manifested no ordinary talent for the
graceful and judicious exposition of what teas already

knovm.

    Nothing could have seemed more promising ; nor was
there any thing in the opening of Mr. Lawrence's first
Lecture which seemed calculated to baulk these ex
pectations. His exordium contained an appropriate
recognition of Mr. Abernethy, which, as we should only
mar by extract, we give entire. Having referred to the
circumstances which immediately preceded his appoint
ment, Mr. Lawrence thus proceeds :

   " To your feelings I must trust for an excuse, if any

be thought necessary, for taking the earliest opportu
nity of giving utterance to the sentiments of respect

and gratitude I entertain for the latter gentleman (Mr.

Abernethy). You and the public know and have long
known his acute mind, his peculiar talent for observa
tion, his zeal for the advancement of surgery, and his
successful exertions in improving the scientific knowl
edge and treatment of disease ; his singular happiness
in developing and teaching to others the original and
philosophic views which he naturally takes of all sub
jects that come under his examination, and the suc
cess with which he communicates that enthusiasm in
the cause of science and humanity which is so warm
ly felt by himself; the admirable skill with which he
enlivens the dry details of elementary instruction
are most gratefully acknowledged by his numerous

pupils.

   "All these sources of excellence have been repeat

edly felt in this theatre. Having the good fortune to
be initiated in the profession by Mr. Abernethy, and to
                   MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  217-

have lived for many years under his roof, I can assure

you with the greatest sincerity, that, however highly

the public may estimate the surgeon and philosopher,

I have reason to speak still more highly of the man

and the friend, of the invariable kindness which di

rected my early studies and pursuits, and the disinter
ested friendship which has assisted every step of my
progress in life, the independent spirit and the liberal
conduct which, while they dignify the profession, win
our love, command our respect for genius and knowl
edge, converting these precious gifts into instruments
of the most extensive public good."*

    This graceful exordium, so appropriate to the mu
tual relations of Mr. Abernethy and Mr. Lawrence, de
riving, too, a peculiar interest from the circumstances
under which it was delivered, had also the rare merit

of a eulogium marked by a comprehensive fidelity.
There is nothing fulsome or overstrained; Mr. Aber-
nethy's well-known excellences were touchingly ad
verted to as matters with which all were in common

familiar, while the necessarily more special facts of his
social excellences were judiciously brought out in just
relief, and, as an appropriate climax, by one who ap
peared animated by a grateful and personal experience

of them. It is distressing to think that any thing

should have followed otherwise than in harmony with
that kindness and benevolence which, while it forms

the most auspicious tone for the calm pursuits of phi
losophy, confers on them the purifying spirit of prac
tical Christianity.

    Mr. Lawrence's first Lecture consisted mainly of an

   * March, 1816.  Introductory Lecture to Comp. Anatomy, publish
ed July.
                                 K
218 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

able and interesting expose of the objects and advant

ages of Comparative Anatomy to the physiologist, pa
thologist, medical man, and the theologian, together
with numerous references to those authors to whom

the science was most indebted. The second Lecture
was devoted to the consideration and the discussion of
various views which had been entertained of the liv

ing principle, or by whatever name we may designate
that force which is the immediate cause of the phe

nomena of Living Bodies.
   Among others, those entertained by Mr. Hunter and

advocated by Mr. Abernethy were referred to, but in a
tone which was not, perhaps, best suited to promote
calm discussion, and which we may be allowed to say

was unfortunate --a tone of ridicule and banter which

was hardly suited either to the subject, the place, nor

the distinguished men to whom it related ; to say the

least of  it,    was very unnecessary. We do not quote
             it

these passages, because they are, we think, not neces

sary to the narrative, and could, we think, now give

no pleasure to any party.*

In Mr. Abernethy's next Lectures at the College, he

still advocated the rational nature of Mr. Hunter's

views on Life, and in a most interesting exposition of

the Gallery of the Museum, opposed at every opportu

nity the views of certain French physiologists which

Mr. Lawrence had adopted.

He did this, however, without naming Mr. Law

rence, and applied his remarks to the whole of those

who had advocated     tahseaop"inBioannsd  that Life  was the re
sult of organization                                   skeptics."
                                           of modern

   * Introduction to Comp. Anatomy, by W. Lawrence, F.R.S. Lon

don, 1816.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  219

    Mr. Abernethy had, as he says, argued against a
party, and studiously kept Mr. Lawrence, as an indi
vidual, out of view. He, however, argued roundly
against the views advocated by him, and endeavored to
show that those of Mr. Hunter, besides being at least a

philosophical explanation of the phenomena, had a good
moral tendency, although he admitted that the belief
that man was a mere machine did not alter establish

ed notions, and that there were many good skeptics;
still, he thought that the " belief of the distinct and in
dependent mind incited people to act rightly," &c.

   In regard to the general influence of the state of
France, he says, "Most people think and act with a
party;" and "that in France, where the writings of
the philosophers and wits had greatly tended to de

moralize the people, he was not surprised that their
anatomists and physiologists should represent the sub
ject of their studies in a manner conformable to what
is esteemed most philosophical and clever; but that in

this country the mere opinions of some French anato
mists with respect to the nature of life should be extract

ed from their general writings, translated, and extolled,

can not but excite surprise and indignation in any one
apprized of their pernicious tendency." There is no
doubt that there was at the time in this country a dis
position in many people to disseminate very many opin
ions on various subjects different from those usually
entertained, and we believe that this disposition was
very greatly increased by the well-intentioned, no
doubt, but, in our view, injudicious means employed
for the suppression of them.

   We think it important to remember this, because,
in estimating fairly any books or lectures, we must
220 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

regard the spirit of the time in which they were deliv

ered -- what would be judicious or necessary at one

period, being of course obsolete or unnecessary at an

other.

   In relation to the opinions of the nature of life, that
which Mr. Abernethy alleged that he intended to apply

to a party, Mr. Lawrence alleged that he held as per
sonally applying to himself. Accordingly, the follow
ing course of Mr. Lawrence's Lectures commenced with

" A Reply to the ' Charges' of Mr. Abernethy." This

Lecture, which it is impossible for any man, mindful
of all the circumstances, to peruse without pain (espe

cially if we include the notes), is couched in language

of the most vituperative and contemptuous character ;
sarcasm, ridicule, imputation of corrupt motives by
turn, are weapons wielded with the appearance of the
most unrelenting virulence.

   Those of the audience who had heard the graceful
exordium, which we have quoted, to the first course of
Lectures, and which so appropriately represented a
just tribute to a great master and kind friend from a
distinguished and favored pupil, were now to listen to
a discourse which was so charged with various shades
and descriptions of ridicule and invective as scarcely
to be paralleled in the whole history of literary or sci
entific controversy. We have recently again perused

the respective Lectures, and we are utterly at a loss
to understand how the most sensitive mind could have

found any thing in Mr. Abernethy's Lectures to call
for such a "Reply." As it appears to us, its very vir
ulence was calculated to weaken its force, and to enlist
the sympathies of people on the opposite side. We
again forbear quotation. All we have to do is to show
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                 221

that circumstances of very unusual provocation, such
as no man living could help feeling most deeply, and
which bore on one who was acutely sensitive, never
materially disturbed the native benevolence of Aber-

nethy's disposition.
    The dispute, however, soon merged into matters

which the public regarded as more important. Mr.
Lawrence, in the Lectures which followed, took occa

sion to make some remarks on the Scriptures which

gave great offense, and led other writers to engage in
a controversy of a theological rather than a physiolog
ical character. This, however, rather belongs to the
writings and opinions of Mr. Lawrence than the life of

Abernethy. We will at once offer the very few observ
ations which we alone think it necessary to make, ei

ther in justice to Mr. Abernethy or the profession.

CHAPTER XX.

                     " Love all, trust a few,

Do wrong to none ; be able for thine enemy

Rather in power than use ; and keep thy friend

Under thine own Life's key ; be check'd for silence,

But never tax'd for speech. What Heaven more will,

That thee may furnish, and my prayers pluck down,

Fall on thy head !"  All's Well that Ends Well.

   In reviewing the facts of the foregoing controversy,
we are anxious to restrict our remarks to such points
as fall within the proper scope of our present object.
These appear to us to relate to the mode in which Mr.

Abernethy conducted his argument, as being legitimate
or otherwise ; secondly, the influence the whole affair
222 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

had in developing one of the most important features

in his character ; and, lastly, the impression it pro

duced, for good or evil, on the public mind, in relation

to our profession.

We would observe, in the first place, that the diffi

culty of Mr. Abernethy's position was very painful and

peculiar. We are not learned in controversy, but we

should imagine that position to have been almost with

out parallel. Mr. Lawrence had been his pupil. As

we have seen, Mr. Abernethy had been his patron and

his friend, and, moreover, he had been not a little in

strumental in placing Mr. Lawrence in the Professor's

chair. This instrumentality could not have been mere

ly passive, Mr. Abernethy himself was not a senior

of the Council at that time ; at all events, he was as
sociated at the College with men much older than him

self, and must have owed any influence in the appoint

ment to an active expression of his wishes, supported

by that attention to them which, though not necessa

rily connected with his standing at the College, was

readily enough, no doubt, conceded to his talents and

his reputation. His singleness of mind in this busi

ness was the more amiable, because, had he been dis

posed to be inactive, there were not wanting circum

stances which might not unnaturally have induced

some hesitation on the subject. In the postscript at the
end of Mr. Abernethy's published Lectures delivered
at the College, we learn that, " From an early period

of his studies, Mr. Lawrence had been accustomed to

decry and scoff at what I taught as Mr. Hunter's opin

Iionsrespecting life and its functions ; yet," he adds,
       never could find that he had any good reason for
" as
Ihis conduct, continued to teach them in the midst
                        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

of the controversy, and derision of such students as had
become his proselytes," &c.

   This could hardly have been very agreeable. The
pupils were wont to discuss most subjects in their gos
sips in the Square of the hospital or elsewhere, and
many a careless hour has not been unprofitably so em
ployed. On such occasions, those who were so inclined
would no doubt use ridicule or any other weapon that
suited their purpose ; and so long as any reasonable
limits were observed, Mr. Abernethy was the last per
son likely to take notice of any thing which might
have reached him on the subject. On the contrary, it
was his excellence and his often-expressed wish that
we should canvass every subject for ourselves, and he
would enforce the sincerity of his recommendation by
advising us with an often-repeated quotation,

                 " Nullius addictus jurare in verba magistri."

Still, we can not conceive that the desultory discussions
at the Hospital, of which he might from time to time
have accidentally heard, could have prepared him to
expect that a similar tone was to form any portion of
the sustained compositions of Lectures to be delivered
in Lincoln's Inn Fields. When, however, he found his
opinions ridiculed there by his friend and pupil, what
was to be done ? Was he to enter into a direct per
sonal sort of controversy with his colleague in office at
the College of Surgeons ?

    There was every thing in that course that was in
expedient and repulsive. Was he to be silent on opin
ions which he knew to have been Mr. Hunter's, and of
the moral and scientific advantages of which he had a
most matured conviction ? That would have been a
. 224  MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

compromise of his duty. It was a difficult dilemma
--a real case of the

       " Incidit in Scyllam qui rult vitare Charybdim."

  If he avoided one difficulty, he fell into another. He

tried to take a middle course : he argued in support of

the opinions he had enunciated, and aided these by ad
ditional illustrations ; and in contrasting them with
those opinions which were opposed to him, he endeav
ored to avoid a personal allusion to individuals by ar
guing against a class which he termed the " band of
modern skeptics." Even this was a little Charybdis,
perhaps, because it had a sort of name-calling effect,
while it was not at all essential thus to embody in any

one phrase the persons who held opposite opinions.

   His position was intensely difficult. It should be

recollected that Abernethy had always been a teacher

of young men ; that he had always taught what he

conceived to be principles of surgery deducible from
those delivered by Hunter ; that he further believed
that, to understand Hunter clearly, it was necessary

to have a correct notion of the idea Mr. Hunter enter

tained of " Life ;" and, lastly, that in all his Lectures,

Abernethy had a constant tendency to consider, and a
habit of frequent appeal to what, under different forms,

might be regarded as the moral bearings of any sub
 ject which might be under discussion. We readily
admit that usually, in conducting scientific arguments,
the alleged moral tendencies of this or that view are

more acceptable when reserved to grace a conclusion
than when employed to enforce an argument, yet we
think that comparatively few persons would now think

the discussion of any subject bearing on the physical
                          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                  is,

itnature of Man complete which omitted the very inti
         itmate and demonstrable relations which exist between

;the moral and the physical laws.
    The point, however, which we wish to impress

that Mr. Abernethy, in pleading the moral bearings of
his views by deductions of his own, was merely doing
that which he had been in the habit of doing on most

other questions -- was merely part of that plan on

which, without the smallest approach at any attempt
to intrude religious considerations inappropriately into
the discussion of matters ordinarily regarded as secu
lar, he had always inculcated a straightforward, free-
from-cant, do-as-you-would-be-done-by tone in his own
Lectures. This, while formed one of their bright
est ornaments, was just that without which all lectures
must be held as defective which are addressed to

young men about to enter an arduous and responsible

profession.
    Abernethy stated nothing as facts but which were

demonstrably such and with regard to any hypotheses
which he employed in aid of explaining them, he ob
served those conditions which philosophers agree on as
necessary, whether the hypotheses be adopted or other
wise. He did not do even this but for the very legit
imate object of explaining the views of the man on
whose labors he was discoursing.

    When those views of Mr. Hunter, which had been
thus set forth and illustrated, were attacked, he de
fended them with his characteristic ability and al

though we will not undertake to say that the defense

contains no single passage that might not as well have
been omitted, we are not aware that, from the begin
ning to the end, contains single paragraph that
it
      K

             2
                     a

                                                                              ;
226 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

does not fall fairly within the limits that the most strin

gent would prescribe to scientific discussion.
    The discussion of abstract principles is generally

unprofitable. We think few things more clear than
that we know not the intrinsic nature of any abstract
principle; and although it would be presumptuous to
say we never shall, yet we think it impossible for any
reflecting student in any science to avoid perceiving
that there are peculiar relations between the laws of
nature and the human capacity which most emphat
ically suggest that the study of the one is the proper
business and the prescribed limit to the power of the

other.

   Still, the poverty of language is such as regards the
expression of natural phenomena, that necessity has
obliged us to clothe the forces in nature with some at

tribute sufficiently in conformity with our ideas to en

able us to give them an intelligible expression ; and
whether we talk of luminous particles, ethereal undu
lations, electric or magnetic fluids, matter of heat, &c.,
we apprehend that no one now means more than to
give an intellectually tangible expression of certain
forces in nature of which he desires to discourse, or to

teach the habitudes they observe, or the laws which
they obey. This is all we think it necessary to say on
the scientific conduct of the argument by Abernethy.

    The public have long since expressed their opinion
on Mr. Lawrence's Reply and Lectures, and whatever
may be regarded as their decision, we have no disposi
tion to canvass or disturb it. There was nothing won
derful, however unusual, in a young man so placed,
in a professsion like ours, getting into a controversy
with a man of such eminence as Abernethy, particular
                 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  227

Jy on speculative subjects. There were in the present

case, to be sure, very many objections to such a posi
tion ; but these it was Mr. Lawrence's province to con

sider. On this and many other points, we have as lit

tle inclination as we have right, perhaps, to state our

opinion. Nevertheless, we must not omit a few words

in recognition of Mr. Abernethy's efforts, and a few ob

servations on the conduct of the governing body of the
College at that time. In the first place, we feel obliged

to Mr. Abernethy for the defense he made on that occa

sion ; not from the importance of any abstract theory,
but from the tendency that his whole tone had to incul

cate just views of the nature and character of the pro

fession. But we can by no means acquit the Council of

the College, at the time of the said controversy, of what

we must conceive to have been a great neglect of duty.

itThere among a certain class of persons, an idea that

    is
            is,
the medical profession are skeptical on religious sub

jects, and many of these persons are people of whom

     impossible not to value the respect and good opin

ion. We never could trace any legitimate grounds

for   the   conclusion.    Otnhainnqui"ryv,ulgahr aes rraolwr,"ayrsesatipnpge,aar s
ed   to be   nothing more  a

                                    it

" vulgar errors" generally do, on general conclusions

drawn by people who have deduced them from insuf

ficient particulars.

Sometimes the persons indulging in this idea have

known a medical man whom they consider to be un

stable in his religious views another knows that Mr.
                           ;
                                ;
A. or B. never goes to church sometimes even polit
ical differences have been held sufficient excuse for im

pugning the possessor of proper ideas on the all-import
ant subject of religion. We have never been able to
 228 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

procure any reasonable data on which they could,
with any show of justice, support so serious an im
putation. For our parts, we know not how the nec
essary data are to be obtained, and therefore should
shrink from any attempt at any thing so presump
tuous as to describe the religious character of any

profession.

    We have no means of obtaining the evidence neces
sary to support so serious and difficult a conclusion.
The great bulk of our profession are general practition
ers, and in forming opinions in regard to any class of
men, we naturally look to the greatest number. So
far as our own experience has gone, we can not find

the slightest ground for the degrading imputation.

Like all other medical men, their labors are incessant,
the hours of recreation few and far between. In their

requisitions on their time, the public regard neither
night nor day, nor the Sabbath, when they require at

tention. Then, if we look to conduct as no unreason

able test of religion, we may, like all other professions,
have blots. We have, in all grades, no doubt, it may
be, our fee-hunters and our long-billed practitioners ;
but whether we regard the physician, surgeon, or gen
eral practitioner, we verily believe that there are no
men in the kingdom who, as a body, conduct them
selves more honorably; none who are less mercenary;

who, in relation to their position, are less affluent--no
bad test--or who do one tenth of the work which they

do without any remuneration whatever.

   With regard to the alleged absence from public wor

ship, there may be (however explicable) some ground
for the remark, and especially as no profession shows,.
W the general respectability of their conduot, a more
             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.             229

ready and respectful acquiescence in the established

usages of mankind.
   But let the question be fairly stated. How many

medical men can go to church every Sunday, and to
the same church, without a compromise of a para

mount duty ? We are ready to concede that the ne

cessities which professional calls imperatively impose

 n so many occasions may have a tendency to form
habits when impediments are less pressing, but is it

not rather the exactions of the public than the choice
of the profession which imposes the necessity? How

many of the public would be satisfied, if they wished

to see a professional man on any pressing occasion, and
were told that he could not be seen for a couple of

hours, as he was going to church ?

Highly as we venerate the benign and beautiful or

             a

                      it

                                        ;

                                             it
                                                                         ; it,
dinance of the Sabbath, important as we think                                   on

all accounts, that should be observed with reverence

and gratitude, still we should hesitate before we re

garded the single act of attendance or absence on pub
lic worship safe or charitable exposition of any man's
religious stability. We therefore, as far as in us lies,

repudiate the charge we regard as groundless and

think that, as no profession gives a more constant op
portunity of constant awakening and keeping alive the

best sympathies of our nature, so no profession can bo

more calculated to impress the fragile nature of the
body, as contrasted with the immortal spirit which in

habits  it,  or the constant presence of that Power by

whose laws they are governed. But groundless as wo

think the charge, we must contend that the apathy of

the Council of the College, at the time Mr. Lawrence

delivered the Lectures in question, was a serious neg
230 ' MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

lect of duty. In the Lectures in question, Mr. Law

rence spoke of the Old Testament in a tone which
must, we think, be regarded as irrelevant to, or at least
unnecessary, in a Course of Lectures on Comparative

Anatomy.
   We hold no sympathy with that sort of persecution

with which several well-intentioned people visited the
book, but we must always regard the Council of the
time as having been neglectful of their duty. Lec
tures on Comparative Anatomy do not render it neces
sary to impugn the historical correctness or the inspired
character of the Old Testament. What answer could
private individuals make, or with what influence could
they oppose the prejudices of the public in relation to
the religious securities afforded by them in whom they
confide, when they saw a young man allowed to intro
duce matter in lectures given to an audience composed
of the most aged and eminent of the profession, as well
as of many of those who were just commencing their

studies --delivered, too, at the chartered College of the
profession --matter which was not only not at all neces

sary to the most ample exposition of the subject, but
which, as we have said, only alluded to the Old Testa
ment in a manner calculated to weaken its authority
as a historical document, and to impugn its inspired
character?

    Surely there was no more certain mode of giving an
ex cathedra sanction to the unfavorable impressions of
the public ; impressions which tend to tarnish the lus
tre of a profession which founds its claims to respect
on its kindly ministrations and unquestioned utility,
and to arm a vulgar and unfounded prejudice with all

the influence of Collegiate recognition. If, indeed, the
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  231

College had desired to support the alleged favorable
tendency of Mr. Abernethy's views or the alleged oppo
site bearings of those to which he was opposed, they
could hardly have done better than to have allowed of
the irrelevant matter in question. But we have done.

It is no part of our business to quote passages, or fur

ther to renew discussions long since passed away, than
is necessary for our proper objects. But when we con
sider on how many points Abernethy must have been
hurt, the very difficult and perplexing position in which
he was placed, we can not too much admire the very

measured tone he adopted throughout; or the evident
ly wounded feeling, but still dignified yet simple state
ment of the published Postscript to his Lectures ; and

though there had been no subsequent exemplification

of his forgiving temper -- which was not the case--we

should still have felt obliged to regard the whole affair
as indicative of great goodness of heart; and when all

the circumstances of disappointment and vexation are
duly weighed, of almost unexampled moderation.

   It is just to Mr. Lawrence to observe that, some few

years after this, the Governors of Bethlehem Hospital,
on the annual (and usually formal) election of the sur
geon, an office held by Mr. Lawrence, threw the ap
pointment open to competition, on which occasion Mr.
Lawrence published a letter expressing regret, in gen
eral terms, as to certain passages in the Lectures in

question, and his determination not to publish any more
on similar subjects. The coincidence of this letter with

the threatened tenure of office of course gave rise to the

usual remarks ; but, if a man says he is sorry for a thing,
perhaps it is better not to scan motives too closely.
Mankind stand too much in need of what Burns sug-
232 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                           j

gests, and with which we close this not very agreeable
subject:

                    "Then gently scan your brother man,
                         Still gentler sister woman ;

                         Though they may gang a kennin wrang,
                         To step aside is human."

                       CHAPTER XXI.

         " And though they prove not, they confirm the cause,

             When what is taught agrees with Nature's laws."
                                                            Dryden's Relio. Laici.

                    prefatory remarks.

   In endeavoring to give some idea of Abernethy's

manner in more sustained compositions, we have made
some selections from the Lectures he delivered at the
College of Surgeons. Without any pretensions to a
critically faultless style, there always seemed to us to
be a peculiar simplicity combined with a broad and
comprehensive range of thought. Sometimes, too, he

has almost a " curiosa felicitas" in the tone of his ex

pressions, though this was more remarkable, we think,

when he felt more free--that in his unrivaled teach

ing at the Hospital, of which we shall endeavor to give
   more particular account. As we have before remark-

ed, impossible to do full justice to Abernethy un
less we were to publish his works with running com
mentary, and we fear that in the selections we offer
we have incurred responsibility which we shall not
properly fulfill. To convey the full, the suggestivo
merit of even some of the following passages, would
be necessary to state carefully the relation they bear
a

     it

           is
                                    a

                                                      is,
                                                                     a

                                                                   it
                                                                                                                                                                             t4
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  233

 to the state of science, both chemical and physiological,
 at the time they were written, and the present.

     The interest of the Lectures is so evenly distributed
through the whole, that selection is very difficult; and
being obliged to consider our limits, we have, in the
 absence of a better guide, selected the passages at ran
 dom, as suggested by our own impressions of them.
 We therefore can only earnestly recommend the peru
 sal of the Lectures themselves as equally entertaining

 and instructive to the general as well as the profession
 al reader. The varied expression and manner, and his
fine intellectual countenance, by which he imparted so
much interest to his delivery on every subject he

touched, will be considered in connection with his suc

cess in the art of lecturing, and to which these some
what formal specimens may serve as an introduction.

 THE APPARENT UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTION OF SOME POWERFUL FORCE
                              LIKE ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, &C.

    " When, therefore, we perceive in the universe at
large a cause of rapid and powerful motions of masses
of inert matter, may we not naturally conclude that
the inert molecules of vegetable and animal matter
may be made to move in a similar manner by a sim
ilar cause ?"

                    REPUDIATION OF AN OFTEN ALLEGED OPINION.

   " It is not meant that electricity is life. There are

strong analogies between electricity and magnetism,

and yet I do not know that any one has been hardy
enough to assert their absolute identity.* I only mean

   * Oersted's experiments, which by some are regarded as identify
ing these powers, occurred in 1820, four or five years after the de
livery of this Lecture.
234 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

to prove that Mr. Hunter's theory is verifiable, by show
ing that a subtile substance of a quickly, powerfully
mobile nature seems to pervade every thing, and ap
pears to be the life of the world, and therefore it is
probable that a similar substance pervades organized
bodies, and produces similar effects in them.

    " The opinions which in former times were a justi
fiable hypothesis, seem to me now to be converted into
a rational theory."*

                       IN RELATION TO MICROSCOPIC OBSERVATION.

   " This general and imperfect sketch of the anatomy
of the nervous system relates only to what may be dis
covered by our unassisted sight. If, by means of the

microscope, we endeavor to observe the ultimate nerv

ous fibres, persons in general are as much at a loss as

when, by the same means, they attempt to trace the

ultimate muscular fibres."t

ILLUSTRATION OF MOTION NOT NECESSARILY IMPLYING SENSATION.

" Assuredly motion does not necessarily imply sen

sation ; it takes place where no one ever yet imagined

there could be sensation. If I put on the table a basin

containing a saturated solution of salt, and threw into

it a single crystal, the act of crystalization would be

gin from the point touched, and rapidly and regularly

pervade the liquor till it assumed a solid form. Yet I
know I should incur your ridicule if I suggested the

idea that the stimulus of salt had primarily excited

the action, or that its extension was the effect of con

Itinuous sympathy. If, also, threw a spark among
gunpowder, what would you think were I to represent

* Anatom. Lect., p. 51.                Ibid., ii., p. 62.
i.,
                                    t
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                               235

th« explosion as a struggle resentful of injury, or the
noise as the clamorous expression of pain?"*

   DIFFERENT NERVOUS SYSTEMS VARIOUSLY AFFECTED BY SIMILAR IM

                                                           PRESSIONS.

   " Thus the odor of a cat, or the effluvia of mutton,

the one imperceptible, the other grateful to the gener
ality of persons, has caused individuals to fall on the
ground as though bereaved of life, or to have their
whole frame agitated by convulsions. Substances
which induce disease in one person or animal, do not
induce disease in others."t

                                            IMPORTANCE OF OPINIONS.

  "Thinking being inevitable, we ought, as I said, to

be solicitous to think correctly. Opinions are equally
the natural result of thought and the cause of conduct.

If errors of thought terminated in opinions, they would

be of less consequence ; but a slight deviation from the
line of rectitude in thought may lead to a most distant

Iand disastrous aberration from that line in action.
Iown can not readily believe any one who tells me he

has formed no opinion on subjects which must have
engaged and interested his attention. Persons both
of skeptical and credulous characters form opinions,
and we have, in general, some principal opinion, to
which we connect the rest, and to which we make
them subservient, and this has a great influence on all

our conduct. Doubt and uncertainty are so fatiguing
to the human mind, by keeping it in continual action,

that it will and must rest somewhere; and if so, our
inquiry ought to be where it may rest most securely

* Anatom. Lect., ii.p p. 84.  t Ibid., ii., p. 85,
236 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

and comfortably to itself, and with most advantage to

others.

   "In the uncertainty of opinions, wisdom would

counsel us to adopt those which have a tendency to
produce beneficial actions."

INDEPENDENCE OF WIND ON LIFE AS ARISING OUT OF THE IDEA THAT

LIFE WAS SUPERADDED TO ORGANIZATION  HIS DISPOSITION TO ALLE

GORY.

  " If I may be allowed to express myself allegorical-
ly with regard to our intellectual operations, I would

say that the mind chooses for itself some little spot or

district, where it erects a dwelling, which it furnishes

and decorates with the various materials it collects.

Of many apartments contained in
       it it                         there                                    one to

            is

                   it
                                            it
                                                      it,

                                                                          is
which       most partial, where chiefly reposes, and

where sometimes indulges its visionary fancies. At

the same time, employs itself in cultivating the sur

rounding grounds, raising little articles for intellect

ual traffic with its neighbors, or perhaps some produce

worthy to be deposited among the general stores of

human knowledge. Thus my mind rests at peace in

thinking on the subject of life as has been taught
                                     it

                                                    if
by Mr. Hunter, and am visionary enough to imagine
if
that these opinions should become so established as
             by
to be generally admitted by philosophers, that they
               I
once saw reason to believe that life was something of

an invisible and active nature superadded to organiza

tion, they would then see equal reason to believe that

mind might be superadded to life as life to struc
                                     is

ture. They would then, indeed, still further perceive

how mind and matter might reciprocally operate on

each other  means of an intervening substance.
                         MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.'

Thus even would physiological researches enforce the

belief which I say is natural to man, that in addition

to his bodily frame he possesses a sensitive, intelligent,

and independent mind --an opinion which tends in an

eminent degree to produce virtuous, honorable, and
and useful actions."*

ATTRACTIONS OF PHYSIOLOGY THE NECESSITY OF EXAMINING BOTH
    HEALTH AND DISEASE A VERY IMPORTANT POINT JUST NOW, AS TEST
    ING THE VALIDITY OF CERTAIN VIEWS OF LIKBIO AND OTHERS.

   "No study can surely be so interesting as Physiolo
gy. While other sciences carry us abroad in search of

objects, in this we are engaged at home, and on con
cerns highly important to us, in inquiring into the
means by which ' we live, and move, and have our be
ing.' To those, however, engaged in the practice of
Medicine, the study of Physiology is indispensable, for

it is evident that the nature of the disordered actions
of parts or organs can never be understood or judicious
ly counteracted, unless the nature of their healthy ac

tions be previously known.

   " The study of Physiology, however, not only re

quires that we should investigate the nature of the
various vital processes carried on in our own bodies,
but also that we should compare them with similar
processes in all the varieties of living beings ; not only
that we should consider them in a state of natural and
healthy action, but also under all the varying circum
stances of disorder and disease. Few, indeed, have stud
ied Physiology thus extensively, and none in an equal
degree with Mr. Hunter. Whoever attentively peruses

his writings must, I think, perceive that he draws his

                              * Anatom. Lect., ii., p. 92.
                         MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

crowds of facts from such different and remote sources
as to make it extremely difficult to assemble and ar
range them."*

                                         OF DISORDER AND DISEASE.

   " Disorder, which is the effect of faulty actions of
nerves, induces disease, which is the consequence of

faulty actions of the vessels. There are some who find
it difficult to understand how similar swellings or ul
cers may form in various parts of the body in conse
quence of general nervous disorder, and are all curable
by appeasing and removing such general disorder. The
fact is indisputable. Such persons are not so much
surprised that general nervous disorder should produce
local effects in the nervous and muscular systems, yet
they can not so well understand how it should locally
affect the vascular system. To me there appears noth
ing wonderful in such events, for the local affection is
primarily nervous, and the vascular actions are conse
quent. Yet it must indeed be granted that there may
be other circumstances leading to the peculiarities of
local diseases with which, at present, we are unacquaint
ed. Disorder excites to disease, and, when important
organs become in a degree diseased, they will still per

ifform their functions moderately well disorder be re

lieved, which ought to be the Alpha and Omega of
medical attention?^

   As we have seen in the early part of our narrative,
he was one of the first to insist on the importance of
Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, and, as we shall

* Physiol. Lect.,
t                                            3. 1817.

                                 p.
                                i.,
                                         p.
Introd. Lect., 117. 1815.
                          MEMOIRS OF ABERNKTHY.it,I
           is
have to relate, most active in securing what has proved
Iso greatly influential to its progress in this country (theII
appointment of Professor Owen). Yet he modestly ig
nores any positive pretensions which might be imputedit;
to him from his endeavor to illustrate a Museum deal
ing so largely with Comparative Anatomy.;i.,

   " Gratitude to the former of the Museum, and also;

to the donors of equally demand that its value and
excellency should be publicly acknowledged and dis
played, which consideration has goaded me on to un
dertake and imperfectly to execute a task for which
feel myself not properly qualified."

   Here follows what very candid in Abernethy and
honorable to Mr. Clift, who had very many debtors who
were less communicative.

   " cordially acknowledge that have little acquaint
ance with the subject except what derived from look
ing over the preparations in the Museum, from reading

Professor Cuvier's Lectures, and from the frank and
friendly communications of our highly praiseworthy
conservator, Mr. Clift. Permit me to say, gentlemen,
though many know already, that Mr. Clift resided
with Mr. Hunter, and was taught by him to exhibit
anatomical facts in preparations that he does credit
to his excellent instructor that he feels the same in
terest and zeal that his patron did for the improvement
of this department of science and that he possesses
the same candor and simplicity of character."*

                              * Physiol. Lect., p. H.
              MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

                            OF DEEP AND SUPERFICIAL THINKING.

   " I now beg leave to add that there are many who

think clearly who do not think deeply ; and they have
greatly the advantage in expressing themselves, for
their thoughts are generally simple and easy of appre

hension. Opinions immediately deduced from any se
ries or assemblage of facts may be called primary opin
ions, and they become types and representatives of the
facts from which they are formed, and, like the facts
themselves, admit of assortment, comparison, and influ
ence, so that from them we deduce ulterior opinions,

till at length, by a kind of intellectual calculation, we
obtain some general total, which, in like manner, be

comes the representative and coefficient of all our
knowledge with relation to the subject examined and

considered."*

   " In proportion to the pains we have taken in this

algebraical process of the mind, and our assurance of
its correctness, so do we contemplate the conclusion or
consummation of our labors with satisfaction."

                CHARACTERISTIC OP HIS INCLINATION TO THE LAW.

  I" Gentlemen (of the jury), I trust can prove to

your perfect conviction, by ample and incontrovertible

evidence, that my client (John Hunter) died seized and
possessed of very considerable literary property, the

hard-earned gainings of great talent and unparalleled
industry. It
        I                not, however, for the property that            I
                    is,
plead, because already that secured                                   fenced in;
                         ;                                ;
landmarks are set up
                           it                               it

                                is                                a is
                                   isregistered in public docu

ments.  plead only for the restitution of great and

                         * Phygiol. Lect.,  i.,      26.
                                                 p.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                                     241

accumulated income of reputation derivable from that

property, which, I trust, you will perceive to be justly

due, and will consequently award to my client and his

country."*

                OF MR. HUNTER -- PROGRESS Of HIS MIND, &C.

   " Believing that no man will labor in the strenuous

and unremitting manner that Mr. Hunter did, and to
the detriment of his own private interest, without some

strong incentive, I have supposed that at an early pe

riod he conceived those notions of life which were con

firmed by his future inquiries and experiments. He
began his observations on the incubated egg in the
year 1755, which must either have suggested or cor
roborated all his opinions with regard to the cause of
the vital phenomena. He perceived that, however dif
ferent in form and faculty, every creature was never
theless allied to himself because it was a living being,
and therefore he became solicitous to inquire how the
vital processes were carried on in all the varieties of
animal and even vegetable existence." .

                                           OF GENIUS AND JUDGMENT.

   "In the progress of science, genius, with light and

airy steps, often far precedes judgment, which proceeds
slowly, and either finds or forms a road along which all
may proceed with facility and security ; but the direc
tion of the course of judgment is often suggested, and

its actions are excited and accelerated by the invoca

tions of preceding genius. "t

* Physiol. Lect,       Ibid
                  i.,16.                                                             19.
                      p.

                           L

                                              t

                                                                                 ,

                                                                     i.,
                                                                                 p.
/MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

REITERATION' OF THE DENIAL THAT HE IDENTIFIED LIFE WITH ELEC

                        TRICITY.

   "As Sir H. Davy's experiments fully prove that elec

tricity may be superadded to, and that it enters into
the composition of all those substances we call matter,

I felt satisfied with the establishment of the philosophy

of Mr. Hunter's views, nor thought it necessary to pro

ceed further, but merely added, 'It is not meant to be
affirmed that electricity is life.' I only mean to argue

in favor of Mr. Hunter's theory by showing that a sub

tile substance of a quickly and powerfully mobile na

ture seems to pervade every thing, and appears to be

the life of the world, and that therefore it is probable

a similar substance pervades organized bodies, and is
Ithe life of these bodies.
                            am concerned, yet obliged

to detain you by this recapitulation, because my mean

ing has been either misunderstood or misrepresented."*

                                           CHEMISTRY OF LIFE.

   " He (Mr. Hunter) told us that life was a great chem
ist, and, even in a seemingly quiescent state, had the
power of resisting the operations of external chemical

agency, and thereby preventing the decomposition of

those bodies in which it resided. Thus seeds may lie

buried far beneath the surface of the earth for a great
length of time without decaying, but, being thrown up,
they vegetate. Mr. Hunter showed us that this chem

ist, 'Life,' had the power of regulating the temperature
of the substances in which it resides."t

* Physiol. Lect.,                 Ibid.,
                   i.,
                       p.
                                                     t
                                                                        i.,
                                                                                    p.
                   26.                                                                  27.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  243

   interesting; also significant in regard to what are probably
       the real sources of animal heat, and in relation to the
        lungs, which we have contended are refrigerating and not
         heating organs.

       " The progress of science since Mr. Hunter's time

    has wonderfully manifested that the beam, when dis
    sected by a prism, is not only separable into seven cal
    orific rays of different refrangibility, producing the ir
    idescent spectrum, but also into calorific rays refract
    ed in the greatest degree or intensity beyond the red
    color, and into rays not calorific, refracted, in like man

    ner, to the opposite side of the spectrum beyond the
    violet color ; and that the oalorific and«ncalorific rays

    produce effects similar to those occasioned by the two
    kinds of electricity, and thus afforded additional rea

    sons for believing that subtile mobile substances do
    enter into the composition of all those bodies which the

    sun illumines or its beams can penetrate.
        " Late observations induce the belief that even light

    may be incorporated in a latent state with animal sub

    stances, and afterward elicited by a kind of spontane

    ous separation by vital actions, or by causes that seem
    to act mechanically on the substance in which it in-

. heres. All the late discoveries in science seem to real

    ize the speculations of ancient philosophers, and show
    that all the changes and motions which occur in sur

    rounding bodies, as well as those in which we live, are
    the effect of subtile and invisible principles existing in

    them or acting on them. Mr. Ellis, who, with such

     great industry and intelligence, has collated all the
     scattered evidences relative to the production of heat

    in living bodies, and added so much to the collected
    knowledge, seems to think that all the variations of
244 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

temperature in them may be accounted for by known
chemical processes.

  "Here, however, I must observe, that Mr. Hunter's

opinion of life having the power of regulating temper
ature was deduced, not only from his own experiments,
related in the ' Philosophical Transactions,' but also
from observing that, in certain affections of the stom
ach, the heat of the body is subject to great vicissi
tudes, while respiration and circulation remain unal
tered; and also that parts of the body are subject to
similar variations, which appear inexplicable upon any
other supposition than that of local nervous excite
ment, or torpor, or some similar affections of the vital
powers of the part which undergoes such transitions."*

   ALLEGED TENDENCIES OF A BELIEF ON THE INDEPENDENT NATURE

                                                            OF MIND.

  "It is equally apparent that the belief of the dis

tinct and independent nature of mind incites us to act
rightly from principle ; to relieve distress, to repel ag
gression, and defend those who are incapable of pro
tecting themselves; to practice and extol whatever is
virtuous, excellent, and honorable; to shun and con
demn whatever is vicious and base, regardless also of
our own personal feelings and interests when put in
competition with our duty. "t

                            OF PHRENOLOGY.

" There is nothing in the assertions of Drs. Gall and

Spurzheim contradictory to the results of general ob

servation and experience. It is admitted that the su

perior intellectual faculties can and ought to control

* Physiol. Lect.,  i.,
                        p.

                                               t
                                                                i.,

                                                                           p.
                   37.  Ibid.,                                                 51.
                          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

the inferior propensities. It is admitted that we pos

sess organs which, nevertheless, may be inactive from
general torpor or want of education. General observ
ation and experience proclaim that susceptibility is the
chief incentive to action ; that it is the source of gen
ius ; and that the character of the man greatly depends
on his education and habits. We educate our facul
ties; what is at first accomplished with difficulty, by
repetition is easily performed, and becomes more per
fect and established by habit. Trains of perceptions
and thoughts also become firmly concentrated, and oc-
our in succession. Even our feelings undergo the same
kind of education and establishment. Casual feelings
of good-will by repetition strengthen, and produce last
ing friendships, while trivial sensations of disgust, in
like manner, may occasion inveterate hatred."

                                                ON THE SAME.

    "Should the result of our general inquiries, or at
tention to the subjects proposed to us by Drs. Gall and
Spurzheim, induce us to believe that the peculiarities
of our feelings and faculties were the effects of variety
of excitement, transmitted through a diversity of or
ganization, they would tend to produce mutual forbear
ance and toleration. We should perceive how nearly
impossible it must be that any persons should think
and feel exactly alike upon any subject. We should
not arrogantly pride ourselves on our own virtue and
knowledge, nor condemn the errors and weakness of
others, since they may depend upon causes which we
can neither produce nor readily counteract. The path
of virtue is plain and direct, and its object distinctly
before us, so that no one can miss either who has res
246 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

olution enough never to lose sight of them by advert
ing to advantages and allurements with which he may-
be presented on the one hand, or the menacings with
which he may be assailed on the other. Yet no one,
judging from his own feelings and powers, can be
aware of the kind and degree of temptation or terror,

or the seeming incapacity to resist them, which may
have induced others to deviate. Now though, from the

foregoing considerations, I am pleased with the specu
lations of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, I am quite incom

petent to give any opinion as to the probability of

Iwhat they have suggested, because see no mode by

which we can with propriety admit or reject their as
sertions, except by pursuing the same course of inves

tigations which they themselves have followed --a task

of great labor and difficulty, and one which, for vari

ous reasons, I should feel great repugnance to under

take."*

Abernethy used to like very well to talk with Spurz

heim, who resided for some time in this country. One

day Abernethy, half seriously, half humorously said to
Spurzheim, " Well, Doctor, where do you place the or

gan of common sense ?" Spurzheim's reply certainly

sustained the  coincidence  of  phrenological deductions
with those of  experience.      There is no organ," said
                             "

he, " for common sense, but it depends on the equilib

rium of the other organs."

                  THEOLOGICAL APPLICATION OP ANATOMICAL FACTS.

   " Therefore, from this least interesting part of anat

omy, we derive the strongest conviction of there being

                                * Physiol. Lect., iii., p. 99.
           MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                               247

design and contrivance in the construction of animals.

Equal evidences of design and contrivance, and of

Iadaptation of means to ends, may be observed in the

construction of the frame-work, as may call of
                                                          +
other animals, as in that of man, which subject seems
                                                            aI
to me very happily displayed in Professor Cuvier's Lec          I
tures."*
                                                                                  p.
   " It was, however, the comparing the mechanism of
                                                                             is it,
the hand and foot that led Galen, who, they say, was
                                                                         I it it
skeptic in his youth, to the public declaration of his
a
                                a

                    I

                                     it
opinion that intelligence must have operated in ordain

ing the laws by which living beings are constructed.

That Galen was man of a very superior intellect could

be readily proved, were                         necessary.  have often

known the passage allude to made a subject of ref

erence, but not of quotation, and therefore recite

on the present occasion, and particularly because

shows that Galen was not in the least degree tinctured

with superstition. In explaining these things,' he
       I'

                  is

                                        '
says,      esteem myself as composing solemn hymn

to the great Architect of our bodily frame, in which

think there more true piety than in sacrificing whole

hecatombs of oxen or in burning the most costly per

fumes for, first, endeavor from His works to know
       ;

                  I

Him myself, and afterward, by the same means, to
show Him to others, to inform them how great His
wisdom, goodness, and power.' "t

                  DISTINCTIVE CHARACTER OF LIVING BODIES.

" Those bodies which we call living are chiefly char

*

             by

                                            p.
acterized  their powers of converting surrounding

substances into their own nature, of building up the

       Physiol. Lect., iii., 151.                           Ibid., iii., 152.
246 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

structure of their own bodies, and repairing the inju
ries they may accidentally sustain."*

   IN REPUDIATION OE CRUELTY AND EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS.

   Very important in our view. The objection was
very new at that time, and has made very little way
yet. We have referred to this subject before. Con
sidering the period of these Lectures (nearly forty

years ago), Abernethy's objections, though cautious,
are very sound, and for him very positive. We know

that he felt still more strongly.

   " Mr. Hunter, whom I should not have believed to

be very scrupulous about inflicting sufferings upon an

imals, nevertheless censures Spalanzani for the un

meaning repetition of similar experiments. Having

resolved publicly to express my own opinion with re

spect to this subject, I choose the present opportunity

       I it,
                 I
to do because believe Spalanzani to have been one

of those who have tortured and destroyed animals in

vain.  do not perceive that in the two principal sub

jects which he sought to elucidate, he has added any

important fact to our stock of knowledge besides,
                           a
some of his experiments are of a nature that a good
                               ;
man would have blushed to think of, and wise man

ashamed to publish, for they prove no fact requiring to

be proved, and only show that the aforesaid abbe was

a  filthy-minded fellow."

                                                     ON THE SAME.

   " The design of experiments to interrogate nature

and surely the inquirer ought to make himself acquaint
ed with the language of nature, and take care to pro-

                           * Pbysiol. Lect, iv., p. 155.
                           is

                                                                                           ;
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                           249

pose pertinent questions. He ought further to consid

er the probable kind of replies that may be made t>

his inquiries, and the inferences that he may be war

ranted in drawing from different responses, so as to be

able to determine whether, by the commission of cru

elty, he is likely to obtain adequate instruction. In

deed, before we make experiments on sensitive beings,

we ought further to consider whether the information
Iwe seek may not be attainable by other means.
                                                am

aware of the advantages which have been derived from

such experiments when made by persons of talent, and

Iwho have properly prepared themselves, but know that

these experiments tend to harden the feelings, which

often lead to the inconsiderate performance of them.

"Surely we should endeavor to foster and not stifle

benevolence, the best sentiment of our nature, that

which is productive of the greatest gratification both

to its professor and to others. Considering the pro

fessors in this place as the organs of the Court of the

ICollege addressing its members, feel that I act as

becomes a senior of this institution while admitting the

propriety of the practice under the foregoing restric

tions ; I, at the same time, express an earnest hope that

the character of an English surgeon may never be tar

nished by the commission of inconsiderate or unneces

sary cruelty."*

A VERY EARLY EXCELLENCE OF ABERNETHY : EXCEEDINGLY NECESSARY
    AT ONE TIME IN RELATION TO THE ERRONEOUS NOTIONS ON WHICH AN
   ATOMICAL INVESTIGATIONS WERE CONDUCTED J ADVANCING SCIENCE HAS
    FULLY CONFIRMED THE JUSTICE AND GOOD SENSE OF HIS REMARKS.

   " To me, however, who confide more in the eye of
reason than in that of sense, and would rather form

                                * Physiol. Lect., iv., p. 164.

                             L2
250 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

opinions from analogy than from the imperfect evidence

of sight, it seems too hasty an inference to conclude

that in the minute animals there are no vessels nor

other organization because we can not see them, or that

polypes are actually devoid of vessels, and merely of

the structure described, because we can discern no oth

er. Were however, really so, such facts would then
           ?
only show with how little and with what various or
              it,
                                         is
                                        it
ganization life could accomplish its principal functions

of assimilation, formation, and multiplication. Who

has seen the multitudinous distribution of absorbing

vessels, and all the other organization, which doubtless

exists in the vitreous humor of the eye, than which no

glass ever appeared more transparent or more seemingly

inorganic  How strange                       that anatomists, above

all other members of the community of science, should

hesitate to admit the existence of what they can not

discern, since they, more than all the rest, have such

constant assurance of the imperfection and fallibility of

sight?"*

   REITERATION OF AN IMPORTANT AXIOM, QUITE NECESSARY AT THIS

                          TIME TO THE CHEMICAL PHYSIOLOGISTS.

   " Our physiological theories should be adequate to
account for all the vital phenomena both in health and

disorder, or they can never be maintained as good

theories. "t

OF RESPIRATION. CAUTIOUS REASONING. HAD ALL REASONED THUS,
    WE MIGHT HAVE ESCAPED MUCH UNSOUND THEORIZING ON THIS IM

    PORTANT PROCESS.

   " Chemists have considered the change as contribu

tory to the production of animal heat, which opinion

* Physiol. Lect, v., 803.                    Ibid. v., 229.
           p.

                                            t

                                                                                  p.
                        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

may indeed be true, though the manner in which it

produces such an effect has not, as yet, been explained.
Mr. Hunter, who believed that life had the power of

regulating temperature independently of respiration,

says nothing of that process as directly contributing to
such an effect. He says, 'Breathing seems to render
life to the blood, and the blood conveys it to every
part of the body,' yet he believes the blood derives its

vitality also from the food. I am at a loss to know

what chemists now think respecting heat, whether they
consider it to be a distinct species of matter, or mere
motion and vibration. Among the curious revolutions
which this age has produced, those of chemical opinions

Ihave a fair claim to distinction ; to show which, may

add, that a lady,* on her first marriage, was wedded
to that scientific champion who first overthrew phlo
giston, and established in its stead the empire of calor
ic ; and after his decease, on her second nuptials, was
united to the man who vainly supposed he had sub
verted the rule of caloric, and restored the ancient but
long-banished dynasty of motion and vibration. In this

state of perplexity, I can not, with prudence or proba

ble security, advance one step further than Mr. Hunter

has led me. I must believe respiration to be essential

to life, and that life has the power, by its actions, of

maintaining and regulating temperature. "t

   CHARACTERISTIC, BOTH AS TO ILLUSTRATION AND MORAL BEARING.

   " Those of the medical profession must readily ac
cord with the remark of Shakspeare, that such affec
tions, which may well indeed be called 'master pas-

* Madame Lavoisier, whose celebrated husband was guillotined,

afterward married Count Rumford.  t Physiol. Leet., v.. p. 337.
                        MEMOIRS OF ABFRNETHY.

sions,' sway us to their mood in what we like or loathe ;
for we well know that our patients and ourselves, from
disturbance of the nervous functions of the digestive
organs producing such affections of the brain, may be
come irritable, petulant, and violent about trifles, or
oppressed, morose, and desponding. Permit me, how
ever, to add, that those of the medical profession must
be equally apprised that when the functions of the
mind are not disturbed by such affections, it displays
great energy of thought, and evidence of established
character, even in death. Have we not lately heard
that the last words of Nelson were, ' Tell Collingwood
to bring the fleet to an anchor ?' Shakspeare has also
represented Mercutio continuing to jest, though he was
mortally wounded ; the expiring Hotspur thinking of
nothing but honor, and the dying Falstaff cracking his

Ijokes on Bardolph's nose. request you to excuse this
Idigression, which have been induced to make from

perceiving that if such facts were duly attended to,

they would prompt us to a more liberal allowance for
each other's conduct under certain circumstances than

we are accustomed to do, and also incite us to the
more active and constant performance of the great bus
iness of human life, the education of the mind, for ac

cording to its knowledge and dispositions do we possess
the ability of contributing to our own welfare and
comfort, and that of others."*

                                  » Lect., vt, p. 857
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  253

                       CHAPTER XXII.

                      ABERNETHY AS A TEACHER.
              " Trace Science, then, with modesty thy guide,

                First strip off all her equipage of pride,
                  Deduct what is but vanity or dress,
                  Or learning's luxury or idleness,
                Or tricks, to show the stretch of human brain
                  Mere curious pleasure or ingenious pain."

    Lecturing after a fashion is easy enough ; teaching
is a very different affair. The one requires little more
than good information, some confidence, and a copia
verborum; the other establishes several additional req
uisitions. These requisitions, when rendered compar
atively easy by nature, are seldom perfectly matured
without art and some careful study. The transmission
of ideas from one mind to another, in a simple unequiv
ocal form, is not always easy ; but in teaching, the ob

ject is not merely to convey the idea, but to give a live
ly and lasting impression; something that should not
merely cause the retention of the image, but in such
connection as to excite another process, "thought."

    There was no peculiarity in Abernethy more strik
ing than the power he possessed of communicating his
ideas, and of sustaining the interest of the subject on
which he spoke. For this there is no doubt he was
greatly indebted to natural talent, but it is equally

clear that he had cultivated it with much care. His
ability as a lecturer was, we think, unique. We never
saw his like before --we hardly dare hope we shall

again.
254 MEMOIRS OK ABERNETHY.

    There is no doubt that a great part of his success

depended on a facility of giving that variety of expres
sion, and that versatility of manner, which falls within
the province of what we must call dramatic; but then
it was of the very highest description, in that it was

perfectly natural. It was of that kind that we some

times find in an actor, and which conveys the impres
sion that he is speaking his own sentiments rather

than those of the author. It is a species of talent

which dies with its possessor, and can not, we think,
be conveyed by description. Still there were many
things in Abernethy that were observable, and such as
could hardly have been acquired without study.

  If we examine any lecturer's style, and ask our

selves what is his fault, we shall find very few in
whom we can not detect one or more. When we do

this, and then reflect on Abernethy, we are astonished
to find how many he avoided. We shall endeavor to
make this as intelligible as we can by citing some of
the features which our attention to different lecturers

has suggested.

   Simplicity has struck us as a feature in lectures
which, in some sense or other, is very commonly de
fective. Simplicity appears so important, that per
haps, by not a very illegitimate extension of its mean
ing, it might be made to include almost all the requi
sitions of this mode of teaching. Let us think of it in
relation to language and illustration. In all sciences
the facts are simple, the laws are yet more so; in
creasing knowledge tends to impress on us an ever-in
creasing and comprehensive simplicity. In explaining
simple things, no doubt language should be simple too.

If we employ language unnecessarily technical, we use.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  255

symbols to which the learner is unaccustomed. He

has not to learn the facts only, but he has the addi
tional labor of something allied to learning it in a for
eign language. The unnecessary use of technicalities

should surely be avoided. Abernethy was obliged to
use them because there were often no other terms, but

he always avoided any needless multiplication of them.
When they were difficult or objectionable, he tried
some maneuver to lighten the repulsiveness of them.

    There are many muscles in the neck with long
names, and which are generally given with important
parts of surgical anatomy. Here he used to chat a
little; he called them the little muscles with the long
names ; but he would add, that, after all, they were the
best named muscles in the body, because their names
expressed their attachments. This gave him an ex
cuse for referring to what he had just described, in the
form of a narrative rather than a dry repetition. Then,
with regard to one muscle that he wished particularly
to impress, the name of which was longer than any of
the others, he used to point it out as a striking feature

in all statues ; and then, repeating its attachments, and
pointing to the sites which they occupied, say it was
impossible to do so without having the image of the

muscle before us.

   In other parts of the Lectures, he would accompany
the technical name by the popular one. Thus he

would speak of the pancreas, or sweet-bread; carti

lage, or gristle: few people are aware how many dif

ficulties are smoothed by such simple maneuvers.

Nothing interests people so much as giving any thing
positive. We think it not improbable that many a
man has heard a lecture in which animals have been
256 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

described, with whose habits he had been perfectly

familiar, without having recognized his familiar ac

quaintances in the disguise afforded by a voluminous

Greek compound. Abernethy seemed always to lec

ture, not so much as if he was telling us what he

knew, as that which we did not know. There was an

absence of all display of any kind whatever.

To hear some lecturers, one would almost think that

they adopted the definition of language which is re

ported of Talleyrand, that it was intended to conceal

our ideas. Some make simple things very much oth

erwise by the mode of explaining them. This reminds

us of a very worthy country clergyman in the west of

England, who, happening to illustrate something in his

sermon by reference to the qualities of pitch, thought

he should help his rustic congregation by enlarging a
little on the qualities of that mineral. He according

ly commenced by saying, " Now, dear brethren, pitch

is a bituminous substance," rather a difficult begin

ning, we should think, to have brought to a successful

conclusion.

    Sometimes we have heard a very unnecessary cata
logue of technicalities joined with several propositions

in one sentence. It is hardly to be imagined how

this increases the difficulty to a beginner, while it im

presses the excellence of that simplicity and clearness

which were so charming in Abernethy. We give an

example of this defect : the lecturer is describing the

continuation of the  crcaubtsic, le&co.ver"thTeheeyeepsidoefrmthise  Crus
tacea, as lobsters,                                                   (the

cuticle) in the compound eyes of the Crustacea passes

transparent and homogeneous over the external sur

face of the thick layer of the prismatic comeae, which
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  257

are here, as in insects, generally hexagonal, but some
times quadrangular; and to the internal ends of the

prismatic corneae are applied the broad bases of the
hard, tapering transparent lenses, which have their in
ternal truncated apices directed to the retinal expan
sions of the numerous optic nerves."

    The high respect we entertain for the lecturer here
alluded to withholds us from attempting to supply a
more homely version of the foregoing passage. But
what an idea this must give to a student who reads it

in "the outlines" of a science of which he is about to

commence the study. There is nothing whatever diffi
cult in the ideas themselves, but what a bristling

chevaux-de-frise of hard words --what a phalanx of

propositions! We fear we should never arrive at the
knowledge of many of those beautiful adaptations

which all animals exemplify, if we had to approach

them by such a forbidding pathway.
   As contrasted with simple facts thus obscured by an

unnecessary complexity of expression, we may see in
Abernethy how a very comprehensive proposition may
be very simply expressed. Take almost the first sen
tence in his Surgical Lectures, the germ, as it were,

of a new science: "Now I say that local disease, in

jury, or irritation may affect the whole system, and
conversely that disturbance of the whole system may
affect any part."

    We have sometimes thought that lecturers who have

had several desirable qualifications have materially
diminished the attraction of them by faults which we
hardly know how to designate by a better term than
vulgarity, ill breeding, or gaucherie. Now Abernethy
had, in the first place, that most difficult thing to ac
a is,258 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                      is

quire, the appearance of perfect ease without the                      it
slightest presumption. Some lecturers appear pain
                                                                             is
fully "in company;" others have a self-complacent as
;
surance, that conveys an unfavorable impression to
most well-bred people. Abernethy had a calm, quiet                  a
sort of ease, with that expression of thought which
betokened respect for his task and his audience, with
just enough of effort only to show that his mind was
in his business.

   He had no offensive tricks. We have known lec

turers who never began without making faces, others
who intersperse the lecture with unseemly gesticula
tions. Some, on the most trivial occasion, as refer

ring to a diagram, are constantly turning their backs
completely to the audience. This we know, disa
greeable to many people, and unless lecturer very
clear and articulate, occasionally renders his words not
distinctly audible. Even in explaining diagrams
seldom necessary to turn quite round the smallest in
clination toward the audience satisfies the requisitions
of good breeding, and reminds them agreeably of re
spect with which they never fail to be pleased, and of
the lecturer's self-possession. There are indeed occa
sions when the lecturer had better turn a little aside.

    Not long ago we heard a very sensible lecturer and
a very estimable man produce an effect which was

rather ludicrous -- very inconvenient impression when
not intended. He had been stating very clearly some
important facts, and he then observed " The great
importance of these facts will now proceed to explain

to you," when he immediately began to apply the pock
et-handkerchief he had in his hand most elaborately to

his nose, still fronting the audience. It had the most
a

      I
                                                                 :
                       MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ridiculous effect, and followed so closely on the pre
ceding remark as to suggest to the humorously inclined
that it was part of the proposed explanation.

   Some think it excusable to cast their eyes upward
with an expression of intense thought, or even to car
ry their hands to their heads or forehead for the same
purpose. But this conveys a painful feeling to the au
dience, whose attention to the subject is apt to be di
verted by sympathy with the apparent embarrassment
of the lecturer. Sometimes it conveys the impression
of affectation, which, of course, is one form of vulgarity.

   Abernethy was remarkably free from any thing of
the kind. The expression of his countenance was in
the highest degree clear, penetrative, and intellectual,
and his long but not neglected powdered hair, which
covered both ears, gave altogether a philosophic calm
ness to his whole expression that was peculiarly pleas
ing. Then came a sort of little smile, which mantled
over the whole face, and lighted it up with something
which we can not define, but which seemed a com

pound of mirth, archness, and benevolence.
    The adjustment of the quantity of matter to the timo

employed in discussing it is an important point in
teaching. A lecture too long is not worse than a lec

ture too full. If the matter is spread too thinly, the

lecture is bald and uninteresting, and apt to fall short

of representing any integral division of a subject; if it

be too thick, it is worse, for then all is confused and
difficult. A man's brain is like a box packed in a hur
ry ; when all is done, you neither know what you have
got nor what you have forgotten.

    Here, again, Abernethy was in general very happy.
Various circumstances would sometimes indeed, in the

                                                                  -
260 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

Anatomical Course, oblige him to put more into one
lecture than was usual, but he had always, in such a

case, some little maneuver to sustain the attention of

his audience. No man ever carried the ars est ce/are
arlem to so successful a point. Every thing he did

had its object, every joke or anecdote its particular er
rand, which was, in general, most effectively fulfilled.

    The various ways in which Abernethy managed to
lighten up the general lecture, or to illustrate single
points, can hardly be conveyed by selection of particu
lar examples. There was a sort of running metaphor
in his language, which, aided by a certain quaintness
of manner, made common things go very amusingly.
Muscles which pursued the same course to a certain
point were said to travel sociably together and then to
" part company." Blood-vessels and nerves had cer
tain habits in their mode of distribution contrasted in

this way ; arteries were said to creep along the sides
or between muscles. Nerves, on the contrary, were
represented as penetrating their substance "without
ceremony." Then he had always a ready sympathy

with his audience. If a thing was difficult, he would,

as we have said, anticipate the feelings of the student.
This is always encouraging, because, when a student

finds a point difficult, if he is diffident merely, he is de
pressed ; if he is lazy, he finds too good an excuse for it.

   His illustrations were usually drawn from some fa
miliar source, and if they were calculated to impress
the fact, he was not very scrupulous whence he drew
them. This would sometimes lead him into little trip
pings against refinement, but these were never wanton ;

every thing had its object, from the most pathetic tale
down to the smallest joke. When the thing to be im
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.               261

pressed was not so much single facts or propositions as

a more continued series, he had an admirable mode of

pretending to con over the lecture in a manner which

he would first recommend students to do, something

after this fashion: "Let me see, what did he say?"

"Well, first he told us that he should speak of Matter

in general ; then he said  something about the laws of
Matter, of inertia, &c."
                           " Well, I did not understand
much of that, and I don't think he knew much about

it himself," and so on. There would now be a gener

al smile, the attention of the class would be thorough

ly alive, and then he would, in this conning over, bring

forward the points he most wished to impress of the
whole lecture. A very striking proof of how much

power he had in this way came out in a conversation

I had with Dr. Thomas Rees. This gentleman knew

Abernethy well, and in kindly answering some inqui

ries I made of him, he spoke of his power in lecturing.
Among other things, he said, " The first lecture I ever
heard him give impressed me very much ; I thought

it admirable. His skill appeared so extraordinary. At
the conclusion of the lecture," said Dr. Rees, " he pro

posed to the students to con over the lecture, which he

proceeded to do for them." Dr. Rees then continued

repeating the heads of the lecture, and this after at

least thirty, perhaps forty years.

   Lecturers will illustrate sometimes a point by some
thing more difficult still, or something drawn from an

other branch of science. Sometimes the illustrations

are so lengthy, or even important, that a pupil forgets

what principle it was that was to be illustrated. When

we are desirous of learning something about water or

air, it is painful for a pupil to be "reminded" of the
262 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

" properties of angles," which it is an even chance he
never knew. It is equally uncomfortable to many an

audience, in lectures on other subjects, to have the

course of a cannon-ball, which three pieces of string

would sufficiently explain for mere purposes of illus
tration, charged with the " laws of projectiles," the
" composition of forces," &co. We are, of course, not

thinking of learned, but of learning audiences ; to the

former, lectures  are, of course, of no use ;  but we al
lude to learners  of mixed information and
                                               capacity --

like young men who have been residing with medical

men in the country --who come to a lecture for infor

mation, and who require to be interested in order that

they may be instructed. Abernethy's illustrations were
always in simple language. Rough ridden sometimes

by a succession of many-footed Greek compounds, the

mind of a student loves to repose on the refreshing

simplicity of household phrases.

   Abernethy had stories innumerable. Every case

almost was given with the interest of a tale, and every
tale impressed some lesson or taught some relation in
the structure, functions, or diseases of the body. We
will give one or two, but their effect lay in the admi
rable manner in which they were related.

  If he was telling any thing at all humorous, it would

be lighted up by his half shut, half smiling, and habit

ually benevolent eye. Yet his eye would easily as

sume the fire of indignation when he spoke of cruelty

or neglect, showing how really these things were re

pulsive to him. Then his quiet, almost stealthy, but
highly dramatic imitation of the manner of some sin

gular patient ; his equally finished mode of expressing
pain, in the subdued tone of his voice ; and then, when
        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                263

something soothing or comfortable was successfully

administered, his " Thank you, Sir, thank you, that is

very comfortable," was just enough always to interest

and never to offend. Now and then he would sketch

some patient who had been as hasty as he himself was
Isometimes reported to be. " Mr. Abernethy,
                                             am

come, Sir, to consult you about a complaint that has

given me a great deal of trouble." " Show me your

tongue, Sir. Ah, I see, your digestive organs are very

Iwrong." " beg your pardon, Sir, there you are
wrong yourself; I never was better in all my life," &c.

All this, which is nothing in telling, was delivered in

the half serious, half Munden-like, humorous manner,

and yet so subdued as never to border on vulgarity or

farce.

His mode of relating cases which involved some im

portant principle, showed how really interested he had

been in them. A gentleman having recovered from a

very serious illness after having failed a long time in

getting relief, was threatened by the influence of the
same causes with a return of his malady. " He

thought," said Abernethy, " that if he did not drink

deeply, he might eat like a glutton." He lived in the

country, and Mr. Abernethy one day went and dined

with him. "Well," said Mr. Abernethy, !' I saw he
Iwas at his old tricks again ; so, being a merchant,

asked him what he would think of a man who, having

been thriving in business, had amassed a comfortable

"Ifortune, then went and risked it all in some imprudent
speculation?" "Why," said the merchant,  should
think him a great ass." " Nay, then, Sir," said Aber

nethy, "thou art the man."

On another occasion, a boy, having suffered severely
264 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

from disease of the hip, Abernethy had enjoined his
father to remove him from a situation which he was
unfitted to fill, and which, from the exertion it re

quired, would expose him to a dangerous recurrence
of his complaint. The father, however, put the boy
back to his situation ; one day Abernethy met both
father and son in Chancery Lane, and he saw the boy,
who had a second time recovered, again limping in his
walk. After making the necessary inquiry, " Sir," said

he to the father, "did I not warn you not to place your

son in that situation again." The father admitted the

fact. " Then, Sir," said Abernethy, " if that boy dies,

I shall be ready to say you are his murderer." Sure

enough, the boy had another attack, and did die in a

horrible condition.

    This story, and others of a similar kind, were in
tended to impress the paramount importance of keep
ing diseased parts, and joints especially, in a state of
perfect repose, and to prevent recurrence of disease by
avoiding modes of life inappropriate to constitutions
which had exhibited a tendency to this serious class

of diseases.
   He was remarkably good on the mode of detecting

and managing accidents, fractures, and dislocations.

In regard to the latter, he had many very good stories,
of which we will presently cite a ludicrous example.
He could, however, throw in pathos with admirable
skill when he desired it. The following lamentable

case, he used to tell to an audience singularly silent.
He is speaking of the course of a large artery.

   "Ah," said he, "there is no saying too much on the

importance of recollecting the course of large arteries;

Ibut will tell you a case. There was an officer in the
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.               265

navy, and as brave a fellow as ever stepped, who in a

sea-fight received a severe wound in the shoulder, which

opened his axillary artery. He lost a large quantity

of blood, but the wound was stanched for the moment,

and he was taken below. As he was an officer, the

surgeon, who saw he was wounded severely, was about

to attend to him before a seaman who had been just

brought down. But the officer, though evidently in
great pain, said, 'Attend to that man, Sir, if you please;

I can wait.' Well, his turn came ; the surgeon made

up his mind that a large artery had been wounded,

but, as there was no bleeding, dressed the wound, and

went on with his business. The officer lay very faint

and exhausted for some time, and at length began to

rally again, when the bleeding returned; the surgeon

was immediately called, and not knowing where to find

the artery, or what else to do, told the officer he must

amputate his arm at the shoulder joint. The officer

at once calmly submitted to this additional but unnec

essary suffering, and as the operator proceeded, asked

if it would be long ; the surgeon replied that it would

Ibe soon over ; the officer rejoined, ' Sir, thank God for

it!' but he never spake more."

"IAmid the death-like silence of the class, Abernethy
calmly concluded,  hope you will never forget the

course of the axillary artery."

   His position was always easy and natural, sometimes
homely, perhaps. In the Anatomical Lecture he al

ways stood, and either leaned against the wall, with

his hands folded before him, or resting one hand on the

table, with the other perhaps in his pocket. In his

Surgical Lecture he always sat, and very generally
                                    >,t
with one leg resting on the other.

                   M
266 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    He was particularly happy in a kind of coziness, or
friendliness of manner, which seemed to identify him

with his audience --as if we were all about to investi
gate something interesting together, and not as if we
were going to be " Lectured at" at all. He spoke as
if addressing each individual, and his discourse, like a

happy portrait, always seemed to be looking you in the
face. On very many accounts, the tone and pitch of
the voice in lecturing are important. First, that it
may not be inaudible, and yet not too loud. The one

defeats the whole object, the other is apt to give an
impression of vulgarity. We recollect a gentleman
who was about to deliver a lecture in a theatre to
which he was unaccustomed ; he was advised to ascer

tain the loudness required, and to place a friend in the
most distant part, to judge of its fitness; but he de
clined it as unnecessary. When he had given the lec
ture, which was a very good one on a very interesting
subject, he was much mortified in finding that he had
been inaudible to at least one half of the audience.

   Abernethy was very successful in this respect. His
voice seldom rose above what we may term the con
versational, either in pitch or tone ; it was, in general,
pleasing in quality, and enlivened by a sort of archness
of expression. His loudest tone was never oppressive
to those nearest to him, his most subdued audible every
where. The range of pitch was very limited ; the ex
pression of the eye and a slight modulation being the
media by which he infused through the lecture an

agreeable variety, or gave to particular sentiments the
requisite expression. There was nothing like declama
tion ; even quotations were seldom louder than would
have been admissible in a drawing-room. We have
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  267

heard lecturers whose habitually declamatory tone has
been very disagreeable, and this seldom fails to be mis

chievous. A declamatory tone tends to divert the at
tention, or to weary it when properly directed. On al
most every subject it is sure to be the source of occa

sional bathos, which now and then borders on the ridic

ulous. Conceive a man describing a curious animal in

the diagram, saying, " This part, to which I now direct

my rod, is the point of the tail," in a sepulchral tone

and heavy cadence, as if he had said, " This is the end

of all things." Another inconvenience often attending

a declamatory tone, as distinguished from the narra
tive or descriptive, is the tendency it has to make a
particular cadence. Sometimes we have heard lectur
ers give to every other sentence a peculiar fall ; and

this succession of rhythmical samenesses, if the lecturer

be not otherwise extremely able, sends people napping.
    Another fault we observe in some lecturers is a re

iteration of particular phrases. In description it is not
easy always to avoid this, but it seldom occurred in any
disagreeable degree in Abernethy. We have heard

some lecturers, in describing things, continually reiter

ating such phrases as " We find," " It is to be observed,"

in such quick and frequent succession, that people's
sides began to jog in spite of them.

    Provincial or national idiom, or other peculiarity, is
by no means uncommon, and generally more or less

disagreeable. Abernethy was particularly free from
either. He could, in telling stories, slightly imitate the
tone and manner of the persons concerned ; but it was

always touched in, in the lightest possible manner, and
with the subdued coloring and finish of a first-rate art
ist. His power of impressing facts, and of rendering
268 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

them simple and interesting by abundance and variety
of illustration, was very remarkable, and had the effect
of imparting an interest to the driest subject. In the
first place, he had an agreeable mode of sympathizing

with the difficulty of the student. If he were about

to describe a bone, or any thing which he knew to be
difficult, he would adopt a tone more like that in which
a man would teach it to himself than describe it to

others. For example, he would say, perhaps, " Ah ! this
is a queer-looking bone; it has a very odd shape, but

I plainly perceive that one may divide it into two parts."

Then, pointing with a probe to the division he proposed,
he would begin, not so much to describe as to find, as

if for the first time, the various parts of which he wish

ed to teach the names and uses ; the description being
a kind of running accompaniment to his tracing of the

bone, and in a tone as if half talking to himself and

half to the audience.

    Every one feels the importance of order and clear
ness of arrangement. Of Abernethy's, we have spoken
generally in the early part of this volume; simplicity
and impressing the more important facts were the
main objects. He showed very frequently his percep
tion of the importance of order, and would often meth

Jodize for the students. He knew very well that ABC

was much more easily remembered than Z K, and he
would sometimes humorously contrast the difference
between a man whose knowledge was well packed,
and one whose information was scattered and without

arrangement. This he usually did by supposing two
students under examination. The scene would not
tell upon paper, but it never failed to create a good
deal of mirth in the theatre, during which he would
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  269

contrive to repeat the facts he meant to impress, with
out the tedium of mere reiteration.

    Various people have been more or less deeply im
pressed with different parts of his lectures, most per

sons having their favorite passages. In his anatom

ical course we were never more pleased than by his
general view of the structure of the body. He adopt
ed on that occasion the synthetical plan, and put in
imagination the various parts together which were to

be afterward taught analytically. In his surgical

course, the manner in which he illustrated the practi
cal points, and his own views in the "Eventful His

tory of a Compound Fracture," was, we think, the
most successful triumph both as to matter and man
ner which we have ever witnessed.

   An abundance of resource and maneuvers of the
kind we have mentioned gave a great "liveliness" to
his lecture, which, in its quiet form, so as not to di
vert or disturb, is a great difficulty in lecturing.

    We have heard an excellent lecturerr whoso only
fault, we think, was want of liveliness and variety.
Few men could in other respects lecture comparably to
him. Nothing could surpass the quiet, polished man
ner of this accomplished teacher. His voice, though
not good, was by no means unpleasing; his articula
tion elaborately distinct, and free from all provincial
ism; his language always correct and appropriate; the
structure of his sentences strikingly grammatical; and
they fell in such an easy, though somewhat too rhyth
mical succession, as to be at once graceful and me
 lodious; his arrangement always simple and clear.
 Nothing was more striking than the deferential man

 ner in which he approached a philosophical subject.
270 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

"I like  ," said one who had often heard him,

"because he is always so gentlemanly. There is

nothing off-hand, as if he thought himself very clever,

but a kind of unaffected respect for himself and his

audience, which obliges one to pay attention to him, if

it were only because you feel that a man of education

is speaking to you."

   What, it may be said, can such a man want? Why,
he wanted liveliness and flexibility. His voice meas

ured forth its gentlemanly way with all the regularity

of a surveying ro 1. Various and interesting as his
subjects were, and handled with consummate ability,

he must certainly have taught; yet we think he sent

away many of his audience passive recipients, as dis

tinguished from persons set on thinking what they had
heard "into their own."

   He performed his task like a good man and a schol

ar, but still it was like a task after all. It was some

thing like a scholar reading a book, always excepting

the beautifully clear illustrations for which his subject

gave him abundant opportunity. He wanted that an

imation and interest in his subject by which a lecturer

inoculates you with his own enthusiasm. He was the

most striking example in our experience of the import

ance of liveliness and variety, and of making a lecture,

however well delivered, just that thing which we can

not find in a book. The life-like, the dramatic effect

was wanting ; and it was to this alone that we can as

cribe what we have not unfrequently observed in the

midst of a generally attentive audience, a few who

were "nodding" their assent to his propositions.

    Now  Abernethy's   manner   "wcahs eeprefrufellcyt,  in these re
spects.   He had just  got the                           not too fast"
          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                       271

expression that we sometimes see at the head of a mu

sical composition. His manner was so good that it is
difficult to convey any idea of it. It was easy without

being negligent ; cheerful without being excited ; hu

morous, often witty, without being vulgar ; expeditious

without being in bustle ; and he usually took care that

you should learn the thingbeiore he gave the name of

it, and understand it before he expatiated on the beau
ty or perfection of its adaptation to the ends it seemed

designed to serve.

   He was particularly chaste in the manner in which

he spoke of design, or other of the Attributes so fre

quently observable in natural arrangements. It is a

great mistake, we think, and not without something
akin to vulgarity, to usher in any description of the

beauties    of nature by    a flourish of such trumpets as
human
          epithets form --  mere notes of admiration --Na

ture speaks best for herself. The mind is kept in a

state  of excitement   by too frequent feux de joies  of this
kind   ; the frequent  recurrence of such terms as    " curi

ous ! strange ! wonderful !" on subjects where all is

wonderful, have a sort of bathos in the ears of the ju

dicious, while to the less critical they produce a sort of

disturbed atmosphere, which is unfavorable to the calm

operations of the intellect.

Abernethy was generally very careful in these mat
Iters.
          give one example. He is speaking of carti

lage, or gristle, which covers the ends of the bones where

they form joints, and has explained its great elasticity,

the use of it in preventing jarring, and contrasted the
                youth with the easily-jarred frame of
springiness of
                he adds, " this cartilage is fibrous, and
age. " Well,"
they say that the fibres are arranged vertically, so that
272 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

the body may be said to be supported on ' myriads of

elastic columns.'1 " That was the beauty by which he

wished to impress that which he had previously taught.
    When marvelousness is too much excited, many say,

" Ah, how clever that gentleman is ! what au interest

ing lecture ! what a curious thing that was he showed
us !" but when you inquire what principle or law was
intended to be illustrated, you find that the sensual or
imaginative faculty has alone been excited, and has
galloped off with that which was intended for the in

tellect. If persons are examined as to a particular

point of the lecture, they are apt to say, "Well, that

is just what I wanted to know ; would you explain it ?"

   It would seem that it is a great mistake to excite

marvelousness on our external senses very vividly when

we desire to concentrate the intellectual faculties.
That breathless silence, with eyes and mouth open,
that " intenti que ora tenebant" condition, excited by
marvelousness, is very well for the story of iEneas or
Robinson Crusoe, but it is out of place when we are

endeavoring to augment our intellectual possessions.
    We require, in fact, a calmer atmosphere. The de

sire to interest and hold the attention of our audience
is so natural, that it is very apt to escape one that this
may be done on terms not consistent with our real ob

ject, the interesting the intellect ; and this fault is per
haps, of all, the worst, because it is never a greater

failure than when it appears to be successful. All oth
er faults in lecturing, if serious in one respect, tell their

own tale in the thinning audience.
   The learned author of the " Philosophy of Rhetoric"

has observed, " A discourse directed to the understand
ing will not admit of an address to the passions, which,
      MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                    273

as it never fails to disturb the operation of the intellect

ual faculty, must be regarded by every intelligent hear

er as foreign indeed, if not insidious." He had before

said " that in such a discourse you may borrow meta

is                                                     but not the bolder
                                          it,
phor or comparison to illustrate

figures, prosopopoeia and the like, which are intended,
not to elucidate the subject, but to create admiration."

   " It obvious," he continues, " that either of the

foregoing, far from being subservient to the main de

sign (to address the intellect), serves only to distract
the attention from it."*

The learned author, however, in the first sentence,

makes a distinction which requires, perhaps, to be re

ceived with some caution.

There no discourse that solely intellectual the
is                                             is              ;
   a                                                                        ;
driest mathematical proposition interests our feelings.

The pleasure of truth, what that Not merely in is
                                                       ?

tellectual, certainly. It  is                  pleasure derived from the
                               a

intellect, no doubt, but  it                   feeling entirely distinct.

                              is
                                   a

So, in addresses to the passions, they are successful,
                                                   if

the presiding influence of the intellect very obvious     is

this away, discourse soon merges into bombast or fus
tian, a something which neither impresses the feelings

nor the passion as desired.

    The true desideratum, as appears to us, accura

cy of adjustment, not separation. In intellectual oper
                             it

                                                           is

ations, the feelings are to be subservient to the accom

plishment of the objects of the intellect. In discourses

where the passions or feelings are most appealed to or
most prominent, the intellect must still really guide,

though may appear to follow.
it

                                          i.,
Notwithstanding  that so much of Abernethy's                   lec-

                   * Vol. p. 23.

                       M2
274 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

turing was on anatomy, and therefore necessarily ad

dressed to the eye, yet he seldom offered any illustra
tion to the external senses. He was always endeavor

ing to impress the mechanical relations of parts by ref

erence to their uses and surgical relations. Even in

speaking of light, he would be suggestive beyond the

mere perception of sense. He used to say of refraction

of light, when the refracting medium was, as it com
            the denser body, " that the ray seems as
itmonly                                              is
                                                         a
             is,
                           ; is                            if
                                                  aattracted," a very suggestive phrase to any one who
has thought much on the subject of light. It
                                                     cu

rious thing to observe how confused the ideas of many

people are on the phenomena of light, and we are afraid

that the cause that the illustrations to the eye are

given too soon. If people were made to understand by

a simple illustration what they are about to see,    it

                                                         is

probable they would have much clearer ideas. The

intellect having gone before, the eye no longer diverts

from its office and the eye would then be merely

impressing, by means of physical representation, an

established idea.

                   CHAPTER XXIII.

   " Suavis autem est et vehementer seepe utilis jocus et facetiae." --
Cic, De Orat.

Abernethy's humor was very peculiar, and though

there was, of course, something in the matter, there

was great deal more, as appeared to us, in the man
a

       it

              is

                              it
ner. The secret of humor, we apprehend, lies in the

juxtaposition, either expressed or implied, of incongru

ities, and  not easy to conceive any thing humor
            MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ous which does not involve these conditions. We have

sometimes thought there was just this difference in tho
humor of Abernethy, as contrasted with that of Sidney
Smith. In Smith's there was something that, told by
whom it might be, was always ludicrous. Abernethy's
generally lay in the telling.

                   " The jest's propriety lies in the ear
                   Of him who hears never in the tongue
                   Of him that makes it,"
                                   it,

                                          it

                                                 is
although true, was still to be taken in rather a differ

ent sense from that in which                         usually received.

The former  far higher species of humor) may be re
it
                    ;

                      a (a
                               is
corded the dramatic necessities of the other occasion

to die with the author. The expression Abernethy

threw into his humor (though of course without that

broadness which excusable in the drama, but which

would have been out of place in a philosophical dis

course) was quiet, much-subdued coloring between
the good-nature of Dowton and little closer, perhaps,
                                   (a

to the latter) the more quiet and gentlemanly portions

of Munden.

Few old pupils will forget the story of the Major who

had dislocated his jaw.

This accident                      very simple one, and easily put
it

                       is

                                           ;

                              a
                               is
                                             a

                                    it

                                                        is
right; but, having once happened, apt to recur on

any unusual extension of the lower jaw. Abernethy

used to represent this as frequent occurrence with

an hilarious Major but as generally happened at

mess, the surgeon went round to him and immediately

put in again. One day, however, the Major was
dining about fourteen miles from the regiment, and in

a hearty laugh out went his jaw. They sent for the

medical man, whom, said Abernethy, we must call the
276 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

apothecary. Well, at first he thought that the jaw

was dislocated ; but he began to pull and to show that
ho knew nothing about the proper mode of putting it

right again. On this the Major began to be very ex

cited, and vociferated inarticulately in a strange man

ner, when, all at once, the doctor, as if he had just hit

on the nature of the case, suggested that the Major's

complaint was on his brain, and that he could not be

in his right mind. On hearing this the Major became

furious, which was regarded as confirmatory of the

doctor's opinion; they accordingly seized him, confined

him in a strait- waistcoat and put him to bed, and the

doctor ordered that the barber should be sent for to

shave the head, and a blister be applied "to the part

affected."

The Major, fairly beaten, ceased making resistance,

but made the best signs his situation and his imper

fect articulation allowed for pen and paper. This be

ing hailed as indicative of returning rationality, was

procured ; and as soon as he was sufficiently freed from

his bonds, he wrote, "For God's sake, send for the sur

geon of the regiment." This was accordingly done,

"Iand the jaw readily reduced, as it had been often be
fore.       hope," added Abernethy, "you will never for

get how to reduce a dislocated jaw."

We think what we have said of the style of his hu

mor must be not very incorrect, from knowing that

one of his oldest pupils and greatest admirers made a
Iromark almost identical with the foregoing.
                                              recol

lect it being said of John Bannister that the reason his

acting pleased every body was that he was always a

gentleman ; an extremely difficult thing, we should im
agine, in handling some of the freer parts of our comic
          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.          277

dialogues Abernethy's humor (exceptionally indeed,

but occasionally a little broad) never suggested the
idea of vulgarity ; and, as we have said, every joke

had its mission. Then, at times, though there was

not much humor, yet a promptness of repartee gave it

that character.

   " Mr. Abernethy," said a patient, " I have something

the matter, Sir, with this arm. There, oh ! (making a

particular motion with the limb), that, Sir, gives me
great pain." "Well, what a fool you must be to do

it,  then," said Abernethy.

     One of the most interesting facts in relation to Aber

nethy's lecturing was that, however great his natural

capacity, he certainly owed very much to careful study

and practice; and we can not but think that
                                         it
highly encouraging to a more careful education for
                                           I is
this mode of teaching to know the difficulty that even

such a man as Abernethy had for some few years in

commanding his self-possession. To those who only

knew him in his zenith or his decline, this will appear

extraordinary yet, to careful observer, there were
          ;

                       it a
many occasions when was easy to see that he did

not appear so entirely at ease without some effort.

He was very impatient of interruption; an accidental

knock at the door of the theatre, which, by mistake of

some stranger, would occasionally happen, would dis

concert him considerably and once, when he saw some
          I
                                   ;

                             is
pupil joking or inattentive, he stopped, and with a se

verity of manner hardly ever saw before or afterward,
"Ifsaid,
          the lecture, Sir,           not interesting to you,

shall beg you to walk out."           ·

     There were, as we shall hereafter observe, perhaps

physical reasons for this irritability. He never hesi
278 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

tated, as we occasionally hear lecturers do, nor ever
used any notes. When he came to any part that he
perhaps wished to impress, he would pause and think
for a second or two, with his class singularly silent.

It was a fine moment. We recollect being once at his
lecture with the late Professor Macartney, who had been

a student of Abernethy's. Macartney said, what can
it be that enables him to give so much interest to what
we have so often heard before ? We believe it to have

been nothing but a steady observance of rules, com
bined with an admirable power matured by study.

    That which, above every thing, we valued in the
whole of Abernethy's lectures, was what can hardly be
expressed otherwise than by the term tone. With an

absence of all affectation -- with the infusion of all sorts
of different qualities --with humor, hilarity, lively man

ner, sometimes rather broad illustrations, at other times
calm and philosophical, with all the character of deep

thought and acute penetration -- indignation at what

was wrong or unfeeling, and pathos in relation to irre

mediable calamity --yet the thing which surpassed all

was the feeling he inoculated the pupils with, of a high
and conscientious calling. He had a way which ex
cited enthusiasm without the pupil knowing why. We
are often told by lecturers of the value of knowledge

for various purposes -- for increasing the power and
wealth of the country -- of its use in increasing the

comforts and pleasures of society, for amassing for
tunes, and for obtaining what the world usually means
by the term distinction. But Abernethy created a feel
ing distinct from and superior to all mere utilitarian

purposes. He made one feel the mission of a consci
entious surgeon to be a high calling, and spurned in
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  279

manner as well as matter the more trite and hackneyed
modes of inculcating these things. You had no set es

say, no long speeches. The moral was like a golden
thread artfully interwoven in a tissue to which it gives
a diffusive lustre, which, pervading it every where, is

obtrusive nowhere.
    For example, the conditions attached to the perform

ance of our lowest duties (operations) were the well-
ascertained inefficacy of our best powers directed to

judicious treatment; the crowning test --the convic

tion that, placed in the same circumstances, we would
have the same operation performed on ourselves. Much

of the suggestive lies on these directions. Our sympa

thies toward the victims of mistake or ignorance, be
sides the sufferings endured, were heightened by the
patient possessing, or having been bereft of some qual
ity, which called up those feelings which, in some, the
case merely might not have awakened.

    A father, who, in subservience to the worldly pros

pects of his son, placed him in a situation, while he for
 got his first duty, the health of his offspring, was the
 " murderer" of his child. Another victim we have seen

was "as brave a fellow as ever stepped," &c.
    Humanity and science went hand in hand. His

 method of discovering the nature of dislocations and

 fractures, by attention to the relative position of parts,
 was admirable, and few of his pupils, who have had

 much experience., have failed to prove the practical ex
 cellence of them. He repudiated nothing more than
 the too commonly regarded test in fractures of " Grat
 ing or Crepitus." Nothing distinguished his examin
 ation of a case more than his gentleness, unless it was
 the clearness with which he delivered his opinions.
260 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

To show how important gentleness is: a surgeon had

a puzzling case of injury to the elbow. He believed

that he knew the nature of the accident, and that he

had put the parts right; but still the joint remained in
a half- straight position; and the surgeon, who knew

his business, became alarmed lest something had es

caped him, and that the joint would be stiff. He pro

posed a consultation. The joint was examined with

great gentleness, and after Abernethy's plan. The boy

experienced no pain. Every thing appeared in its nat
ural position. The surgeon said, " Now, my boy, bend

your arm a little, but no further than just to reach my
finger, and not as much as that if it gives you any pain."

This the boy did very gently. After waiting a few

minutes, the surgeon again told him to bend it a little

more, and upon the same conditions; and so on, until

in a very short space of time, perhaps eight or ten min

utes, the arm had been completely bent. The boy had

been alarmed, and the muscles had become so sensitive

that they held the parts with the most painful tenaci

ty, but beyond this there was nothing the matter.

We can not help thinking that Abernethy's benevo

lence had a great influence in directing some of his

happiest contributions to practice. We consider that

every sufferer with that serious accident, fracture of

the neck of the thigh bone, owes a great portion of any

recovery he may have to Abernethy. It was he who

was the real means of overthrowing a dangerous dog

ma, that such cases could not unite by bone, and who

opposed the practice consequent on  it,      which repa
                                         by

ration by bone became impossible. There was hardly

any subject which he touched which he did not take

some view of more or less original, and his reasoning
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  281

was always particularly simple and to the point. No
man, we believe, ever exceeded him in the skill he pos

sessed in conveying ideas from one mind unto anoth

er ; but he did a great deal more --he sent those who

really studied him away thinking, and led them to
work with a kind of pleasure, which was in some sense

distinct from any merely practical or professional in

terest.

   He contrived to imbue you with the love of philo
sophical research in the abstract, with an interest in
truth for its own sake ; you found yourself remember

ing the bare facts, not so much from conscious effects

of memory as from the interest suggestive of observa
tions with which they were so frequently associated.

In going over one of his Lectures alone, they seemed
to grow and expand under your own reflections. We

know not how to express the effect they produced ;
they seemed to give new pleasure on repetition, to pu
rify your thoughts scarcely less than they animated
your onward studies.

   In studying their more suggestive passages, you

would now and then feel surprise at the number and

variety of important practical relations arising out of
a single proposition. We are here merely stating our
own early impressions of his power ; what we really
felt always was, that, great as was the excellence of
these Lectures in a scientific or professional sense,
there was something more excellent still in the ele

ment they contained of intellectual expansion and of
moral improvement.

   We can not indeed say that they had no faults, but
we should be hard driven to point them out; and al

though we feel how short our attempt to give some idea
282 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

of his mode of proceeding must fall of doing him jus
tice, still, if there be any truth at all in our represent
ation, it is quite clear that his negative excellences
alone must have employed no ordinary powers. But
we must conclude : " Quid multa ? istum audiens
equidem sic judicare soleo ; quidquid aut addideris
aut mutaveris aut de traxeris, vitiosius et deterius fu-
turum."

CHAPTER XXIV.

Hor. Is it a custom ?
Hamlet. Ay, marry, is't :

  But to my mind --though I am native here,
   And to the manner born -- it is a custom

   More honored in the breach than the observance.
                                                 Hamlet, Act Sc.
                                             a it i.,
If moralist were to divide his catalogue of immo          4.
;

    a

                              it
ralities into such as were of general commission and
such as occurred in the conduct of the various trades

and professions, we fear the latter division would sug

gest no very flattering position to humanity. An ele

vation somewhat above less gifted creatures                       might

be but still, we fear, must be at so low level as

to afford but a humiliating indication of the height
from which he had fallen. He would, in too many

instances perhaps, find his real claims to his high des

tiny about equal to the shadowy difference between                a
creature who fulfills some only of his responsibilities,
and one who has no responsibilities to fulfill. We should

like to hear some grave philosopher discourse on Fash

ion surely a curious thing, for there a fash
:                                            it is

  it                                                is
        is

                                    is
ion in every thing. It very like habit, but                       not
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  23a

habit either. Habit is a garment, which takes some
time to fit easily, and is then not abandoned without
difficulty. Fashion is always a good fit instanter, but
is thrown aside at once without the smallest trouble.

The most grotesque or absurd custom which slowly-
paced habit bores us with examining, is at once adopt
ed by fashion with a characteristic assentation.

   Morals are by no means free from this kind of con
ventionalism. So much the contrary, that few things
evince more strongly the power of fashion. It might
be imagined that the multiplication of examples would
tend to teach the true nature of the thing exemplified,
but it would not seem so with error ; tout au contraire.

Arts or acts which are tabooed as vicious in the singu
lar number, become, in the plasticity of our moral
grammars, very tolerable in the plural. Things that
the most hardy shrink from perpetrating single handed,
become easy " compliance with custom" when " joint-
stock" vices ; practices which, when partial, men are

penetrative enough to discover to be unchristian, or

sufficiently sensitive to regard as ungentlemanly, pass
muster with marvelous lubricity when they become
universal. We can anathematize, with self-complacent
indignation, vices in which we have no share, but we
become abundantly charitable when we discuss those
in which we have a common property ; and, finally,
moral accounts are settled very much to our own sat
isfaction, as Butler says, by compounding

                                " For sins we are inclined to,
                     By damning those we have no mind to."

    After all, society keeps a pretty good look-out after
faults of general commission. The law is tolerably
comprehensive of things which are of general commis
284 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

sion, and mankind sooner or later contrive to catch or
successfully oppose the numerous little enormities
which slip through the finest of our legal meshes.

                         " Raro antecedentem scelestum,
                               Deseruit pede poena claudo."

   From all this, it results that moral obliquities which
fall within the observation of society make but an up
hill game ; that which is felt to be prejudicial to the
interests of society is easily determined to be vicious.
But here again there is much in fashion ; for it has
often determined that the immorality of an act is not
to be measured by the naturo of the act, nor the mo
tive even on which it has been founded, so much as by
the more refined test afforded by the position of the
actor; like a sort of commercial megatherium, one
may gorge with rail-way velocity that which a once
breathing fond affection and a cold world alike determ
ined to be the life-blood of widows and orphans, and

yet have noblemen and others for his associates ; he
may, perhaps, be a legislator in a great nation, while
the poor starveling, who steals for the vulgar purpose
of satisfying hunger, may be sent to the treadmill,
where he may solve at leisure the problem which "the
most enlightened nation on the earth" has thus set
him.

   Again, vices which have a known influence in dis
turbing the relations of society are in various ways op
posed by the more public influences of religion; so
that in the end, although a man may arrive at the con

clusion --only by exhausting all other views before he
hits on those which lead to it--he finds that honesty

is as good a way of getting on as any other; or he
may advance perhaps even on this utilitarian creed so
         MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                                                                     285

far as to agree with Tillotson, that people take more
trouble to get to Hell than would suffice to carry them

to Heaven. The immoralities of trades and profes

sions lie in a different position, and involve certain pe

culiarities which favor their growth and perpetuity.

    They are committed in secret; people are proverb

ially cautious of attacking the weak positions of others,
who feel that their own retreats are equally ill defend

ed. This and the established conventionalism of each

calling enables an individual to do a good deal off his

own bat, without, as one of our bishops happily ex

                               In trade wo are some
                               not be sold cheaper --
         it,
                               is a

                                                                                                                                ;
pressed  "being caught out."

times informed that thing can

that the price asked already less than the cost and

people are appropriately addressed as idiots who every
day appear to believe that which common sense shows

to be an impossibility.

   Your purveyors will sometimes tell you that they

are not living by the prices they charge, although you

have just ascertained that the same article may be

bought at infinitely less cost in the next market. The

other day watch-maker told us that our watch want
ed good deal of looking to, and, among other things,
"no doubt cleaning;" but this he discovered, we sup
a
              a

                           it

                                                                    is,
                                                                                       a
pose, by some recondite mesmeric process, in book
which recorded when had been cleaned last, without

looking at the watch at all.

As regards professions, lawyers are said to defend

right and wrong with indiscriminate avidity, with the
encouraging prospect of obtaining more fruit in main

taining one wrong cause than establishing twenty

right.

Then the real nature of these things like many
286 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

in other sciences, obscured by a somewhat cloudy no
menclature. We hear of " customs of the trade," " se

crets of the trade/' or profession, applied to things
which the moralist only recognizes under very different
designations. Sophisms thus secured, and which ap

pear to minister to a man's interests, have their true

colors developed with difficulty, to say nothing of its
not being easy to discover that which there is no desire

to examine.

  If any man should be so "peculiar" or "crotchety"

as to consider that names are of little import, and that
"Vice is vice, for a' that," and venture to anathema

tize any custom, or even refuse to be an accessory in
declining to wink at he may encounter charges of
is
                     is it,

                                        is
                                                                 aa
violating professional confidence, overlooking proper

esprit de corps, and be outvoted, for no better reason

than that he can not concur in the dogma that vicious

sophism more valuable than a simple truth, or agree

with the currier "that leather the best material for

fortification;" he may possibly be let off by conceding
his connivance, which little better than declining to

be the thief, as too shocking, but having no objection

to the more lubricated position of the receiver.

But does any one for one moment believe that all

this can be hung on any trade or profession with no
effect? or that will not have a baneful influence on
it
             it

                    is

                                                       ?
every calling, and that in proportion as its real sind

proper duties are beneficent and exalted Now, while

we claim for the medical profession a position which,

in its single-mindedness and benevolence, yields to no

other whatever, we fear  not wholly free from these

technical besettings.

Tn the medical profession we trust that which we,
                 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                               287

for want of a better term, designate as technical im

moralities, are exceptional. Exceptional they may be,

we sincerely hope, and believe they are; but in a

crowded island, exceptions relatively few may be abso

lutely numerous; and whenever they occur, especially

if men hold any position, one case of compromise of

duty does more harm than a hundred of the most in

flexible adhesions to it can remedy. Suppose a pa
tient apply to a surgeon with a complaint requiring

one operation, and his fears incline him to another;
he is informed it is improper for his case : that, so far

from relieving him, it will indefinitely increase his suf

ferings. The patient reiterates his wishes, the surgeon

declines doing that which he would not have done in

his own person. On lamenting what he believes to be

the consequences of the patient's determination to a

brother surgeon, he is met by, " What a fool you must
                      guineas ; if you don't do
be, to throw away                                                 is
                                                                      a
somebody else will."
                                                                               it,
He quite right in his prediction, and so the sur
;

     is

         a
                                        !"
geon who refused to operate, and he has lost large

fee he receives the verification of his prediction sub

sequently from the patient, who exclaims, " Sir, nev
                                                                  I

er have moment's ease and when, after weeks of

suffering, the patient dies, the surgeon consoles him

self with the melancholy satisfaction of not having

contributed to sufferings which he was called in too

late to remedy.

The more plastic practitioner has,                                true, taken
                 it

                      ?

                                  it
                                                 it

                                                            ? is
fifty or a hundred guineas, may be, out of the one

pocket and put into his own, but in what way are

mankind benefited or does any one really think that

the apparent gainer can ultimately be so The fault
 288 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 in this, as in many other cases, is the ignorance of the
 public. There is nothing in the foregoing sketch that
 was not as easily intelligible to the commonest under
 standing as that two and two are equal to four. And
 is it no evil, that one man should pay so large a sum
 for so plain a piece of honesty, or that another should
 be rewarded, as the case may be, for ignorance, or a
 compromise of his duty ?

    Let us take another case. A gentleman was'called on

to give a certificate ; he examined the case, and found
that the wording of the certificate called on him to cer
tify to that which was diametrically opposite to the
fact. He naturally declined, and, as the point was of
some importance, went to the parties to explain. He
was then informed that two professional men had the
previous day given the certificate without hesitation.
He is complimented on his conscientiousness, but nev
er employed again by that family; and he has the
further satisfaction of hearing that his place is sup
plied by one of his accommodating brethren ! We fear
that in such a case there is a balance to be adjusted
between the several persons, and an appropriate appel
lation to be discovered besides. We respectfully leave
it to the reader's judgment to adjust the one, and to
draw on his aptitude for nomenclature to supply the
other.

   In another case, a man is called in to a consultation ;

he disapproves of the treatment, but declares to the
friends that every thing has been very properly done.
Another is called in, and every thing having been real
ly conducted properly, he commences an apparently
different treatment, but essentially the same, without
giving his confiding brother the benefit which his ac
               MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                           289

quiescence in his views would necessarily imply. In

an operation where the course is doubtful and the opin                         is,

ion various, the choice is left to the patient--that

the decision of how the surgeon                                        to act to be de
                                                               is        a is
termined by him who confessedly really least capa
               it is                                                  ?
ble of judging. Can be right to perform doubtful

operation under such circumstances                                       Should not the

patient reflect that the temptations are all on one side?

The attempt to dispense with the operation                               is    labori

ous, time-consuming, anxious, encouraged perhaps only

by small, minute accessions of improvement, inter

spersed with complaints of tedium and delay, while

the operation  work of a few minutes, the re
               is
                    a

                              ;

                                                        is
muneration munificent, the eclat productive, and the

labor nothing. All this and much more the best can

not entirely prevent the real cause the ignorance

of the public, which a very little of the labor they be

stow on many far less important subjects would easily

and quickly dispel.

  If these and multitudes of similar things are evils
                                                                               a
they contribute to debase profession, and to charge                                          ;
if

              a
                                 a

                                                            ;

                                                        a
the conscientious with unthankful office and unre

quited labor, and to confer fame and profit on tri

umphant chicanery we surely must feel indebted,

not only as professional men --not merely as patients,
but in far higher and wider sense-- to a man who,

availing himself of commanding position for the high

est purposes, has endeavored, by precept and example,

to oppose all such proceedings, and to cultivate high
                                                                               a
morale in the conduct of the profession. Now no one                                    a

more sedulously aimed at this effect than John Aber-

nethy and although we shall not, we trust, be ac
;

                           N
cused of underrating the obligations we owe him in
200 MEMOIRS OF ABERXETHY

professional or scientific sense, we think that, great as
they are, they are at least equaled by those arising out
of that duty-to-your-neighbor spirit which was so uni
versally diffused through every thing he taught, and
which, in his intercourse with his pupils, he never on
any occasion failed to inculcate. We will endeavor to
render what we mean intelligible, and perhaps we can
not do this better than by selecting a few illustrations
from observation of " Abernethy in Consultation."

                      CHAPTER XXV.

   " Hoc autem de quo nunc agimus id ipsum est quod utile appella
tor."

    Consultation. We are to have a consultation !
What a sound is that ! How many a heart has been
set thumping by this one word. We doubt whether
there be any in the English language that has more
frequently disturbed the current it was intended to
calm. But consultations must be. Already the car
riage of a physician has arrived, a tremendous rap has
been given at the door, the interesting visitor is already
in the library. Another rap, louder somewhat than the
former, announces another physician, or a consulting
surgeon. The general practitioner, taking advantage
of his intimacy with the family, may have perhaps very
sensibly walked in without knocking at all. They are
now all assembled in the library, and having remarked
on a "Storm Scene" by Gaspar Poussin which hangs
over the fire-place, we leave them to the preliminaries
of a consultation.

    Presently they are introduced to the patient, on whom
'  MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

                          291

   the knocking has already produced some effect. A

   short pause, and they are again assembled in the libra

   ry. In a few minutes the bell rings, and the father of

   a fine young woman is summoned to hear their decis

   ion. As he proceeds, he stealthily removes a straggling
   tear that, with all care, would get out of bounds, enters
   the library, and hears the result of the consultation.
   Neatly enveloped honoraria are presented to the con
   sultants, the bell has rung, Thomas has shown the gen

   tlemen to their respective vehicles, and so ends the

   consultation.

       The father, a widower, returns to the drawing-room,

   and his second daughter says, " Well, papa, what do
   the doctors say of Emily?" " Well, my dear, they say
   that Emily is very ill; that she requires great care;

   that they can not say positively, but they hope she may
   ultimately do well. They entirely coincide with our
   friend Mr. Smith Jones as to the nature of the disease,

   and think his treatment of the case has been highly

   judicious. They say there are some points on which
   the case may turn, but of which they can not speak
   positively to-day; but they hope to be able to do so
   when they meet again, which they are to do the day
   ' after to-morrow.' They all seem to consider the nerv

   ous system very much affected. They say we must

   keep Emily very quiet. She is to have any light diet

   she desires, and to have some new medicine to-morrow.

   The cod-liver-oil, they say, has done her all the good
   now that it is calculated to do, and she is this evening
   to take a composing draught." The family are silent,

   and so ends the consultation.

      What ! and are all consultations like that ? No, read

   er, we hope not. Many a valuable life has, we believe,
292 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

been saved or prolonged by consultation, and perhaps

many more would be, if people would only think a lit

tle more before they act in such important matters.

But how is this to be, when men and women who

do think will dive into all other branches of knowl

edge, more or less, and neglect all inquiry into laws, a

general knowledge of which may easily be acquired,

and of which ignorance is so frequently visited by no
less punishment than the premature separation of our

dearest ties, and the loss or impairment of that which

is acknowledged to be the first of temporal blessings.

There are many things in consultations which require

putting right, which do not depend on any man or on

any one class. What are we to say to a man who ad

mits the ability, and approves of the investigative power

and practice of another, but who can not call him in

because he orders so little medicine? Or of the mode

in which the public treat another, who, wishing to prac

tice as a gentleman, and to be paid for his brains rather

than his bottles, makes no charge for the latter, and yet

who informed us that, having tried this for three years,

he lost so many families by that, he had not reis, it,
                                     a
linquished the plan, he should have wanted bread for
                                          if
his own Or whom shall we blame when one man, call
?

                    a
ing in another to patient, finds that this latter feels

no scruple in repaying the prestige which he thus owes

to his confiding brother by taking the patient from him

the first opportunity, albeit that he occupies what should

be, and, we trust, as the rule  higher walk in tho

profession

   We have seen so much feeling arising from this prac
tice, and we hold as so serious an error, that we re

gard as tending more than any one thing whatever
it
            ?
                  it
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                    293

to injure the position and character of the consulting

branches of the profession.
   Again, how inconsiderate must be the adoption of

that custom which first of all institutes an inquiry to

ascertain whether there is any difference of opinion,

and yet accompanies it with trammels, the tendency

of which is to oblige men to appear to agree. When

coincidence of opinion is alone safe, who can be ex

pected to differ? The public have allowed the law

yers to differ without that difference involving any re

proach. They have also proverbially determined that
"doctors do." Yet that which they regard as an al

most necessary rule in the one case, they are very prone

to visit in regard to some one of the dissentients as a

proof of professional inferiority in the other. A great

deal of mischief results from this state of things; it in

definitely increases the difficulty of obtaining a really

honest and unreserved opinion, and leads to other con

sequences which tend to impair that mutual confidence

between man and man which should be the very life-

blood of a fine profession.

    We recollect a case, on the nature of which two sur

geons were consulted ; and when the patient-- a young
lady--had been withdrawn, the father requested to
know if there were any objection to his being present

at the conference. The surgeon to whom he seemed

to address himself said, " None on my part," to which

the other seemed to give consent. When the consult

ation was over, the surgeon who had thus seemed to
"Ifconsent addressed the other, saying,
                                         ever we meet

again, Sir, our consultation must not be in the presence
of the friends of the patient." This was said in a tone

to which the other had not been accustomed ; but, as
294 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

a lady had just then entered the room, no reply was
made. The next morning, however, the gentleman was
called on to reconsider the tone in which he had thus

addressed his brother consultant, when a satisfactory

explanation settled the matter.
    Such things, however, are extremely disagreeable,

and illustrate how much more easy it is to go straight
forward than by any zigzag route. What! could not
a father hear the honest opinion of two men concern
ing his child until the consultation had been shorn
down and dovetailed together so as to be made a sym
metrical nondescript adapted to the requisitions of a

vulgar conventionalism?
   In another case, in a consultation on a disease as

plainly scrofulous as it was possible to be, the family
attendant had pronounced that it was constitutional,
but not scrofula. This was, it appeared, a miserable
assentation to the prejudices of the family, for the re
sult proved that he knew better. Nevertheless, a con
sultation had taken place already with a very eminent
surgeon, without the family being any the wiser in re
gard to the nature of the disease. The case not pro
gressing, another surgeon was consulted, who, being
asked what he considered the disease to be, replied that
it was scrofula. Upon this, considerable surprise and
uneasiness was manifested on the part of the family;
and the surgeon, wondering what, in so plain a case,
could be the doubt, took occasion to see the former
medical attendant, and to ask him what he thought of
the case, when he said that it was clearly scrofula, and
that he had never known the children of certain tem
peraments, to which he considered the parents to be
long, wholly without a tendency to that disease; so
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  295

that he had all along been blinding the parents, so far
as his opinion and that of another eminent man went,
to the real nature of the malady.

   A singular occurrence, as we hope, took place one

day in consultation, showing how comfortably the most
questionable thing may appear to sit on a man's con

science if only supported by some supposed sanction
from custom. Two surgeons met to consider a case.
They differed as to its nature and treatment, as thus:

the one thought a certain remedy necessary, and that
any prospective consequences on its employment merged
into the necessity of the moment ; the other thought
that remedy wholly unnecessary, and therefore held
even the possibility of any prospective mischief an in
superable objection to its use ; conceding, however,

that it might possibly, if the treatment were conducted

cautiously, be nevertheless so managed as to secure
the patient from the consequences in question, and

that, if the patient preferred that course after the mat

ter had been fairly stated to him, he would superin

tend the plan.

   Having retired into another room to consult, they
were now again introduced to the patient, when the
junior was somewhat startled to hear his senior begin
thus : " Well, Sir, we have considered your case, and
we perfectly agree as to the nature of it." Thinking
that this unexpected exordium might possibly be pre
liminary to some explanation of the points on which
they differed, the surgeon waited a minute to hear
what followed ; but, finding that his brother was irre

mediably misrepresenting the matter, he said, "Stop!
let us understand each other!" and then stated what

had really happened, and the exact nature of their re
296 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

spective  opinions   ; on   which the other,   in the coolest
manner    possible,  said,                     you are quite
                            " Yes --exactly ;
right !" and so ended the " consultation."

          ; is,
                    is

                                             is
                                                                    a a is

                                                                                                                                          ;
There     no doubt, some fault on all sides. The

public are too uninformed on these important subjects,
and therefore do much that equally against their

own interests, and the preservation of that dignity and
respect which should ever attach to a high-missioned
profession but the profession itself free from blame?
Do they never themselves minister to this wretched
system of double dealing? We fear there but one
answer to this question. We are not careful, for ob

vious reasons, to multiply examples of such things,

but we are convinced that there must be change

and since the profession can not, as too many of the

public may, plead ignorance, for this and      thousand
other reasons they should lead the way.
                                               We only

claim for ourselves what we readily concede to others,

the expression of our opinion, when we say that con

sultations should be bona fide examinations of the case,
and should be followed by bona fide intelligible ex
planations of to the patient or his friends, according

to the suggestions of ordinary prudence or humanity
          ;
in the individual case. When the treatment correct,
               if it                           it, is
the most honest proof should be afforded of namely,
                      is
the continuance of the plan of the attendant in ordi

nary, unobscured by the farce or form of writing a preis
scription or, additional appliance only adopted,

in such a case its subordinate character should be

honestly explained.

Where there difference of view,  ; if          be material,

                                    it
that also should be candidly stated and        if      this be

done with real fairness, our experience has convinced
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  297

us that it may be effected without damage to either
party. In other differences of opinion the public nev
er think it necessary to impute ignorance or incapac

ity ; let them, for their own sakes, repudiate this con
struction in regard to the medical profession. Lastly,
let them forever abandon the practice of paying any
man for his bottles, the number of which will often be
in an inverse ratio with his skill and judgment. But

where is Abernethy ?

    No doubt Abernethy's manner varied in consultation,
but of this we shall speak in a separate chapter. We
will here record our impressions as to "Abernethy in
consultation;" the conditions which seemed to secure

a considerate opinion from him; the good sense and

reasonableness of those conditions; the practical result
of the observance of them, and the effect they were
calculated to produce on the public, in giving to con
sultations that efficiency by which they should be
characterized ; an efficiency which every one begins to
perceive necessary, and which must equally be to the
advantage of the public and the elevation of the pro

 fession.

                      CHAPTER XXVI.

   "Quidquid enim justum sit id etiam utile esse censent; itemque
quod honestum idem justum ex quo efficitur ut quidquid honestum
sit idem sit utile." -- Cicero.

   The first thing in consulting Abernethy, if you were
a medical man, was to be clear, and "well up" in the

nature of the case, and the next thing, not to state any
opinion unless you were prepared to give a good reason

                                N2
298 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

for it. These conditions premised, we never saw any

one more unaffectedly deferential to the opinion of an

other.

   A surgeon took a serious case to him, in which the

question was as to the removal of a very large tumor
in the neck, which seemed to be acquiring connections

of such depth and importance, and which threatened,

should that step be desirable, to render the removal of
it impossible. The patient was advised to allow his

surgeon in ordinary to state his case, and to interrupt

him only if he omitted any thing in regard to it with

in the patient's knowledge. This was done ; the gen
eral habits of the patient described, with the difference

which had existed antecedent to the age of thirty,

and subsequent thereto. Mr.Abernethy examined the

tumor.

   To the Surgeon. It is parotid, is it not?

  Surgeon. I think not, Sir.

   Abernethy (hastily). Why not?
    Surgeon. Because, Sir, reflecting on the depth and

situation of the parotid gland, I hardly expect the tu

mor to be so movable.
  Abernethy. Ah, I
                       Isee ! Very well. (Then to      the
patient.) Well, Sir,                                     to
                          should advise you to attend

your general health, and continue to follow Mr.        's
advice on that subject. " What I say is--" then fol

lowed a short lecture on the digestive organs.

  Patient. IDo you think, Sir, shall get rid of it?
  Abernethy. Nay, I can not tell that ; but now sup

pose you pursue a plan steadily, say for a month, and

the tumor does not increase, will it not be encouraging

to you ?

Patient. Certainly, Sir.
       MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                   299

Abernethy. Well, then, try it; for if its removal

should become necessary, you will at least be in better
Ifcondition for the operation.
                                it does not get larger,

or otherwise inconvenience you, let it alone.

The patient had heard so much of Abernethy's

roughness, that he came away equally pleased and as

tonished .

   A surgeon took a Colonel in the army to him with a

case which was progressing fairly, but, as he conceived,
in consequence of the patient not paying so much at

tention to his health as he was recommended to do,

not so satisfactorily as he desired. The Colonel brief

ly stated his case.                 Ah! that is
   Abernethy. Show me your tongue.

bad enough.

   Colonel. You are quite right there.

  Abernethy. Well, man, I don't require to be told

that.

Here the surgeon stated the treatment, which had,

in addition to attention to the general health, involved

some local administrations, of which, in general, Aber
nethy approved, but, as it would seem, not in this
case. His difference of opinion he thus stated in the

presence of the patient.

  I"Well, say that there is a sufficient disorder of

your digestive organs to maintain the annoyances of

which you complain ; and I should confine my atten

tion to endeavor to put that disorder right. Mr.

seems to think that, in adding to this treatment the

plan he proposes, he will shorten the case. Well, that

Imay be so ; he has paid, know, a good deal of atten
tion to this subject, and if I had one of my own fami
ly ill with this complaint, I should feel perfectly satis
300 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

Ified if they were under his care. At the same time,

say what I think ; and if you do not find the general

plan successful, then the means he proposes might
with propriety be added."

    No harm resulted from this difference of opinion,
but much benefit. The patient was not pleased with
Abernethy, but he thought him very skillful and very

honest.

    One day a surgeon went to him under the following
circumstances. A patient who had recently recovered
from a lameness, which, as alleged, had its cause in
the foot, on a relapse had gone to another surgeon.
This gentleman had, as it ultimately appeared, hasti
ly decided that the lady had a complaint in the hip;
she was therefore consigned to bed, and then treated

for disease of that part. After about three months,

feeling no better, she desired to see the surgeon under

whose care she had formerly been.
    The surgeon was now very much annoyed, for he

found that he had been by many persons charged with

having mistaken the case, which he had never even
seen on the second attack, and which now presented

a phase in which disease of the hip, to a hasty exam
iner, might easily be suggested. He was not much

better satisfied when, after a careful examination of

the case, he felt convinced that there was no disease

in the hip, although the symptoms were more severe
than ever. He declined undertaking the case without
a previous consultation with the surgeon who had de
cided it to be a disease of the hip; but the patient
being immovable in her opposition to the request, and

sffering any other surgeon, or more if required, her

wishes were acceded to, and Mr. Abernethy requested
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                      301

to visit the case. On going to the patient, the surgeon

explained to Mr. Abernethy the points at issue, but

without telling him to which view his own opinion in

"Iclined, or the positive dictum of his senior brother, a
very eminent surgeon.          shall therefore," said he to

Abernethy, "feel particularly obliged to you, Sir, if

you will examine the case for yourself."

    When they were introduced to the lady, Abernethy

said, "Well, now, I should be very well satisfied with
IMr. 's report of your case, but he says must ex

amine the limb for myself; so 'here goes;'" a some

what repulsive beginning to a delicate lady, perhaps;

but nothing could be more cautiously gentle than his

examination. In conducting     ;           he had avoided one

test which usually does give a little pain. The other; it,

surgeon, deeming the decision to be very important,

reminded him of this test (raising the limb and strik

ing the heel gently), which he then proceeded to do
with equal gentleness. " That will do," said he " now,
Sir, shall we go into another room?" "No, Sir," re

plied the surgeon; "if you please, Mr. Abernethy,
                                           ;

                                                 is I
should prefer your at once telling the patient what

your opinion on the case."

He then declared his opinion but, fearing he might

injure one or other party, with the following exordi
um " Now, Madam, we are all liable to mistakes
I:                                         I
                                                      I:
    is

           I
there no man living who does not make more or less,

and am sure make mistakes, therefore may do so

in my opinion of your ease but, for the life of me,

can not observe that you have any disease in your hip."

He then gave short but most lucid view of what he
it

                            a
conceived to be the cause of her pain, and illustrated

by referring to something which happened to him
302 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.it,
             a
self in one of his own severe rheumatic attacks. The
result proved that he was quite right as to his view ofI
the case ; the lady, by exercise and other means, which,
Ihad the hip been diseased, would have only exasperI
ated her complaint, had a good recovery.
   a
    One very great charm in Abernethy in consultation
was that there was no difficulty in getting him to speak
out. Some men are so afraid of being wrong, that
they never give you the whole of their opinion in a

case involving any difficulty. It is an obscure and a

guarded prognosis, which sometimes amounts to no
opinion at all.

   Even with surgeons who were very unobjectionable,
Abernethy in his best manner contrasted very favorably.
We recollect being very much struck with this when
very young. We had to meet Mr. Cline and Mr. Aber
nethy within a few days of each other in the same case.
Mr. Cline was very kind to the patient, elaborately civil ;
nor was there any thing which could be fairly regard
ed as objectionable ; but his manner was too artificial ;
the contrast in Abernethy was very agreeable. The
case was serious, and, as we thought, hopeless. Aber
nethy, the moment he saw had his sympathies pain
fully awakened. Having asked few questions, he,
in the very kindest manner, said, "Well, will tell
you what would do, were in your situation." He
then proceeded to direct how she should regulate her
living, how avoid mischievous experiments, and went
into a rather lengthy series of directions, in the most
unaffected manner, without leaving the room or having
any private consultation whatever. The lady, who was
a distinguished person and very accomplished wom
an, was exceedingly pleased with him.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  303

    His manner, as we shall by-and-by admit, was occa

sionally rough, and sometimes rather prematurely truth

ful. One day he was called in consultation by a phy-
sycian to give an opinion on a case of a pulsating tu
mor, which was pretty clearly an aneurism. On pro

ceeding to examine the tumor, he found a plaster on

it. "What is this?" said Abernethy. "Oh! that is
a plaster." " Pooh !" said Abernethy, taking it off and
throwing it aside. " That was all very well," said the
physician, " but that ' pooh' took several guineas out of

my pocket."

    On the other hand, he never failed to give the warm

est and most efficient sanction he could to what he

conceived to be judicious treatment on the part of the
practitioner with whom he was in consultation. Mr.
Stowe has kindly sent me a very good example of this,
and it illustrates also another very valuable feature in

a consultant --the forbearance from doing any thing
where nothing is necessary. A gentleman had met

with a severe accident, a compound dislocation of the

ankle, an accident that Abernethy was the chief means

of redeeming from habitual amputation. The accident
happened near Winterslow Hut, on the road between
Andover and Salisbury, and Mr. Davis, of Andover, was

called in. Mr. Davis placed the parts right, and then

said to the patient, "Now, when you get well, and
have, as you most likely will, a stiff joint, your friends
will tell you, 'Ah! you had a country doctor;' so, Sir,
I would advise you to send for a London surgeon to

Iconfirm or correct what have done." The patient con

sented, and sent to London for Abernethy, who reached
the spot by the mail about two in the morning. He
looked carefully at the limb, and saw that it was in a
304 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

"Igood position, and was told what had been done. He
then said,  am come a long way, Sir, to do nothing.
I might, indeed, pretend to do something; but, as any

avoidable motion of the limb must necessarily be mis

chievous, I should only do harm. You are in very good
hands, and I dare say will do very well. You may in

deed come home with a stiff joint, but that is better

than a wooden leg." He took a check for his fee, sixty

guineas, and made his way back to London.

Soon after this, an old clergyman in the same neigh

borhood had a violent attack of erysipelas in the head
and arm. His family, becoming alarmed, wrote up to
his brother, who resided near Bedford Row, to request

Mr. Abernethy to go down and visit the patient. Aber
nethy said, " Who attends your brother?" " Mr. Davis,

of Andover." "Well, I told him all I knew about sur
Igery, and know that he has not forgotten it. You
may be perfectly satisfied. I shall not go." Here, as

Mr. Stowe observes, he might have had another sixty

guineas.
   He always felt a great deal of interest about com

pound dislocations of the ankle-joint, because of his
conviction that amputation, then so commonly resort

ed to, was unnecessary. He used to tell several cases
in his lectures: one of them we will briefly relate here.
It was that of a laboring man, who fell oft' a scaffold in

his own neighborhood, and, among other surgeons, they
had sent for Abernethy. When he got to the house,

he found, he says, "a poor wee man lying on his mat

tress, with a very complete compound dislocation of the

ankle-joint. The joint was completely exposed, and
the torn skin was overlapping the edge of the bone."

He placed the parts in their natural position, and drew
                   MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                           305

the skin out of the rent; and when he had thus ad

         a it it,baes ehnevesaryysl,ittalehtohreribmleattaecrc. ide"ntDolooykoeud
justed                                            is                                 as
there had                                                 ;
                                                                                   think,
                                                        I
Sir," said the poor little man, "that this can ever get   I if I
well?" "Yes, verily," said Abernethy. "Do not be                it if

out of heart about it; have known many such cases
do well." "Why, Sir," said the man, " they have goneit

                          I
"Ifor the instruments."                       now found," said Abernethy,

"that two other surgeons had seen him, and had de

termined that         was necessary to amputate.                                   felt

that had got into an embarrassing predicament, and
   it I
was obliged to wait until these heroes returned. When

they arrived, and saw the man lying so comfortably,

they seemed little staggered; but one of them said,
                   ?' a

                     I

                                           '
'  Mr. Abernethy, you know the serious nature of these

accidents, and can you give us an assurance that this

will do well          said, No, certainly not but

does not do well, you can have recourse to amputation

afterward, and my surgical character              pledged no

further than this.    I  give you the assurance that no

immediate mischief will come on to endanger the man's

life. You may wait and see whether his constitution
                                                'Iadded, feel that am
will allow him to do well.'                   II

got rather into scrape, so you must allow me to man
                   a

age in my own way.' So got splints, put up the

limb, varnished the plaster, and then told them about

sponging           continually, so as never to allow any in

crease of temperature. Now there are two holds you
have on patient's mind --hope and fear --and make
'Ifuse of both; so said,
                   if I                       you lie perfectly still, you
will do well, and you move one jot, you will do ill --
that's all.' " The remainder of the case need not be

given. The man recovered, and saved his limb.
306 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   We have referred to that case because, though relat
ing to a professional matter, there is a moral in it. He
might easily have saved himself all the trouble he took,
and on the plea of etiquette ; but the poverty of the
man pleaded for his limb, and the impossibility, in such
a case, of the imputation of any wrong motive, left free
exercise for the prevailing feature of Abernethy's char

acter --benevolence. The mention of the instruments

secured to the poor man that personal attention to de
tails by Abernethy himself which a more wealthy pa
tient might not have so certainly obtained.

    We have remarked before on his kindness to hospi

tal patients, and sometimes the expression of their grat

itude would be very touching. It is difficult or im

possible to carry out Mr. Abernethy's principles of prac
tice with perfect efficiency in the atmosphere of a large
hospital in a crowded city, yet the truth of his views
would sometimes be impressed by very extraordinary
and unexpected results. We select the following as

an example, for reasons which will be suggested by

the narrative. We are indebted to Mr. Stowe for the

illustration, and as we should only mar the scene by
any abbreviation, we must allow him to tell it in his
own manner:

   " It was on his first going through the wards after

a visit to Bath that, passing up between the rows of

beds, with an immense crowd of pupils after him --my

self among the rest--the apparition of a poor Irishman,

with the scantiest shirt I ever saw, jumping out of bed,

and literally throwing himself on his knees at Aber
nethy's feet, presented itself. For some moments ev
ery body was bewildered ; but the poor fellow, with all
his country's eloquence, poured out such a torrent of
              MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                           307

thanks, prayers, and blessings, and made such panto

mimic displays of his leg, that we were not long left
in doubt. ' That's the leg, yer honnor ! Glory be to

God ! Yer honnor's the boy to do it ! May the heav

ens be your bed ! Long life to your honnor ! To the

divole with the spalpeens that said your honnor would

cut it off!' &c. The man had come into the hospital

about three months before with diseased ankle, and it

had been at once condemned to amputation. Some

thing, however, induced Abernethy to try what rest

and constitutional treatment would do for and with
                                                                    ' it,
the happiest result.
   " With some difficulty the patient was got into bed,

and Abernethy took the opportunity of giving us a

clinical lecture about diseases and their constitutional

treatment. And now commenced the fun. Every sen

tence Abernethy uttered, Pat confirmed.                             Thrue, yer

honnor, divole lie in it. His honnor's the grate doch-
              !'
tor entirely       aWhile at the slightest allusion to his

case, off went the bed-clothes, and up went the leg, as

it, ifhe were taking aim at the ceiling with it. That's                    '

        by gorra and a bitther leg than the villin's that
        ;
                   !

             I

                  it
wanted to cut off.' This was soon after went to
                                                                    I

London, and was much struck with Abernethy's

manner in the midst of the laughter, stooping down

to the patient, he said, with much earnestness,                               I'  am

glad your leg doing well but never kneel, exceptis
to your Maker.' "
                                                             ;
    The following letter, though containing nothing ex
                                                                 I
traordinary, still shows his usual manner of addressing

patient by letter

" Sir, --In reply to your letter, can only say what
Ia
                                                          :
must have said to you in part when you did me the

honor of consulting me.
308 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   " Firstly. That the restoration of the digestive or

gans to a tranquil and healthy state greatly depends
on a strict observance of rational rules of diet. My

opinions on this subject, which are too long to be tran
scribed, are to be met with at page 72 of the first part
of ' Abernethy's Surgical Observations,' published by
Longman and Co., of Paternoster Row.

    " Secondly. Upon keeping the bowels clear, yet

without irritating them by over-doses of aperient med

icine.

   "Thirdly. I consider the blue pill as a pro-bilious

medicine, and only urge that the dose be such as to do

no harm if it fail to do good, and then to be taken per-

severingly for some time, in order to determine wheth
er it will not slowly effect the object for which it was
given. In gouty habits, carbonate of soda, &c., may
be given, to neutralize acidity in the stomach, with

light bitters ; but the prescription of medicines of this

kind, as also any advice relative to the cold bath, must
rest with your medical attendant."

   Dated the 17th of September ; as usual, with him,
without the year, which was about 1824.

   It is obvious that very few professional letters are

adapted for introduction. This was one kindly sent
us by Mr. Preston, of Norwich, and was written to a
gentleman in Yorkshire.

   Few things were more pleasing or valuable in Aber-
nethy than his modesty and his sense of justice. He
knew his superiority well enough, but he measured it
with reference to what was still beyond him, and not

by the standard afforded by the knowledge of others.
His sense of justice was, we think, never appealed to

in vain. The following letter has appeared to us sig
                        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

nificant in relation to these points. Amid the peace
ful glories of a useful profession, there is nothing that
sinks deeper or interests our regard more than a man,
in the hour of success, remembering what is due to
others. We think this remark particularly applicable
to the late Mr. Tait, in the following case. The let
ter from Abernethy was obligingly sent us by Mr. Tait's
son and successor. The remarks with which Mr. Tait

concludes his case are as creditable to the writer as to

him whom they were intended to honor.
   We have stated that Mr. Abernethy had been the

first to extend the application of John Hunter's cele
brated operation for the cure of aneurism to a vessel
nearer the heart (the external iliac artery), on which
Mr. Abernethy placed a ligature in 1797. Mr. Tait,
of Glasgow, had an extraordinary case of aneurism in
both lower extremities, so high up as to oblige him to
place a ligature on the external iliac artery on both
sides of the body. The case occurred in an old dra
goon, and the two operations were performed at separate
times, with great judgment and with complete success.
The case, of course, made some noise, and was highly
creditable.* In closing his account of the patient,
Mr. Tait observes: "The complete success which has
attended these operations, while certainly it affords me
one of the highest gratifications the practice of my
profession can procure me, chiefly affects Mr. Aber

nethy.
   " Accident has placed under my care a case which,

Iso far as know, is unparalleled in the history of sur
Igery, and it has been cured ; but have only put in

practice what every surgeon of the day ought to have

           * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxvi.
310 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

done. When, thirty years ago, Mr. Abernethy formed
the firm resolve of cutting open the walls of the abdo
men and seizing the external iliac artery, he made a

mighty step in advance --he formed an epoch in the

history of his profession. John Hunter, upon reflect
ing on the hemorrhage proceeding from the vessel be
low the sac, after an operation in 1779, when Mr.
Broomfied, ' for security,' had tied the artery three or
four inches above the aneurism, had probably the first
glimpse at his great improvement of tying the artery
in cases of aneurism nearer the heart. His eminent

successor has extended the principles of the illustrious
Hunter.

   " So firmly impressed was Mr. Abernethy with the

certainty of ultimate success, that, nothing daunted by
the unfortunate issue of his two first cases, he perse
vered, and at length successfully secured the external
iliac artery. His steps have been followed by a host,

till at length it needed but such a case as mine to add
the finishing touch to his well-earned fame. In doing
justice to the merits of such men, we act but the part
of prudence, since, if we do not, indignant posterity will.

   " Paisley, January, 1826."

    The following is Abernethy's reply to a communica
tion from Mr. Tait on the subject, and couched in a
tone just in relation to Mr. Hunter, modest and char

acteristic as regards himself.

TO DAVID TAIT, ESQ., SURGEON, PAISLEY.

" Dear Sir, --I have read your interesting case in

the 'Edinburgh Journal,' but have no comments to
Ioffer.
         have therefore only to thank you for the hon
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                              31 1

orable mention you have made of me. The progress

of science had given us reason to confide in the anas

tomosing* channels for carrying on the circulation.

The only question necessary to be decided was, Would

large arteries heal when tied ? Every case confirmed

that point, and therefore there was little merit in per

Iseverance. Nevertheless, feel grateful for your good
opinion, and with congratulation and best wishes, I am,
                                 John Abernethy.
dear Sir, yours very sincerely,
   " Bedford Row, July 14."

Post-mark 1826.

   The following portion of a note, necessarily muti
lated from the suppression of professional matter, we
copy as a written evidence of his not in any way ap
pearing to alter or add to a treatment which he ap

proved. It is written to a highly esteemed member

of our profession, Mr. Beaman, of King Street, Covent
Garden. Mr. Beaman had sent a patient alone to Mr.
Abernethy, who, having seen him, gave him the fol

lowing note :

"My dear Sir, -- The patient says (here the symp

toms referring to the point to be investigated are

stated), and if this be true, I have no wish * * * * nor
can I suggest better treatment than that which you

have adopted.                    John Abernethy."

       " Yours very sincerely,

No date ; post-mark 1825.

    The following letter to Mr. Wood, of Rochdale, reit
erates his opinion on a very important disease, contrac
tion of the gullet, or oesophagus, and conveys a practi-

   * The name applied to the collateral branches which carry on the
circulation when the main artery of the limb is tied or obstructed.
312 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

cal truth, which, if we may judge from the cases pub

lished in the periodicals, is just as necessary as ever.
We allude to the too officious use of instruments in
this affection, a lesson of Abernethy's, of the practical
excellence of which Mr. Wood had convinced himself
by his own experience, as we ourselves have on many

occasions.

  "My dear Sir, --I think as you do with regard to

the difficulty of swallowing. It seems likely to be the
effect of irritability of the stomach, and if so, the pass

ing of instruments, however soft and well-directed they
may be, is not likely to be beneficial.

   "Indeed, I have seen so little good from such meas
ures, that I should feel reluctance to employing them

until impelled by stronger necessity than exists in the
present case. Spasmodic affection in the part is, as
you know, exceedingly common, and continues for a
great many years without producing permanent con
traction. With respect to the main object of the treat

ment of this case, I can not say more than you are

already acquainted with, and which is suggested at
page 72.

   " I have of late been personally convinced of the ben

efit of the strictest attention to diet. Last summer
my stomach was so disordered that it would not digest

any thing, and I was constantly tormented by the chem

ical changes which the food underwent in that organ.

I had scarcely any flesh on my bones, and sometimes

every ten minutes was seized with rheumatic spasms,
which were as general and severe as those of tetanus.*

I went into the country, where I could get good milk

                                         * Loeked-jaw.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                     313

and eggs, and lived upon three ounces of baked cus

tard taken three times a day, drinking four hours after

each meal some boiled water that had been poured

Iupon a small quantity      of ginger.    Upon this quantity
Iof food regained my                    uniformly got better
                            flesh, and

as long as continued this plan of diet, which was but
for one month, for then I returned to town. From the
Ivery first day had no more of these spasms. As for
medical treatment, I repeat that I can not say more
than you already know. It gives me pleasure to find

that you are settled to your satisfaction.

  " I remain, my dear Sir, very sincerely yours,
                                        "John Abernethy.
" Bedford Row, January 9."

                     CHAPTER XXVII.

                                                         OF MANNER.

                                                 " Non ego paucis,
                  Offendar maculis, quas aut incuria fudit,
                Aut humana parum cavit natura." -- Horace.

  "I will not be offended by a few blemishes, the result of inatten

tion, or against which human frailty has not sufficiently guarded."

    Mankind have long established, by universal consent,

the great importance of manner. It has been so ably

and so variously described by different writers, that it
is next to impossible to say any thing new on the sub
ject, or what has not been even better said already.
Still it is equally true that it is a subject very much
less cultivated than its influence demands, so that real
ly easy, good manners continue to be a very rare and

enviable possession. But if manners be thus influen-
                                  0
               MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

tial in the ordinary intercourse of life, they are still

more important in ministering to disease. People,
when they are ill, have, for the wisest purposes, their
susceptibilities more vivid, and it is happy for them

when those in health have their sympathies, as is nat

ural, we think, that they should be wakened up in
proportion. No doubt it is a great subtraction from

whatever benefit the most skillful can confer, if it be

administered in a dry, cold, unfeeling, or otherwise re

al
                           is
                                           is,

                                                            is It

                                                                                    is
pulsive manner. There too, a very sound physiolog

ical as well as moral reason for kindness.                                              dif

ficult to overrate the value of that calm which some

times diffused over the whole system by the impres

sion that there an unaffected sympathy in our suf

ferings. We must, of course, in our time have ob

served abundant varieties of manner in our profession
    brethren, and we have often listened with interest

to conversations in society in which the manners of

various medical men have been the subject of discus

sion, from which good listeners might, we think, have
often taken valuable lessons.

We are convinced that the disguise worn by some,

of an artificial manner, leaves on many occasions no

one more deceived than the wearer. Many patients

have their perceptions remarkably quickened by indis
position, and will penetrate the thin vail of any form

of affectation much more readily than people imagine.

In common language, good feeling and kind manner
Ifare said to spring from the heart.
                                      a man feels kind

ly, he will rarely express himself otherwise, except un

der some momentary impulse of impatience or indis

position.

There no doubt that the secret of a kind and con
           is
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                             315

ciliatory manner consists in the regulation of the feel

ings, and in carrying into the more trivial affairs of

life that principle which we acknowledge as indispens

able in serious matters --of doing to others as we would

they should do to us.

    We are not speaking of a polished manner; that is

another affair. A man's manner to a patient may be
unpolished, or as homely as you please; but if he really

feels a sympathy for his patient, it will, with the ex

ception to be stated, never be coarse or unkind.

Some men are absurdly pompous, others hard and

cold : some put on a drawling, maudlin tone, which the

most superficial observer detects as being affected. An

honest sympathy is more acceptable than even a pol

ished manner, though doubtless that is a very desira

ble grace to a learned profession.

   In general, our own experience --and we know some
thing of indisposition in our own person --has induced

us to judge favorably of the manners of medical men.

There are, no doubt, exceptions, and sometimes in

men in whom you would least expect it. We have

known men "eye" a patient as if looking at some mi
nute object--some jocosely familiar. One man has an

absurd gravity, another thinks he must be all smiles.

We have known, too, the adoption of a tone inter

spersed with a religious solemnity. These, when put

on, are generally detected, and of course always vul

gar. Some even say really rude and unfeeling things

before any thing has happened to provoke them. We

attended a gentleman who had a great deal of dry

"Ihumor, and who was very amusing on such matters.
One morning he said,   saw Dr.  on one occa
Ision, and the first thing he said to me thought he
is316 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY. .
                                                                         a it,
Imight as well have omitted. ' see, Sir,' said he,
                                                             if it
* that you have taken the shine out of your constitu
tion.' "

   Abernethy's manner was at times, and in all serious

cases, and so far as we ever observed, to hospital pa

tients as unaffectedly kind as could be desired. It is

too true that on many occasions of minor import, that
impulsiveness of character which we have seen in the
boy was still uncontrolled in the man, and led him to
say things which, however we may palliate, we shall

not attempt to excuse.

   It is true his roughness was very superficial ; it was

the easiest thing in the world to develop the real kind
ness of heart which lay undoubtedly beneath and

    very instructive to observe how a very little yield
ing to an absurdity may occasionally obscure one of

the most benevolent hearts that ever beat in human

breast with the repulsive exterior of ungentle manners.
Still, patients could not be expected to know this, and
therefore too many went away actually dissatisfied,

not disgusted.

    The slightest reaction was in general sufficient to

bring him to his self-possession. A lady whom he had
seen on former occasions was one day exceedingly hurt
by his manner, and burst into tears. He immediately

became as kind and patient as possible, and the lady
came away just as pleased as she had been at first of

fended.

    Reaction of different kind would answer equally
well. One day gentleman consulted him on pain
ful affection of his shoulder, which had been of very
excruciating character. Before he had time to enter
on his case, Abernethy said, " Well, know nothing
aa

                         I
                                                               aa
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                           317

"Iabout it!" The gentleman sharply retorted,    do not

know how you should ; but if you will have patience

till I tell you, perhaps you then may." Abernethy at
once said, "Sit down," and heard him out with the

greatest kindness and patience.

  I am indebted to Thomas Chevasse, Esq., of Sutton

Cold Field, Warwick, for the following letter to a pa

tient in Surrey, who had complained that he did not

receive any sympathy from him.

   " Dear Sir, --I am sorry to have said any thing that
has offended you. I may have felt annoyed that I could

not suggest any plan of treatment more directly cura

tive of your malady, and expressed myself pettishly

when you did not seem to understand my meaning, for
I am a fellow-sufferer, and had tried what are consid
Iered to be appropriate remedies unavailingly.
                                                assure

you that I did not mean to hurt your feelings, and that

I earnestly hope the state of your health will gradually

improve, and that your local maladies will decline in

"Iproportion.
                 am, dear Sir, your obedient servant,
                                             "John Abernethy.
   " Bedford Row, October 25."

A surgeon was requested to visit a patient in one of

the suburbs of the metropolis. When he arrived there,

he had to mount two or three dilapidated steps, and to

read a number which had been so nearly worn away,

that he was enabled to determine if it was the num

ber he sought only by the more legible condition of its

two neighbors. Having applied a very loose, dilapida

ted knocker, an old woman came to the door.
" Does Captain
                live here?"
318 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

"Yes, Sir."

"Is he at home?"
"Yes, Sir. Please, Sir --may I be so bold--are you

the doctor, Sir?"
   "Yes."
   " Oh ! then, Sir, please to walk up."
    The surgeon went up a small, narrow stair-case into

a moderate-sized, dirty, ill-furnished room, the walls of

which were colored something between yellow and red,

with a black border. An old man, in a very shabby

and variegated deshabille, rose from his chair, and with
a grace worthy of a court, welcomed the stranger. His

manner was extremely gentlemanly, his language re

markably well chosen, and the statement of his com

plaint particularly simple and clear. The surgeon, who,

like most of us, see strange things, was puzzled to make

out his new patient, but concluded he was one of the

many who, having been born to better things, had been

reduced, by some misfortune, to narrow circumstances.

Every thing seemed to suggest that construction, and

to warrant no other. Accordingly, having prescribed,

the surgeon was about to take his leave, when the old

gentleman said,

   " Sir, I thank you very much for your attention !" at

the same time offering his hand, with a fee.

This the surgeon declined, simply saying,

" No, I thank you, Sir. I hope you will soon be bet

"Iter. Good-morning."                         shall in
   "Stay, Sir!" said the old gentleman.
sist on this, if you please," in a tone which at once

made the surgeon feel that it would be painful and

improper to refuse. He accordingly took it. The old
"Igentlemen then said,
                        am very much obliged to you,
       MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                         319

     ISir; for, had you not taken your fee, could not have
     Iagain had the advantage of your advice.
                                                     sent for
     you because I had understood that you were a pupil
     of Mr. Abernethy's, for whom I could not send again,
     because he would not take his fee ; and I was so hurt,
     that I am afraid I was almost rude to him. I sup

     pose, judging from the appearance of things here that
     I could not afford
       I                 he refused his fee, on which  I

                   ' it,

                                  '
                                                  ,

                              if , I
                                     I
a it,begged him not to be deceived by appearances, but to
     take it. However, he kept retreating and declining
       ;
         until, forgetting myself a little, and feeling some
     what vexed, said, By G;-- Sir, insist on your taka
                                a
     ing it!' when he replied, By G- -- Sir, will not!' and,

     hastily leaving the room, closed the door after him."
        This gentleman has been dead some years. He lived

     to a very advanced age-- nearly, not quite ninety --

     and had many instructive points of character. He
     was really in very good circumstances, but he lived in

        very humble manner, to enable him to assist very

     efficiently some poor relations. To do this, he saved
     all that he could and although he insisted on the sur
     geon taking a fee when he visited him, said that he
     should not hesitate to accept his kindness when he

     called on the surgeon. The intercourse continued many
     years, but with rather curious result.

         After a time, growing infirmities converted what

     had been visit --perhaps once or twice a year--into

     occasional attendances, when the rule he had pre
     scribed to himself of paying visits at home became
     characterized by very numerous exceptions; and at
     last by so many, that the rule and the exception
     changed places. The surgeon, however, went on,
     thinking that the patient could not do other without
320 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

disturbing existing arrangements.   When, however,

the old gentleman died, about four hundred guineas

were found in his boxes, wrapped up, and in various

sums, strongly suggestive of their having been (under

the influence of a propensity too common in advancing

life) savings from the somewhat unnecessary forbear
ance of his medical attendant. We know one other

very similar occurrence.

   Sometimes Mr. Abernethy would meet with a pa
tient who would afford a useful lesson. A lady, the

"Iwife of a very distinguished musician, consulted him,
and finding him uncourteous, said,  had heard of
Iyour rudeness before I came, Sir, but did not expect

this." When Abernethy gave her the prescription, she

said, " What am I to do with this ?"

"Any thing you like. Put it in the fire, if you

please."

   The lady took him at his word--laid his fee on the

table, and threw the prescription into the fire, and hast

ily left the room. Abernethy followed her into the
hall, pressing her to take back her fee or to let him

give her another prescription ; but the lady was inex
orable, and left the house.

   The foregoing is well authenticated; Mr. Stowe
knows the lady well, who is still living ; but many of
these stories, to our own knowledge, were greatly ex
aggerated. Abernethy would sometimes offend, not

so much by the manner as by the matter--by saying

what were very salutary but very unpleasant truths,
and of which the patient, perhaps, only felt the sting.
We know a gentleman, an old fox-hunter, who abused
Abernethy roundly ; but all that he could say against

him was, " Why, Sir, almost the moment I entered
               MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                     321

'Ithe room, he said, perceive you drink a good deal'

(which was     v"esryupptorusee).I   Now," added the      patient,
very naively,                       did, what the devil  was that

to him ?"

   Another gentleman of considerable literary reputa
tion, but who, as regarded drinking, was not intemper

ate, had a most unfortunate appearance on his nose,
exactly like that which accompanies dram-drinking.
This gentleman used to be exceedingly irate against

Abernethy, although all I could gather from him

amounted to nothing more than this, that when he
said his stomach was out of order, Abernethy said,

" Ay, I see that by your nose," or some equivalent ex

pression.
    However rough Abernethy could occasionally be,

there was, on grave occasions, no feature of his char
acter more striking than his humanity. Dr. Barnet
had a case where Abernethy was about to perform a
severe operation. Dr. B., at that time a young man,
was very anxious to have every thing duly prepared,
and had been very careful. When Abernethy arrived,
he went into the room in which the patient was to be

brought, and looking on the instruments, &c., on the

table, said, "Ay, yes, that is all right;" then, pausing
for a moment, he said, " No, there is one thing you have

forgotten;" and then throwing a napkin over the in
"Itstruments, added,
                      is bad enough for the poor pa

tient to have to undergo an operation, without being

obliged to see these terrible instruments."

Few people get off so badly in the world as poor gen

tlemen. There are multifarious provisions in this king

dom for all sorts of claimants, but a poor gentleman

slips down between those which are not applicable to

                                    02
322 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

his case, and those which are too repulsive to be prac

ticable. His sensibilities remain, nay, perhaps are

sharpened, and thus tend to increase his wants, and

the difficulty of supplying them. There is here afford

ed a grateful opportunity for the indulgence of what

we believe, amid some exceptions, to be the ruling
spirit of medical men ; a sensitive philanthropy, which

no men in the world are more liberal in disbursing.

Abernethy had his full share of this excellence. There
are multitudes of instances exemplifying it; we give

one, for which we are obliged to Mr. Brown, of the re

spected firm of Longman and Co. Abernethy was just

stepping into his carriage to go and see the Duke of

, to whom he had been sent for in a hurry, when

a gentleman stopped him to say that he should be very

glad if he could, at his leisure, pay Mr.  another

visit at Somers Town. Abernethy had seen this poor

gentleman before, and advised a course which it ap
"Ipeared the patient had not resolution to follow. " Why,"
said Abernethy,     can't go now; I am going in haste

to see the Duke of  ." Then pausing a moment

before he stepped into the carriage, he looked up to the
coachman and said quietly, "Somers Town." This is

very characteristic: the fidgety irritability of his first

impression at interference, and the beneficence of his

second thought.

Dr. Thomas Rees knew a gentleman who was a man

of ability, who had been a long time ill, and who got a

scanty living by his writings. Dr. Rees called on Aber

nethy one morning, and told him that the gentleman

wished very much for his opinion, but that he had

heard such accounts of him, he was half afraid to see

him. "And if he were not," said Dr. Rees, "he is not
       MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                   323

able to pay you. He is a great sufferer, and he gets

his living by working his brains." "Ah!" said Aber-
nethy, " where does he live, do you say?" "At
                                               ,"

mentioning a place full two miles distant. Abernethy

immediately rang the bell, ordered his carriage, visited

the gentleman, and was most kind to him.

One day a pupil wished to consult him, and found

him about ten minutes before lecture in the museum,

looking over his preparations for lecture --rather a dan

"Igerous time, we should have said, for consultation.

Iam afraid, Sir," said the pupil, "that have a polypus

in my nose, and I want you to look at it." No answer;

but when he had sorted his preparations, he said, " Eh?
What !" The pupil repeated his request. " Then stand

upon your head ; don't you see that all the light here

comes from a skylight? How am I to look up your

nose? Where do you live?" "Bartholomew Close."

"What time do you get up?" "At eight." "That

can't be, then." "What, Sir?" "You can not be at

Bedford Row at nine?" "Yes, Sir, I will." " To-mor

row morning, then." The pupil was punctual. Mr.

Abernethy made a most careful examination of his

nose, entered into the causes and nature of polypi, as

sured him that there was nothing of the sort, and ex

acted from him a promise that he would never look

into his nose again. The gentleman, in his letter to

me, adds, " This I have never done, and I am happy

to say that there has never been any thing the mat

ter."

   He was indeed, as it appeared to us, most liberal in
the mode of conducting his practice. When asked by
a patient when he desired to see them again, it was at

the longest period compatible with a reasonable obser
324 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

vation of the case ; and we doubt whether he ever took

a fee where he had even a doubt as to the circumstan

ces of the patient justifying his so doing. It would be

easy to multiply examples of this, but it would be a
constructive injustice to our profession to appear to
bring things out in high relief, or as special excellen
ces, which (notwithstanding some exceptions) from our
hearts we believe to be a prevailing characteristic of

the profession.
    Abernethy had nearly all his life, without being im

provident, been habitually careless of money ; and al
though he left his family with a comfortable compe
tency, which very properly left their position unaltered

by his death, yet we doubt if ever any man, with the

opportunity of making so much, availed himself of that
opportunity so little.

   It had become the fashion in Abernethy's latter days

to speak lightly of him as an operator, and we have
very little desire to rest any portion of his reputation
on this branch of our duty. Nevertheless, when we

first knew Abernethy, if we had had to be the subject

of an operation, we knew no man to whom we should
have submitted with the same confidence. He was

considerate and humane ; he did as he would be done

by ; and we have seen him perform those operations
which are usually regarded as the most difficult as well
as ever we have seen them performed by any body,
and without any of that display or effect too often ob
served, and which is equally misplaced and disgusting.

    His benevolent disposition led him to feel a great
deal in regard to operations. Like Cheselden and
Hunter, he regarded them, as in a scientific sense they
truly are, the reproach of the profession, since, with the
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                               325

exception of such as become necessary from accidents,

they are almost all of them consequent on the imper

fection of Surgery as a science.

Highly impulsive, Abernethy could not at all times

prevent the expression of his feelings, when perhaps his

humanity was most earnestly engaged in the suppres

sion of them. It was usually an additional trial to him

when a patient bore pain with fortitude.

One day he was performing rather a severe opera

tion on a woman. He had, before commencing, said

a few words of encouragement, as was usual with him,

and the patient was bearing the operation with great

fortitude. After suffering some seconds, she very earn

estly but firmly said, " I hope, Sir, it will not be long."

" No, indeed," earnestly replied Abernethy, "that would

be too horrible."

In fact, he held operations altogether as occupying

so low a place in our duties, and as having so little to

do with the science of our profession, that there was

very little in most of them to set against that repulsion

which both his science and his humanity suggested.

    As he advanced in life, his dislike to operations in

creased. He was apt to be fidgety and impatient. If

things went smoothly, it was all very well, but if any

untoward occurrence took place, he suffered a good

deal, and it became unpleasant to assist him, but he

was never unkind to the patient. It however, not
                   by

                       a
                                                     is,

                                                                 a
always easy to estimate correctly the amount of opera

tive dexterity. Hardly any man will perform dozen

operations in the same manner. We have seen a very

bungling operator occasionally perform an operation

extremely well, while the very worst operation we ever

saw was performed  man whose fame rested almost
326 MEMOIRS OF ABERJTETHY.

entirely on his dexterity, and what made it the more
startling was that it was nothing more than taking up
the femoral artery. But whether it were that he was
not well, or had been careless in the site of the first in

cision, or in opening the sheath of the vessels before he
passed his ligature, or all of these causes in conjunc
tion, we could not tell, because we were not quite near
enough, but we never witnessed a more clumsy affair.

    The conditions calculated to insure good operating
are few and simple; there are both moral and medical
conditions, but no familiarity ever enables a surgeon
on any occasion safely to dispense with any of them.
When they are all observed, operating usually becomes
steady and uniform ; when any of them are dispensed
with or wanting, there is always risk of error and con

fusion.

    We are afraid that we should be hardly excused, in
a work of this kind, were we to lay down the canons
to which we allude. We must therefore, at present,
not enter further into the subject.

   We must find space for a few remarks on the causes
of Abernethy's occasional irritability, but we must not
omit to mention a hoax that was played on him. He
had been in particularly good spirits, as hilarious as a
boy, and had proposed going to the theatre, where he
had enjoyed himself very much. On reaching home,
there was a message desiring his attendance at Har
row. This was a very unwelcome finale. The hoax
had been clumsily managed, but it did not strike any
body at the moment, so it was decided that Mr. Aber-
nethy must go, and he took Mr. Skey with him. When
they got to Harrow, they drove to the house of the
surgeon, and, knocking him up, he came to the win
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                327

dow in his night-cap, when the following dialogue be

gan. The name of the patient we shall suppose to be

Wilson.                                        d--1  are
   " Does Mr. Wilson live here?"
   " Who are you ?"

  " I say, then, is Mr. Wilson living here ?"
   " I say, what do you want ? Who the

you?"

  " I say that I want to find a Mr. Wilson ; and my

name is Abernethy."

Immediately, says Mr. Skey, off flew the night-cap.

" I beg your pardon, Mr. Abernethy ; what can I do

for you ?" &c.
   " Is there a Mr. Wilson living here ? and has he

broken his leg ?"
   " Oh yes, Sir, he is living here, but he is very well,

and has not met with any thing of the kind."

Abernethy laughed heartily, and ordered the post

boy to drive him home again.

There would be no difficulty in multiplying anec

dotes given to Abernethy ; but there are some objec

tions to such a course. In the first place, there are

many told of him which never happened ; others, which
may probably have happened, you find it impossible to

authenticate ; and, lastly, there is a third class, which,

if they happened to Abernethy, certainly happened to
others before Abernethy was born. In fact, when a

man once gets a reputation of doing or saying odd

things, every story in which the chief person is un

known or unremembered is given to the man whose

reputation in this way is most remarkable. We need

not say how impossible it is in a memoir of this kind

to introduce with propriety matter thus apocryphal.
328 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

We have no doubt that, with a most benevolent dispo

sition, Abernethy's manner, particularly as he advanced

in years, evinced great irritability ; and we believe
that it was the result of two or three different causes,

which in their combined influence got a mastery which

the utmost resolution was not at all times able to con

trol. It had formed the subject of numerous conversa

tions between Abernethy and some of his most intimate

friends, and we believe had arisen, and been unconsci

ously fostered by the following causes : " In early life
he had been," as he told Dr. Thomas Rees, " particu

larly disgusted with the manner in which he had seen

patients caressed and 'humbugged' by smooth and flat

tering modes of proceeding, and that he had early re

solved to avoid that, at all events." He further ob

Iserved, " I tried to learn my profession, and thinking

             iIt,
                          I

                                                                     a;
                                                                                   a
could teach  educated myself to do so but as for

private practice, of course am obliged to do that too."

We can easily understand how, in a sensitive mind,

an anxiety to avoid an imputation of one kind might

have led to an opposite extreme, and thus negligence

of ordinary courtesy might have taken the place of

disgusting assentation.

No doubt, however, a temper naturally impulsive

would find in the perplexities which occasionally beset

the practice of our profession too many occasions when

the suggestions of spirit, which, though not always

unwelcome to ruffled temper, and those of fear of im

proper assentation would unfortunately coincide, and

thus lead to intermix and confound the observance of

   praiseworthy caution with yielding to an insidious

habit. If to this were now added that increase of irri
a
                         a

                                                        a
tability which disturbed and fidgety state of physique
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  329

never fails to furnish, and from which Abernethy
greatly suffered, the habit would soon become domin
ant, and thus an originally good motive, left unguard
ed, be supplanted by an uncontrolled impulse. We
believe this to have been the short explanation of Aber-
nethy's manner ; all we know of him seems to admit

of this explanation. It was a habit, and required noth

ing but a check from his humanity or his good sense
to correct it ; but then this was just that which pa
tients were not likely to tomow, and could have been
still less expected to elicit.

   Again, most men so celebrated are sure to be more

or less spoiled. They become themselves insensibly
influenced by that assentation which they have so just
ly despised in others. The moral seems to be, that the
impulses of the most benevolent heart may be obscured
or frustrated by an irritable temper ; that habits the
most faulty may rise from motives which in their ori
gin were pure or praiseworthy ; that it is the character
of vice to tempt us by small beginnings ; that, know
ing her own deformity, she seldom fails to recommend
herself as the representative, and too often to assumo
the garb of virtue ; that the most just and benevolent

are not safe, unless habitual self-government preside
over the dictates of the intellect and the heart; and
that the impulse to which assent is yielded to-day, may
exert the influence of a command to-morrow ; that, in

fact, we must be masters or slaves.

                                   " Rege animum qui nisi paret
                         Imperat."

   When the editors of the medical periodicals first be
gan to publish the lectures given at the different hos
330 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

pitals, there was considerable discussion as to the pro

priety of so doing. The press, of course, defended its

own views, in a spirit which, though not always un
welcome to readers, is frequently " wormwood" to the

parties to whom the press may be opposed.

We are not lawyers, and therefore have no claim to

an opinion, we suppose, on the right ; but as regards

the general effect of this custom as now practiced, we
are afraid that, however advantageous it may be to the

trade to obtain gratuitously these bulky contributions
to their columns, we have serious doubts if it be any

advantage to science, or to the character of our period
ical literature.

   The publicity which it gives to a man's name in
duces men to contribute matter which it would often

have been, perhaps, more advantageous to them to have

suppressed ; and the proprietors, so long as a periodical
" pays," are not likely to quarrel with that which they

get for nothing but the expense of publication.

Mr. Abernethy was very much opposed to the pub

lication of his lectures ; but, though not insensible by
any means to the occasionally caustic remarks of the

press, does not seem to have been much annoyed by

them.

The following is an extract from a letter, in which

he expresses himself as opposed to the conduct of those

who publish lectures without the permission of the au
thors. We suppress that part, because it involves his

opinion of the conduct of individuals. As regards his

Ipersonal feelings, he says,  so  long in  replying  to  your

   " Though have been
letter, I have felt very grateful for the kindness which

induced you to take up the cudgels in my behalf. At
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                         331

the same time, I must say that, had I been at your el
bow, I should have hinted to you that the object was

not worth the trouble you have been so good as to be
stow upon it. No one can expect to escape slander

and misrepresentation, and these are so commonly be
stowed upon all, that they have little or no influence

on the minds of persons of character and judgment.

  " With many thanks and best wishes, I remain, my

dear Sir, yours very sincerely,

                                          " John Abernethy."

                                        SECTION. -

    When Mr. Abernethy was appointed surgeon to St.
Bartholomew's Hospital in 1815, he had already been
twenty -eight years assistant surgeon, and was there
fore fifty years of age before he had an opportunity of
taking an active share in the practical administration
of the Hospital. This is one of the many effects of a
system of which we shall presently give a sketch. He
was therefore invested with the additional duties of

Surgeon to the Hospital and Professor to the College of
Surgeons at a time of life when most people who have
commenced young, and labored hard with their intel
lects as distinguished from their hands, begin to feel
their work. This was the case with Abernethy. We do
not think that his original physical organization was to
be complained of; he had been active and energetic;
he was of moderate stature and well proportioned ; had
a magnificently-poised brain, judging phrenologically,
and, in short, under favorable circumstances, apparent
ly had the elements of long life; but we think that his

organization, and especially the presiding power, the

nervous system, was ill adapted either for the air, the
332 MKM01RS OF ABERNETHY.

anxieties, or the habits of a crowded city, or the some
what pestilential atmosphere of a dissecting-room.

    We saw him, therefore, ageing at fifty very sensibly,
and rather more than is in general observable at that
period. He complained in 18 17 of the fatigue of the
College lectures, coming as they did on the comple
tion of a season of the "mill-round of hospital tuition
and practice ;" so that when we mentioned the period
of his lectures at the College as on so many accounts
the zenith of his career, there was the serious draw

back arising from a certain diminution of strength,
which had never been, at best, equal to the physical

fatigue of his multiform avocations. All this arose

partly out of a system which, although, like all errors,
not allowed to proceed without being charged with ele
ments of remotely prospective correction, has been the
parent of much mischief. This is what we have call
ed the "hospital system," some of the more important
features of which we must now present to our readers.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE HOSPITAL SYSTEM.

    " Non haec sine numine  Divum.
Eveniunt."                  ^Eneid, lib.

                                          ii., 1. 777.

  If we would view any human institution dispassion

ately, we must distinguish the vices of system from the
faults of those who administer it.

   Trite as this remark may be, it is just one which is
too frequently overlooked or unobserved. By a careful
attention to the distinction it implies, we may develop
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  333

the elements of rational reform, as contrasted with Uto
pian schemes, which, whatever of abstract truth they
may contain, are useless, simply because they are im
practicable. We can not effect any material change
in human nature by any summary legislation, nor pre
vent the obtrusive necessities of daily life from bring
ing down the soaring aspirations of mind to the hum
ble level of the practicabilities of matter. Whoever,
therefore, expects that any body of men, invested with
irresponsible power, will hesitate to exercise it so as to
procure, as they believe, the maximum of advantage to
themselves, might just as hopefully quarrel with the
negro on account of his complexion. Do what you
may, Man is Man " for a' that;" but while it is neces
sary to remember this, it is by no means so to do it in

a spirit of unkind ness or hostility --not in any sense

opposed to brotherly love ; but, on the contrary, to pro
mote universal harmony and good feeling by removing
the temptations which experience has shown to be in
fluential in disturbing such relations.

   Neither should we quarrel with a man who endeav

ors to do the best he can for his family and friends.

Should he even, in this pursuit, compromise his duty to
the public, it is very possible that the objects which he
had in view may have been in themselves praiseworthy,
and therefore, instead of exasperating our blame, may
readily extenuate faults which it may be impossible

entirely to excuse.
   The truth is, that the interest of the public and of

individuals is seldom, if ever, incompatible; the occa

sions on which they appear to be so are not unfre-
quent ; those in which they really clash are extreme

ly rare.
334 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   Wherever circumstances occur in which the tempt

ation of a present fruition is found habitually to lead
men to courses which, however apparently promotive
of their own interest, are really injurious to those of
the public; it becomes very necessary that the public
should impose some safeguards against such an inju
rious exercise of power.

    The hospitals of London, as we have formerly ob
served, are in the main very fine institutions. They
are many of them very wealthy, which generally means

powerful also.
    The governors, as they are termed, consist of certain

noblemen and gentlemen, the latter being for the most
part drawn from the more wealthy sections of the mer
cantile and trading classes of society.

    The knowledge possessed by these gentlemen of the
requisitions of a large public hospital must (special in
stances excepted) be very measured, and be, in the
main, derived from the medical officers with whom

they are associated.

   It thus happens that the administration of the hos

pital is in great part confided, as with some restrictions
it ought to be, to the medical officers. The interests
of these gentlemen, it may be assumed, would be best
promoted by carrying out in the most efficient manner
the benevolent objects of the institution, and we be
lieve, looked at fairly and comprehensively, this would
be really the case. The duties of a large hospital,

however, if they are to be performed conscientiously,

require much time, not a little labor, and some health
to boot. Now all these, in a crowded community, are
very costly articles, and which must in justice, and
what is material, in fact too, be fairly remunerated.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  335

The public never really pay so dearly as when they
appear to get labor for nothing.

   Here we come to the first defect in the "Hospital

System."

   It might be supposed that, with ample means, the

hospitals, by adopting such tests as were in their power,
would have secured the most efficient officers, by pay

ing them remunerative salaries ; and having retained
them as long as their services were deemed efficient,
or the length of them justified, by relieving them from

the necessity of further exertion by a retiring pension.
No such thing. The hospital gives nothing; actually,
there is a small nominal retaining fee, as it were, of
about £60 a year, and the medical officer is left to
obtain his remuneration for time, trouble, and health

by such private practice as his reputation, or the pres
tige of being attached to a hospital may afford, from
fees from pupils, or such other means as the position
he occupies may place within his power.

    He very naturally sets to work to do the best he can,
and from this first budding we very soon arrive at the
full blossom of the system ; one effect of which is, that
 in hospitals which have so large a care of the public

health --institutions which, whether correctly or incor

 rectly, give so much of the tone to the medical opin

ions of the day--which exert, either directly or indi

 rectly, an influence on the claims of hundreds to pub

 lic confidence --in these hospitals there is not one sin

 gle surgeoncy that is fairly and bona fide open to sci
 entific competition.

     Let us now examine a little into the machinery by
 which these results are brought out.

     The experience afforded by the hospitals necessarily
336 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

supplies abundant means of instructing students in

surgery. They are accordingly admitted on paying

certain fees to the surgeon, and this at once supplies

a large revenue. This revenue is of course regulated

by the number of pupils, and there are in London many

hospitals, so of course there is an active competition.

Thus, some time before the season commences, the ad

vertisements of the medical schools occupy a consider

able space in the Times newspaper, and circulars are

also liberally distributed.
   Well, the points here, as in all other cases, are the

advantages offered and the price paid --the maximum

and minimum respectively. Now here there are some

elements of evil.

is

                                    ;

                                     is a
                                                                                    it,
Students are not always, and before they try

hardly ever judges of school. The general reputa

tion of a man, as he never subjected to competition,

    no test whatever of his comparative power in teach

ing students but they are accustomed to ascribe great

importance to operations, and, cceteris paribus, they in

cline to prefer that hospital where the greatest num

ber of them are supposed to be performed.
   This arises from various causes, in some of which

the public play no unimportant part. The student has

perhaps seen in the country good deal of medical and
           is
                           is
                                       is a

                                                                                                        ;
surgical practice, but very few operations. His stay

in London  comparatively short, averaging perhaps

not more than the better part of two years unneces

sary length of time generally inconvenient always:

expensive, and the student naturally anxious to see

most of that which he will have least opportunity of

observing elsewhere. Moreover, he knows that when

he returns to the country he may stave tweaty limbs
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  337

 before he obtains the same amount of reputation that

 he may possibly get by one amputation.
     The ignorance of the public here is in not apprecia

 ting results which very probably involved the exercise
of the highest talent, while they are ready to confer a
 very profitable distinction on that which does not nec
 essarily involve any talent at all. We have no wish

 whatever, and certainly there is no necessity, for strain
ing any point in reference to this very serious matter;
but these two facts are indisputable : that the sur
geons obtain their remuneration from the hospitals by

the fees they obtain from the pupils; and, cateris pari
bus, the pupils will flock the thickest where they ex

pect to see most operations.

    The next thing that we would submit is that the

prestige in favor of operations is both directly and in
directly opposed to the progress of scientific surgery.
Almost all operations, commonly so termed, are exam
ples of defective science. To practical common sense,
therefore, it would appear a very infelicitous mode of
obtaining the maximum of a man's genius in aid of

the diminution of operations, to open to him a prospect
of enriching himself by the multiplication of them. We
desire to consider the subject with reference to its scien
tific bearings only, and would avoid entirely, were that

possible, any appeal merely to the feelings. Such im
pulses, however right, are apt to be paroxysmal and un
certain unless supported by the intellect. But on such
a subject the feelings must necessarily become more or
less interested. Wherever a system takes a wrong di
rection, a great many minor evils insensibly grow out

of it.
    The erection of a theatre for the purpose of opera-

                                   P
 338 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

 ting, though founded on a feasible pretext, is a very
 questionable measure, and, unless of clear advantage
 to the profession or the public, is surely not without
 some character of repulsion. As regards art or sci
 ence, it is certain that not more than twenty or thirty
 can be near enough in the theatre to see any thing that
 can be really instructive in the performance of opera
 tions, while, in the absence of actual advantages, an
 exhibition of this kind is more calculated to give pub
 licity to the surgeon operating, than it is to raise the
 tone or chasten the feelings of men about to enter a
 profession which almost daily establishes requisitions

for our highest faculties --operations without opportu

 nities of real instruction are merely unprofitable ex
penditure of valuable time. Besides, that which is
viewed as a sort of exhibition to-day, may be with dif
ficulty regarded in the light of a serious duty to-mor
row. Were the object to tax the sensibility of a stu
dent, and blind him to any higher association with pain
and suffering than that afforded by custom and chloro
form, and to replace a dignified self-possession and
sympathy with suffering, which each kept the other in
due control, by an indifference to every thing save adroit
ness of manipulation and mechanical display, no ma
chinery could be better calculated to effect such ob
jects; but science and humanity require very differ
ent qualifications, and experience has shown that they
are neither incompatible nor beyond our power.

    The humanity and science that beholds in operative
surgery the lowest of our employments, and which
would thus be impelled to seek, and, as experience

has taught us, to seek successfully to diminish the
number of such exhibitions, and to lessen the suffering
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  339

 of those which are still retained, is perfectly compati
 ble with coolness and skill in the performance of them.

     When we speak of lessening pain, we must not be

 understood as alluding to chloroform or agencies of
 that kind. We have, on the contrary, the greatest dis
 trust of their utility ; we do not hesitate to admit the

 propriety of their use in certain cases, but we are satis

 fied that, as at present employed, a very few years will

 make a great change. Many a so-called incurable case
 has been shown to be curable by the hesitation of the
patient to submit to an operation. We have published
some ourselves wherein we joined in recommending
the measure which the patient declined. Many deaths

that we do know have already occurred from the use
of chloroform ; and a significant remark was made by
a man who had considerable reputation in this way :

he said, " Chloroform is a good thing for operating
surgeons." To return from this digression.

    The most distinguished surgeons ever produced in

this country have exemplified the qualities I have men
tioned in the highest degree. I must mention two

more particularly, Cheselden and John Hunter; the
former, the most expert and successful of his day, in the

European sense of the word, has left us a satisfactory
declaration on this subject. Cheselden acknowledges
that he seldom slept much the night previous to the day

on which he had any important operation ; but that,

once engaged in operating, he was always firm, and
his hand never trembled. John Hunter was not only a

good operator himself, but he deduced from observation
one of the greatest improvements in operative surgery.
His discovery had all the elements of improvement
that are possible in this branch of the profession.
340 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   An  operation which had been founded     upon erroneous
views  of the nature and relations of the
                                           parts affected --

which had been always tedious and painful in perform

ance-- which, whether successful or not, entailed much
subsequent suffering --which in its results was highly

dangerous, and which was very commonly followed by

the loss of the limb or life, was replaced by one founded

on more correct views of the disease, easy and simple in

its execution, occupying not more than a very few min

utes, and which, so far as regards the purpose for which
it was instituted, and to which it should be restricted,

is almost invariably successful. If it be performed un

der circumstances implying conditions contrary to those

on which Mr. Hunter's operation was founded, very

different results have no doubt taken place ; but when

properly applied, his operation for aneurism is no doubt

one of the greatest in operative surgery.

   John Hunter treats of operations in terms which

show how low he rated that part of our duties. He

speaks of them as humiliating examples of the imper

fection of our science, and figures to himself an oper

ator under the repulsive symbol of an armed savage.*

The truth  is,   that operations, to be performed properly,
               is
must be properly studied. They must be frequently

performed on the dead, and afterward carefully exam
ined. There a wide difference between neglecting

a  necessary study and making that the test of science,

which the most emphatic proof of its imperfection.is
We have no lack of experience in this branch of the
           a
   * He says, " No surgeon should approach the victim of his opera
tion without sacred dread and reluctance, and should be superior
to that popular eclat generally attending painful operations, often only
because they are so, or because they are expensive to the patient."
--P. 210
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  341

profession, and have included not a few operations
which are too commonly delivered over to men who

are said to devote themselves to special objects ; and
we are satisfied in entertaining the views which the
most distinguished men have held on this subject,
while we are persuaded that few things have contrib

uted more to impede the progress of science than the
abuse of operations.

    To return to the hospitals.
    The positions which had at first been left without

any remuneration, become, by the described machin

ery, very lucrative directly by the fees paid by the pu
pils, and indirectly, in some cases, by keeping the sur
geon constantly before the public. Any prestige, there
fore, in obtaining these appointments, is of great value ;

but if that do not really involve professional excellence,
it is as plain as possible that the public may be very

badly served, and an evil generated equally opposed to

the interests of science and humanity. It is obvious

that the only legitimate grounds of eligibility are mor
al and professional superiority, as determined by the
test adopted at public schools and universities, namely,
public competition. Now what are the tests employed?
Without meaning to insinuate that moral or profes

sional eligibility is wholly disregarded --no system in
these days will support that --still, the eligibility de

pends on the qualification which few would beforehand

have imagined. It is certainly something better than

Mr. Macaulay's joke in relation to the proposed fran
chise to the Militia, namely, that the elector should be
five feet two, but something not much more elevated,

namely, that a bounty should have been paid to one
of the hospital surgeons in the shape of an apprentice
342 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

fee, thus making the holding one of the most responsi
ble offices in the profession a condition which abso
lutely ignores relative eligibility of skill, steadiness,
assiduity, and humanity, and which recognizes them
only in such shape that the possession of office is prac
tically made to depend on a point absolutely extrinsic

to any one important requisition recognized by the pub
lic or the profession.

    We need not insist on the tendency of this system
to the protection of idleness and incapacity, or the in
justice inseparable from it to the young gentlemen
whose interests it is supposed to guard. One necessary
consequence is obvious, namely, that the hospitals, in
stead of having to select from the general body of pu
pils, or from the more industrious or talented of them,

is obliged to choose from a very small minority.

   It is, in fact, just as if scholarships and fellowships

at public schools and universities were conferred with
out any reference to the proofs which the candidates
might have given of their talents or industry, but
were determined by their having given a certain fee
to a particular professor. Would any man in his senses
doubt as to the influence of such a plan on the inter

ests of classical literature or mathematical science? It

seems to us impossible that men should really differ on
that point, or hesitate to admit that, mutatis mutandis,
whatever the science might be, so far as the cultiva
tion of it could be influenced by system, the result
must be alike prejudicial in all cases. We are, how
ever, far from arriving at the end of the system by
this general statement.

    The public and the government, uninformed or un

mindful of this " system," wish to consult authorities
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  343

on professional matters. They not unnaturally look to
those who hold public appointments, because these af
ford the prestige of extensive opportunity, which is
supposed to imply, and, under a fair system, would
insure, skill and experience. Men are apt to look at a
man's position without stopping to inquire how it was

obtained, and, although position may in particular in
stances cut both ways, and in particular instances
" throw a cruel sunshine" over incapacity, still, among

gentlemen, extreme cases are not to be expected ; the

rule is much more likely to be a respectable and pro
tected mediocrity, which is just that tone which has
rarely done any thing to enlarge the boundaries of any

Itkind of knowledge.
        happens, however, from the "system," and the
position thus given to those who are supposed to profit
by that the interests of the poor, and, in a consider
able degree, those of the rich also, are to a very large
sense confided to their care.

        thus follows that positions in themselves highly
desirable, and which enable men to exert considerable

influence on the progress of a science, on the sound
condition of which the physical comforts, and, in no
small degree, the moral condition of mankind depends,
are occupied by men who have undergone none of those
tests which public competition alone affords, and which
the summi honor es of almost every other profession

ther directly or indirectly imply. So far for one mode
in which the interests of the public are concerned; but

there are many other channels. The government,
noring the influences of this system, have placed the
regulation of the surgical branch of the profession in
the hands of a body of men whom, when we examine,
It it,

                                                                                ig ei
344 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

we find to be no other than the apprentices we had
recognized at the hospital, grown into the full bloom
of a legislative body, whence again are chosen presi
dents, vice-presidents, examiners, &c., of the College of

Surgeons !

   If, fatigued with this machinery, we walk to the

Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society-- a chartered
body for the especial cultivation of science -- we meet,

as its name would imply, a number of our honored
brothers, the physicians ; but here we find that, wheth
er we observe presidents or any other officers, the influ
ence exerted by the apprentice system continues, and
that, in almost every thing surgical, the best possible
individual is an apprentice who has attained his first
position without any public competition. We hope and
believe that the point of the wedge is already inserted
which will, at no distant period, rend asunder this sys
tem, which we shall not trust ourselves by attempting
to characterize further. But there are points in con
nection with the interests of science and of Abernethy
which require yet to be noticed.

    We need scarcely observe that it would be very de
sirable that the interests of the science should be in

trusted to those who had shown most assiduity or tal

ent in the cultivation of them ; that, if operative sur

gery be really, as a whole, a series of facts exemplify
ing the defects of a science, while every pains should
be taken that what is necessary should be done thor
oughly well, all factitious inducement to multiply their
number should be avoided, and especially any which
tended to increase emolument commensurately with
their multiplication.

    That, as operations (with some few exceptions) mere
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  345

ly minister to effects, their real bearings on disease can
only be estimated by knowing the ultimate result of
the case ; and that, in order to this effect, returns of

all operations should be kept, with full accounts of
the case ; the addresses of the patients should also be
taken, and such means as were obvious and practica
ble employed to obtain the ultimate result of the case.

    Another point which should be attended to in hos

pitals is an accurate notation and return of all cases
whatever, so that we might obtain from statistical rec
ords whatever light they might be capable of affording

in aid of the prosecution of a definite science. In this
return, a full history, and all the phenomena of the case

which are known to have an influence on the body,
should be accurately noted, and in tabular forms con
venient for reference.

    The defects of the hospitals in this respect are too
well known to require comment, and we think the pro
fession indebted to Dr. Webster for the exertions he has

made to draw attention to this subject. In no respect

are the hospitals more defective than as regards the
division of labor. To supply the requisitions of a yet
dawning science, there is too much confided to one sur
geon, for at present the practical administration and
the scientific investigation should be confided to the

same hand. If more be intrusted to one man than can

be performed without great labor, and the greater la
bor be voluntary, we shall have little chance of obtain
ing that full and accurate notation of facts which all
cases furnish more or less the means of obtaining, and
without which the evolution of the maximum of human

ability is absolutely impossible. It seems to us also

an imperative duty to avail ourselves of the experience

                            P2
346 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

afforded by the history of other sciences in the cultiva
tion of our own.

   All sciences have been in as bad a condition, or

worse, than medicine and surgery; all sciences have
progressed immediately that they were investigated on

a rational plan --a plan which, simply stated, is little
more than the bringing together all the facts that can

be perceived to bear any relation to the inquiry, and
reasoning on them according to well-established and

necessary conditions. If this be the case, and this plan

has never been applied to the investigation of medical
science, we know not how those who are placed in po
sitions which supply the necessary means can be ex-
oused, or how we can halt between condemning the
system under which such a flagitious neglect of the

claims of science and mankind is exemplified. It is

true, when we arrive at the acme of our convictions

of the effects of such a system, our reflections remind
us that such things are "permitted," and that ulti
mately they will work for good ; that man is not des
tined to interfere with the ultimate plan and designs
of Providence, however he may be allowed to place his
intellect under the direction of a responsible volition,

and to discover the path to the temple of truth only
after having fruitlessly threaded the mazes of error and

conjecture.
                             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  347

it                                                 CHAPTER XXIX.a
                                                        a
             is                                     " Quanto quisque sibi plura negaverit
                          if,                         Ab Dis plura feret."it

                                 We believe that there is no greater fallacy than thatis
                             which supposes that private advantage can be pro
                             moted at the expense of the public good. We are very
                             well disposed to believe that selfish people are the very
                             worst caterers for the real interests of the idol they
                             worship. The more we consider the Hospital System,
                             the more reason shall we find to distrust it; and we
                             by no means exclude that very point wherein it is sup
                             posed to be most successful, namely, in securing the
                             pecuniary advantage of those whose interests it is sup

                             posed to guard.

                                Of the apprentices, we shall say little more than to
                             express our belief that many of them have lived to ob
                             tain the conviction that they would have done much
                             better had they not been fed by hopes that were never
                             realized. All apprentices can not, of course, be sur
                             geons. Again, in the course of century, solitary
                             instance or two should occur of the success of an un-

                             apprenticed candidate, they not unnaturally feel as
                             an injustice in thus being deprived of that, the special
                             eligibility to which was a plea for the exaction of a
                             large apprentice fee. But to the surgeons themselves,

                                seems to us that the system far from realizing the
                             benefits that its manifold evils are supposed to secure.
                             The adage that " Curses, like chickens, come home tt.
                             roost," far from inapplicable. After all, many of the
348 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

hospital surgeons are little known; and the public in
ference with regard to men invested with such splen
did opportunities of distinguishing themselves is not al
ways very flattering. Mr. Abernethy, so far from ben

efiting from the system, appears to us to have suffered
from it in every way.

   His talents, both natural and acquired, would have

given him every thing to hope and nothing to fear from
the severest competition, while the positive effects of
the system were such as to deprive him of what was
justly his due, and to imbitter a retirement which, in

the barest justice, should have been graced by every

thing that could add to his peace, his honor, or his hap

piness, from the institution whose character he had ex
alted and maintained, and whose school he had founded.

    But let us look at the facts. The system which pro
nounces that there shall be three surgeons to attend to

some 500 or 600 patients (for the purposes of science,

the next thing to an impossibility), kept Abernethy
twenty-eight years an assistant surgeon. During this
time he was filling the hospital with students to the
amount of sums varying from £2000 to £3000 a year,
of which, in the said twenty-eight years, he never re

ceived one farthing.
    He saw from time to time men, of whose capacities

we know he had the highest opinion, shut out from the
hospital by the mere circumstance of their not being
apprentices; and two of these were the late Professor
Macartney, of Dublin, and the present distinguished
Professor of Comparative Anatomy, Professor Owen.
And here we must pause to record one of our numer

ous obligations to the perceptivity and justice of Aber
nethy. We have formerly observed that, at the very
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  349

commencement of life, he had been accustomed to in

culcate the importance of studying comparative anat
omy and physiology, in order to obtain clear views of
the functions of man ; but all arrangements made with
this view, from the time of Mr. Hunter onward, though

varying in degree, still were inefficient. It was next

to an impossibility to combine an availing pursuit of
a science which combines an inquiry into the struc
ture and functions of the whole animal kingdom with

the daily exigencies of an anxious profession.
    When Mr. Owen had completed his education, his

thoughts were directed to a surgeoncy in the navy, as
combining a professional appointment with the possi
bility of pursuing, with increased opportunities of ob
servation, his favorite study. Fortunately for science,
he went to Abernethy, who requested him to pause.

He said, "You know the hospital will not have any

but apprentices. Macartney left on that account.

Stay," said he, " and allow me to think the matter
over." This resulted in his proposing to the council

of the College of Surgeons that there should be a per

manent Professor of Comparative Anatomy, and that

the appointment should be given to Mr. Owen.
    This is among the many proofs of Abernethy's per

ception of character. Mr. Owen had dissected for lec

ture ; and Abernethy saw, or thought he saw, a pecul
iar aptitude for more general and enlarged anatomical
investigation. The whole world now knows how nobly

the Professor has justified the hopes of his talented

master. It would be out of place for us to attempt a

compliment to a man so distinguished in a science

wherein the varied pursuits of a practical profession
allow us to be mere amateurs, neither do we wish to
350 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHV.

forget other gentlemen who distinguish themselves in
this branch of science; but we believe that most com
petent judges allow that the celebrated Cuvier has not
left any more fitted to appreciate his excellence, or who
has more contributed to extend that science of which
the Baron was so distinguished a leader, than Professor
Owen

    There is one incident, however, in the Professor's

labors, which, for our own purposes, we must relate,

because we shall have to refer to it in our humble ex

hortation to the public and the profession to believe in
the practicability of raising medicine and surgery into
a definite science. The incident shows what may be
done by that mode of investigation which is the still
delayed desideratum in medicine and surgery, namely,
the most comprehensive record of facts, and the study
of their minutest relations. Professor Cuvier was the

first to impress, in a special manner, that those beau
tiful relations in the structure of animals, so many of
which are even popularly familiar, extended through

out the animal, so that if any one part, however ap

parently subordinate, were changed, so accurate were
the adaptations of nature, that all the parts underwent
some corresponding modification, so that diversity of
structure in a part affected more or less the whole an
imal.

    The beautiful result of all this that these rela

tions be once thoroughly mastered, then any one part
of an animal, to the philosopher so prepared, necessari

    suggests to him, in general terms, the nature of the
animal to whom belonged. Few instances, how
ever, so remarkable as the one we are about to men

tion, could have been anticipated.
ly
                          it

                                                            is,

                                                       if
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHV.                               351

   A sea-faring man brought a piece of bone, about threeitit a
         it,                                               it
or four inches in length, as he said, from New Zealand,
and offered it for sale at one or two museums, and,itit
among others at the College of Surgeons. We shall
a
not here detain the reader by telling all that happen
                  ;ed. These things are often brought with intent to
deceive, and with false allegations. Most of those to
                  itwhom the bone was submitted dismissed it as worthless,
                                               it
or manifested their incredulity; among other guess
es, some insinuated that they had seen bones very
like it at the London Tavern, regarding in fact, as
part of an old marrow-bone, to which bore, on su
perficial view, some resemblance. At length was

brought to Professor Owen, who, having looked at

carefully, thought right to investigate more nar
rowly; and, after much consideration, he ventured to
pronounce his opinion. This opinion from almost any
body else would have been, perhaps, only laughed at;
for, in the first place, he said that the bone (big enough,

as we have seen, to suggest that had belonged to an
ox) had belonged to bird but, before people had had
time to recover from their surprise or other sensation
created by this announcement, they were greeted by

another assertion yet more startling, namely, that
had been a bird without wings.

   Now we happen to know a good deal of this story,
and that the incredulity and doubt with which the
opinion was received was too great for a time even for
the authority of Professor Owen entirely to dispel. But
mark the truthfulness of real science contemplate

the exquisite beauty and accuracy of relation in na
ture! By-and-by a whole skeleton was brought over

to this country, when the opinion of the Professor was
    a

                                             !
352 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

converted into an established fact. Nor was this all ;
there was this appropriate symbol to perpetuate the tri

umph --that which had appeared as the most startling

feature of what had been scarcely better received than as
a wild conjecture, was so accurate in fact as to form the
most appropriate name to the animal thus discovered.*

   It would be unjust to others to attribute the whole
of Professor Owen's appointment to Abernethy; that
the state of things did not place within his single pow

er; but his penetration was the first to suggest, and
his weight most potential in securing, an appointment
which various circumstances, besides the merits of the
individual, bring up in high relief as the best ever
made by the College of Surgeons in England.

   To return to the Hospital System as affecting Aber
nethy. He continued to lecture, and the emoluments
arising thence he of course enjoyed. Until 1815, the
whole of the hospital fees were taken by the surgeons
in chief. These fees, in twenty-eight years (allowing
a reasonable deduction for those pupils who went to
the school, independently of the inducement offered by
the most attractive lecturer ever known), must have

amounted to an enormous sum. Having raised the
school, he became surgeon at about fifty years of age,
and then retired at sixty-two, under circumstances we
shall presently mention. On retiring, unpleasant al
tercations arose, which, with others not long anteced
ent, we are obliged reluctantly to mention, and which
rendered his concluding associations with the Hospital
scarcely more agreeable than they had been at the Col
lege of Surgeons.

   * It was accordingly named the Apteryx, or wingless, from the
Greek, Alpha and Pterux.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  353

    Mr. Abernethy had appointed, as we have seen, Mr.

Stanley his demonstrator, and some of Mr. Stanley's
friends allege, in no very measured language, that he
treated that gentleman ill. This appeared to us such
an absurdity, that we began to think there might be
something in the matter with which we were uninform

ed; and, as we had no desire to conceal any thing, or
to represent a " faultless monster which the world ne'er

saw," we wrote to Mr. Stanley to say, that if there

were any evidence, documentary or other, in his pos
session, we would include it in our narrative, either

in extenso if not very long, or if long, in such an ab

breviated form as he or anyfriend of his should determ
ine to be faithful. To this we received a reply, sim
ply stating this gentleman's "disinclination" to make
any communication on the subject.

   With regard to the propriety, the courtesy, or the
motive of this " disinclination," we offer no opinion.
The reader may form his own from the very brief nar

rative for which we can alone find space ; or, if he

wishes for more light, he may obtain it from the peri

odicals of the time (1828). The essential facts were
as follows : Mr. Stanley had not even been an appren

tice of Mr. Abernethy ; having been bound to a Mr.

Ramsden, he had no claims on Mr. Abernethy arising

out of the " system," nor were there any circumstances

of a subordinate kind to afford Mr. Abernethy any spe
cial inducement. There was nothing very potential
for the interests of the school to induce Mr. Abernethy
to appoint him. His humble but respectable origin,
a homely and not very popular manner, which, as ob
stacles which too frequently stand in a man's way, re

flect the more credit on his progress, were no particu
354 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

lar advantages in a school. In fact, few men have
ever been so fortunate or so well paid for their indus
try as to have, without any public competition, a posi
tion for which the most distinguished pupils of the
school would gladly have contended.

   In time, Mr. Abernethy gave Mr. Stanley a share in

the Anatomical Lectures. On this occasion two new

demonstrators were appointed ; but in the advertise

ments announcing the arrangements of the ensuing
season, Mr. Stanley was still advertised as about to
give some of the demonstrations which were really to
be given by the new demonstrators.

    There was really very little more in this than a
mere form, because there was a general understanding

that if the newly-appointed demonstrators were not ap

proved of, the demonstrations would be given by the
gentleman who had previously held the appointment.

    The times were somewhat agitated, and the pupils

complained ; and some very disagreeable meetings took
place in consequence.

    Mr. Abernethy alleged that Mr. Stanley put in the
advertisements, which was admitted ; but it was al

leged by Mr. Stanley that he did so by order of Mr.
Abernethy, and that he was not " free to act."

  The case seems to us to be simply this : If Mr. Aber

nethy did, either by himself or through Mr. Stanley, put
the advertisements in without the understanding that

Mr. Stanley was to continue the demonstrations, if cir

cumstances required he certainly did wrong but
   should be remembered that none of this was proved.

But we do not see that this betters Mr. Stanley's posi
tion. The only pecuniary gainer was to be Mr. Stan
ley and appears that either he himself put in the
it

          ;

              it
                                    it,

                                                                                                                                                ;
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  355

   advertisements, advertising himself as about to give

   demonstrations, which, subject to certain conditions,
   were to be given to others, or allowed Mr. Abernethy
   to order him to do that of which he (Mr. Stanley) dis
   approved, and in which he was practically the princi-
. pal party concerned. For our parts, we are at a loss

   to determine the superiority of these two positions.

       Another charge against Mr. Abernethy was, that in
   a school which he had raised by his own transcendent
   talents, and was about to deliver with a numerous class

  to two gentlemen who had never helped to form it--

   whose assistance in the school had been paid by sal
   ary, and who thereby occupied positions for which,

   had they been admitted, there would have been very

  many competitors --that in a school so constituted Mr.

   Abernethy should have desired to secure a place for his
   son, when he should become qualified for the same ;

   moreover, that he should have wished Mr. Stanley to
   enter into a bond for that purpose.

       Now we confess to an entire disapproval of all bonds
   for such purposes, and we think that Mr. Stanley's de

  clining to enter into it was very natural. It might be

   very proper for Mr. Abernethy, with a large family of
   daughters and only one son, to require such a security,
   but we think it equally so in Mr. Stanley, with a large
   family, to decline it. But when we are called upon to
   admit that it was wrong, we must confess that we can

   not see it. There was no parallel to the single-arm
   force by which Mr. Abernethy had raised the rich in

   heritance he was leaving ; and to talk of that as ill
   treating Mr. Stanley, which was a parent's justice to
   his only son, which was nothing more than an attempt
   to secure to him, when qualified, what certainly, if
    MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

qualified, he would have had the strongest possible

claim to, appears to us neither more nor less than ar

rant nonsense. We shall not attempt to insult the

common sense of our readers by attempting a defense

where there is no crime.

    The stormy virtue of some people is very amusing.

When other people's interests are alone concerned, it

is like what hurricanes are now said to be --enormous

whirlwinds, into whose vortices every body's faults are

drawn with indiscriminate voracity ; but when their

own are concerned, there is an easy calmness which
looks with complacent eye on the necessary expedien

cies of life, and declares all beyond to be moonshine

or Utopianism.

   A curious incident occurred in illustration of this

about that time. Sir Astley Cooper had, without the

smallest intention to give offense, made some observa

tion on the somewhat too free use of some medicine

(mercury) at that time in the Borough Hospitals. His

observations having been misunderstood or misrepre

sented, he took occasion to remove any idea of intention

al  offense by addressing   the   class. Among other  things,
he   is reported to have   said,                       was it
                                   " Why, gentlemen,
likely that I should say any thing unkind toward these

gentlemen ? Is not Mr. Green my godson (surgeon

of St. Thomas's), Mr. Tyrrel my nephew, Mr. Travers

my apprentice (surgeons of St. Thomas's), Mr. Key my

nephew, Mr. Cooper my nephew?" (surgeons of Guy's).

    This was very naive, and a good illustration of the

value of evidence in relation to one thing which is

stated in relation to another.

    But we have no desire to say more on this subject

than to express our conviction that no man ever did
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  357

more for another, in the worldly sense of the word,
than (respective relations considered) Mr. Abernethy

did for Mr. Stanley. It is not in the power of any one

man to do more by position than to furnish the elements
for the fortune of another. The combining of them
depends on the individual ; and whether that exist or
not in the present case is not important, as we are hap
py to hear that fortune has in another way rendered it
unnecessary; we have only to regret that any circum
stances should have led to the expression of a "disin
clination," where a contrary sentiment might have

been so gracefully indulged in, and with no greater ad

vantage to any body than to Mr. Stanley.
    The whole of Mr. Abernethy's closing career at the

Hospital gave him no great reason to rejoice at the
Hospital System. Men who could see nothing in leav
ing very much more important situations to an indef
inite succession of apprentices, caviled at a prospective
lectureship for his only son ; while his lectures were
delivered over to two gentlemen, one of whom had from
an early period ridiculed, as he said, the opinions which
he taught as, and which we now know to have been,
John Hunter's, and another, with whom there had been

several not very pleasing associations.

   This was necessarily a result of the " Hospital Sys

tem ;" a system that gave a still more melancholy and
fatal close to the labors of John Hunter, whose death

took place suddenly in the board-room of St. George's
Hospital, while resisting an interference with a privi
lege which his love of science rendered valuable to him,
and which it was for the interests of science that he

should enjoy ; but, mournful as these results are, and

many others that might be added, still, if we found
358 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

that the system worked well for science, we might rest
satisfied ; but is it so ? What advances have hospital
surgeons of London, under the apprentice system, made
in the science of surgery? Let those answer the ques
tion who are desirous of maintaining this system. For

our own parts, the retrospect seems to show the sys
tem in a more complete manner than any thing we

have yet stated. John Hunter, that primus inter om-

nes, was no hospital apprentice ; he migrated from St.
Bartholomew's, where the rule was too exclusive to

give him a chance, to St. George's, where he obtained
admittance ; St. Bartholomew's preserved the system
and lost Hunter.

   Abernethy was an apprentice truly; but all those
glorious labors which shed such a lustre on his profes
sion and such a benefit on mankind, were completed
long before he became surgeon to St. Bartholomew's
Hospital ; and it is material to repeat, that at that time
the assistant surgeons, with the exceptions already
stated, had nothing to do. In casting our eyes over
the retrospect of years, one honored name attracts our
notice in connection with a real advance in the knowl

edge of the functions of nerves. We allude to Sir
Charles Bell; but here again the system is unfortu
nate, for Sir Charles was never a hospital apprentice at
all, and only succeeded to a post in a London hospital
after an open canvass in an institution in which the
narrow portal of the apprentice system is unrecognized.

Still we see signs of a."Delenda est Carthago ;" as

we have said, the point of the wedge is inserted, and a
very little extension of public information will at no
distant period drive it home.

   In the mean time, Scienoe, instead of being in a po
-MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  350

sition to receive every quackery as a means of demon
strating the superior beauty of truth, by placing it in
contrast with error, is obliged to regard any absurdity,
however gross, as one of the hydra-headed fallacies
through which we are to evolve what is true only by
the circuitous path of exhausting the resources of hy
pothesis and conjecture, while sweeping epidemics,
which, wholesomely regarded, should be looked on rev
erently as besoms of destruction, are hailed by the ob
servant as melancholy but necessary impulses to drive
us to the adoption of measures to which our capital of
common sense is not sufficient to induce us to listen.

    Neither are the old hospitals the only parts of a de
fective system. In others we observe the signs of the
prurient appetencies of trade usurping the lofty aspira
tions of science. There is no hospital in London that
yet has even a country establishment of its own for
convalescents, while of two of the more recently estab
lished ones, one is built over a church-yard, and the
other, intended only for the relief of decarbonizing or
gans, is built in the immediate neighborhood of the
most smoky metropolis in Europe. Both, instead of
being the most distinguished illustrations of the prog
ress of sanitary and physiological science, are, on the
contrary, emphatic examples of their violation.
360 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

                     CHAPTER XXX.

   " There is no doubt but men of genius and leisure may carry our
method to greater perfection, but, having had long experience, we
have found none equal to it for the commodiousness it affords in work
ing with the Understanding." --Lord Bacon, vol. hi., p 316, 4th ed.

    In tracing the progress of science, it is very difficult
to assign to each individual his just share of merit.
The evidence, always more or less incomplete, seldom
allows us to do more than to mark the more fortunate,

to whom, as it were, the principal parts have been al
lotted. The exposition of truth generally implies a
previous contest with error; this may, in one sense, be
compared with military achievements. We hear of
the skill and wisdom of the general and his associate
chiefs, but little is known of individual prowess on the
multiplication of which the result so commonly de

pends.

To one who conferred so many obligations on his

country and on mankind as Abernethy, it is difficult

to assign only his just sham, and yet it is most desir

able that nothing be ascribed to him which is doubt

ful or dispu table-

Antecedently to Mr. Abernethy's time, and contem

poraneous with the date of Mr. Hunter's labors, sur

gery had, in the best hands, and as a mere practical

art, arrived at a very respectable position ; still, in Aber

nethy's early day, barber-surgeons were not yet extinct,

and, as he used jocosely to phrasea he himself had

                                      it,

                                                     is
"doffed his cap" to barber-surgeons. There no doubt

that some of them had arrived at very useful knowl
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  361

edge. The celebrated Ambrose Pare was a French bar
ber-surgeon. When Abernethy entered into life, the best

representative of the regular surgery of that day was Mr.
Pott, who was contemporary with the period of Mr. Hun

ter's labors. Mr. Pott was a good surgeon, an eloquent
lecturer, a scholar, and a gentleman, and he gave some
surgical lectures at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. We
have perused two manuscript copies of these lectures,
which are in the library of the Royal Medical and Chi-
rurgical Society, and they contain many useful and ju
dicious observations. There are ripples of a more hu
mane and scientific surgery, and many parts that are
suggestive of onward study. Pott had also the good
sense to perceive the measured pretensions of his own
time, and to predict advances on it as great as that it
self was on the surgery of his predecessors ; but we do
not perceive any thing in Pott's lectures in the shape
of a science. Extensive generalizations we are not

thinking of--we have them yet to get; but we see

nothing, in the true sense of the word, even axiomatic;
there are no steps, no axioms, by which we can reach
the platform of more general propositions. In some of

his operations, the most elementary principles are either

not perceived or neglected ; and although there are gen
eral recognitions of the state of the health influencing
the so-called surgical maladies, there is no definite prin

ciple developed. It is a recognition scarcely more than
that implied in the older surgical writers, when, if the

surgical part of a case did not go on well, they recom
mended the calling in of a physician.

   In this state of things, John Hunter began a beau
tifully simple, and, in its bearings on surgery, we may

add, a new mode of inquiry. He saw that there was

                                             9.
362 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

much in all animals that was common, and that there

were analogies in the whole organic kingdom of na
ture ; hence he sought to develop, by observation of the
various processes in various animals, and their nearest
analogies in vegetables also, the real nature of various

phenomena in man. It was not that he did that which

had never been attempted before in the abstract, but
that he undertook it with a new, a concentrated unity
of purpose. He did not employ, as it were, a different
instrument to collect the rays of light from surround
ing nature, but he concentrated them into a focus on

a different object --the nature and treatment of dis

ease. His labors, though not permitted to endure for

many years, interrupted by indisposition, and suddenly
stopped by death, were abundantly fruitful, and ena
bled him to simplify much of surgery that was offi
cious and hurtful, and to correct many errors. He
first gave a reason for this or that proceeding, founded
on actual observation of natural processes : thus, in heal
ing of wounds, the natural and healthy were distin
guished from unnatural and unhealthy processes, and
so forth. But as Mr. Hunter's enlarged views taught
him the value of the relations observable throughout

the whole animal creation, he contemplated parts of
the body only as a step to the more successful observ
ation of the whole. As before stated, he observed the
phenomena exhibited by the various organs, both sep
arately and in connection ; traced them with elaborate
circumspection, and concluded by justifying what Aber-

nethy said when he observed, " Hunter proved that the
whole body sympathized with all its parts."

   Now many of the facts which Mr. Hunter remarked
in the relations established between different parts of
                 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                                                      363

the body were, in the strictest sense, axiomatic --that

     they were exemplifications of laws to which they

were the necessary steps. Take one, for example --
is,

                                                                    it
that the part sympathetically affected by an impression

previously made on another part appeared to be fre
quently more affected than the part with which had
appeared to sympathize. This we now know to be no

exception, but rather the law, because the exceptions,

as we contend, are explicable;* but that was not then

perceived. Abernethy, however, made use of this so

far as to impress the fact that organs might be seri
ously disordered without any symptoms apparently ref

erable to them.

Now Abernethy might have continued to labor as

Hunter did in collecting facts as the materials for ax

ioms, or as elements for future and more extensive

generalization or he might have at once taken Mr.
it

          ;a ;
                        a

                            it

                                                                                                                         ;
Hunter's views, so far as he had gone, and, working on
them with his remarkable aptitude for perceiving the

more salient and practical relations of facts, have ap

plied them at once to practical purposes, gleaning more

facts as his extremely acute observation might enable
him to do on the way. He pursued, perhaps, neither

course exclusively, but the latter appeared to be the

one he chiefly adopted; and from the more immediate

fruition affords, no doubt was best adapted to the
exigencies of practical profession.

   John Hunter was man of indefatigable industry,
and exceedingly circumspect in his observance of facts.

Abernethy was fagging too, but more impulsive and

not so dogged mere facts were mere bores to him he
panted for practical relations, and was most wonder-

    * See " Medicine and Surgery one Inductive Science." 1838.
3Ct MEMOIRS OF ABEENETHY.

fully quick in perceiving them. His vision was as

penetrative as Hunter's had been circumspect and cau

tious. Hunter would have sifted all the useful things

out of any heap, however heterogeneous ; Abernethy

would have looked through
               it                               at once found the one

                      is,

                                           it,
jewel that concealed, and left the rest for the next

comer. They were both most perfectly honest and

truthful, both careless of money, both enthusiasts in
science -- that
                 both ardent in the pursuit of truth,

with that kind of feeling which does not stop to exam

ine the utilitarian relations of these pursuits, but which,

carried on by a continually increasing impulse, takes

the good for granted, and impelled by the love of
                       it
truth for its own sake.   it is
                                is is
But, interesting as        to observe those requisitions

which, as indispensable, are common to the successful

investigators of science,              yet more so to see the

distinctive character of John Hunter and John Aber

nethy. The former, with many ideas to tell, and most

of them new, had difficulty in expressing himself.
With more need than any man before him for addi
                 ;a

                                    it,

                                                 a
tional facilities in this way, he had restricted vocab

ulary: again, in making use of his style was seldom

easy, often obscure so that things which, when thor

oughly understood, had no feature more striking than

their simplicity, were often made to appear difficult,

and by many readers, no doubt, had often been left

unexamined.

Abernethy, on the contrary, had happy facility of
                                       a
                                               a
expressing himself, and a power rarely equaled of sin
gling out the difficult parts of subject, and simplify

ing them down to the level of ordinary capacities.

Hunter, though not without imagination, or humor
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  365

even, had these qualities held in abeyance by the un
ceasing concentration of his intellectual faculty. As

Abernethy used to say, " John Hunter was always

thinking." Abernethy, on the contrary, had an active
imagination ; it always accompanied his intellect like

a young, joyous attendant, constantly lighting up the
more sombre propositions of her grave companion with
variety of illustration. The most difficult proposition,
directly Abernethy began to fashion it, had all its
rough points taken off, and its essential features brought
out clear and orderly to the plainest intellect. John
Hunter's manner of laying down facts the most import
ant to the formation of a medical science (take place
when it may), was not able to keep people awake.
Abernethy's treatment of the most dry and unimport
ant kept the class unceasingly interested. The ob
scurity of language in Hunter was happily replaced,
not only by an unusual ease, but by a curiosa felicilas
in Abernethy. In sustained composition, Hunter, gen

erally difficult, often obscure ; Abernethy, if not fault
less, always easy and unaffected. If his style failed

sometimes in earnestness and vigor, it was always sin

cere ; and though not deficient in elegance, yet, if it

asserted no special claim to that excellence, it was al

ways pleasing and perspicuous.
    Nothing could be further from the earnest and think

ing John Hunter than any thing dramatic; Abernethy
had that happy variety of countenance and manner
that can be conveyed by no other term. Hunter, with
out being slow, was cautious, circumspect; Abernethy,
without being hasty, was rapid, penetrative, and im
pulsive. Never were two minds so admirably fitted for

the heavy-armed pioneering in science, and the com
366 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

paratively light-trooped intellect, which was calculated
to render the first clearing easily convertible to those
practical necessities with which the science had to deal.
Accordingly, we find that Abernethy very soon extend
ed Mr. Hunter's views, and applied them so powerfully
as at least to create the dawnings of a science. He
showed that all processes in the economy, and of course,
therefore, those of disease, are essentially nervous in

their origin --that is to say, the nerves being the in

struments through which our relations are established
with surrounding nature (however much we may, in
common language, speak of this or that feeling, this or
that organ, or this or that part of the body), all im
pressions must still be made on the sensitive or nervous
system of that part, and this, of course, whether they
imply consciousness, or be altogether independent of it ;
that disturbed nervous action was, as the case might
be, either the forerunner or the proximate cause of the
disease; and that, therefore, the relief of diseased or
disordered actions, however attempted, consisted ulti
mately and essentially in the restoration of healthy

nervous power, or adaptation.
    This, then, is the first proposition. The next thing,

obviously, in the prevention or cure of disease, therefore,
is the tranquilizing nervous disorders.

    Now here there are many things to be regarded ; for
man is a moral as well as a physical being, and the
circumstances by which he is surrounded, even the air

he breathes, the moral and physical impressions to
which he is subjected, are very often not under his own
control, much less of his medical attendant. On the
other hand, the food is in civilized communities very
much under the influence of his volition ; and there
           MEMOIRS OF ABEItNETHY.  367

are many circumstances which, instead of impeding

those adaptations which disorder requires, render them

particularly easy, it frequently happening that those

things which are really best are the most easily pro

cured. This is important, because the next proposition

is, that the nervous system is very easily and constant

ly disturbed by disorder of one or other, or the whole

of the digestive organs, and that therefore the tran-

quilizing of disturbance in them is of the highest con

sequence in the treatment of disease; few propositions

in any science are more susceptible of proof than the

foregoing. But if this be so, we must now recollect

the full force of what we have observed with regard to
relation-- that is, we must not restrict our notion of it

to the general loose assent that there is a relation in

all parts of the body, and rest on the simple admission,

for example, that animals are formed in adaptation to

their habits ; but we must sustain the Cuvier-like im
pression of the fact, the Owen-like application of it to

the phenomena; recollect that preconceived ideas of

magnitude or minuteness can do nothing but obscure

and mislead ; and that the relations established in the

body are   constant and universal, however they may at

first--as  in the case we have quoted --excite the sur

prise or the derision of the less informed and less re

flecting. We must take their immensely potential

power as existing as certainly in the most trifling

headache as in the most malignant fever, in the small

est scratch as in the most complicated compound frac
ture. We have plenty of facts now to prove this ; but

the first plain clear enunciation of it all, the successful

demonstration of it at the bedside, and the consequent

diminution of an enormous amount of human suffer
ly368 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.
     it,
ing, is the great debt we owe to Abernethy. Mankind
                                       ;in general admitted that diet was of consequence. No
                                                                          ;body doubted its force as an accessory in treatment.

Lactantius said, "Sis prudens ad victum sine quo ce

tera remedia frustra adhibentur ;" but no one had rec
ognized the treatment of the Digestive Organs as the
essential part of the treatment of surgical diseases, nor
founded it on the same comprehensive view of its re
lations as addressed to organs which executed the nu

tritive functions of the body on the one hand, and were

the most potential disturbers or tranquilizers of the

nervous system on the other, and thus forever linked
them in their practical relations with the fact that the
essential character of disease, the fons et origo, is dis
turbed nervous power. But as all disease is merely

the result of two conditions, namely, the injurious in
fluence acting, and the body acted on, it matters not

whether the injurious influence be sudden, violent, slow,

moderate, chemical, mechanical, or what not ; so the

foregoing positions affect the whole practice of medi
cine, and must not be held as affecting any one part
of but as influencing equally both medicine and

surgery.

    We do trust that these few propositions will induce
some to think for, as Abernethy used to say, lectures
will never make surgeons and we feel equally confi
dent that no books, no individual efforts, however cost

    or sincere, will really benefit or inform any portion
of the public or the profession, except such of them as

may be induced to think for themselves. They have

only to recollect that, in carrying out such principles,
they must not measure their influence by their previ
ously conceived notions they must encourage labor
;
                                                             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  369

when they see the profession willing, and not thwart         is,
them by showing that it will be labor in vain. There                 a

will soon be science if it is encouraged,                                                    I

                      " Sint Maecenates, non deerunt Flacci."                                                              It

   If they are disposed to think investigation too minute

to be practical, or precision too unpleasant to be nec
essary, let them remember the story of Professor Owen's
beautiful application of minute relation, and that the
distinction between a huge common quadruped and an
unknown wingless bird could alone be discovered by
particulars far more minute than they will be called on
once in a hundred times to observe or to follow. The

obligation we have already noticed has in some sense
revolutionized the practice of medicine and surgery,

and no doubt, the capital debt we owe to Abernethy,
but there are many others. His application and ad
justment of the operation of the trephine was a beau
tiful and discriminating achievement, and would alone
have been sufficient to have raised an ordinary repu

tation.

    His first extension of John Hunter's operation for
aneurism shows how ready he was -- when he could do
so with advantage -- to enlarge the application of that
branch of our duties which he least valued, namely,

operative surgery.

   His proposal to add to the treatment of the diseases
of joints the apparatus of splints for insuring absolute
quiescence of the affected surfaces, has saved a most

incalculable number of limbs from amputation.
here becomes necessary to repeat a remark we have
made in former work. Sir B. Brodie recommends

this plan only in the third edition, think, of his book
on the joints, not appearing to have been aware that

                                 0.2
370 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

Abernethy taught it for nearly thirty years previously,

about ten years of which we ourselves had repeatedly

                         is

                            it
                                        it,

                                                           it
tested its great value, and taught but contempora

neously from Abernethy, in our own lectures. Indeed,

so important an element  in the treatment of dis

eases of the joints, that we have never seen                   fail,

when fairly applied and accompanied by a reasonable

attention to the general health, except in the following

cases first, when the patient has been nearly worn
:

out by disease before subjected to treatment and, sec
                                        ;

ondly, where the complaint has been proved to be ac

companied by internal organic disease.

We have always thought that one of the greatest

boons to mankind was Abernethy's lesson on fracture

of the neck of the thigh bone within the capsule of the

joint. For thirty years Sir Astley Cooper taught, and

boasted that he had taught, that this fracture could

not unite by bone Sir Astley --reasoning on the anat
   ;

omy of the part only, and conceiving that the neck, in

its somewhat isolated position, would be imperfectly

nourished, and seeing that, in point of fact, this frac

ture did generally unite by ligament only --unfortu

nately adopted the foregoing idea as the cause of the

fact, and concluded that bony union was impractica

ble. Experiments on animals-- at all times extremely

fallacious, and in this case singularly imperfect in the

analogy they afforded -- appeared to confirm his views.

Despairing of effecting a proper union, he adopted
treatment which rendered impossible. Abernethy's
                         it

                             is
                                                                           a
beautiful reasoning on the subject led him to an op

posite conclusion. It embraced certain views of Hun

ter's, and some common phenomena in other accidents

where the union by ligament coincident with motion
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  371

of the part. He therefore treated all cases with a view

 to secure bony union, and he and many of his pupils
 had no doubt but that they had seen examples of it.
Still, people got well and were lost sight of, and there
fore it was said that the fracture was not wholly with
in the capsule of the joint. At length a specimen was

procured from the examination of a dead body, and the
question set at rest, we believe, in the minds of every
body, that this fracture, though it require especial care
to keep parts steady and in apposition, will unite just
like other fractures in the way taught (and since
proved) by Abernethy. Let those who can calculate

the number of surgeons who have been educated by
these two gentlemen, and who, for the first few years,
almost certainly have followed the practice of their in
structors, compute the number of those of the lame

who, under Providence, have walked in consequence
of the clear-sighted reasoning of Abernethy.

    How the French surgeons may have been influenced

I Iby Abernethy in this point, do not know. When
was first in Paris in 1824, they were divided ; but I

recollect Baron Larrey showing me a case which he

regarded as a clear example of this fracture in course

of firm consolidation, and he was well aware of the
opinion of Abernethy.

    The bearing which Abernethy's acuteness of observ
ation of the influence of the state of the digestive or
gans on so-called specific poisons in producing or main
taining diseases resembling them, opposed as it was to

the most powerful conventionalism, is a proof of his

clear judgment, and, if we mistake not, will one day

prove to have been the first ripple of a most important
law in the animal economy, which will shed a light as
372 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

new on specific affections as his other principles have

on diseases in general.   severe  malady,  " lumbar  ab
   His treatment of that

scess," is, in our view, a most splendid addition to hu

mane and successful surgery, and as regards one of its

distinctive characters, he has, as we have shown, re

ceived the encomiums of the most distinguished of his
contemporaries, including Sir Astley Cooper.

The manner in which he applied that law which

prevails in voluntary muscles to the replacement of

dislocations, namely, that muscles under the influence

of the will can not ordinarily act long and unremit

tingly, was an amendment as humane as scientific ;
and while it has removed from surgery a farrier-like

roughness in the treatment of dislocations as repulsive
as unnecessary, it has adjusted the application of more
sustained force, when it becomes necessary, on princi

ples at once humane, safe, and effectual. In short,

whatever part of surgery we consider, we should have

something to say of Abernethy --either something new

in itself, or improved in application. We find him

equally patient and discriminative wherever there is

danger ; thus there is the same force and originality

on the occasional consequences on the simple operation
of bleeding in the arm, and the more serious proceed

ing of perforating the cranium. He is every where

acute, penetrating, discriminative, humane, and prac
tical, so that it is difficult which most to admire, his

enlarged views in relation to important general princi

ples, or the pervading science and humanity with

which he invests their minutest details.

Hunter's method of investigation was highly induct

                                  it,
ive, and, whenever he adhered to the structure he
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  373

has left is stable, and fit for further superadditions.
Whenever he proceeded on any preconceived notions,
or on an induction manifestly imperfect, his conclu
sions have, as we think, been proved unsound. His def
inition of disease, as distinct from accidental injury, is
one instance which we formerly noticed in our own
works, and some of his conclusions in regard to pois

ons -- as mercury, for example -- will not hold ; but

all that Abernethy made use of, either in developing
his own views, or maturing their practical applications,
were sound, and most careful deductions from obvious

and incontrovertible facts. Abernethy took equal care

to deduce nothing from them, or from any thing of his
own observations, but the most strictly logical infer

ences--conclusions which were, in truth, little more

than the expression of the facts, and therefore irrefra
gable. He showed that, however dissimilar, nervous
disturbance was the essential element of disease, and

that the removal of that disturbance, was the essential

element of cure ; that no mode should be neglected,
therefore, which was capable of exerting an influence
on the nervous system ; but that, whether he looked

at the subject as mere matter of fact, or as assisted by
the phenomena of health or disease generally, or merely
to that which was most within our power, no more po
tential disturbers of the nervous system were to be
found than in disturbances addressed to the digestive
organs, and that the tranquilizing of these must al
ways be a leading object in our endeavors to achieve
the still greater one of tranquilizing nervous disorder.

    The absurd idea that he looked chiefly to the stom
ach, that he thought of nothing but blue pills or alter
ative doses of mercury, need scarcely detain us. His
374 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

works show, and his lectures still more, that there was
no organ in the body which had not been the object of

his special attention--in almost all cases in advance of

his time, and not exceeded in practical value by any
thing now done. We know of nothing more valuable

or clear now than his paper on the skin --nothing so

advanced or important as his observations on the lungs
and skin, and the relations of these important organs;
and it is unnecessary to repeat what has been already
said about the digestive organs. His medical treat

ment was always very simple, and if its more salient
object was to correct disorders of the liver, it was be

cause he knew that the important relations of that organ
not only rendered it very frequently the cause of many
disorders, but that there could be nothing materially
wrong in the animal economy, by which it must not
be more or less affected. He carried the same clear

ness and definiteness of purpose into his prescriptions
as that which characterized all his investigations, and,

indisposed to employ any means except on some prin
ciple, used but few remedies, although he by no means
wished to deter others from having recourse to a more
extended pharmacopoeia. We regret, indeed, the im
possibility of doing full justice to Abernethy in any
thing less than a running commentary on the publica
tion of his works ; but we have said enough, we trust,
to show how largely the profession and mankind are
indebted to him.

    Now, in these days of testimonials, what memorials

have we of Abernethy ? It is true there is no monu

ment in Westminster Abbey, and only a bust at St.
Bartholomew's. His portrait, to be sure, given by his

pupils, hangs at St. Bartholomew's, exalted where it
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.         375

can hardly be distinctly seen, to be replaced by those of

Mr. Vincent, and Mr. Lawrence in his Professor's gown !
But he has still a

" Monumentum aere perennius"

in the claim he has established to the rarely so truly
earned honor of "nihil quod non tetigit, et nihil quod
tetigit, quod non ornavit;'' in the grateful hearts of
many a pupil who had no other obligation to him than
his beautiful lessons; and in an improved medical Sur
gery, which, though it may have in London rather ret
rograded than otherwise since his time, is felt more or
less in its moral as well as its medical bearings, and
in a diminution of suffering and an improved practice
throughout the civilized world.

   But, if Abernethy's views are so true or so excellent,

as we allege they are, they must have some relation to
any thing that is good in every kind of medical or sur
gical treatment, and this equally whatever the system
(so called), whence it may arise, however much of truth
or error it may contain, or however perplexingly their

qualities may be blended together. These are points
on which we have yet something to say, and as we are

anxious that the public and the profession should favor
us with their attention to the very few remarks we have
the space to offer, we must have a new chapter.
376 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

             CHAPTER XXXI.

          " Que res neque consilium neque modum habet ullum
               Earn consilio regere non potes."-- Ter.

POSITION, PROGRESS, AND PROSPECTS OF THE PROFESSION OF HYDROP
     ATHY OF HOMEOPATHY OF QUACKERY OF PUBLIC IGNORANCE.

   A writer* of no ordinary judgment and discrimina

tion has observed, that " it often happens in human

affairs that the evil and the remedy grow up at the

same time ; the remedy, unnoticed and at a distance,

scarcely visible, perhaps, above the earth; while the

evil may shoot rapidly into strength, and alone catch

the  eye of  the observer  by the  immensity of its   shadow ;
and  yet,"                 future  age may be able    to mark
             he adds, " a

how the one declined and the other advanced, and how

returning spring seemed no longer to renew the honorsitis,
of the one, while it summoned into maturity and prog
ress the perfection of the other."                                ;

    We know not how it may appear to the reader, but
we can not help thinking that there is a far-seeing per
ception of a very leading character of human affairs in
the foregoing sentence. There is no evil but which is

charged with a certain degree of good. At first it in
deed, " scarcely visible" --nay, escapes alike the most

penetrative perception and faithful confidence in the
surpassing working-to-good of all things around us
but, so soon as the evil begins to tell, so soon as the
full flood of mischief becomes obtrusive or remarkable,

the small ripple of some corrective principle becomes

apparent.

* Professor Smythe, Lectures on Modern History, vol.  i.,      74.

                                                           p.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  377

   It would be easy to illustrate the foregoing proposi

tion from general history, from the progress of nations,
or even from the contracted area of private families.
But we will confine ourselves to an illustration more

directly in relation to our immediate object, namely,
the present condition and prospects of medical science.

    There are, no doubt, many persons who view the
present state of medical science as little better than
the triumphant domination of something little superior
to a conjectural art, and which has long obscured and
is still very imperfectly representing a beautiful science,
and that the perception of the true relations which it
bears to such science has been vailed by the impression
that it involved some mystery from which the general
public, who were most interested in its development,

were necessarily excluded.
    There have been at all times individuals perhaps

sufficiently astute to observe the real truth of the mat
ter ; but still they were rare exceptions, and did not

prevent Mystery from conferring on a very considerable
section of people the social advantage of a gainful pro
fession ; that property being enhanced, of course, in
that it ministered to an ignorant public. But even in

an early stage correctives to an equivocally-earned ad
vantage began to appear, for a thing which had no
character but its indefiniteness, and its apparent facil
ity of acquisition, obtained many followers; the supply,
such as it was, was thus so close in relation to the de
mand, that what in theory seemed necessarily very
gainful, on the whole proved any thing but a lucrative
profession. As contrasted with any other, or a variety
of commercial pursuits, medical men were neither so
affluent, nor always so secure of their position. Re
378 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

tiring competency in well-conducted callings has, in a
rich country, been rather the rule. We fear, in the
medical profession, it is the exception, which we are
apprehensive (in its bereaved dependents) contributes
more applicants for eleemosynary relief than any other

profession.

    This surely is not a state of things which can be well
made worse. Public ignorance, the real mischief, has,
in the mean time, been left uninformed, and every at
tempt to enlighten it has too often been branded with
some form or other of corrupt motive. Public positions
have been conferred without competition, the surest
source of fitness or excellence ; and the public have
been further doubly barred out, so that the chance of
eliciting men of spirit and enthusiasm has been dimin
ished by the first positions having been often rendered
contingent on the payment of money in the right quarter.

   But all this time corrections were slowly springing
up. Hundreds were beginning, under the light of a
more liberal diffusion of general knowledge, to feel that
the so-called science of medicine and surgery was very
different from science usually so termed; and while
other sciences were affording that which was definite

and positive, the juxtaposition only seemed to bring out
in higher relief the prevailing character of conjecture
and uncertainty in medicine.

    People began to see that mystery is but mystery, to
whatever it is applied, and that one man can see in the
dark about as well as another; that where all is ob
scure, any one may scramble with a chance of success.
Accordingly, we observe that a state of things has grad

ually been rising up, which, if it do not justify the ex

pression of quot medici tot empirici, at least leads us
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  379

to deplore that, of all callings in life, no one ever had
 such a legion of parasites as are represented by the
 hydra-headed quackeries which infest the medical pro
fession. Naturally enough too, Quackery attacked
 chiefly those disorders in regard to which Mystery
 avowed its incapacity, or declared to be incurable; and
thus, while the regular profession made their own lim
 ited knowledge the measure of the powers of nature,
the quacks unconsciously proceeded, de facto, more
philosophically, when they neither avowed nor acknowl
edged any other limits than those of observation and

experience.
    Among, no doubt, innumerable failures, and, as we

know, a multiplicity of fictions, they would now and
then, in acting violently on the various organs, blunder

on the last link in the chain--the immediate cause of

the disorder, and perhaps effect the removal of a so-
called incurable malady. Thus, while the regular pro
fession were making their own knowledge the measure
of remedial possibility, and were reposing contentedly
on the rule, they were every now and then undermined,

or tripped up, by unexplained exceptions.

   It is difficult to conceive any state of things, when

once observed, more calculated to drive men to the ob

vious remedy that a definite science would alone afford ;
nor should it be forgotten that multiform quackeries,
with mesmerism to boot, are coincident with a system
which allows not one single appointment which the

public are accustomed to regard as authority to be open
to scientific competition. Of late, too, many persons
have begun to examine for themselves questions which
they had been wont to leave entirely to their medical

adviser.
380 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    The sanitary movement has shown that more peo
ple die every year from avoidable causes than would
satisfy the yawning gulf of a severe epidemic or the

most destructive battle. In a crowded community,

many events are daily impressing on the heads of fam
ilies, besides the expedience of avoiding unnecessary
expenses, that long illnesses are long evils ; that their
dearest connections are sometimes prematurely broken ;

and that parts are not unfrequently found diseased
which were not suspected to be so during life. The

thought will sometimes occur whether this may have

been always consequent on the difficulty of the sub
 ject, or whether it may not sometimes have been the
result of too hasty or too restricted an inquiry ; that not
only (as the Spanish tutor told his royal pupil of kings)
do patients die "sometimes," but very frequently.

    These and other circumstances have induced many
of the public to inquire into the reason of their faith in
us, and to ask how it happens that, while all other sci

ences are popularized and progressing, there should be
any thing so recondite in the laws governing our own
bodies as to be accessible only to comparatively few,
especially as they have begun to perceive that their in
terest in knowing such laws is of the greatest possible

importance.
    Among various attempts to better this condition of

things, the imagination of men has been very active.
Too proud to obey the guidance, or too impatient to
await the fruition of those cautious rules which the in

tellect has imposed on the one hand, and so signally
rewarded (whenever observed) on the other, Imagina
tion set forth on airy wing, and brought home curiosi
ties which she called science, and observations which,
             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.             381

because they contained some of that truth of which

even fancies are seldom entirely deprived, blinded her

to the perception of a much larger proportion of error.
   Two of these curiosities have made considerable

noise, have been not a little damaging to the pecuni

ary interests of the medical profession, and have been

proportionately species of El Dorados to the followers

of them. We allude to the so-called Homeopathy and

Hydropathy.

Homeopathy proceeds on an axiom that diseases

are cured by remedies      which    excite an  action similar
to that of the disease     itself:             similibus cu-
                                    " Similia

rantur."

Our objection to this dogma is two-fold, and in the

few hints we are giving, we wish them not to be con

founded.

   1st. It is not proven.
   2d. It is not true.

Take the so-called fever. The immediate and most

frequent causes of fever are bad air, unwholesome food,

mental inquietude, derangement of the digestive or

gans, severe injuries. Now it is notorious that very
important agents in the cure of all fevers are good air,

carefully exact diet, or temporary abstinence, and cor
rection of disordered functions, with utmost repose of
mind and body, and so forth.

    So of small-pox, one of the most instructive of all

diseases. All the things favorable to small-pox are

entirely opposite to those which conduct the patient
safely through this alarming disease ; and so clearly is

this the case, that, if known beforehand, its virulence

can be indefinitely moderated so as to become a com

paratively innoxious malady.
382 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   We might go on multiplying these illustrations to
almost any extent. What, then, is the meaning of the
similia similibus curantur? This we will endeavor,

so far as there is any truth in to explain. The truth

   that Nature has but one mode, principle, or law in

dealing with injurious influences on the body. Before
is,
                                             it,

                                                                 is
we offer the few hints we propose to do on these sub

jects (and we can here do no more), we entirely repu
diate that sort of abusive tone which too generally

adopted. That never can do any body any good. We
believe both systems to be dangerous fallacies, but, like

all other things, not allowed to be entirely uncharged
with good. We shall state, as popularly as possible, in

what respect we deem them to be dangerous fallacies,

and in what we deem them to be capable of effecting

some good, because    our object to show, in respect
a

     it

          a
            is

                it

                       is
                                     a

                                         is
to both, that the good they do because they acci
dentally, as were, chip off small corner of the prin

ciples of Abernethy.

Homeopathy one of those hypotheses which show

the power that minute portion of truth has to give cur

rency to large quantity of error, and how much more

powerful in the uninformed are appeals to the imagin

ation than to the intellect. The times are favorable to

homeopathy. To some persons who had accustomed
themselves to associate medical attendance with short

visits, long bills, gentleman in black all smiles, and
a
                                a

                                                       a

                                              It
numerous array of red bottles, homeopathy must have

addressed itself very acceptably.                         could not but be

welcome to hear that all the above not very pleasing

impressions could be at once dismissed by simply swal

lowing the decillionth part of grain of some efficacious

drug. Then there was the prepossession so common
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  363

in favor of mystery. How wonderful ! so small a quan

tity! What a powerful medicine it must be! It was

as good as the fortune-telling of the gipsies. There !

take that, and then you will see what will happen next !
Then, to get released from red bottles tied over with
blue or red paper, which, if they were not infinitesimal

in dose, had appeared infinite in number, to say noth
ing of the wholesome repulsion of the palate !

   Besides, after the bottles came the bill, having, no

doubt, the abominable character of all bills, which, by

some law analogous to gravitation, appear to enlarge
in a terrifically accelerating ratio in proportion to their
longevity, so that they fall at last with an unexpect

ed and a very unwelcome gravity. Then homeopathy

did not restrict itself to infinitesimal doses of medicine,

but recommended people to live plainly, to relinquish

strong drinks, and, in short, to adopt what, at least,
seemed an approximation to a simple mode of living.

To be serious --What, then, are the objections to ho

meopathy ?

   Is there no truth, then, in the dogma, "Similia si-
milibus curantur?" We will explain. The laws gov

erning the human body have an established mode of
dealing with all injurious influences, which is identi
cal in principle, but infinitely varied and obscured in
its manifestations, in consequence of multifarious inter

ferences ; in that respect, just like the laws of light
or gravitation. As we have no opportunity of going
into the subject at length, we will give a hint or two
which will enable the observing, with a moderate de
gree of painstaking, to see the fallacy. You can demon
strate no fallacy in a mathematical process even with

out some work, neither can you do so in any science ;
384 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

so let that absence of complete demonstration be no

bar to the investigation of the hints we give. All med

a

                               is

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                   is,
                                                                         is,
icines are more or less poisons; that     they have no

nutritive properties, or these are so overbalanced by

those which are injurious, that the economy immedi

ately institutes endeavors for their expulsion, or for the

relief of the disturbance they excite. All organs have

special function of their own, but all can, on occa

sions, execute those of some other organ. So, in carry

ing out injurious influences, organs have peculiar re

lations to different forms of matter --that ordinarily.

Thus the stomach  impatient of ipecacuanha, and

substances which we call emetics the liver of mercu

ry, alcohol, fat and saccharine matters, and so forth. In

the same way, we might cite examples of other organs

which ordinarily deal with particular natural substan

ces. But then, by the compensating power they have,

they can deal with any substance on special occasions.

Now the natural mode in which all organs deal with

injurious substances, or substances which tend to dis

turb them, by pouring forth their respective secre
if, is
     it ittions; but when stimulated, they have not the pow

er to do that, then they evince, as the case may be, dis

order or disease. Thus, for example If we desire to
                                       :

influence the secretion from the liver, mercury one

of the many things which will do it; but mercury
                                          if if
                                                    is
cease to do this, will produce disease; and, carried

to a certain extent, of no organ more certainly than

the liver. Thus, again, alcohol in certain forms a
                                                                                                     is

very useful medicine for the liver, yet nothing in con

tinuance more notoriously produces disease of that or

gan. So that happens that all things which in one

form disorder an organ, may in another form, in great
           MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

er or more continued doses, tend to correct that disor

der by inducing there a greater stimulation of its se

cretions.

    This is the old dogma, long before homeopathy was
heard of, of one poison driving out another. This is

the way in which fat bacon in one case may be a tem

porary or a good stimulant of a liver, which it equally

disorders in another; for as the liver is a decarboniz

ing agent as well as the lungs, so articles rich in carbon

are all stimulants of that organ, useful exceptionally,

invariably disordering if habitual or excessive.
   But if this be so, what becomes of the " curantur ?"

To that, we say it is far from proven. Medicine hard
ly ever, perhaps never, strictly speaking, cures, but it

often materially assists in putting people in a cura

ble condition proper for the agencies of more natural
influences. True. Well, then, may not homeopathy

be good here? We doubt                      it,and for this reason.
                                               it

                                                        a
Medicine, to do good, should act on the organ to which

directed                               itself essentially poison, and does
it

    is

             it

                                ;
                                      ;

                        it
                            it is
                                   is
well to relieve organs by which is expelled; but           if

you give medicine in very small doses, or so as to in
stitute an artificial condition of those sentinels, the

nerves, you may accumulate fearful amount of inju
                                            a

rious influence in the system before you are at all

aware of   and                           the more necessary to be aware

of this in respect to homeopathy, because the medicines

which many of these gentlemen employ are active pois
ons, as belladonna, aconite, and so on. We have seen

disturbed states of nerves, bordering on paralysis, which
were completely unintelligible until we found that the

patient had been taking small doses of narcotic pois

ons. We have no desire whatever to forestall the

                                         R
386 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

cool decisions of experience, but we earnestly request
the attention of the homeopathist to the foregoing re

marks ; and if he thinks there is any thing in them,

to peruse the arguments on which we found the law
of which we have formerly spoken.*

    We must in candor admit that, as far as the inquiry
into all the facts of the case go, as laid down by Hahn
emann, we think the profession may take a hint with
advantage. We have long pleaded for more accuracy
in this respect, but we fear, as yet, pleaded in vain.
Homeopathic influences may be perhaps more success
ful. Practically, the good that results from homeopa

thy, as it appears to us, may be thus stated : that if
people will leave off drinking alcohol, live plainly, and
take very little medicine, they will find that many dis
orders will be relieved by this treatment alone.

    For the rest, we fear that the so-called small doses

are either inert, or, if taken so as to produce effect, in-

our the risk of accumulating in the system influences
injurious to the economy, which the history of mercu
ry, arsenic, and other poisons show to be nothing un
common; and, further, that this tends to keep out of
sight the real uses and the measured influences of
medicine, which in the ordinary practice, their usual

effects serve, as the case may be, to suggest or demon

strate.

    Practically, therefore, the good effects of homeopathy

resolve themselves, so far as they are good, into a more
or less careful diet, and small doses of medicine ;

which, as we have said, is a chipping off of the views
of Abernethy.

    * See " Medicine and Surgery one Inductive Science (the so-call
ed Law of Inflammation)."
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  387

   We regret we have no space to consider the relation
of homeopathy to serious and acute diseases ; we can
therefore only say that the facts which have come be
fore us have left no doubts on our minds of its being
alike dangerous and inapplicable.

    One morning, a nobleman asked his surgeon (who
was representing to him the uselessness of consulting
a medical man without obeying his injunctions) what
he thought would be the effect of his going into a hy

dropathic establishment. "That you would get per
fectly well," was the reply, "for there your lordship

Iwould get plain diet and good air, and, as am in
formed, good hours --in short, the very things I rec

ommend to you, but which you will not adopt with

any regularity."
   Hydropathy sets out, indeed, with water as its sta

ple, and the skin as the organ to which it chiefly ad
dresses itself ; but we take it that the hydropathic phy
sician, if he sees nothing in philosophical medicine, dis
covers sufficient in human nature to prevent him from

trading on so slender a capital. There was, no doubt,
in the imperfection of medical science a fine opening
left for a scheme which proposed to rest its merits

chiefly on an organ so much neglected.

    There has never been any thing bordering on a prop
er attention to the skin until recently, and even now

any care commensurate with the importance of the or
gan is the exception rather than the rule. Thirty
years ago, Abernethy, when asked by a gentleman as

to the chance of a bathing establishment answering,

said that the profession would not be persuaded to at

tend to the subject, and that, in respect to the capital
388 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

which the gentleman proposed to invest in he had    it,
                                                         it
better keep the money in his pocket. This was said

in relation to the general importance of attention to

the skin, and also in connection with making the

portal for the introduction of medical agents generally.

Abernethy was, in fact, the person who first introduced

Lalonette's method of affecting the system by mercury

applied in vapor.
   Hydropathy deals with a very powerful agent, and

applies to very powerful and important organ, the
skin; and employs in combination the energetic in
it
    it

           a

fluences, temperature and moisture, so that we may be

assured there will be very little that          is  equivocal or

infinitesimal in its results --that in almost every case

must do good or harm.
it
         it
But does not limit itself to these agencies. It has
"establishments" --that
                         is  to say, pleasant rural re

treats, tastefully laid out gardens, plain diet, often, no

doubt, agreeable society, rational amusements, and, as

we understand, good hours, and abstinence from alco

hol. These are, indeed, powerful agencies for vast
                                                ;

                                                              a
variety of diseases; so that, hydropathy be not very
                        it
scientific,  it      certainly a clever scheme and as thereis
                 is
                              if
are very many people who require nothing but good
                                             :
air, plain living, rest from their anxious occupations,

and agreeable society,       very possible that many

hydropathic patients get well by just doing that which

they could not be induced to do before.

But here comes the objection the skin in the first
                                                    is,
                                                            it
                                                                 is
place, only one of the organs of the body, and                       in

very different condition in different people, and in the

same people at different periods.

   It has, like other organs, its mode of dealing with
              MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                       389

ifpowerful or with injurious influences ; and it deal

with them in the full force of the natural law, it affects

(and in disease almost uniformly) favorably the intern
ifal organs ; but, on the other hand,
                                       there be inter

fering influences opposed to the healthy exhibition of

the natural law, so that the skin do not deal with the

cold, or other agencies to which it is subjected, as it
naturally should do, then the cold, moisture, or other

agent increases the determination of blood to the intern

al organs, and does mischief. This it may do in one

of two ways; we have seen both. 1st. The blood driv

en from the surface increases pro tanto the quantity in

the internal organs; it must go somewhere; it can go
nowhere else. Or, if cold and moisture produce not

this effect, nor be attended with a reactive determina

tion to the surface, there may be an imperfect reaction,

that short of the surface of the body. In the first
a
case you dangerously increase the disorder of any mais,

terially affected organ in the latter you incur the risk;
of diseased depositions, as, for example, Tumors. We

here speak from our own experience, having seen tu

mors of the most malignant and cancerous character

developed under circumstances in which
                                     a             appeared

                                               it
to us impossible to ascribe the immediate cause to any

thing else but violently depressing influences of hydro
pathic treatment of the skin with co-existing disor

dered condition of internal organs.

In one very frightful case indeed, the patient was

told, when he first stated his alarm, that the tumor was

"crisis" or reaction, as sure enough was, but was
                                     it
                                                      it

the reaction of a cancerous disease which destroyed the

patient. But, as we have said, hydropathy has many

features which obviously minister very agreeably and
390 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

advantageously to various conditions of indisposition,
while they favor the observance of something like a
rational diet; a point of immense consequence, and
too much neglected in regular practice. Here again
we speak from actual observation. One man lets his
patient eat what he pleases. An eminent physician

replied to a patient who, as he was leaving the room,

asked what he should do about his diet, "Oh, I leave

that to yourself;" showing, as we think, a better knowl
edge of human nature than of his profession. Another
restricts his patient to "any thing light." Others see
no harm in patients eating three or four things at din

ner, "provided they are wholesome," thus rendering the
solution of many a question in serious cases three or
four times of course as difficult. Now we do not re

quire the elaborate apparatus of a hydropathic estab
lishment to cure disorders after such loose practice as
this ; and we do protest against the assertion that any
such treatment can be called, as we have sometimes

&heard          "Abernethy's plan, attention to diet," and so
forth.
           it,
    So far from any thing less than the beautifully sim
ple views held out by Abernethy being necessary, we
trust that we have some of us arrived, as we ought to
do, at several improvements. But people will confound

  plain diet with a starving- diet, and, hating restric

tions altogether, naturally prefer physician who

good-natured and assenting; still, this assentation

being visited, we think, with a justly retributive reac

tion.
                a
                                                is is

Hydropathy, in many points, no doubt, tends to ex

cite attention to the real desiderata but  never
                ;

                          it
                               is

theless imperfect and dangerous, because evidently
            MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                        391

charged with a capital error. It entirely tails in that

comprehensive view of the relations which exists in all

animals between the various organs, and on a sustained

recollection and examination of which rests the safe

treatment of any one of them. It therefore, unsafe
                          it
and unscientific. Again,      is

                                           is,
                                                  illogical, because pro
                                                  a
ceeds, as regards the skin, on the supposed premise
that will obtain a natural reaction, a thing, in a     it
is it
        itvery large number of cases, and those of the most se

rious kind, seldom to be calculated on.

It quite clear, therefore, that, so far as hydropathy

does good, effects by the institution of diet, absti
            it

nence from alcohol, country air, exercise, agreeable

society, and we will suppose, in some cases, appropri

ate care of the surface, all of which are in general

sense beneficial to the nervous system and the digest

ive organs, the points insisted on by Abernethy.

   So long as the public are not better informed, and
until medicine more strictly cultivated as a science,
they will necessarily be governed by their first im
pressions on their feelings, and so long as this the

case, fallacies can never be exposed except by the se

vere lessons of experience. The hope to reason suc
cessfully with those whose feelings induce them to
adopt that which they too often decline to examine,
madness, and just what Terence says of some other
            is
                                                                     is

feelings  :

                     is
                                                                                       is

                                               " Nihilo plus agas
          Quam sides operam ut cum ratione insanias."

   But although, therefore, we are neither hydropathists

nor homeopathists, we begin to see in the very success

of these things some good that the " great shadow of
the evil" of conjectural soience will one day be re
          a

                                               ;
392 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

placed by another example of the triumph of an in

ductive philosophy ; that the retiring confidence of the

public will induce in us a more earnest and successful

effort to give   them a   more   definite science, and  that,
as Professor    Smythe   says,
                                the " returning spring   will

no longer renew the honors of the one," while it will

gradually evolve the development of the other.

The efforts, too, which the profession are already

making, though, as we humbly consider, not in the

right direction, will certainly arrive in time at a path

that is more auspicious. When we see the hydropa-

thist looking so much to the skin, homeopathy leading

people to think of quantities of medicine ; when, in

the regular profession, we see one man restricting his

views to one organ, another to another ; a third think

ing that every thing can only be learned by examina

tion of the dead, thus confounding morbid anatomy
with pathology ; a fourth restricting his labors to the

microscope, as if to discover laws by enlarging the ob

jects rather than his intellectual vision, still we can

not but perceive that these isolated labors, if once con

centrated by unity of purpose and combined action,

would be shadowing forth at least the outline of a re

ally inductive inquiry.

    Hydropathy and homeopathy are making powerful
uses, too, of the argumenta ad crumenam. Their profes

sors are amassing very large sums of money, and that is
an influence which will in time probably generate exer
tions in favor jof a more definite science. Still, medicine

and surgery can not be formed into a science as long
as men consider it impossible, nor can there be any

material advance if they will persist in measuring the

remedial powers of nature by their own power of educ
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                393

ing them -- a presumption obviously infinitely greater

than the veriest quack ever dared to indulge in. Well

did Lord Bacon see the real difficulties of establishing

the dominion of an inductive philosophy when he labor

ed so much in the first place to destroy the influence of

preconceived opinions -- idols, as he justly called them.

You can not, of course, write truth on a page al

ready filled with conjecture. Nevertheless, mankind

seem gradually exhausting the resources of Error:

many of her paths have been trodden, and their mis

leading lures discovered, and by-and-by that of Truth
will be well-nigh the only one left untried. In the

mean time, we fear the science is nearly good enough

for the age. The difficulty of advance is founded deep
ly in the principles of human nature. People know

there are physical laws as well as moral laws, and they
may rely on it that disobedience and disease, sin and
death, are as indissolubly bound up with infractions

of the one as well as the other.

   It is true there are many who have (however un

consciously) discovered that the pleasures procured by

the abuses of our appetites are a cheat, and that per

manent good is only attained by obeying those laws
which were clearly made for our happiness.

Error has indeed long darkened the horizon of med

ical science ; and albeit there have been lightnings
like coruscations of genius from time to time, still

they have passed away, and left the atmosphere as
dark as before. At length, however, there has arisen,

we hope, a small but steady ligh't, which is gradually

diffusing itself through the mists of Error, and which,

when it shall have gained a very little more power, it

will succeed in dispelling.
                                 R2
394 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

    Then, we trust, Medicine will be seen in the grace

ful form in which she exists in nature --as a Science

which will enable us to administer the physical laws
in harmony with that moral code over which her elder
sister presides ; but, whenever this shall happen, Sur
gery will recognize as the earliest gleams of light shed
on her paths of inquiry, in aid of the progress of sci
ence and the welfare of mankind, the honored contri
butions of John Hunter and John Abernethy.

                     CHAPTER XXXII.

                    " Eheu fugaces Postume Postuma
                        Labuntur anni ; nec pietas moram
                        Rugis et instanti senectae
                      Adferet, indomitique mortae." -- Hon.

                     How swiftly glide our flying years,
                     Alas ! nor piety nor tears

                           Can stop the fleeting day,
                     Deep furrow'd wrinkles, frosting age,
                     And Death's unconquerable rage,

                      Are strangers to delay. -- Francis.

   We have already observed that Abernethy had be
gun to feel the wear and tear of an anxious and active
life, when, after a tenure of office for twenty -eight

years as assistant, he was appointed surgeon to St.
Bartholomew's Hospital. About this time he took a
house at Enfield, where he occasionally went at leisure

hours on Saturday, and as the Spring Course of Lec
tures came near to a conclusion and in the summer,
pretty constantly on other afternoons. At this season
he used to doff the black knee-breeches, silk stockings,
and shoes, sometimes with, sometimes without short
                          MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

gaiters, and refresh one's rural recollections with drab
kerseymeres and top-boots, in which costume he would
at that season not unfrequently come down to lecture.
He was fond of riding, and had a favorite mare he call
ed Jenny ; and many a time have we seen her jogging

along on a fine summer afternoon, and her master look
ing as happy as any school-boy that he was going home

and escaping from the botherations of Bedford Row and
the smoke of London.

    Some years before this he met with what might have
been a serious accident : in stooping forward, his horse
threw up his head and struck him a violent blow. on

the forehead and nose -- as Mr. Abernethy at first

thought, breaking the bones of the latter. He rode

up a gateway, and, having dismounted, was endeavor
ing to adjust the bruise and staunch the blood, when
some people ran to assist him, and, as he said, very

kindly asked him if they should fetch him a doctor;

but, said Abernethy, " I told them I thought they had

better fetch me a hackney-coach," which they accord
ingly did. He was conveyed home, and in a short
time recovered from the accident.

   His taking the house at Enfield was probably a pru
dent measure. He seemed to enjoy it very much, and
especially in getting a quiet friend or two down on the
Saturday to stay over till the Monday, among whom
a very favorite visitor was our respected friend, Mr.
Clift, of whom we have already spoken. Abernethy
had always, however, had what he used aptly enough
to term a fidgety nervous system. From early life he
had been annoyed by a particularly irritable heart.
The first time he ever suffered materially from it was
while he was yet a young man. He had been exceed

                                       0
396 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETIIY.

ingly depressed by the death of a patient in whose case
he had been much interested, and his heart became
alarmingly violent and disordered in its action. He
could not sleep at night, and sometimes in the day it
would beat so violently as to shake his waistcoat. He

was afterward subject to fugitive returns of this com
plaint, and few, unless by experience, know how dis

tressing such attacks are.
    We suspect that surgeons are more frequently thus

affected than is generally supposed. A cold, half-bru
tal indifference is one thing, but a calm and humane
self-possession in many of our duties is another, and,
as we saw in Cheselden, not obtained always without
some cost ; the effects of this sometimes appear only

when the causes have ceased to recur, or are forgotten.

A lively sensibility to impressions was natural to Aber-
nethy, but this susceptibility had been increased by
the well-known influence of the air and excitement of

crowded cities on people who are engaged in much

mental exertion. His physical organization, easily sus
ceptible of disturbance, did not always shake it off
again very readily. At one time he suffered an un

usually long time from the consequences of a wound
in dissection.

     These not uncommon accidents occur perhaps a
hundred or a thousand times without being followed

by any material results ; but if they happen in disor
dered conditions of health, either of mind or body, they
 are sometimes serious affairs, and usually of a more or
less active kind --that is, soon terminating in death or
recovery. Not so in Abernethy. The complaint went
 through various phases, so that it was nearly three
 years, he used to tell us, before he fairly and finally
        MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.          397

got rid of the effects of it. One of the most difficult

things for a man who was so actively engaged in a pro

fession in London, as Abernethy was, is to get the req

uisite quantity of exercise, while the great mental ex

ertion which characterizes a London, as distinguished

from almost any other kind of life, requires that the

digestive organs should be "up to" pretty good living.

Then, again, Abernethy lived in the days of port

wine, when every man had something to say of the

sample his hospitality produced of this popular bever

age. Abernethy, who was never intemperate, was very

hospitable, and always selected the finest port wine he

could get, which, as being generally full and powerful,

was for him perhaps the least fitted.

Mr. Lloyd, of Fleet Street, who was one of the old-

fashioned family wine-merchants, and one of the best

men of his day, was the purveyor of his Falernian, and

never was there a more correct application of nomen

clature than that which gave to him the title, by which
he was best known, of " Honest John Lloyd." He was

Ione of the kindest-hearted men ever knew ; he had a

great regard for Mr. Abernethy ; and was treated him

self by almost every body as an intimate friend. One

day I went there just as Abernethy had left. " Well,"

says Mr. Lloyd, " what a funny man your master is!"
" Who ?" said I. ' ' Why, Mr. Abernethy. He has just

been here, and paid me for a pipe of wine; and threw

down a handful of notes, and pieces of papers with
Ifees.
        wanted him to stop to see if they were right;

'for,' said I, 'some of these fees may be more than you

think, perhaps.' 'Never mind,' said he, 'I can't stop;
you have them as I took them,' and hastily went his

way."
398 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

     Sedentary habits, however, as people now begin to
find, do not harmonize well with great mental exer

tion, or constant and anxious occupation. In 1817,
Abernethy felt his combined duties as surgeon to the

hospital, as lecturer there, and also at the College, be
coming too onerous, and therefore in that year he re
signed the Professorship. On this occasion, the Coun
cil sent him the following unanimous expression of
their appreciation of his services.

At the Court of Assistants of the Royal College of Sur
    geons, in London, holden at the College on the 15th
   day of July, 1817, Resolved unanimously,
    " That the thanks of this Court be presented to John

Abernethy, Esq., for the series of Lectures delivered by
him in the theatre of this College in the years 1814,
1815, 1816, 1817, with distinguished energy and per
spicuity, by which he has elucidated the physiological
and pathological opinions of John Hunter, explained his
design in the formation of the Hunterian Collection,
illustrated the principles of surgery, and thereby has
highly conduced to the improvement of anatomical and
physiological knowledge, the art and science of surgery,
and to the promotion of the honor of the College."

    This seems to have gratified him, as, under all the
circumstances, we can readily understand it might do,
and he accordingly replied to it as follows:

"to the master, governors, and council of the royal

                       college of surgeons.

   " Sir and Gentlemen, -- To obtain the good opinion

of others is a universal object of human actions, and
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  399

we often strive to acquire it by circuitous and absurd
means; but to obtain the approbation of eminent and
judicious characters by pursuing the direct path of
professional duty is the most gratifying mode of seek

"Iing and receiving this object of general ambition.
          have ventured to premise these observations to

Ishow you, gentlemen, that do not write inconsider
Iately, or merely as a matter of form, when thus re

turn you my warmest thanks for the distinguished
honor you have conferred on me by your public appro
bation of my endeavors* to discharge the duties of an

Iarduous office, to which was elected through your

"Ikindness and confidence.
         have the honor to remain, Sir and Gentlemen,

your very grateful and obedient servant,

                                          "John Abernethy."

    We insert in this place a letter which he wrote about
this time to Sir William Blizard, because it shows two
things which are characteristic : the one, how constant
he was in not allowing any considerations to interfere
with the lectures ; and the other, the endurance of his

old attachment to Sir William Blizard. It is an apol

ogy for not having been present at the Council.

   " Dear Sir William, --I was yesterday desired to

see a patient residing seven or eight miles from Lon

don. I could not go that day, for it was lecture even
ing; I can not go to-morrow, for the same reason; con
sequently I must go this evening. I hope you will con

sider these circumstances as an apology for my absence
from the Board.

                             * Underscored in the original.
400 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

  "If you cite my example* as one misleading future

Iprofessors, be so good as to remember that retired,
leaving the task which I had undertaken incomplete,

wherefore it became necessary to explain publicly to
an indulgent audience my motives for resigning the

"Iprofessorship.

        remain, dear Sir William, yours unremittingly,
                                          "John Abernethy."

    Abernethy had at various periods of his life been
subject to an inflammatory sore throat of a very active
kind, which would on some days impede so as almost
to prevent his swallowing, and then suddenly termin
ate in abscess, leaving him perfectly well again. He
was young when these sorts of attack began, as in his
lectures he used to speak of one of them having sub
sided only the night before he had some lectures to de
liver before the Council of the College, when they were
accustomed to meet in the Old Bailey.

    The disposition, however, to disorder of the digestive
organs, and the tendency to the termination in inflam
mation of the mucous membrane of the throat, as he
advanced in life, began to affect other structures, and
he became teased and subsequently greatly tortured by

rheumatism. This term --which is a kind of general

name for various conditions of joints extremely differ

ent from each other --is in many cases, as we all know,

extremely painful, and is never more excruciating than
when parts thus conditioned are affected by spasms.
These spasms were a source of much acute suffering
to Abernethy. His constant occupations gave him no

    * Apparently alluding to the impression it might create that such
a course was necessary.
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  401

opportunity of relieving himself from work, except there
was that accommodation of indisposition to convenient

times, which of course seldom happens.
   In the earlier parts of his life, Abernethy, when he

was out of health, would take the first opportunity
which his occupations allowed of going a little way
into the country, and there, by diet, and amusing him
self by reading and exercise, he would soon get well.
But as he advanced in life, he was not so ready to at
tend to himself as perhaps he ought to have been. Be
sides, he would sometimes do things which incurred
unnecessary risks, which we ourselves would sometimes
venture to mention to him.

   Living at the time to which we are now alluding in
Ely Place, and attending his lectures long after we had
commenced practice, we frequently walked down with
him to lecture, sometimes in the rain, when we used to

think his knee breeches and silk stockings looked most

uncomfortable. Besides this, he was very careless about

his umbrella; I never recollect him on such occasions
calling a coach, and I hardly ever knew him come

down to his evening lecture in his carriage. He gen
erally came down to the two o'clock lecture some min

utes before the time ; and as he complained at that
time of cold feet, he would stand opposite one of the

flue openings in the Museum. One day I ventured to

suggest to him that the transition of temperature to
the cold place he occupied in the theatre rendered this

hardly prudent, when he said "Ay!" and moved away.

Though temperate, without being very particular in his

diet, these imprudences were unfortunate, because we
saw him every year almost becoming troubled more
and more by his painful visitor. The time, however,
;402 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

                  iswas now arriving when he was about to resign the sur
geoncy of the hospital.
                                       it
                                             it,We have seen that when elected to that appointment
                                                   it
he had been no less than twenty-eight years assistant
surgeon; he, however, took no pains to indemnify him
self for this long and profitless tenure of a subordinate
post, but, mindful of what he had himself suffered, im

mediately on his appointment he did the best he could
at once to provide against others being subjected to such
an unrequited service. He accordingly, on his elec
tion, addressed a letter to the governors of the hospital,
of which we regret that we have not a copy. Our friend
Mr. Lloyd, a friend and favorite pupil of Abernethy's,

had a copy, and had kindly found it and laid it aside
for us, but unfortunately again mislaid and can
not be found neither there a copy of on the books
of the hospital.

    The object of the letter was to recommend some al
terations in the arrangement of the duties of the sur
geons of the hospital, and, among other things, that they
should resign at the age of sixty, with a retiring salary.
Nothing could, we think, be more just or considerate
than such proposal, and came very well from Aber-
nethy, who had just stepped into the lucrative appoint
ment. The proposal, however, was not acted on; and

   would appear that his successors, however much they
may have at the time approved of the precept, have not
been in haste to follow Abernethy's example. There

    little doubt that Abernethy's proposal was as just
and considerate of the interests of all parties as was
in favor of those of science. We can not think that

any one who considers the matter without prejudice
can be of any other opinion.
is it

                    a

                                        it
                                                                    it
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                        403

    The absence, however, of any law on the subject,
made no difference to Abernethy ; he had expressed his
own intention of resigning at the age of sixty, and when
that time arrived he accordingly did so. The govern
ors, however, would not on that occasion accept his res
ignation, but requested him to continue. This he did

for about another year, when, in 1827 --having been
elected in 1815 --he finally resigned the hospital in the

following letter, addressed to the president of the Hos

pital.

" St. Bartholomew's Hospital, July 24, 1827.

"Finding myself incompetent to discharge the du

ties of surgeon to your hospital in a satisfactory man

Iner, and having led my junior to believe that should
Iresign my office at a certain period of my life, hereby

tender my resignation accordingly. At the same time,

I beg leave to assure the Governors of my gratitude
for their appointment to the offices which I have held

under them, and for the good opinion and confidence
Iwhich they have manifested toward me.
                                        annex a

draft for ;£100 for the use of the hospital.

       I" am, dear Sir, your obedient servant,

                                           "John Abernethy.

   " To Rowland Stephenson, Esq."

   At the next meeting of the "Court" of Governors,
it was proposed by Dr. Latham, and seconded by Mr.
Wells, and unanimously resolved,

    " That this Court accept with great regret the resig
nation of Mr. Abernethy as one of its Surgeons, an of
fice which he has discharged with consummate ability
for forty years; and the Court offers him their best,
is404 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.
       it,
their most unanimous, and warmest thanks for his very
       Ilong and important services.

   " July 25, 1827."

    There is something significant in this vote of thanks,
merging his long period of assistant surgeon in the

general expression of his services as surgeon. It is

very suggestive of the influence which had been felt
from the presence of his master mind, although so long
in a position which necessarily restricted its useful en
ergies in regard to hospital matters. We have little
doubt that, had Abernethy become surgeon to the hos
pital at a time of life when his physical energies were
unimpaired, he would have suggested many improve
ments on the system ; but with little real power in that
quarter, and with men who were opposed to him, he
was just the last man in the world to commence a cru
sade against the opinions of those with whom he was as
sociated. The moment he became surgeon, we see him
endeavoring to remove an evil from which he had great
ly suffered, and which is obviously a most undesirable
state of things, viz., that men should so often arrive at
a post in which their active energies are most required
at a time of life when those energies have been perhaps
necessarily addressed to other objects, weary with hope
deferred, or already on the wane.

    He was also very averse to so spacious a portion of
the hospital being devoted to the festive meetings of
the Governors ; and on showing would sometimes

go so far as to say, "Ay, this what call the useless

portion of the hospital." He continued to lecture an
other year, when he resigned the lectures, and in 1829
his appointments at the College of Surgeons also.
MEMOIRS OF ADERNETHY.  405

   In May, 1829, he wrote to Mr. Belfour, the Secretary

of the College of Surgeons (whose politeness and atten
tion in facilitating our inquiries at the College we are

happy thus publicly to acknowledge) as follows :

   " My dear Sir, --Early in April the thermometer was
above 70°, and I had so violent a relapse of rheumatism,

I Ithat have not been able (nor am now able) to leave

this place since that time. Apologize to the President,
therefore, for my non-attendance on Monday. Entre

I Inous, as think shall not be able to perform the du
ties of those situations which I now hold at the College,
I think of resigning them; yet I will not decide till I

have talked with Clift* upon that subject, and have

heard your opinion upon it. If he could come down this
or the following Saturday, I should be glad to see him.

   " I remain, my dear Sir, yours very sincerely,

                                            "John Abernethy.

           " Enfield, May 21.
   " To Edmund Belfour, Esq."

   He accordingly, in July of 1829, resigned his seat at

the Court of Examiners, when the following Memorial
was sent him by the Court of Examiners.

   At the College, at the Court holden on Friday, the
17th of July, 1829.

    Present : Mr. Thomas, President ; Mr. Headington,
Mr. Keate, Vice-Presidents ; Sir William Blizard, Mr.
Lynn, Sir A. Cooper, Bart, Sir A. Carlisle, Mr. Vincent,
and Mr. Guthrie.

    Resolved, that the following memorial be entered in
the minutes of this Court:

   * Our excellent Conservator at that time, of whom we have already
spoken, and a great favorite of Abernethy's.
406 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

   " Conscious of having been enlightened by the sci

entific labors of Mr. Abernethy ; convinced that teach
ers of anatomy, physiology, and of surgery (and conse
quently their pupils) have derived most important in
formation from these sources of knowledge ; and im
pressed that the healing art has been eminently ad
vanced by the writings of that excellent individual,
the members of the Court of Examiners lament the

tendered resignation of an associate so endowed, and
whose conduct in the Court has always been so exem

plary.

   " Resolved also, that a copy of the foregoing memorial

be delivered by the Secretary to Mr. Abernethy."

   He had by this time become a great sufferer -- walk

ed very lame ; and this difficulty, interfering more than
ever with his exercise, no doubt tended to make mat

ters worse. He consulted nobody, I believe, but his

old friend Dr. Roberts, of St. Bartholomew's. He was
induced to go for some time into the country ; and on
his return, hearing that he was again in Bedford Row,

Iand not having seen him for some time, called on him

one morning about eleven o'clock.

   I knew that he had been very ill, but I was not in

the least prepared to see him so altered. When I was

shown into his room, I was so struck with his appear
ance that it was with difficulty I concealed the emo
tion it occasioned ; but I felt happy in observing that
I had succeeded.

    He appeared all at once, as it were, to have become
a very old man ; he was much thinner ; his features
appeared shrunk. He had always before worn a good
deal of powder ; but his hair, which used to hang
             MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                             407

rather thickly over his ears, was now thin, and, as it

appeared to me, silvered by age and suffering.

  IThere was the same expressive eye which had so

often seen lit up by mirth or humor, or animated by

some more impassioned feeling, looking as penetrating

and intellectual as ever, but with a calmness and lan

guor which seemed to tell of continued suffering, and

which I had never seen before. He was sitting at a

table on a sort of stool, as it appeared to me, and had

been seeing patients, and there were still several wait

ing to see him. On asking him how he was, the tone

of his reply was very striking.

  It was, indeed, the same voice which I had so often

listened to with pleasure, but the tone was exceedingly

changed. It was the subdued character which is ex

pressive of recent suffering, and sounded to me most

mournfully.   "Ay," said he,       "this is very kind of you

--very kind  indeed !" and he      somewhat distressed me

by repeating this several times, so that I hardly knew

what to reply. He said he was better, and that he

could now walk          pretty  fairly    again,  "as,"  said  he,
" you shall see."

He accordingly slowly dismounted from his seat,

Iand with the aid of two sticks began to walk, but it
was a melancholy sight to me.             had never seen him

nearly so lame before.
I asked him what he was going to do ; he said that

he was going to Enfield on the morrow, and that he
Idid not think he should return.
                                          suggested that he

might   possibly try a  drier air with more advantage ;
        feared Enfield  might be a little low and damp,
that I

Iand                                                 "Well," he

said,                                               very shortly
n"ot,anpyostshibinlyg,  the best   place  for him.
                        is better  than   this."
408 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

Iafter took my leave, not sorry to be again alone, for

felt considerably depressed by the unexpected impres

sions I had received from this interview. It was too

plain that his powers were rapidly waning. He went

Ito Enfield on the following day (a Wednesday, think),

and never returned again to practice. He lingered

about another year, during which time I once went to
see him, when I found him something better. He

was able to see his friends occasionally, and at times
seemed to rally. In the spring, however, of 1831, he

gradually got weaker, and died on the 20th of April in

that year.

He perfectly retained his consciousness to the last,
Iand, as
            understood, died as tranquilly as possible.

There was nobody in the room with him at the mo

ment but his servant, to whom he said, "Is there any
body in the room ?" His servant replied, " No, Sir."

Abernethy then laid his head back, and in a few sec

onds expired. His body was not examined ; but from

the history and symptoms of his case, there could be

little doubt that there would have been found organic

changes in which the valvular structures of the heart

had more or less participated.
    He was buried in the parish church of Enfield. The

funeral was a private one ; and there is a plain tablet
on the wall over his grave, with the following inscrip

tion :      H. S. E.

                         JOHANNES ABERNETHY, K. S. S.
        REGII CHIRURGORUM COLLEGII QUONDAM PR.SSES

                QUI INGENIO, PROBITATE, BENIGNITATE.
                                  EXIMIE PR^DITUS

                 ARTEH MEDICIN/E PER ANNOS PLURIMOS
            SUMMA CUM D1I.IGENTIA, SOLERTIA, FELICITATE

                         COLUIT, EXERC'UIT, DOCUIT, AUXIT
                         MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

                       ET SCRIPTIS HOC MARMORE PERENNIORIBUS
                                               POSTERITATI TRADIDIT

                               MORBO DEMUM GRAVISSIMO CONFECTOS
                         CUJUS ANGORES HAUD ALITER DOMANDOS

                                  PRO ET CONSTANTI ANIMO SUBEGIT.
                            CONJUGII LIBERIS, AMICIS, DISCIPULIS,
                     HOMANO GENERI, CDI TANTOPERE SUCCURERAT

                                                    FLEBILIS
                     APRILIS DIE 20, A.D. 1831. .XTATIS SVJE 67.

                               PLACIDE IN CHRISTO OBDORMIVIT.

                    CHAPTER XXXIII.

  " Est enim animus caelestis et quasi demersus mterram locum di-
vinae naturae aeternitatique contrarium." -- Cicero.

  It has been stated by an acute observer that it was

impossible for any man to be with Abernethy, even for
a short time, without feeling that he was in commun

Iion with no common mind ; and it was just, think,

the first effect he produced. In person he was of mid
dle stature, and well proportioned for strength and act
ivity. He had a most interesting countenance : it
combined the character of a philosopher and a philan
thropist, lighted up by cheerfulness and humor. It
was not that his features were particularly well formed
or handsome, though he had not a bad one in the
whole countenance ; but the harmony of composition
(if we may be allowed the expression) was so perfect.

   A sufficiently high and ample forehead towered over

Itwo of the most observant and expressive eyes almost

ever saw. People differ about color ; they appeared to
me always of a grayish-blue, and were characterized
as the rule by a mirthful yet piercing expression, from

                                       S.
410 MEMOIRS OK ABERNETHY.

which an overlaying of benevolence was seldom want

ing ; yet, as we have before observed, they would
sometimes lance forth gleams of humor, anger, or pa
thos, as the case might be, which were such as the

term dramatio can alone convey.

   There was another expression of his eye which was

very characteristic : it was when his benevolence was

excited without the means of gratifyingifas would

sometimes happen in the case of hospital patients, fora it,
                                                      is
whom he wanted good air, and things which their po
sition did not allow them to procure. He would in             a fa

this case step pace or two from the bed, throw his
                              a

head little aside, and, talking to the dresser, exhibit
      ;a
an expression of deep feeling, which was extremely pe
         it
culiar       was mixture of suffering, of impatience,
                              ;

                                a
and sympathy but the force the scene drew from the

dramatic character of his expressive countenance en

tirely lost in the mere relation. Then, he gave ut

terance to few words, they were always extremely
             a

touching and expressive. Un an occasion, for exam

ple, like the following, these characters were combined.

A  woman came into the hospital to have an operation

performed, and Abernethy, as was his invariable cus

tom, took some time to get her health into more

vorable condition. Having so far succeeded, the day

was at hand when the operation was to be performed,

when the dresser informed him that she was about to

quit the hospital.

   "Why, my good woman," said Abernethy, "what

fool you must be to come here to have an operation
performed and now, just as you are in a fit state for
it,
                           ;
     to go out again." Somebody here whispered to
him that her father was dying in the country. With
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  411

a burst of indignation, his eyes flashing fire, he turned

to the dresser and said, "You fool, why did you not

tell me this before?" Then, after a moment or two

looking at the patient, he went from the foot up to the
side of the bed, and said, in the kindest tone possible,

"Yes, my good woman, you shall go out immediately ;

Iyou may come back again when you please, and
will take all the care I can of you."

    Now there was nothing in all this, perhaps, but his

Imanner gave it immense force ; and remember one

of the old pupils saying to me, " How kind he was to

that woman ; upon my soul, I could hardly help cry

ing."

    Abernethy exemplified a very rare and powerful com
bination of intellectual qualities. He had a perception
of the facts of a subject at once rapid, penetrating, and
comprehensive, and a power of that kind of analysis
which immediately elicits their more important rela
tions to the immediate objects of the investigation, a
power, of course, of the utmost value in a practical

profession.
    This faculty was never more marvelously displayed

than sometimes in doubtful or difficult cases, and this

had been always a striking excellence in him, even

when a young man. I recollect hearing my father

say, that to see Abernethy to advantage, you must ob
serve him when roused by some difficulty, and in a

case where other men were at fault or puzzled. It

was just so; his penetrating mind seemed to remove to
either side at once what was foreign or doubtful, and
go straight to the point with which alone he had to

grapple. Allied to this, if not part of was that sug

gestive power which he possessed in so remarkable
it,
                           a
412 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

degree, and which, by a kind of intuition, seemed to
single out those pertinent relations and inquiries which

the judgment is to examine, and reject or approve, as

the case may be -- a faculty absolutely necessary to

success in endeavors at extending the boundaries of a
science. He was thus sometimes enabled, as we have

seen, to convert facts to the highest purposes, in aid
of practical improvement, which, with an ordinary ob
server, would have passed unnoticed.

   These qualities, combined with a memory, as we

have seen, peculiarly ready, capacious, and retentive,

placed his means at once at hand for practical applica
tion. Then, while his quick perception of relation al
ways supplied him with abundant analogies, his im
aginative faculty enabled him to illustrate, enforce, and
adorn them with such a multitude and variety of illus
tration as seemed well-nigh inexhaustible.

   Of his humor we have already spoken; but the samo
properties which served him so well in more important
matters were really, as it appears to us, the foundation
of much of that humor by which his conversation was

characterized --we mean his quick perception of rela

tion, and his marvelously retentive memory. Many of
the things that he said "told," not because they were
original so much as that they were ready at hand ; not
because they were intrinsically good as so apposite in
application ; and, lastly, because they were further as
sisted by his inimitable manner. Nevertheless, some
times his quick perception would be characterized by
a corresponding felicity of expression. Those who re

member the magnificent voice, and peculiar chaste
style of Bartleman, the celebrated singer, who was an
intimate friend of Abernethy's, will appreciate the just
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  413

ness of the expression applied to him when he said,
" Bartleman is an orator in music."

    There is no doubt that he had the talent of convey
ing by his manner, and apparently without the small
est effort, that which in the drama is scarcely known

but as the result of constant and careful study. It

was a manner which no analysis of his character can
convey, of which none of his own compositions even
give an adequate idea. The finest colors are often the
most fugitive. This is just the case with that height
ened expression which we term dramatic. Who can
convey in mere words the thrilling effect that an earn
est, heart-felt expression of a single phrase has some
times conveyed. But, brilliant as these endowments
were, they were graced by moral qualities of the first
order.

   Quick as he was to see every thing, he was neces
sarily rapid in his perception of character, and would
sometimes, at a glance, hit on the leading influence of
this always difficult assemblage of phenomena with
the same rapidity that marked his dealings with facts
which were the more immediate objects of his profes
sional inquiries. But, though quick in his perception
of character, and therefore rapidly detective of faults,

his views were always tempered by generosity and

good sense. Indignant at injustice and oppression, and
intolerant only of baseness or cruelty, he was kind and
charitable in his construction of more common or ex

cusable failings.
   He loved man as his brother, and with enlarged

ideas of the duties of benevolence, never dispensed it
as a gift which it was creditable to bestow, so much
as an obligation which it would have been immoral to
414 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

have omitted. It was not that he did any thing which

the world calls noble or great in giving sums of money
to this or that person. There were, indeed, plenty of
instances of that sort of generosity and benevolence,
which would creep out in spite of him, from those
whom he had benefited ; and no man knew how to do

it better. A gentleman, for example, came up from

the country to the school, and went to Bedford Row to
enter the lectures. Abernethy asked him a few ques

tions about his intentions and his prospects, and found
that his proceedings would be a little doubtful, as they
were contingent on the receipt of some funds which
were uncertain. Abernethy gave him a perpetual

ticket to all his own lectures ; " and what made so
much impression on me," said the gentleman, " was
that, instead of paying me less attention, in asking me
to his house, than the other pupils, if there was any
difference, he paid me rather more." We have seen
this gentleman within a few days, and we are happy

to say he has had a happy and prosperous career.
    The benevolence, however, to which we allude, was

not merely giving or remitting money; that, indeed,
would be a marvelously overcoming of the world with
many people, but not with Abernethy; his benevolence
was no fitful suggestion of impulse, but a steadily flow
ing principle of action, which was never obtrusive, but

was always ready when required. It has been said a
good man's life is a constant prayer. It may be as

serted that a good surgeon's life should be a gentle
stream of benevolent sympathies, supporting and ad
vancing the conscientious administrations of the duties
of his profession. That this really intrinsic part of his
character should have been occasionally overlaid by
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                        415

aunkindness of manner indeed, much to be regretted,

            1and, we believe, was subsequently deplored by no one
                                    1
more sincerely than himself, and those who most loved
                       ; is,
and respected him. The faults of those to whom we
                                                si
                                                             aare indifferent are taken as matter of course, but the

                                                                          aerrors of those who are the objects of our respect and

affection are peculiarly distressing. We feel them al

most as personal wrong; and in  character like

Abernethy, where every spot on so fair a surface be

came luminously evident, such faults gave one feel

ing of mortification which was at once humiliating and

oppressive. While, therefore, we are the last to conceal
his faults, we can not but think he was, after all, him

self the greatest sufferer we have no doubt they orig

inated at least in good motives, and have been charged,
after all, perhaps, with much good.

   Unfortunately, we have at all times had too many

Gnathos in our profession --too much of the

" Quidquid dicunt laudo, id rursum negant laudo id quoque,

Negat quis nego ait aio."

These assenting flatteries are the bane of an honest

man, and under the name of fact, and the influence of

an uncompromising ambition to get on, merge the high

est duties into a desire to please, and, adopting the creed

of Griatho, appropriately arrive at the same climax as

their conclusions.

" Postremo imperavi egomet mihi omnia assentari."

Now Abernethy knew this well, and detested with
a
         a

                      it
                                                                    it
repulsion deep and sincere. He had no knowledge

of Gnathonics. He felt that he was called on to prac

tice profession, whose legitimate object was alone

achieved when ministered to real suffering, and that

mere assentation to please patients was a prostitution
416 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

of the highest qualities of mind to the lowest purposes.

If one may so say, he felt like a painter who has a feel

ing for the highest department of his art, and who could
see nothing in an assenting Gnathonicism but an im

moral daub.

    Neither was this without some use to others; for
though he looked, as the public may be assured many

others do, on a "parcel of people who came to him with

nothing the matter," yet even in -his roughness he was
discriminate, and sometimes accomplished more good
than the most successful assentator by all his lubricity.
One day, for example, a lady took her daughter, evi
dently most tightly laced, a practice which we believe
mothers now are aware is mischievous, but scarcely to
the extent known to medical men. She complained
of Abernethy's rudeness to her, as well she might ;
still he gave her, in a few words, a useful lesson.

"Why, Madam," said he, "do you know there are up

ward of thirty yards of bowels squeezed underneath
that girdle of your daughter's ? Go home and cut it ;
let Nature have fair play, and you will have no need
of my advice."

   But if we must acknowledge and regret, as we do,

his occasional rudeness of manner, let us also give him

the credit of overcoming these besetting impulses. In

all Hospitals, of course, there are occasional vexations,
but who ever saw Abernethy really unkind to a hos
pital patient ? Now we can not affirm any thing be
yond our own experience. We had, as dresser, for a con
 siderable period the care of many of his patients, and "

 we continued frequently to observe his practice from
 the commencement of our pupilage, which was about
 a year or a little more after his appointment as sur-
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  417

geon until the close of his hospital labors. We speak
subject to correction, therefore, but we can not charge
our memory with a single instance of unkindness to a
hospital patient, while we are deeply impressed by the
constant prevalence of a generally kind and unaffected
sympathy with them.

    The quickness with which he observed any imper

fection in the execution of his directions was, on the

contrary, the source of many a "rowing," as we ap
prehend some of his dressers well enough remember,
while he seldom took a dresser without making more
than usual inquiries as to his competency. In private
practice, also, any case that really required skill and
discrimination was pretty sure to meet with the atten
tion that it deserved. This was noticed in the re
marks made on the character of Abernethy at the time
of his death by the Duke of Sussex, at the Royal So
ciety, of which the following is a report, copied from
the books of the Society :

  ANNIVERSARY MEETING OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY, NOVEMBER 30, 1831.

                                  PRESIDENT THE DUKE OF SUSSEX.

   His Royal Highness observed that "Mr. Abernethy
was one of those pupils of John Hunter who appears

the most completely to have caught the bold and philo
sophical spirit of his great master. He was the au
thor of various works and memoirs upon physiological
and anatomical or surgical subjects, including papers
which have appeared in our Transactions. Few per
sons have contributed more abundantly to the estab
lishment of the true principles of surgical and medical
science in those cases which require that minute criti
cism of the symptoms of disease, upon the proper

                                            S2
418 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

knowledge and study of which the perfection of medi
cal art must mainly depend.

   "As a lecturer he was not less distinguished than as

an author ; and he appears to have attained the art of
fixing strongly the attention of his hearers, not less by
the just authority of his opinions, than by his ready
command of apt and forcible illustrations. He enjoy
ed, during many years of his life, more than an ordi
nary share of public favor in the practice of his profes
sion, and though not a little remarkable for the eccen
tricities of his manner, and an affected roughness in
his intercourse with his ordinary patients, he was gen
erally kind and courteous in those cases which required
the full exercise of his skill and knowledge, and also
liberal in the extreme when the infliction of poverty
was superadded to those of disease."

    The high character of his benevolence was shown
also in the ready forgiveness of injuries, and he was as
grateful as he was forgiving. How constant his at
tachment to his early friend and teacher, Sir William
Blizard ! There is something very characteristic of
this when in the decline of life he writes "Yours un

remittingly" to one whose unusually lengthened years
had enabled him to witness Abernethy's entry into
life, and at the conclusion of the labors of his distin
guished pupil, to join with a public body in express
ing the high sense entertained of the obligations which
he had conferred on science and on mankind. Few

men could have been placed in positions more trying
than that in which he found himself in his controversy
with Mr. Lawrence. When, however, the time arrived

at which, in the ordinary course, that gentleman would
have been elected into the Council of the College, there
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                                                                  419

was a very strong feeling on the part of some of the

members against his election. Abernethy proposed
him himself, and it was by his casting vote that the

election terminated in that gentleman's favor.

A member of the Council having expressed his sur

prise that Mr. Abernethy should propose a gentleman

with whom he had had so unpleasant a difference,

"What has that to do with it?" rejoined Abernethy.

Some friends of Mr. Lawrence wished to pay that gen
tleman the compliment of having his portrait drawn,

and a subscription was to be entered into for that pur

pose. It was suggested that it would be very desira

ble to get Mr. Abernethy to allow his name to be in

the list ; and our friend Mr. Kingdon,* with the best

intentions, no doubt, ventured to ask Mr. Abernethy to
put his name at the head of the list. But there was

nothing of Quixotism in Abernethy. He would have
been very glad to do a kind thing to any body, and

any obstacle affecting him personally was much more
likely to be an argument in favor than otherwise. He

liked justice for its own sake, but he was circumspect

as well as penetrative. At first he seemed inclined to

do but he asked a day to consider of and then
it,

                                              '

                                                        is,
                                                                                                    :

                                                I

                                                                   it,

                                                          I
wrote the following letter, into a more particular ex

amination of which we need not enter

" My dear Sir, -- Fiat Justitia'                  " 1828-9.

                                      as flatter my

self, the rule of my conduct. At all times have ex
pressed my approbation and respect for William Law

rence on account of his professional learning, and of

   * An old and respected pupil of Abernethy's, whose merits as an
excellent man and kind-heated professional brother we are happy

thus publicly to acknowledge.
420 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHV.

his ability as a writer and public speaker. But if I do

what you would have me, I shall do much more, and

be made to appear as a leader in a scheme, the object
of which is indefinite ; so that persons will be at liber
ty to put what construction they please upon my con

duct. Being desirous of doing what you wish, I have

been for some time in a state of perplexity and hesita
tion.

  I" At length I have resolved, that since can not de

termine what ought to be done, to follow a useful rule
of professional conduct, and to do nothing. Vexed to

refuse you any thing, I hope that you will still believe

me, my dear Sir, your obliged and very sincere friend,

                                         "John Abernethy."

    As a companion, Abernethy was most agreeable and
social, in the true sense of the word ; that is, not gre
garious. Naturally shy, numbers neither suited his
taste nor his ideas ; but the society of his family, or a
few social friends with whom he could feel unreserved,

was his greatest pleasure.
    On such occasions, when in health, he would be the

life and joy of his circle. There never was, perhaps, any
one more ministered to by an enduring affection while
living, nor in regard to whose memory the regrets of
affection had been more combined with the hallowing
influences of respect and veneration. At home, he
would sometimes be as hilarious as a boy ; at other
times he would lie down on the rug after dinner, and
either chat or sleep away the short time that his avo
cations allowed him to give to that indulgence. Oc
casionally he would go to the theatre, which he some
times enjoyed very much ; like his brother, he was a
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                        421

great lover of our immortal Shakspeare, and scarcely
less familiar with most of the wonderful creations of

his mighty genius.

   When we contemplate     Abernethy in a    single phase
only of his character, we                    physical or
                           see a " fidgety"

ganization, influencing an irritability of character of
which it was too much a supporter if it were not the

original cause ; but the moment we penetrate this thin
and only occasional covering, we meet with nothing

but rare and splendid endowments; and as we pro

ceed in our examination, we are at a loss which most

to admire, the brilliant qualities of his intellect, or the

moral excellences of his heart.

   But in estimating the one or the other, we must
view them in relation to the other feelings with which

they were accompanied, as impeding or assisting their

development and application, or otherwise we shall
hardly estimate in its due force the powers of that vo

lition over which the moral sense so constantly pre

sided.

   Abernethy had considerable love of approbation -- a

quality which, in its application to the Divine Being,

all others may be said to terminate; but it is a qual

ity which, in its too common application, is apt to di

lute the character, and bring down the mind from the

contemplation of more elevated motives to the level of
those more suited to more immediate fruition afforded

by worldly conventionalisms. To one shy even to ti
midity, and whose organization fitted him rather for

the rapid movements of a penetrative and impulsive
perceptivity than the more dogged perseverance of sus

tained labor, love of approbation, even in the ordinaryit,
application of might have been a useful stimulus
422 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

in maintaining exertion, and we believe it was. Yet,
though he avowed it as a dominant principle in our
nature, as the great " incentive" to human action, he
never sought it but by legitimate channels; nor, po
tential as its influences might have been, when sharp

ened by shyness and timidity, did he hesitate one mo
ment to throw them all aside whenever the interests
of truth or justice rendered it necessary.

    When Mr. Hunter's views were little noticed, less

understood, and apparently in danger of being forgot
ten ; when the more speculative of his views were not
even known as his by any published documents; when,
therefore, in addition to other objections, he was, as we
have seen, subjected to the imputation of advocating
opinions as Hunter's of which there were no other

proofs than the precarious testimony of contemporaries,
he stood boldly forward as the fearless, earnest, and

eloquent advocate of John Hunter. In this cause he

overcame his natural dislike to contest and publicity,
and encountered just that individualizing opposition
which is most trying to a sensitive organization, ex
emplifying a rare tribute of truth and justice paid by

genius to the claims of a departed brother. At the

same time, the power he displayed of moulding views,
scarcely even acknowledged, into the elementary be
ginnings of little less than a new science, strikingly
testifies the superiority of his intellectual power.

   While, however, he advocated John Hunter's views,
and, with a creative spirit, made them the basis of ad
ditional structures which were emphatically his own,
we find him modestly reverting again and again to
John Hunter, as if afraid of not awarding him his just
due, and forever linking both the early bud afforded by
               MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                     423

Hunter's inquiries, and the opening blossom afforded
by his own, with the imperishable efforts of his distin

guished master, exemplifying the modesty of genius,
and how superior it when guided by virtue, to any
               if
but the most exalted motives.
                      it
                           is

                                   is,

                                                it
Another example of his independence of mind, and

of his conquest over difficulty when the interests of

truth appeared to him to render necessary, was the

manner in which, in defiance of ridicule and all sorts

of opposition, he advocated his own views --with ulti

mate success,      true, but obtained only through a

variety of difficulties, greatly exacerbated by his natu

rally shy, not timid organization. Still, amid all his

brilliant endowments, we feel ourselves fondly revert
ing to the more peaceful and unobtrusive efforts with

which he daily inculcated the conscientious study of

an important profession.
   That he had faults of course true, but they were
                      it
not the faults of the spirit so much as of the clay-boundis
                           resided --not so much those of
tenement in which

the individual man as those necessarily allied to hu

manity. The powerful influences of education had not

been very happily applied in Abernethy; its legitimate

office no doubt to educe the good, and suppress the
evolution of bad qualities. In Abernethy, we can hard
ly

           is
    help thinking that his education was more calcu
lated to do just the contrary. " To level a boy with

the earth" because he ventured on "a crib" to the

Greek Testament,   is,  to say the least of very quesit,
                       a
tionable discipline for shy and irritable organization.

To restore to its original form the tree which has been

bent as sapling, always difficult or impossible.ais
   But in virtue of those beneficent laws which " shel
424 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

ter the shorn lamb," Abernethy was allowed ultimate
ly, in spite rather than in consequence of his educa
tion, to develop one of the most benevolent of disposi
tions. To this was joined a powerful conscientious
ness, which pervaded every thing he did, and which
could hardly be supported but by sentiments of relig
ious responsibility ; and we believe that his mind was
deeply imbued with the precepts of a vital Christian
ity, that took the most practical view of his duty to
God and to his neighbor ; and in the very imperfect
sense in which human nature has ever attained to

the full obedience of either, he regarded a humblo
and practical observance of the one as the best human
exposition of the other. His favorite apophthegm on
all serious occasions, and especially in those parts of

his profession where its guidance was most required,
was the divine precept of doing to others as we would

wish done to ourselves. His ancestors had been emi

nent divines, and one of them a distinguished writer,

Iand had attached themselves to what believe is un

derstood by the term "High Order of Unitarians;" but

I have no reason to believe that Abernethy differed

from those tenets which are held by the Church of

England.

   In concluding this very imperfect sketch of a very

difficult character, we have merely endeavored to give
our own impressions. We can not help thinking that
Abernethy has left a space which has not as yet been
filled ; it would be presumptuous to say that it will

long continue so. In his life he has left us an excel
lent example to follow, nor has it been less useful in

teaching us that which we should avoid.
   "While among us, as he taught us how to exercise
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.  425

some important duty, he would occasionally, by way
of exception, endeavor to impress matters of detail, by
showing first how they should not be done. His life
instructs us after the same manner. In all serious

matters we may generally take him as a guide ; in oc
casional habits, we may most safely recollect that faults

are no less faults-- as Mirabeau said of Frederick -- be
cause they have the " shadow" of a great name ; and
we believe that, were it possible, no good man would

desire to leave a better expiation of any weakness than
that it should deter others from a similar error. This

is the view we would wish our young friends to take
of the matter. We can not all reach the genius of
Abernethy, but we may be animated by the same spirit.

  If great men are endowed with powers given only to

the few, their success generally turns on the steady ob
servance of the more homely qualities which are the

common property of the many --caution, circumspec

tion, industry, and humility. Again, genius is often
charged with weaknesses by which mere ordinary
minds are unfettered or unembarrassed. We may em
ulate the justice, the independence of mind, the hu

manity, the generosity, the modesty, and, above all,
the conscientiousness of Abernethy in all serious cases,
without withholding from the more ordinary and light
er duties of our profession a due proportion of these
feelings, or necessarily laying aside that forbearance
and courtesy which must ever lend an additional grace
to our various duties.

    We may endeavor, with all our power, to avoid a
disgraceful flattery and assentation without replacing
them by contrasts which, though not equally mischiev

ous, we may be assured are equally unnecessary, while.
426 MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.

we may, in our various stations, emulate his kindness,
his constancy as a husband, father, and friend, and yet
not refuse a becoming share of such endearing qualities
to others, from any fear that we may be subject to mis

construction.

    We may remember that intellect alone is dry, cold,
and calculating; that feeling, unsupported or uncon

trolled, is impulsive, paroxysmal, and misleading ; and
that the few rare moments of moral excellence which
human nature achieves are when these powers combine
in harmony of purpose and unity of action.

    We may be assured that, however much we may ad
mire that rapid and searching perceptivity ; that sound,
acute, and comprehensive judgment which Abernethy
brought to bear on the study of the profession ; or the

honorable, independent, generous, and humane manner
in which he administered its more important and seri

ous duties, that the greatest, and, for good, the most
potential influence of all, was the manner in which ha
employed multiplied and varied excellences as a teach
er in infusing a truly conscientious spirit into the num

bers whom, as pupils, he sent forth to practice in all parts
of the world. This is still an unknown amount of ob

ligation. Those resulting from his works may be prox
imately calculated, and such as are necessarily omit
ted in a review essentially popular may be chronicled
hereafter in a more suitable manner ; but as a teach
er, we can not as yet calculate the amount of our obli

gations to him. They are only to be estimated by re

flection, and by recollecting the moral influence of ev

ery man who honestly practices an important profession.
   Finally, whether we think of the interests of the pub

lic, the profession, or those of each as affecting each
MEMOIRS OF ABERNETHY.                                              427

Iother, or of both as affecting the progress of society,
we shall, think, be  mdoisdpeorsnedwtroiteargsr,eethwatiththeon"e  of our
most distinguished                                                 means

on which the interests and prospects of society most

depend are the sustained influence that invariably at

tends the dignity of private virtue."
                              INDEX.

CHAPTER I.                                            CHAPTER IV.
                                          Sir William Blizard, 29.
Retrospect, page 1.
Progress of Discovery, 1, 2.              Abernethy's Views of Anatomy, 30.
Galileo, Bacon, Kepler, Berzelius,        Anatomy chiefly interesting as a Key
   Davy, &c., 2, 4.
Discovery, Result of combined     Ef         to Physiology, 31.
                                          Abernethy's grateful Recognition of
   fect, 4.
                                             early Precepts from Sir William
Of Physiological Laws, 4, 5.                 Blizard, 31, 32.
Meaning of Events not seen at the         Incentives to Study, 33.
Time, 5, 6.                               Abernethy at the London Hospital,
Clear Ideas of what is deficient, 6.
First Step in enlarging a Science, 6.        33, 34.
False Ideas concerning Medical Sci        Modes of Teaching Anatomy, 34.

ence, 8, 9.                               Demonstrates for Sir William Bli
Birth of Abernethy, 9.
Its Relation to Hunter's Labors, 9.           zard, 35.
                                          Attends Mr. Pott's Lectures, 35, 36.

Abernethy's Family, 10.                   CHAPTER V.
Goes to School, 11.
                                          A large London Hospital, 36.
CHAPTER II.                               Trait of Abernethy, 37.
                                          Disease a great Leveler. 37.
School Life, 12.                          Money can not buy Every       Thing,
Predictions of Character often Erro
                                              38.
    neous, 12.                        to
Dryden, Swift, Sheridan, 12, 13.          Elected Assistant Surgeon, 38.
Galileo, Newton, Wren, 13.                Important Epoch in his Life, 39.
Individuality of Abernethy, 14.           His Position, 40.
School-fellows, 14, 15.                   Lectures in Bartholomew Close, 41.
Their Reminiscences, 15-19.               His Education as a Lecturer, 41.
Leaves School, 1778, and returns          Becomes a Teacher, 42.
                                          Care necessary in youthful Labor, 42.
   London, 19, 20.                        His Lectures soon attractive, 43.
                                          Importance of comparative Anatomy,
            CHAPTER III.
                                             43, 44.
Mistakes in Choice of Professions,
   20, 21.                                His Zeal and Industry, 44-46.
                                          The celebrated Dessault, 46.
Of Success, Steadiness, Industry, 21.     Shyness of Abernethy, 46, 47.
Industry of Abernethy, 22.                Increased Attractions of his Lectures,
His Inclination for the Bar, 22.
His Powers of Memory, 23.                     47.
Becomes a Pupil in Surgery, 24.
Apprenticed to Sir C. Blicke, 24.         The new Theatre, 1791, 47.
Of Apprenticeship, 25, 26.
Sir Charles Blicke, 26, 27.               CHAPTER VI.
Abernethy's early Disposition to Sci
                                          Change, 48, 49.
   entific Inquiry, 27, 28.               Changes in our own Bodies, 49, 50.
Attends the Lectures of Sir William       Vegetables grown on Flannel, 51.
                                          Leeches kept in distilled Water, 51.
   Blizard and Mr. Pott, 29.              Experiments on Rabbits. Chickens

                                              and Eggs, 52, 53.
430 INDEX.

iOf the ultimate Particles of Matter,          Absorption by the Skin, 86.
    53, 54.                                    Experiments on his own Lungs, 86,

His Reflections thereon, 54.                        87.

                       SECTION I.              Immense Surface of the Skin, 87, 88.
                                               Relation of Skin and Lungs, 88, 89.
Dissection of a Whale, 54, 55.                 Relation of Lungs and other Organs,
Absorbent Vessels in the Whale, 55,
                                                   89.
    56.
                                               Connection of Lungs with Organs, 90.
Of Glands, 57, 58.                             His Remarks on Consumption, 90, 91.
                                               On its Treatment, 91.
                   SECTION II.                 What Kind of Investigation required,

Curious Cases, 58.                                 92.
Deviations from the Natural Struc
                                               The present State of Medicine, 92.
    ture. 58, 59.
Combination of Natural Laws, 60.                           CHAPTER IX.
Their Import in Natural Theology, 60.          His Remarks on Tic Douloureux, 92.
Dissection, how formerly supplied,             Sufferings of Tic Douloureux, 93.

    60, 61.                                    Division of Nerve Case, 94, 95.
                                               Of the Nervous System, 95.
Curious Relations of the Heart and
   Liver, 61-63.                               Bleeding, 97.
                                               Its Frequency, 98.
Of the Public Aversion to the Inspec
   tion of the Dead, 63, 64.

        CHAPTER VII.                           Comparative Infrequency, 99.

Armstrong the Poet, 64.                        Occasional Accidents, 99.
Of Pain, 65.                                   His Cautions important, 100.
Of painless Diseases, 65, 66                   His rising Reputation, 101.
Of an insidious Malady, 66.                    His Reputation        the Hospital,
Abernethy's Essay on Lumbar Dis                Third Part of   a"t  Physiological   101.

    ease, 67.                                  says," 102.                          Es
Principles of his Plan, 67.
Abernethy's Plan misunderstood, 68,                         CHAPTER X.
                                               His clear Penetration, 102.
    69.
                                               Pierre Joseph Dessault, 103, 104.
Misinterpreted by Sir A. Cooper, 69.           Dessault and Abernethy, 105.
Real Objects of the Plan, 70.                  Their Solution of a Difficulty, 105, 106.
Suggested by an Accident, 71.                  Abernethy's improved Practice in In

        CHAPTER VIII.                             juries of the Head, 106-108.
His Essay on the Skin and Lungs, 71.           General Excellence of this Paper,
Advance of Chemistry, 72-74.
Caution in                                         109, 110.
Respiration  c--hewmhicaat?l  Reasoning,  74.
                              74,75.           Importance of Recording Facts, 110.

Object of his Inquiry, 75.                     CHAPTER XI.
Function of the Lungs, 76.
Of the Lungs and Skin, 77.                     Experiments on Irritability, 110, 111.
Of the             of Animals,                 Of Galvanism, 111, 112.
Of the  covering  Animals, 78.       77.       Object of Abernethy's Experiments,
        color of
Clothing of Birds, 78, 79.                         112.
Variety of their   Color,
Of Respiration    by the       79.   80.       Observations on Frogs, 113, 114.
                                               Of the Respiration of Fish, &c., 115
                              Skin,            Experiment on the Blood, 115, 116.
Sanctorius, Cruikshank, Edwards, 80,           On the Temperature of Animals, 116

81.                                                       CHAPTER XII.
                                               A few Remarks on Experiments on
Experiments, 81.
His Experiments in Quicksilver, 82,               Living Animals, 117.
                                               Claims of Physiology, 117, 118.
83.                                            Experiments on Animals questioned

Experiments in Water, 83.                          119.
Questionable Views of Carbonic Acid,
                                               Those of Orfila inconclusive, 119, 120
83.                                            Orfila-- Charles Bell, 120.

Carbonic Acid, how formed, 84, 85.
Experiments in Carbonic Acid, 86.
                                                          INDEX.                                                                                           431

Physiology a Science of Observation, Remarks on his Audience, 153.

     121.                            a                                                                                          Impressions on Abernethy, 153, 154.
                                                                                      it,
Abernethy's Disapproval of Experi                                                                                              On great Evil, 155.
   ments on Living Animals, 122, 123.                                                A                                         Consequences of 155.
                                                                                                                               Evils of imperfect Induction, 155, 156.
Absence of Cruelty necessary, that                                                                            a                Important Inferences, 156.
    the Reasoning may be clear, 123,                                                                                        it,Importance of Names, 157.
                                                                                                                               Evils of partial Investigation, 158.
     124.                                                                                                                      Illustrations of his Views, 159.
                                                                                                                               Clearness and Precision of his Re
Coincidence of Moral and Scientific
    Objects, 124.                                                                                                                  marks, 160, 161.
                                                                                                                               Misconception of his Views, 161.
           CHAPTER XIII.                                                                                                       Whence they originated, 162.
His Remarks on Tumors, 125.                                                                                                    Popular Illustrations, 163, 164.
                                                                                                                               Simple Nature of Odors, 165.
The Object of his Arrangement, 126.                                                                                            Vigilance of the Stomach, 165, 166.
Simplicity of his Plan, 126, 127.                                                                                              Abernethy's Illustrations, 166, 167.
Importance of Names, 127.
His Arrangement, 127, 128.                                                                                                     Of accurate Investigation, 167, 168
Hasty Removal of Tumors, 128, 129.                                                                                             Its essential Elements, 168.
Defects of Plan, 129, 130.
Popular Illustration, 130, 131.                                                                                                           CHAPTER XVI.
Of Analogies in Vegetables, 131, 132.                                                                                          "My Book" continued, 168, 169.
Great Importance of the Subject, 132.
His Success, 133.                                                                                                              Conduct of the Mind in Scientific In
                                                                                                                                  vestigation. 170.
                                     SECTION.
                                                                                                                               Influence of Digestive Organs in Inju
Occasional curious Results of                                                                                                     ries of the Head, 171.
Wounds of the Lungs, 134.
His Remarks on Naevi, 135, 136.                                                                                                Influence of Digestive Organs in so-
Avoidance of unnecessary Excision,                                                                                                called Specific Diseases, 172, 173.

    136.  of his                     " Surgical  Cases,"  136.                                                                 Of Specific Poisons, 173, 174.
Value                                                                                                                              suggestive Case, 174, 175.

Hunter's celebrated Improvement,                                                                                               Affections of continuous Surfaces,

     137.                                                                                                                          175.

Abernethy's early Extension of                                                                                                 Interesting Results, 175. 176.
                                                                                                                               Affect the Mind also, 177.
     138.                                                                                                                      Mr. Boodle, 177, 178.
                                                                                                                               Value of Abernethy's Principles, 178.
Of minute Holes in the Heart, 138,                                                                                             Recapitulations, 179.
                                                                                                                               Uncertainty of Medicines. 179, 180.
     139.                                                                                                                      Causes of Failure explained, 180.
                                                                                                                               Causes of Failure examined, 180, 18J.
Moves to Bedford Row, 139.                                                                                                     Explanation of Phenomena, 181, 182.
                                                                                                                               How Nature deals with injurious In
           CHAPTER XIV.
                                                                                                                                  fluences, 182-184.
Abernethy's Marriage, 140.
Of Apophthegms, 141.
Table-Turning, 141, 142.
How Eccentric, 142.

Common Sense, 143.                                              General Consequences, 184, 185.

His Difficulty, 143, 144.                                       Of secondarily-affected Organs, 185,
Writes Note, 144.
Married at Edmonton, 144.                                                                                                      186.
Lectures on the same Day, 145, 146.
                                                                Importance of Primary Organs, 186,
            CHAPTER XV.
Of his Work called " My Book," 147.                                 187.

Expansion of his Views, 147, 148.                               And of Discrimination, 187.
Slow Progress, 148.                                             What Caution necessary, 187, 188.
Imperfect Study of his Views, 149.
Importance of Simple Facts, 149.                                Author's Obligations to Abernethy,
Misconstruction of his Views, 150.
Mr. Hunter, 151.                                                    188, 189.                                                        produced by " My Book,"
Popular Illustration. 152.                                      Impressions
Facts observed by Mr. Hunter, 152,
                                                                                                                                   189, 190.

                                                                                                                               Slow Diffusion of his Principles, 190,

                                                                    191.

                                                                Reminiscences of Old Pupils, 191.
                                                                His increasing Practice, 191, 192.
                                                                Importance of Patients understanding

153.                                                                                                                           those consulted, 192, 193.
432 INDEX.

Sir James Earle, 193, 194.                                                          Of Tendency as an Argument, 224,

Anecdote, 194.                                                                          225.

      CHAPTER XVII.                                                                 AObfetrhneethPyo'vs erMtyodoefraLtaionng,uag2e2,5,22262.6.

Retrospect, 195.  of human Affairs,                                                 Of  the Conduct of the College, 227.
Varied Currents                                                                     Of  imputed Skepticism, 227-229.

    196, 197.                                                                       Alleged Neglect of the Sabbath, 229,

Smooth Water, 197.                                                                      230.
High estimate of Abernethy, 197, 198.
Scientific Character of his School,                                                 Conduct of the College, 230.
                                                                                    Apathy of the College, 230, 231.
    198.                                                                            Abernethy's Moderation, 231, 232.

Attended by Pupils of other Schools,                                                          CHAPTER XXI.
198.

Plate presented by Pupils, 199.                                                     Abernethy's Style of Lecturing, 232,
Pupils subscribe for a Portrait, 200.
Mr. Stanley's Demonstration, 201.                                                       233.
Painful Impressions in Prospect, 202.
Trials, 202, 203.                                                                   Of Extracts from Lectures, 233.
                                                                                    Extracts from Lectures, 233-252.
          CHAPTER XVIII.
                                                                                              CHAPTER XXII.
Lincoln's Inn Fields, 203, 204.
College of Surgeons, 204, 205.                                                      Abernethy as a Teacher, 253.
Hunterian Museum, 205, 206.                                                         Communication of Ideas, 253.
Mr. Clift. 206, 207.                                                                Of Simplicity, 254.
Selection of Lecturers, 207, 208.                                                   Of unnecessary Technicalities, 255,

Abernethy appointed in 1814, 208.                                                      256.
Use of Hypothesis in expressing our                                                 Some Lectures very technical, 256.
                                                                                    An Example, 256, 257.
   Ideas, 208-210.                                                                  A Sentence from
                                                                                    Of Tricks-- Good  Abernethy,              257.
                                                                                                      Breeding,             257, 258.
Abernethy's correct Interpretation                                                  of Vulgarity, 258, 259.
   Hunter, 210.                                                                           Abernethy's Freedom from, 259.

Abernethy's additional Illustrations,                                               Of  Quantity, 259, 260.                 260.
                                                                                    Of  metaphorical Language,
    211.                                                                            Mode of impressing Facts, 260. 261.
                                                                                    Anecdote of Dr. T.
Illustrations not Opinions, 212.                                                    Of his Stories, 262.             Rees,  261.
Unexpected Consequences, 212, 213.

      CHAPTER XIX.                                                                  His dramatic Power, 262, 263.

Comparison made   by Lord Bacon,                                              213.  Anecdote, 263, 264.
                  and Humility,                                               213,
Of Pearlessness                                                                     Of the Pathetic-- Anecdote, 264, 265.

214.                                                                                Tone of Voice never Declamatory,
ABObafecorthnneet--hEyfPfoe--pcetLs--awoAfrdeCdnoiscnoetnr,o, v2e12r51s.5y.,
                                                                              214.  266, 267.

                                                                                    Inconveniences of Declamation, 267.
                                                                                    Of  OSyrdmepra--thyfavowriitteh
Mr. Lawrence's Exordium, 216, 217.                                                  Of                               the Student, 268.
Its comprehensive Fidelity, 217.                                                                                     Passages, 268.
                                                                                    His Liveliness, 269.
Mr. Lawrence's first Lecture, 217,                                                  Importance of Liveliness, 270.

    218.                                                                            His successful Manner, 270, 271.
                                                                                    In referring to Adaptation, 271, 272.
Mr. Abernethy in Relation to the Opin                                               Inconvenience of Marvelousness, 272.
    ions advocated, 218, 219.                                                       Of the Passion or Feelings, 272, 273.
                                                                                    Of sensual Illustrations, 274.
Personal Application by Lawrence
   of Abernethy's Observations, 220,                                                         CHAPTER XXIII. *
   221.

Olners engage in the Discussion, 221.

           CHAPTER XX.                                                              Abernethy's Humor, 274, 275.
                                                                                    Anecdote, 275-277.
Review of the Controversy, 221, 222.                                                His Self-possession, 277.
Difficulty of Abernethy's Position,                                                 Of his general Tone, 278.

    222.                                                                            Salutary Impressions, 278, 279.

Discussions of the Pupils, 223.                                                     Gentleness, 279, 280.                   280, 281
Difficulty of Abernethy's Position,                                                 Its Importance, 280.

   223, 224.                                                                        An important Improvement,
                                     INDEX.                                         433

General Effects of his Lectures, 281.                  CHAPTER XXVIII.

His negative Excellence very great, The Hospital System, 332-338.
281, 282.                                          Of Operations, 338, 339.
                                                   OOpfeCrahtlioornosfo--rmJo,h3n39H. unter, 339-341.
           CHAPTER XXIV.

Of Immoralities of Trades, &c., 282.               Hospital System resumed, 341.
Of Habit and Fashion, 282, 283.                    Of Apprentice Qualification, 341-344.
Of conventional Morality, 283.                     Of accurate Records, 345.
Influence of Fashion, 284.                         Of Division of Labor, 345.
Ho testy the best Policy, 284, 285.                Hospital System a Failure, 346.
Of mblic Credulity. 285.
Of legal Practice, 285.                                  CHAPTER XXIX.
Mis chief of conventional Morality, Hospital System a Failure. 347.
236.                                               Abernethy and the System, 348.
EIlxlu:smtraplteiosnosf,o2f 8C7o. nduct, 287-289.  Professor Owen-- Cuvier, 348-352.
Decision of doubtful Operation, 289.               Hospital Altercations, 352-354.
                                                   Mr. Stanley, 354-356.
Moral Influence of Abernethy, 289, Sir Astley Cooper in Illustration of
   2i'0.                                              the System, 356, 357.
                                                   Unsatisfactory Results of the Hospi
          CHAPTER XXV.
Of C onsultation, 290-293.                            tal System, 357, 358.
Of D ifferences of Opinion, 293, 294.
                                                   Sir Charles Bell, 358.
Cons ultation, 294-297.                            The Hospital System, 359.

                                                             CHAPTER XXX.

           CHAPTER XXVI.                           Of our Obligations to Abernethy, 360,

Abernethy in Consultation, 297-305.                    361.

Anec dote,  306, 307.          307,  308           JHouhnnteHr u--ntAebre,rn3e6t1h,y,3623.63.
Abernethy   in Consultation,                       Hunter and Abernethy, 363-366.
Mod 'sty and Sense of Justice, 308,                Obligations to Abernethy, 366-375.

   30  i.        Extension of   Hunter's                 CHAPTER XXXI.
Abei            for Aneurism,  309, 310.
       lethy's                                     Of  our Position and  Prospects, 376.
   Oj  eration                 310-313.            Of  Evils and their   Correction, 376-
Aber   lethy in Consultation,

         CHAPTER XXVII.                            378.
Of M anner, 313-316.                               Signs of public Distrust, 378, 379.
Of A -emethy's Manner, 316.                                     of Quackery, 379.
His R oughness and Benevolence,      316,          Astuteness    on the Public, 379-381.
                                                                 -- Hydropathy, 381.
    317.                                           Impressions
AneC"Otes, 317-319.                                Homeopathy
                                                   Homeopathy, 381-387.
His I iberality, 319, 320.                         Hydropathy, 387-392.
                                                   Hopes and Predictions, 392-394.
Anecd ote, 320.
His Humanity, 321.                                          CHAPTER XXXII.
Poor Sentlemen, 321-323.
Anecuote, 323.                                     Wear and Tear, 394.
Of operative Dexterity, 324.                       His Country Dress, 394, 395.
Of operating, 325, 326.                            House at Enfield, 395.
A Hoax, 326, 327.                                  His irritable Heart, 395, 396.
Of Anecdotes generally, 327.                       Wounded in Dissection, 396.
Of nis Manner, 328.                                RReescieginvseshTishaPnrokfsesosfotrhsehiCp,ou39n8c.il, 398.
Self-government, 328, 329.                         His Reply, 398, 399.
Of publishing Lectures, 329, 330.                  Letter to Sir W. Blizard, 399, 400.
Extract from a Letter, 330, 331.                   Suffers from Rheumatism, 400.
                                                   Of Illness in Medical Men, 401.
                         SECTION.                  Walking to the Lecture. 401.
                                                   Resigns the Hospital, 403
Appointed Surgeon to St. Bartholo                  His Resignation, 403.
    mew s in 1815. 331, 332.

Ageiq at Fifty, 332.
434 INDEX.

Vote of Thanks, 403, 404.                         CHAPTER XXXHI.
Of his proposed Improvements, 404.       Of his Character, 409.
Letter to Mr. Belfour, 405.
Memorial addressed to him,               Impressions of his Character, 410-
An Interview, 406-408.       405,  406.
                                             417.
His Death, 408.
Tablet to his Memory, 408, 409.          Remarks of the Duke of Sussex, 418.
                                         Impressions of his Character, 418-

                                             427.

                             THE END.
MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WORKS

                                              PUBLISHED BY

HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE, N. Y.

MEMOIRS OF JOHN ABERNETHT, F.R.S. With a View of his Lec

     tures, Writings, and Character. By George Macilwain, F.R.C.S. 12mo,
      Muslin.

BATTLE'S ANATOMY. An Elementary Treatise on Anatomy. Translated

     from the French by A. Sidney Doane, M.D. 18mo, Muslin, 87J cents.

OHAILLT'S MIDWIFERY. A Practical Treatise on Midwifery.                Trans
                                                                    With 216
     lated from the French, and edited by Gunning S. Bedford, M.D.
      Engravings. 8vo, Muslin, $1 50 ; Sheep, $1 75.

COMBE'S CONSTITUTION OF MAN, considered in Relation to External

     Objects. 18mo, Muslin, 3"i cents.

COMBE'S PRINCIPLES OF PHYSIOLOGY, applied to the Preservation

     of Health, and the Improvement of Physical and Mental Education. With
     Questions. Engravings. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents ; Half Sheep, 50 cents.

COMBE'S PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION; considered with Relation to

      the Principles of Dietetics. 18mo, Muslin 37j cents.

COMBE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF INFANCY. A Treatise on the

     Physiological and Moral Management of Infancy. For the use of Parents.
      From the Fourth Edinburgh Edition. 18mo, Muslin, 37* cents.

COPLAND'S DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE : comprising

      General Pathology, the Nature and Treatment of Diseases, Morbid Structures,
      and the Disorders especially incidental to Climates, to the Sex, and to the dif
      ferent Epochs of Life ; with numerous Prescriptions for the Medicines recom
      mended. A Classification of Diseases according to Pathological Principles ; a
      copious Bibliography, and an Appendix of approved Formula?. The whole
     forming a Library of Pathology and Practical Medicine, and a Digest of Med
     ical Literature. Edited, with Notes and large Additions, by Charlrs A. Lee,
     M.D. To be completed in 3 large 8vo Volumes. Vols. I. and II. are now
      ready. $5 00 per Volume, bound in Muslin ; Sheep, $5 50.

CRUVEILHIER'S ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY. Edited by
     Granville S. Pattison, M.D. With 300 Engravings. 8vo, Muslin, $3 00 ;

      Sheep extra, $3 25.

DRAPER'S TEXT-BOOK'ON CHEMISTRY, for the use of Schools and

      Colleges. With 300 Illustrations. 12mo, Sheep extra, 75 cents.

DRAPER'S TEXT-BOOK ON NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, for the use

      of Schools and Colleges. Containing the most recent Discoveries and Facts,
      compiled from the best Authorities. With nearly 400 Illustrations. 12mo,
       Sheep extra, 75 cents.

DRAPER'S CHEMISTRY OF PLANTS. A Treatise on the Forces which

     produce the Organization of Plants. With an Appendix, containing several
      Memoirs on Capillary Attraction, Electricity, and the Chemical Action of
      Light. Engravings. 4to, Muslin, $2 50
2 MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WORKS.

OHAPTAL'S CHEMISTRY APPLIED TO AGRICULTURE. With a

     Preliminary Chapter on the Organization, Structure, &c., of Plants, by Sir
     Humphrey Davy ; an Essay on the Use of Lime as a Manure, by M. Puvis ;
     with Introductory Observations to the same, by Prof. Renwick. Translated
     and edited by Rev. Wm. P. Page. 18mo, Half Sheep, 50 cents.

GRISCOM'S ANIMAL MECHANISM AND PHYSIOLOGY) being a

      plain and familiar Exposition of the Structure and Functions of the Human

      System. Designed for Families and Schools. Engravings. ISmo, Muslin,
     45 cents ; Half Sheep, 50 cents.

FERRIS'S TREATISE     ON EPIDEMIC   CHOLERA. Plates.     8vo,
                      OF INSANITY.
      Muslin, §1 25.                8vo, Muslin, $1 50.

GALT'S TREATMENT

GARDNER'S NEW MEDICAL DICTIONARY; containing an Explana

      tion of the Terms of Anatomy, Human and Comparative, Physiology, Practice
      of Medicine, Obstetrics. Surgery, Therapeutics, Materia Medica, Chemistry,

      Botany, Natural Philosophy, with the Formulas of the principal Pharmaco
     poeias, and valuable Practical Articles on the Treatment of Disease. On the

      Basis of Hooper and Grant. Adapted to the Present State of Science, and for
      the use of Medical Students and the Profession. 8vo, Sheep extra, $2 50.

GOOD'S STUDY OF MEDICINE. Improved from the Author's Manu

      scripts, and by reference to the latest Advances in Physiology, Pathology, and
     Practice, by Samuel Cooper, M.D. With Notes, by A. S. Doane, A.M.,
     M D. To which is prefixed a Sketch of the History of Medicine, from its Or

     igin to the Commencement of the Nineteenth Century, by J. Bostock, M.D.,
     F.R.S. 2 vols. 8vo, Sheep extra, $3 00.

MRS. GOVE'S ANATOMY. Lectures to Women on Anatomy and Physiol

      ogy, with an Appendix on Water-Cure. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.

HOOPER'S LEXICON MEDIOUM; or, Medical Dictionary. Containing

      an Explanation of the Terms in Anatomy, Botany, Chemistry, Materia Medica,
      Midwifery, Mineralogy, Pharmacy, Physiology, Practice of Physic, Surgery,
       and the various Branches of Natural Philosophy connected with Medicine.
       Selected, arranged, and compiled from the best Authors. Sixteenth American
      from the last London Edition, with Additions from American Authors on Bot

     any, Chemistry, Materia Medica, Mineralogy, &c, by Samuel Akerly, M.D.

      8vo, Sheep extra, $2 50.

HOOPER'S PHYSICIAN'S VADE MEOUM; or, a Manual of the Prin

      ciples and Practice of Medicine. Considerably enlarged and improved, with
     an Outline of General Pathology and Therapeutics, by William Augustus
     Guy, M.B. With Additions, by John Stewart, A.M., M.D. 12mo, Muslin,
      $1 00 ; Sheep extra, $1 25.

JOHNSON'S ECONOMY OF HEALTH; or, the Stream of Human Life

     from the Cradle to the Grave. With Reflections. Moral, Physical, and Philo
      sophical, on the Septennial Phases of Human Existence. 18mo, Muslin, 50

       cents.

KANE'S ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY; including the most recent Dis

      coveries, and Applications of the Science to Medicine and Pharmacy, and to
     the Arts. Edited by John W. Draper, M.D. With about 250 Wood-cuts.
      8vo, Muslin, $1 50 ; Sheep extra, $1 75.

KITOHINER'S DIRECTIONS FOR INVIGORATING AND PRO
     LONGING Life ; or, the Invalid's Oracle. With Improvements, by T. S. Bar
     rett , M.D. I8mo, Muslin, 37£ cents.
MEDICAL AND SURGICAL WOaKS.                                 3

MAGENDIE'S TREATISE ON HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY, on the Bull

      of the Precis Elemenlaire de Physiologic Translated, enlarged, jnd illus
       trated with Diagrams and Cuts. Especially designed for the use of Students
     of Medicine. By J. Revere, M.D. 8vo, Muslin, $2 00 ; Sheep extra, $2 25.

BELL'S MECHANISM OF THE HAND, and Its vital Endowments, as

      evincing Design. 12mo, Muslin, 60 cents.

MASSE'S ANATOMICAL ATLAS. A Pocket Anatomical Atlas of the De

      scriptive Anatomy of the Human Body. Translated from the last Paris Edi
      tion, and edited by G. S. Pattison, M.D. Illustrated by 442 Figures engraved
     on Steel and beautifully colored. 12mo. Muslin, $7 50. Same Work, with
      Plates uncolored, $3 00.

MOORE'S HEALTH, DISEASE, AND REMEDY, familiarly and prac

     tically considered in a few of their Relations to the Blood. 18mo, Muslin, 60

       cents.

TRACY'S MOTHER AND HER OFFSPRING. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.

NELIGAN ON MEDICINES, their Uses and Mode of Administration, with

       a Conspectus of the three British Pharmacopoeias ; an Account of the new

 ...Remedies, and an Appendix of Formula;. With Notes and Additions, con

      forming it to the Pharmacopoeia of the United States, and including all the re
      cent Improvements, by D. M. Reese, M.D. 8vo, Muslin, $1 25; Sheep ex
      tra, $1 51).

PAINE'S INSTITUTES OR PHILOSOPHY OF MEDICINE. 8vo,

      Muslin, $2 75 ; Sheep extra, $3 00.

PARIS'S FHARMAOOLOGIA, being an extended Inquiry into the Opera
     tions of Medicinal Bodies, upon which are founded the Theory and Art of Pre

      scribing. From the Ninth London Edition. Rewritten, with the latest Dis
     coveries in Physiology, Chemistry, and Materia Medica. With Notes, by C.
     A. Lee, A.M., M.D. 8vo, Muslin, $1 25 ; Sheep extra, $1 50.

REESE ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. A Plain and Practical Treatise on

      Epidemic Cholera. Including its Nature, Causes, Treatment, and Prevention .
      To which is added a brief Essay on the Medical Use of Ardent Spirits. 8vo,
      Muslin, 75 cents.

STEWART ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 8vo, Muslin, $1 50 ,

     Sheep extra, (1 75.

TIOKNOR'S PHILOSOPHY OF LIVING ; or, the Way to enjoy Life and

     its Comforts. Engravings. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

VEGETABLE SUBSTANCES used for the Food of Man. Engravings.

       18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

WEBSTER'S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY: com

      prising such Subjects as are most immediately connected with Housekeeping ,

      as, the Construction of Domestic Edifices ; Articles of Furniture ; Animal and
      Vegetable Substances used as Food, and the Methods of preserving and pre
      paring them by Cooking ; making Bread ; Materials employed in Dress and
     the Toilet; Business of the Laundry; Preservation of Health; Domestic

    Medicine, Ac With Additions by an American Physician. With nearly 1000

      Engravings. »vo, Sheep extra, $3 00.
    THE LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                  07

THOMAS CAMPBELL.

           EDITED BY WILLIAM BEATTIE, M.D.

 WITH AN INTRODUCTORY LETTER, BY WASHINGTON IRVING, ESQ.

                        IN TWO VOLUMES, 12M0, MUSLIN, $2 50.

  We have no hesitation in commending his volumes. -- Meth. Quart. Rev.

   These volumes are the most interesting contributions to the British clas
sics that have appeared for several years.-- Evening- Journal.

   We have not seen a book for a long time which we welcomed with more
real pleasure. We feel almost as in publishing this book, the Messrs.
Harper had conferred a personal favor on us. -- Two Worlds.

   Every page full of interest, and, on its perusal, we feel that full and
correct likeness of the poet in our possession. -- Albany Atlas.
        is
                               is

                                               if,
                                                                                                  a

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LEIGH HUNT,

WITH REMINISCENCES OF HIS FRIENDS AND CONTEMPORARIES.

        IN TWO VOLUMES, 12M0, MUSLIN, $1 50.

A work sparkling with gems of thought, and replete with interest of va

rious kinds. Off-hand, dashing sketches of eminent literary men, the friends
and companions of the illustrious subject of the book -- sketchy, admirable
                    of
criticism of the works of the day, and anecdotes of different persons met
with in the course of his career-- these form the two volumes of the Auto'

biography, which, once taken up, will not, we venture to say, be laid down; is

until the last page reluctantly reached --Alfred B. Street.
  A delightful book delightful in what relates to the author, and no less so

in what relates to the men of letters who were his contemporaries                                    and
friends. -- N. Y. Evening Post.
  We would not be without this Autobiography of Leigh Hunt for the price
of fifty such volumes. -- N. Y. Journal Commerce.

A couple of racy, egotistical, gossiping volumes, abounding in picturesque

descriptions of contemporary events and men, and in anecdotes illustrative

of the times during which Leigh Hunt was a notable name. In connection
with the "Life and Correspondence of Southey," and the "Life of Camp

bell," they furnish highly interesting view of literary, political, and social
life in England during the last half century. -- Southern Christian Advocate.
        &
This work will afford much gratification and meet with many admirers.--
                 a
Washington Union.

Harper  Brothers, Publishers,                          New York.
HISTORICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.

                                           PUBLISHED BY

  HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE,
                        NEW YORK.

                    HISTORICAL.

ABBOTT'S ILLUSTRATED HISTORIES. Illuminated Title-pages an<

numerous Engravings. I6mo, Muslin, 60 cents ; Muslin, gilt edges, 75 cents.

Cleopatra.          Josephine.           Madame Roland.

Xerxes the Great.   Cyrus the Great.     Darius the Great.

Alexander the Great. Julius Caesar.      Hannibal the Carthaginian.

Alfred the Great.   Queen Elizabeth.     William the Conqueror.
Charles the First.  Charles the Second.  Mary Queen of Scots.

Maria Antoinette.   Romulus.             Pyrrhus.

Nero.

ABBOTT'S KINGS AND QUEENS; or, Life in the Palace: consisting of

     Historical Sketches of Josephine and Maria Louisa, Louis Philippe, Ferdinand
     of Austria, Nicholas, Isabella II., Leopold, and Victoria. With numerous Il
      lustrations. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00 ; Muslin, gilt edges, $1 25.

ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE, from the Commencement of the

     French Revolution, in 1789, to the Restoration of the Bourbons, in 1815. In
     Additk n to the Notes on Chapter LXXVL, which correct the Errors in the
original Work concerning the United States, a copious Analytical Index has

been appended to the American Edition.   4 vols. 8vo, Muslin, $4 75 ; Sheep
extra, $5 00.

ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE, continued, from the Fall of Napoleon,
in 1815, to the Accession of Louis Napoleon, in 1852. A new Series. Pub

lishing in Parts. Part 8vo, Paper, 50 cents.
                    I.,
ALISON'S LIFE OF MARLBOROUGH. Military Life of John, Duke of                                  2

     Marlborough. With Maps. 12mo, Muslin, $1 50.

BLAKE'S AMERICAN REVOLUTION. History of the American Revo

      lution. Illustrated by Four Maps and Wood-cuts. 18mo, Muslin, 37£ cents.

ANTHON'S DICTIONARY OF GREEK AND ROMAN ANTIQUI

      TIES, from the best Authority is, and embodying all the recent Discoveries of
     the most eminent German Philologists and Jurists. Edited by Wm. Smith,
     LL.D. First American Edition, corrected and enlarged, and containing also
     numerous Articles relative to the Botany, Mineralogy, and Zoology of the An-
      oients. Royal 8vo, Sheep extra, $4 00.

ANTHON'S HISTORY OF GREEK LITERATURE. A Manual of

     Greek Literature, with a Critical History of the Greek Language. 12mo,

Sheep.

BBAUOHESNE'S LOUIS XVII. His Life--His Suffering-- His Death:
    the Captivity of the Royal Family in the Temple. Edited by W. Hazlitt,

Esq. Embellished with Vignettes, Autographs, and Plans.                                          vols. 12mo,

Muslin.

BIBLICAL LEGENDS OF THE MUSSULMANS. The Bible, the Ko

      ran, and the Talmud. Compiled from Arabic Sources, and compared with
     Jew'sh Traditions. 12mo, Muslin, 45 cents.
2 HISTORICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.

BONNEOHOSE'S REFORMERS. The Reformers before the Reformation.
     The Fifteenth Century. John Hon and the Council of Constance. Trans

      lated from the French by Campbell Mackenzie, B.A. An Introduction to
      D'Aubigne's History of the Reformation. 8vo, Paper, 50 cents.

THE BOURBON PRINCE. The History of the Royal Dauphin, Louis XVU

      of France. With numerous Engravings. 16mo, Paper, 50 cents; Muslin,

        62£ cents.

IRODHEAD'S HISTORY OF THE STATE OF NEW TORE. First

     Period, 1609-1664. 8vo, Muslin, $3 00 ; Half Calf, $3 50.

BUOKE'S RUINS OF ANCIENT CITIES; with general and particular

     Accounts of their Rise, Fall, and present Condition. Containing Sketches of
       Alexandria, Athens, Babylon, Carthage, Corinth, Herculaneum, Memphis.
      Nineveh, Palmyra, Persepolis, Pompeii, Sidon, Thebes, Tyre, and others.
      Engravings. 2 vols. 18mo, Muslin, 90 cents.

BULWER'S ATHENS, its Rise and Fall ; with Views of the Literature, Phi

     losophy, and Social Life of the Athenians. 2 vols. 12mo, Muslin, (1 20.

BULWER'S ENGLAND AND THE ENGLISH. 2 vols. 12mo, Muslin,

       85 cents.

BULWER'S FRANCE, Social, Literary, and Political. 2 vols. 12mo, Muslin,

       85 cents.

BUNNER'S HISTORY OF LOUISIANA, from its Discovery and Settle

      ment to the present Time. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

CESAR'S COMMENTARIES ON THE WARS IN GAUL. The

      Civil Wars, and the Alexandrian, African, and Spanish Wars. Translated
     by William Duncan. Portrait. 2 vols. 18mo, Muslin, 90 cents.

OARLETON'S BATTLE OF                 BUENA VISTA, with the Operations  of  the

      " Army of Occupation" for one  Month. 12mo, Muslin, 70 cents.

OARLYLE'S FRENCH REVOLUTION. History of the French Revolu

      tion. Newly revised by the Author, with Index, dec. 2 vols. 12mo, Muslin,

$2 00.

OARLYLE'S OLIVER CROMWELL. Letters and Speeches of Oliver

      Cromwell. With Elucidations and connecting Narrative. 2 vols. 12mo,

Muslin, $2 00.

CONQUEST OF CANADA.                  By the Author of " Hochelaga."  2 vols. 12mo

      Muslin, $1 70.

OORKRAN'S HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL CONSTITUENT AS-

     semblt, from May, 1848. 12mo, Paper, 75 cents ; Muslin, 90 cents.

OREASY'S FIFTEEN DECISIVE BATTLES OF THE WORLD;

      from Marathon to Waterloo. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.

ORIOHTON AND WHEATON'S SCANDINAVIA, Ancient and Modem

     being a History of Denmark, Sweden, and Norway; comprehending a De
     scription of these Countries -- an Account of the Mythology, Government,
      Laws, Manners, and Institutions of the early Inhabitants-- and of the present
      State of Society, Religion, Literature, Arts, and Commerce; with 11lustra
      tlons of their Natural History. Map and Engravings. 2 vols. 18mo, Muslin
       90 cents.
HISTORICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.  3

ORIOHTON'S HISTORY OF ARABIA, Ancient and Modern. Containing

      a Description of the Country -- an Account of its Inhabitants, Antiquities, Po
      litical Condition, and early Commerce --the Civil Government and Religious
      Ceremonies of the Modern Arabs -- Origin and Suppression of the Wahabees
     -- the Institutions, Character, Manners, and Customs of the Bedouins, &c.
      Map and Engravings. 2 vols. 18mo, Muslin, 90 cents.

CROWE'S HISTORY OF FRANCE. 3 vols. 12mo, Muslin, $1 75.

DAVIS'S HISTORY OF CHINA. A general Description of the Empire of

      China and its Inhabitants. Map and Engravings. 2 vols. 16mo, Muslin, 00
       cents.

DAYS OF QUEEN MARY. Engravings. 12mo, Paper, 25 cents.

DICKENS'S CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 2 vols, lflmo, Mus

      lin, 50 cents each.

DUNHAM'S HISTORY OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. 5 vols. 12mo,

      Muslin, $2 50.

DUNLAP'S HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN THEATRE. 8vo, Mus

     lin, $1 75.

DUNLAF'S HISTORY OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, to the

     Adoption of the Federal Constitution. With Maps and Engravings. 8vo,
     Muslin, $3 00.
The above Work, abridged by the Author. Engravings. 2 vols. 18mo, Muslin,

       75 cents.

DWIGHT'S HISTORY OF CONNECTICUT, from the first Settlement to

     the present Time. 16mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

FERGUSON'S ROMAN REPUBLIC. History of the Progress and Term

     ination of the Roman Republic. 12mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

FIELD'S HISTORY OF THE IRISH CONFEDERATES, and the Re

      bellion of 1798. Portraits and Map. 12mo, Paper, 75 cents ; Muslin, 90 cents.

FLETCHER'S HISTORY OF POLAND. Portrait of Kosciusko. 18mo,

      Muslin, 45 cents.

FLORIAN'S HISTORY OF THE MOORS IN SPAIN. Translated

     from the French. To which is added a Brief Account of the Rise and De
      cline of the Mohammedan Empire, the Literature, Science, and Religion of
      the Arabs, and the present Condition of Mohammedanism. 18mo, Muslin. 45

        cents.

FRASER'S MESOPOTAMIA AND ASSYRIA, from the earliest Ages to

       the present Time. Map and Engravings. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

FRASER'S PERSIA. Historical and Descriptive Account of Persia, with a

       detailed View of its Resources, Government, Population, Natural History,
       and the Character of its Inhabitants, particularly of the Wandering Tribes :
       including a Description of Afghanistan and Beloochistan. Map and Engrav
       ings. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

FROST'S BEAUTIES OF FRENCH HISTORY. 18mo, Muslin, 37J

       cents.

FROST'S BEAUTIES OF ENGLISH HISTORY. 18mo, Muslin, S7*
4 HISTORICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.

GAYAERE'S LOUISIANA; its Colonial History and Romance. 8to, Ma»

     lin, $2 00.

GIBBON'S ROME. History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
With Notes, by Rev. H. H. Miluan and M. Guizot. Maps and Engravings.
4 vols. 8vo, Sheep extra, $5 00.-- A new Cheap Edition, with Notes. To
which is             a complete Index of the whole Work, and a     Pwoirtthra"itHuomf eth'*e
Author.    added     12mo, Muslin, $2 40 ; Sheep, $3 00. (Uniform
           6 vols.

History of England.")

GIESELER'S ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY. A Compendium of Ec

      clesiastical History. From the Fourth Edition, revised and amended. Trans

     lated from the German, by Samuel Davidson, LL.D. Vols I. and II. 8vo,

      Muslin, »3 00 ; Sheep, $3 SO.

GLEIG'S STORY OF THE BATTLE OF WATERLOO. 12mo, Pa

      per, 75 cents ; Muslin, 90 cents.

GLEIG'S HISTORY OF THE BIBLE. Map. 2 vols. 18mo, Muslin, 80

       cents.

GOLDSMITH'S          AuHthIoSrTOofR" YAmeOriFcanGPRopEuElaCr EL.essoAnbsr.i"dged18mboy,  the Author.
                                                                                         Half Sheep,
      Edited by the

45 cents.

GOLDSMITH'S HISTORY OF ROME. Abridged by the Author. Edit
     ed by. H. W. Herbert. 18mo, Half Sheep, 45 cents.

GORGEI'S LIFE AND ACTS IN HUNGARY in the Years 1848 and

      1849. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.

GUIZOT'S OORNEILLE AND HIS TIMES. 12mo, Muslin, »1 00.

GUIZOT'S SHAESPEARE AND HIS TIMES. I2mo, Muslin, »I 00.

GRANT'S HISTORY OF THE NESTORIANS; or, the Lost Tribes.

     Containing Evidence of their Identity, an Account of their Manners, Cus
     toms, and Ceremonies, together with Sketches of Travel in Ancient Assyria,
      die. Map. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.

URATTAN'S HISTORY OF THE NETHERLANDS, to the Revolution

      of 1830. 12mo, Muslin, 60 cents.

GROTE'S HISTORY OF GREECE. 11 vols. 12-io, Muslin, 7S cents each.

HALE'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED S>ATES, from their first Set

      tlement as Colonies to the Close of the Admii .stration of Mr. Madison inl817.

      2 vols. 18mo, Muslin, 90 cents.

HALIBURTON'S ENGLISH IN .AMERICA.                 Rule and Misrule of the

     English in America. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.

HALLAM'S CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND, fron
     the Accession of Henry VII. to the Death of George II. 8vo, Sheep, $1 75.

HALLAM'S LITERATURE. Introduction to the Literature of Europe,

      during the Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and Seventeenth Centuries. 2 vols. 8vo,
        Sheep, $3 50.

HALLAM'S MIDDLE AGES.      State of Europe during the Middle Ages.

       8vo, Sheep, $1 75.
        HISTORICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.                                  5

HENRY'S WAR WITH MEXICO. Campaign Sketches of the War witl
      Mexico. Engravings. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.

HENRY'S EPITOME OF THE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY. Be

     ing the Work adopted by the University of France for Instruction in the Col
      leges and High Schools. Translated from the French, with Additions, and a
      Continuation of the History. 2 vols. 18mo, Muslin, 90 cents.

HERODOTTJS'S GENERAL I*.! TORY. Translated by Rev. William

     Beloe. Portrait. 3 vols. 18mo, Muslin, $1 35.

HILDRETH'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES.
       First Series. -- From the first Settlement of the Country to the Adoption

     of the Federal Constitution. 3 vols. 8vo, Muslin, $6 00 ; Sheep, $6 75 ; Half
      Calf, $7 50.

        Second Series.-- From the Adoption of the Federal Constitution to the

      End of the Sixteenth Congress. 3 vols. 8vo, Muslin, $6 00 ; Sheep, $6 75 ;
     Half Calf, *7 50.

HOPKINS'S HISTORY OF THE CONFESSIONAL.                  12mo, Muslin,
                               .
si oo.

HOWITT'S HISTORY OF PRIESTOHAFT in all Ages and Countries.

      12mo, Muslin, 60 cents.

HUME'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, from the Invasion of Julius Caesar

     to the Abdication of James II., 1688. A new Edition, with the Author's last
      Corrections and Improvements. To which is prefixed a short Account of his
      Life, written by Himself. With a Portrait of the Author. 6 vols. 12mo, Mus
      lin, $2 40 ; Sheep, $3 00.

ICELAND, GREENLAND, AND THE FAROE ISLANDS, an Histor

      ical and Descriptive Account of. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

JAMES'S CHIVALRY AND CRUSADES. History of Chivalry and Cru

      sades. Engravings. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

JAMES'S DARK SCENES OF HISTORY. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.
JAMES'S LECTURES ON MODERN CIVILIZATION. 12mo.
JAMES'S LIFE OF CHARLEMAGNE. With an Introductory View of

      the History of France. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

JAMES'S LIFE OF HENRY IV., King of France and Navarre. 2 vols

      12mo, Muslin, $2 50.

JAPAN AND THE JAPANESE. Manners and Customs of the Japanese
in the Nineteenth Century. From the Accounts of recent Dutch Residents fal
Japan, and from the German Work of Dr. Ph. Fh. von Siebold.
lin, 45 cents.                                                     18mo, Mus

JARVIS'S CHRONOLOGY. Chronological Introduction to Church History.
Being a new Inquiry into
and Savior Jesus Christ ;  the true Dates of the Birth  and Death  of  our  Lord
                           and containing an original   Harmony    of  the  Foul
Gospels, now first arranged in the Order of Time. 8vo, Muslin, $3 00.

KEIGHTLEY'S HISTORY            OF ENGLAND, from the earliest Period         ta
     1839. With Notes, Ac, by
                               an American. S vols. 18mo, Muslin. $2 25.
g HISTORICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.

LAMARTINE'S GIRONDISTS. History of the Girondists; or, Personal

      Memoirs of the Patriots of the French Revolution. From unpublished

      Sources. 3 vols. 12mo, Muslin, $2 10.

LAMARTINE'S RESTORATION.                  theHi"stHorisytoroyf  the Restoration of   Mon
                                                                of the Girondists."   Por
      archy in France. Being a Sequel to

trait. 4 vols. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents each.

LAWMAN'S MICHIGAN. History of Michigan, from the earliest Settle

      ment to the present Time. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

MISS LEE'S HISTORIC TALES FOR YOUTH; or, Social Evenings

       I8mo, Muslin, 37£ cents.

LIEBER'S GREAT EVENTS described by distinguished Historians, Chron

      iclers, and other Writers. A new Edition. 12mo, Muslin, 75 cents.

LIVY'S HISTORY OF ROME. Translated by George Baker. Portrait.

      5 vols. 18mo, Muslin, $2 25.

LOSSING'S FINE ARTS. Outline History of the Fine Arts; embracing a

      View of the Rise, Progress, and Influence of the Arts among different Nations,
     Ancient and Modern, with Notices of the Character and Works of many cel

      ebrated Artists. Engravings. 18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

LOSSING'S PICTORIAL FIELD-BOOK OF THE REVOLUTION;

      or, Illustrations, by Pen and Pencil, of the History, Biography, Scenery,
     Relics, and Traditions, of the War for Independence. 2 vols. Royal 8vo, Mus
     lin, tS 00 ; Sheep, $9 00 ; Half Calf, »10 00 ; Morocco, gilt edges, $15 00.

MAOAULAY'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND from the Accession of James

      II. With an original Portrait of the Author. Vols. I. and II., Library Edi
      tion, 8vo, Muslin, 75 cents per Volume ; Sheep extra, $1 00 per Volume ; Half
       Calf, $1 25 per Volume. -- Cheap Editions, 8vo, Paper, 25 cents per Number ;
      12mo (uniform with "Hume's History of England"), Muslin, 40 cents per
      Volume ; Sheep, 50 cents per Volume.

MACKINTOSH'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, to the Seventeenth Centu

      ry. 3 vols. 18mo, Muslin, $1 50.

MRS. MARKHAM'S HISTORY OF FRANCE, from the Conquest of

     Gaul by Julius Cajsar to the Reign of Louis Philippe. With Conversations
     at the End of each Chapter. For the use of Young Persons. Edited by Ja
      cob Abbott. 12mo, Muslin, $1 00.

MAYHEW'S LONDON LABOR and the London Poor in the Nineteenth

      Century. A Cyclopedia of the Social Condition and Earnings of the Poorer
      Classes of the British Metropolis in Connection with the Country. With En
      gravings of the Scenes and the Persons described, copied from Daguerreotypes
      taken by Beard expressly for this Work. Publishing in Numbers, 8vo, Pa

      per, 12£ cents each.

MIOHELET'S ELEMENTS OF MODERN HISTORY. Translated
     from the French, with an Introduction, Notes, &c., by Rev Dr. Potter.

       18mo, Muslin, 45 cents.

MILLS'S LITERATURE and Literary Men of Great Britain and Ireland. »

     vols. 8vo, Muslin, $3 50 ; Half Calf, $4 00.

MILMAN'S HISTORY OF CHRISTIANITY, from the Birth of Chris*

      to the Abolition of Paganism in the Roman Empire. With Notes, dec, by
      James Murdoch, D.D. 8vo, Muslin, $1 50.
b89094687308a

