The story of the peasant-boy philosopher; or, "The child gathering
pebbles on the sea-shore." (Founded on the early life of Ferguson,
the shephard-boy astronomer, and intended to show how a poor
lad became acquainted with the principles of natural science.) By
Henry Mayhew.

Mayhew, Henry, 1812-1887.
London, D. Bogue, 1854.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015065549035

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
£M                         <*f^/t

mmmmmmmmmnfmmmmvmtimmfmtm
CAPtAIN JONES l'ROVES tHK ROtUNDItY OF thE EARth. -- Page 257
           THE STOEY

PEASANT-BOY PHILOSOPHER

                                                            OB,

             " A CHILD GATHERING PEBBLES ON
                         THE SEA SHORE."

(FOUNDED ON THE EARLY LIFE OF FERGUSON, THE SHEPHERD-BOY ASTRONOMER,
          AND INTENDED tO SHOW HOW A POOR LAD BECAME ACQUAINTED
                           WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURAL SCIENCE.)

                                                             BY

                HENRY MAYHEW,

              AUTHOR OF " LONDON LABOUR AND THE LONDON POOR.'

      I" am but as a child standing on the shore of the vast and unexplored Ocean,

    and playing with a little pebble, which the waters have washed to my feet."
                                                                               Saying of Sia Isaac Newton.

                           LONDON:
         DAVID BOGUE, 86, FLEET STEEET.

                                           MDCCCLIV.
                                 [The right of translation reserved.']
8a 8

                                                         LONDON -
                              SATILL AND EDWABDS, PEIKTEBS,

                                          CHAND08 BTKEET.
3f - Mr/fz,

                                               TO

       LITTLE ATHOL,

       IN THE HOPE THAT IN AFTER YEARS IT MAT BE THE

                         SOURCE OF SOME KNOWLEDGE AND
                                      HAPPINESS TO HIM,

     AND nrspniE HIM WITH a TASTE FOB THE STUDIES of

                                   WHICH IT TBEATS

                       ffei* UtorJt is ^bicafelr,
                                       BY HIS FATHER.
               PREFACE.

This book, though founded on the early life of

Ferguson, makes no attempt at representing either
the circumstances or scenery amid which the

" Shepherd boy" passed his youth. To have done

this, would have been to have written a biography
of the young astronomer, in which the character
and incidents must have been literally followed.
Such a work faithfully executed would doubtlessly
have been sufficiently interesting and instructive,
but it would have involved a more intimate know
ledge with the facts of Ferguson's boyhood than the
materials left us could possibly have supplied.
Moreover, the object of the author was not so
strictly to teach, as to create in youth a taste for

learning-- it was to appetize rather than to " cram"
--to excite a craving that would stir the young

mind to seek its own food, instead of accustoming
it to be, as it were, "stall fed."

  It has long appeared to the author of the present
vi PREFACE.

work that the prevailing system of education in
duces merely the same state of obesity intellect
ually, as the modern bucolic mode of feeding does
physically--those who win the prizes at our Univer
sities being generally as remarkable for the enor
mous capacity and inactivity of their minds as the
competitors at Baker-street are for those of their
bodies ; the one gorged with learning, the other
with oil cake, but each alike ponderous and power
less, and both having little or no health or vigour
in them.

   The entire art of teaching lies in the excitation
of attention to the subject to be taught; but there
are two distinct kinds of attention, and according
as one or the other of these is appealed to, so does
the mind become vigorous or enervated. We can

attend to a subject either passively or actively. In

the former case, the mind is put into a state of
dream, by the excitement of some vivid emotion, or

" interest" as it is called, in connexion with a cer

tain subject, and is so thrown into a disposition to
receive such ideas and facts as one may wish to im
press upon it. This constitutes, so to speak, the
dramatic art of teaching, and the power of the

novelist and the playwright often affords us striking

instances of it; for, by such means, hundreds of

diverse minds and natures are frequently held

enchained as it were, for several hours, to the same
PREFACE.  vii

continuously, in one and the same direction, among
a number of different individuals.

   Bishop Butler (in his " Sermons on Human Na
ture"), and many others after him, have long since

remarked, and speculated as to the causes, concern

ing the ill effects which arise from an inordinate habit

of indulging in what is termed sentimental literature.
The philosophic preacher at the " Rolls Chapel" refers
the injury done to the mind by continually reading
romances and "love stories," to a breach of the
moral law which connects the exercise of charity
with the excitation of a feeling sympathy in our
natures. The author of the present work, however,
believes the harm done in such cases proceeds more

from an intellectual defect than a moral one --viz.,

by inducing a habit of mere passive attention, or,
in other words, encouraging a state of constant
dreaming, and thus incapacitating the mind for the
least exertion on its own part ; so that the intel

lectual faculties become at length enervated and
sickly (for such is the invariable effect of a want of

exercise--mentally as well as corporeally), and when

the individual has to study any subject that requires
some effort in order to be comprehended, the sense
of labour involved in the task is either so repulsive
that he shuns it altogether, or else, in attempting
he overpowered with fatigue after two or three
moments of continuous attention.

   The faculty of passive attention that of mere
is
                                                      is

                                                                       it,
PREFACE.

receptivity -- or acquisitiveness, as contradistin

guished from that of mquisitiveness ; and such is
the capacity of some minds in this respect, that they
may be crammed with any amount of knowledge,

though, after all, they will be learned rather than

wise, lacking the power to apply their information

with any profit to themselves or others, and being
only intellectually corpulent instead of intellectually

strong.                    attention, however, gives
   The faculty of active
                           It is this faculty which
widely different results.

distinguishes our dreaming from our waking mo

ments. In sleep, the mind can only follow the train
of fancies induced in it--for it has not the power to
guide or stop them --so that no person reproaches

himself for his impulses or thoughts at such times.

When we are awake, on the contrary, we are con

scious of the ability to direct the current of our ideas

as we choose ; we know we can single out, from the

crowd of conceptions that are continually hurrying

through our brain, any one that pleases us -- that
we can detain it while we examine its several rela

tions, and that we can induce a long train of other

conceptions in connexion with it. In a word, we

are aware that in our waking moments we can be

the masters of our natures, rather than the slaves of

them, as we are forced to be while dreaming. To
doubt the existence of the faculty of active atten

tion, would be to doubt our own consciousness ; for
                    PREFACE.                ix

we feel, when we read a difficult problem in Euclid,

that each step requires a severe mental effort to

prevent our thoughts rambling from the reasoning,

and of this effort we have the same sense --there

being the same feeling of fatigue connected with

when long protracted -- as when we voluntarily
is
                                        is,
                                                                            it,
exert our muscular strength.

Now the misfortune                that the sense of mental

effort connected with the exercise of active attention

often so irksome to naturally weak or young

minds (for the faculty does not appear to be

developed till the age of fifteen years), that the

study of such matters as require the intellect to be

exerted for their comprehension, becomes uninviting

and tiresome to the student. So beautifully, how

ever, the mental machinery arranged, that this
is

                           ;

                              is
feeling of tiresomeness felt only at the first exer

tion of the faculty for after a time, the wonderful

mental principle of habit comes into play, by which,

acts that were originally irksome, become, by the

frequent and regular repetition of them, not only

pleasant to us, but positively irksome  if  not in

dulged in. Hence the educational problem is, how
     habit of active attention to be engendered in
is
   a
              ;
the mind or rather, how can the feeling of irksome

ness which ensues on the first exertion of the

intellect be so far removed that the youth may not,

by the dread of the labour, be repelled from the
X PREFACE.

is not alone necessary for the expansion of the mental
faculties, but a source of much refined pleasure, as
well as being likely to prove of considerable benefit
to the student, and perhaps to mankind in general.

   There are several ways of attaining this end.
Those generally practised are of an artificial cha
racter, and consist in attaching either some extrinsic
reward or punishment to the performance or non
performance of the task. The natural and intrinsic

method, however, appears to be by far the most easy
and sure. This consists in exciting the taste of the
youth towards the subject to which the attention is

required to be given. By a taste for a particular

pursuit, we mean solely a permanent desire to attend
continuously to the same subject ; so that the tastes
of an individual are, as it were, the mental forces
that move and direct the current of his thoughts
into a particular channel.

   To create a taste for a certain pursuit, it seems to
be essential that the individual should be made to
experience a vivid sense of pleasure in connexion
with it. Sometimes this pleasure appears to be due
to some delicate organic arrangement, as in persons
having a natural "turn," as it is termed, for music.

It often, however, proceeds from the excitation of

the feeling of wonder and admiration in the mind.
Such was the case with the boy Ferguson, on seeing
his father raise the roof of his cottage by means of
                          PREFACE.  XI

mechanics which marked "the Shepherd's" whole

life. So again with Chatterton, who, we are told,

could not be made to learn his letters till the illu

minated characters of an old manuscript had taken

his fancy, and excited that taste for ancient litera

ture which never left him in after years. Many

other such instances might be cited to show that the

excitation of a vivid feeling of delight in connexion

with a particular subject, has shaped the thoughts

for an entire existence.

Taste is indeed always self-educational; once

developed, the trouble of tuition is saved us, for

then the mind is bent on acquiring the knowledge

for itself, instead of having to be crammed with it

by others. Moreover, the analysis of our own

emotions teaches us that the feeling of curiosity,

or the desire for knowledge in connexion with any

subject, is but the consequence of that state of per

plexity or mental uneasiness which arises in the

mind whenever anything strange or wonderful has

been brought under our notice, and we are unable

to divine either the cause or the nature of it. This
feeling of curiosity--the craving for information,
which thus comes upon us --may be but of short

duration, but, on the other hand, the emotion of

beauty  (if  associated with the wonderment) tends to

give considerable permanence to the desire. Admi

ration necessarily causes the mind to dwell upon the
xii PREFACE.

emotion being to detain the thoughts and fix the

attention to one point, so that the entire train of

ideas which rises afterwards is governed by and
;

                      it

                                 is
                                                       is

                                                          is
                                                              a it,
                                                                                     aa
everything that subsequently forces itself on the

notice, serves only to suggest some conception in
connexion with that which originally induced the

feeling.

The excitement of the taste, then, not only the

first and easiest, but  likewise the most natural

and enduring guide to knowledge. To excite

taste in youths for natural science, by means of the

feelings of wonder and admiration,       the main

object of the present book. It has not been work

lightly undertaken or arranged without delibera

tion and the author while seeking to impress boys

after leaving school with a love of natural philo
sophy, has striven to impress them also with
sense of some of the higher truths that lie beyond

the province of mere "physics." As an instance, he

would direct attention to the chapter entitled " The
First and Last Law," observing, that the arguments
there employed concerning the eternal duration of
the spiritual force, are, to the best of the writer's

belief, so employed for the first time.

                                         Hy. M.
             CONTENTS.

                                 CHAPTER I.    PAGE
The First Gleam op Light
                                                       17

                           CHAPTER II.         27

....The Boy-Philosopher's First Experiments

                         CHAPTER III.

The Boy visits the Minister. -- What comes op
      throwing Stones

             CHAPTER IV.

The Boy tries to make a Clock, and has a talk

     with the Master of the Mill about Clock

work                                           124

             CHAPTER V.

Owen's Dial                                    148
XIV CONTENTS.

             CHAPTER VI.

                                                  PAGE

The Boy-Mechanic makes a Watch, and the Boy-

Blaoksmith breaks it                              171

             CHAPTER VII.

How the Parson's Daughters turned the Heart of

the Runaway                                       197

             CHAPTER VIII.

The Boy has a talk with the Old Sailor about

the "Loo"                                         213

             CHAPTER IX.

The Boy learns how to tell the Shape and mea

sure the Size of the Earth '                      243

                                CHAPTER X.        285
The Boy and his Orange World

             CHAPTER XI.

How People Travel where there are no Roads, find

their Way where there are no Sign-posts, and
know how far they have Journeyed where there

are no Mile-stones                                294
             CONTENTS.                        XV

             CHAPTER XII.

                                                                                                              PAGE

Travelling at the rate of a Thousand Miles an

Hour                                          339

                       CHAPTER XIII.          385

The Shepherd-boy and the Stars

             CHAPTER XIV.

The Boy takes his Star-papers to the Odd Old

Squire at the Observatory                     419

                                CHAPTER XV.   437
The Modern Jacob's Ladder

             CHAPTER XVI.

"Star-dust"                                   442
                                              476
                            CHAPTER XVII.     467
The Monster-Eye

                         CHAPTER XVIII.

The Boy loses his best Friend
XVI CONTENTS.

                            CHAPTER XIX.  PAGE
The First and Last Law                     472

            CHAPTER XX.                    482

Conclusion
                THE STORY

                                               OF THE

 SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER

                      CHAPTER I.

                   THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.

It was a busy day at Davy Evans's. Little Owen

--the younger of his two sons --was up betimes, for
he had heard his father say that he meant to lift the

roof of his cottage that morning, and the boy had
been wondering half the night through how such a
feat were possible.

   His father --the lad had thought to himself, as he
lay in his bed, with his eyes fixed on the stars
that twinkled through the lattice --his father was

not a young man; he'd been grey as long as he
could remember him. Nor was he near so strong

as John Jarman, the blacksmith ; and not even he --

                                                    B
ae THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

     (ittheir cottage " the least scrap "--Owen was sure of

                                            1that!

                                                      ;Often --mused the thoughtful boy in the depth

aof the night was long past midnight, he knew, for
   ?"he had heard the heavy wagon go rumbling along

       itthe road on its way to town) --often, when he had
been up among the rafters watching the martins fly
ain and out to feed their young, had he noticed that

the beams were as thick as his body besides, there
was such number of them running lengthways and
sideways under the thatch, so that how could his
father ever lift them all

   Why, sometimes --so ran the current of his wake
ful dreams --he had carried his father's dinner for

him to the spruce plantation, when he had gone
there to fell some of the tall trees for the squire,
and the two of them together had been forced
to use handspike to move even the smallest of the
trunks along the ground.

    " How, then," Owen would ask himself again and
again, " can be possible for father to lift the trunks
of so many trees as there are in the rafters of our

cottage

   But, though Owen kept on doubting, half the
night through, the ability of his parent to execute
the task he had set himself, the idea of doubting
that his father intended to try and do as he had said
never for moment entered the lad's brain.

   Owen had never in his life thought of questioning
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  3

his parent's word, for he was instinct with that con
fiding faith which is one of the marked charac

teristics of the young. Indeed, Davy Evans had
taken especial pains to impart in the minds of all
his children, from their earliest age, a high reverence

for truth. It was one of the honest man's chief

delights to point out to his lads how all men--even
the wisest --knew more things by faith than they

could ever acquire for themselves by experience.
   " Suppose," he would argue to his boys, "that we

had doubted all men's words, what a world of mis
trust and suspicion it would have been, and how
little progress could we have made in anything. The
greater part of our lives then would have been
taken up in procuring evidence of the truth of
what was said to us. Why," he would say, "we

should have had to travel over the whole world

before we could have put trust even in a simple
book upon geography. We should have had to
visit every foreign land before we could have credited
its existence. But now, by the principle of faith,

we sit at home by our fireside, and by our reliance

 on the words of others have the same assurance

 of the reality of countries thousands of miles away

from us as if we had visited them ourselves."
    " Think," he would add, "of the vast amount of

faith that is exercised by people in the reading of an
ordinary newspaper. What a multiplicity of events
 are there recorded. Why, to credit the history of a

                                              B2
 4 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

single week, or even a day, now, requires as great a

stretch of belief as does the history of past centuries.
So true is it that man depends more upon faith for
the cultivation of his intellect and affections, than

perhaps upon any other principle of his nature."
    " Now, faith," Davy Evans would conclude, " de

pends upon truth-speaking. Had all men, or even
the greater number of men, indulged habitually in
falsity, we should have been as generally distrustful
as we are now confiding. He, therefore, who tells a
lie attempts to undermine this principle of trust in
men's words, and so to deprive us of a means of
knowledge and a source of happiness without which
we should be worse than savages."

    Davy Evans was a man essentially of good com
mon-sense ; indeed, he had no other guide in all he
did or said, for such faculties as he possessed had
never received the least development from the educa

tion of others. All he knew he had taught himself.

    Davy was precisely one of those minds which
are termed ingenious. He could do almost any

thing for himself. Though a mere day-labourer,
he was a bit of a blacksmith --a tolerable carpenter

--and sufficient of a mason to build a rough gar

den-wall, or a cow- house for his neighbours. He

could cobble his own boots, and mend his donkey's
harness, and use the needle well enough to patch

his own clothes. He could solder a bit too (the
saucepans, the tea-kettle, and the bright tins over
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  5

the mantelpiece, all bore evidence of his handiwork) ;
and he had fitted up an old turning-lathe in a shed
he had built beside the pig-sty, where he delighted
to fashion tobacco- stoppers for his friends, and
ninepins and wooden dolls for the little ones in

the village.
    There was scarcely a trade, indeed, to which

Davy could not turn his hand. To be sure, he
excelled in none ; but that was hardly to be won

dered at; and, to say the truth, though Davy's
mind was sufficiently quick to acquire a slight
knowledge of almost anything, it was not suffi

ciently patient and persevering to arrive at perfec
tion in any one subject or handicraft whatever.
Had it been otherwise, Davy would have been

a great man rather than a clever one.

   The best friend Davy had met with was Mr.
Wynn, the minister of the little parish of Llan-
vach. From this gentleman Davy had the loan
of all the books with which he had made himself

acquainted. The living of Llanvach, however, was
not sufficiently lucrative to admit of its minister's
library being very extensive. But luckily for
Davy, it contained, among a very few books of
a secular character, an old copy of Rees' Cyclo
paedia ; this, giving as it did a short though
antiquated account of almost every point of know
ledge, exactly suited the inquisitive mind of Davy
Evans ; and thus the self-taught day-labourer had,
c THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

in his leisure, informed himself with what is termed
a "smattering" of facts on an infinite variety of

subjects.
   Owen had such confidence in Davy Evans' powers,

that, boy like, he thought his father could do almost
anything. He had stood beside him at the lathe
for hours, and with his eyes riveted to the mandril,
watched him turn the ugliest and roughest pieces
of wood into the most beautiful forms. He had
blown the bellows of the blacksmith's forge for his
father when he had got leave to use it for an hour
or two after his day's work was over, and he had
seen him, with the sparks playing about him like
a fountain of fire, fashion a pair of shoes for old
Jack (their donkey), out of some rusty, broken door-
bolt. He had sat on a stool at his father's feet,
and looked up at him all the while he mended the
bellows of some toy poodle-dog he had to make bark
again, or repaired some pasteboard tumbler, worked
by sand, for the little Squire Williams, on the other
side of the river.

    These, and a hundred other such instances of
skill, together with the character Davy had
throughout the village of being the handiest man
for miles round, had impressed the lad with a
notion that his father was sufficiently clever to
accomplish anything he chose to undertake.

    " Your father ain't so clever as mine," he would
say to the other boys of the village, as they
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.                        7

stood in a cluster looking over the little bridge

beside the water-mill, bragging of the deeds of

their several families.

There was, therefore, no reason for Owen to

doubt Davy's lifting the roof, save and except that

he couldn't understand it; and it was simply

because the boy was inwardly convinced that his

father would lift  it,   and because he couldn't, for

the life of him, comprehend by what means he

was to do so, that the lad had been tossing about
in his bed half the night through, cudgelling his
brains in the vain hope of discovering the process

by which the wonderful feat was to be achieved.

a  Well, as we have said, Owen was up betimes.
     a
There was not creature to be seen abroad, as the
it it                    a
boy thrust back the iron-frame of his little lattice,

and stretching out his neck, looked up and down
the straggling double row of cottages beside the

river Wye, that made up the little village of Llan

vach. Not living thing was to be seen save " old
Jack," the donkey, posted beside the doorway, with
his head hanging down almost to his knees, waiting
patiently for the bit of bread that was always
handed out to him at breakfast-time; and as the

knowing brute heard the metal frame jingle while
Owen hooked back, he raised his head and ears,
and saluted the boy with bray of delight.

    Owen knew was early, for though he thrust his
8 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

head far out and put his hand beside his ears, he
could not catch the sound of the throbbing of the

neighbouring clothier's water-wheel. All he could

hear was the hum of the distant falls of the river,
which was still pinky with the first rays of the
morning sun, and steaming with the mists that went
winding round the base of the opposite mountain,
and floating wavily upwards, like a thin white
scarf, in the breeze. Then, as he cast his eyes aloft

to the peak of " Garth," as it was called, he beheld
its verdant sides glitter on the higher rays of the

sun, green and golden, like a peacock's back.
   Presently the boy darted off to the window at

the other end of the room, and as he peeped out
towards the common that sloped high up behind the
house, he knew by the round black clouds of smoke
that came rolling thick and fast from the chimney
of the blacksmith's forge, that young Jarman was
stirring; so, seizing his cap, he hurried down stairs,
with his boots in his hand, lest he should disturb
his father before the time of rising.

   As the lad undid the fastenings, and drew back
the upper half of the little parlour door that opened
into the road, the donkey, roused once more by the
grating of the bolts, thrust his head over the hatch,
and stretching his neck as far as possible into the
tiny room, rubbed his soft velvety nose against the
cheeks of his young master, whilst the boy was

busy, down on one knee, lacing his boots.
»  THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  0

       But Owen's mind was too full to notice the affec

   tionate beast otherwise than by an instinctive pat or
   two, so he stayed not to hug him and chatter to
   him as was his wont, but hurried off towards the
   blacksmith's with old Jack capering playfully after
   him, more like a huge dog than a creature with hoofs

   to his heels.

      It was not long before Owen had communicated

   to the blacksmith's boy the feat that was about to
   be accomplished at their cottage that morning, but
   young Jarman, who was the biggest of all the boys
   in the village, and consequently a small oracle, as
   well as a bit of a despot among them, no sooner heard
   the news than he turned on his heel and commenced

   patting down the fire of the forge he had left to

   listen to Owen's tale. Presently, seizing the handle
   of the bellows, he said, as he made the fire roar

   again with his strokes, and the red hot coal-dust
   spurt up like a miniature volcano, while the cheeks
   of the boys and the beams and walls of the building

   Igrew suddenly crimson with the glow--"Oh, ah,

   dare say ! your father's so clever he can do any

   thing --you think he can '. But he an't half so
   strong as my father. Why, I've seed mine bend a
   poker across his arm, and lift that there hammer --
   just you feel the weight of it now --up in his teeth.
   And yet he'd never be such a silly as to go and try
   and lift a roof."

       Then suddenly the bent cow's horn that served for
10 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

a handle to the lever of the bellows, flew upwards,

released from his hand, and the grimy boy seated

himself on the anvil and commenced swinging his

legs backwards and forwards as he looked knowingly
in Owen's face. " Better come with us fishing,
Owey," he exclaimed ; " father knows where there's

such a jolly salmon-- such a whopper --he says as he

thinks it's this year's fish. He seed him yesterday

lying under a shelf of rocks, a goodish bit up above

the ferry. He's a going to make a spear, afore he

starts this morning, so that if the thing wont rise to

the fly, he'll have him that way anyhow. You'd

much better come now !" and then putting his legs

straight out, and rolling his long, dirty leathern

apron round his waist, the young blacksmith gave

himself two or three twists round on the bright

smooth top of the anvil.

  I" Oh, say, Owen !" he cried, as he stopped short,

" if you'll only come now, I'll show you such a

plummy blackbird's nest, chock full of young uns,

Iand just ready to fly. It's all on our way home,

and don't mind shinning up the tree to get it.

You shall go halves if you'll come with us-- there

now. I've had my eye on that there nest ever since

it was first built. The mother's as big and black as
If I Ia crow.
hadn't a shinned up the tree when

Iwatched her off the nest, and seed as she'd got four

eggs of her own, should have picked her off a
long while since with my crossbow. Ah, an't that a
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  11

beauty of a bow if you like ; your father, Owen,

don't make you such things as that, though he is so

clever as you say. Oh, what do you think, Owen V

cried the rough-headed lad, as he began balancing the

Iheavy sledge hammer on the palm of his hand ; "

shot such a bouncing bat with my bow, in the dingle,

last night. You wait there, and I'll run and fetch it

you."

   Young Jarman jumped from the anvil, and coming
over to his little visitor (who stood, still leaning
against the door-post, with his cheek pillowed on his

palm), put his bare, smudgy arm round the boy's neck,

as if to make friends with him-- for he could see the

lad was vexed at the taunts he had uttered about his

father ; and he said, as he leant his head on Owen's

shoulder and looked in his face, " You'll come with
us, Owey, won't you now? Oh, it'll be so prime
with you there ! Father's going to take a lot of

bread and cheese and beer, and we're to have our

dinner on the rocks with some of the young chives

/that's just coming up there. Don't you like 'em,

Owen? Don't just--that's all !" and the youthful
Jarman drew his breath in between his teeth, and rub

bed his tawny hand up and down his leathern apron.
   " Say you'll come, now, there's a good old cock,"

he continued, in a coaxing tone, as he patted Owen

on the cheek. " And oh, I'll tell you what --there's

Isome gipsies on the other side of the river, just past

the ferry. Shouldn't like to be off with them for
12 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

Ia month. Or, say, Owen, if you'd only go with

I Ius, wouldn't cut right away to sea, that's all.
Ican't abear this beastly life --a broiling over this
here filthy forge all day--and                  won't stand it

much longer, neither --not I."

During this speech, the young blacksmith had

instinctively picked up a piece of rusty iron, and, as

he came to the latter part of he vented his in
;
dignation by jerking the heavy piece of metal at the
                                           it,
ribs of the donkey that stood waiting for his young

master at some little distance outside the forge.

This was more than poor Owen could bear. He

had long been burning with rage, the blood tingling

in his ears, and his hands and teeth clenched tight

with suppressed passion to hear his father sneered at

by the young blacksmith; but when he saw the

poor beast whom he loved with all the ardour of a

gentle-hearted youth for some pet animal, scamper

off, writhing with the pain of the heavy blow, he

lost all thought of the difference between the ages

of himself and young Jarman, and, seizing one of

the smaller hammers that lay on the ground at his

feet, he flew towards the tormentor of the patient

brute, half mad with fury and revenge, and eager to

deal on him a heavier blow than he had inflicted on

the unoffending animal.

   Jarman no sooner saw Owen stoop to raise the

weapon than he fled round the shop, pursued by the

boy and round and round they ran, till Owen, tired
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  13

with the chase, and his passion half-spent in the
energy of his own exertions, flung the hammer
from him and darted from the place, saying, as he
shook his fist at the blacksmith's boy, " You shall
be sorry for this, still, John Jarman.'1

    Owen hastened as fast as his remaining strength
could carry him to the top of the hill whither the

poor old Jack had fled, and there he found him,
striving to lick the blood that streamed from the
wound in his side.

    The generous boy no sooner caught the poor brute

in his arms than he hugged him fondly to him, the

tears streaming the while from his eyes ; and as

Jack lifted his head and rubbed it against his young

master's cheeks, Owen vowed silently he'd so excel

young Jarman for the future, that in after life the

fellow should hear his praises sounded by every one.
" Some," inwardly resolved the lad, " shall tell him

Ihow clever am ; some shall talk to him of my
Igoodness. And oh ! if only could make my name

known all over the world the same as those great

men I've heard father read about --and many of them
have been at first nothing but poor boys like me--

 then go where he would he'd hear some one speak
well of me. Father says nobody knows what they

I Ican do till they try. And will try--yes, that

will, Jack," he said, talking to the donkey. " I'll
learn and learn, and then, if John Jarman's bigger
14 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

Ieverything. Who knows but may be a fine gen

tleman, while he's only a poor man still."*

    The reverie of the youth was interrupted by the

struggles of old Jack to get his head back to the
wound in his side, for Owen had still his arms

Iclasped round the animal's neck, and his head resting

on his mane. " Poor old thing," he exclaimed ; "

forgot you were in pain all this while. Come along
to the hedge-side," he continued, talking to the

donkey as usual, as if he understood every word he

said. " We'll get some water there, old fellow, and
wash the wound nicely for you. Come along, Jack !

come !"

When Owen had led the animal to the little

mountain stream, he knelt down on the logs that

served for a foot-bridge acrossI. and, stationing the
                                         it,
donkey by his side, commenced scooping up the
                                                           :
* The reader
                                                       a
                                                          a
;                  referred to an incident of similar kind to
                               Newton -- "An accident, we
               isthe above in the life of Sir.

are told, first fired him to strive for distinction among his

companions at school. The boy who was immediately above

him in the class, after treating him with tyranny hard to

bear, was cruel enough to kick him in the stomach with        a

severity that caused great pain. Newton resolved to have his

revenge but of such a kind as was natural to his reasoning

mind even at that early age. He determined to excel his

oppressor in his studies and lessons and setting himself to the;

task with zeal and diligence, he never halted in his course till
he had found his way to the top of the class." -- The Boyhood

of Great Men.
OWEN AND OLD JACK. -- Page 14.
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  15

water in the palm of his hand, and bathing the
wound for the grateful brute, the lad chattering all

the while to him.
   "There, isn't that nice?" he said, "isn't that nice,

old boy ? What a shame to hurt a good, kind old
thing like you! Father often says you're more
knowing than a good many people in the world.
Ah, you're a cunning old rascal, Master Jack, that
you are ! Who, when he goes to market, will only
go into town one way, so as to pass the chemist's
shop, and get some peppermint-drops given to him 1
Never was there such a fellow for peppermint-drops
as you Jack ! And ain't you a knowing old thing
about breakfast-time ? Why, when it's pitch-dark
in the winter, and we're having our meal by candle
light, afore father goes to work, you know when it's

six o'clock, you do, you rogue ! as well as if you had

got a silver watch round your neck, like young
Squire Williams, over at the Court, there. Then
you're so sly, you are, rubbing your old nose first
against the window panes, and then banging your

hoofs against the door, to let us know you're outside.
Catch you going away without your couple of slices

of bread --and who likes treacle, you old rascal, eh?
Don't you rub your head up and down me finely, if

I give you a bit? Oh, you're a deep old gentleman,
Iyou are, Jack! Why, believe you'd know the

sound of father's and my foot anywhere. Look when

father's out late working, and we come down the
:

16 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

common sometimes when it's so pitch-dark you

can't see your hand afore you--why, you're sure

to begin braying directly we get to the chapel.

' There's old Jack,' father will say. Ah, and if you

Jonly knew how glad I've been to hear your voice,
  ack, after being out all day with father, and a long

trudge home across the mountains --with the rain

blowing in your face all the way, may-be, till it
made you smart again --yes, Jack, when I've heard

Iyou begin braying then, I've thought you the nicest
and fondest old creature in all the world.  knew
I Iwas close at home as soon as caught sound of

you; and ain't that beautiful, old boy, when you're

so tired you're ready to drop? Oh, you're a good,

dear old thing, and it's a wicked shame for any one

to hurt you, it is. No wonder you won't let John

IJarman ride you, when he's so cruel to you. don't

think, if he was to beat you to death, you'd stir a

step with him, Jack. No, you'll do nothing but roll

in the dust with him on your back, will you, old
fellow ? Ah ! you've got a precious spirit of your

own, you have, you rascal ! Catch you being made

to do anything you don't think right ! But come,

Jack," cried the boy, suddenly starting to his feet,

"they'll have done breakfast afore we get home.

ILook, here's the dandelion wide open, declare, and

it must be six o'clock, at least, by that; for father

says it's always time for a labouring man to be at

his work when the leaves of the dandelion are un
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.                                     17

folded, just the same as when there's any of the
yellow goat's-beard near where he's at work, he

always knows, by the closing of the flowers, when
it's time to leave off and go to dinner."

    Owen and his pet brute jogged along towards the
village, the boy with his arm still resting on Jack's
neck, and talking to him kindly and fondly as he

went --now playfully speaking of his tricks -- and

then promising him a large slice of bread-and-treacle
for his breakfast when they got to the cottage.

    But scarcely were they half-way down the com

mon, when Owen could see (as they turned the
angle of the road), by the crowd of children and
villagers clustered outside his father's cottage, that
the work of raising the roof was about to begin.

    The sight immediately revived all the lad's
thoughts and wonderings of the previous night;
and he hurried on, half forgetful, for the moment,
of the cruelty of the young blacksmith, or the suf
ferings of the animal by his side.

    Owen was too full of excitement to sit down
quietly to the breakfast that had been put aside for
him ; so, having given the greater part of his bread
to old Jack, he darted out with the remainder in
his hand, and munched it as he stood in the crowd,
looking up, with wondering eyes, at the roof his
father was preparing to lift.

    The cottage of Davy Evans had very little that
was peculiar or picturesque about excepting that
;"
                                                          o
                                                         it,
18 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

it was much longer than it was high. Built close
against the road that sloped down towards the little
bridge in the middle of the street which constituted
the village, its walls were considerably higher at

one end than at the other. At each extremity was
a door (as if the building had originally formed

two dwellings); the one giving into the kitchen,
and the other opening immediately into the par
lour; to enter the former, you had to descend some

few steps, and the latter, to ascend the same

number. Like the generality of Welsh cottages,
the walls were so intensely white that the sun
shining upon them glistened as it does upon snow,
making the little diamond-shaped panes of the lat
ticed window look even of a darker green, and more
like bottle-glass, than they were naturally. The
roof seemed out of harmony with the walls, which,
from their whiteness, appeared almost new; for the
thatch was worn and green in parts, with rain, and
all but black in others, with velvety patches of
moss ; while the long line formed by the ridge of

the roof at the top bellied downwards as if its back

were broken.

   Davy had deferred the repairs of this part of the
building from month, to month and, indeed, year
to year; for it was one of those matters that he
thought did not press, and admitted of being put
off, day after day, for more important work. But
the last March winds had shaken it fearfully ; and
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  19

when the Wye had overflowed its banks, and laid
the whole village under water, and the family had
been forced to take refuge among the rafters, Davy
had discovered, while imprisoned there, that some
of the beams were as soft as rushes with the dry-
rot. Ever since that time he had slept in fear of the
roof giving way in the first storm, and smothering
them all, as they lay in their beds ; so he had made
up his mind that the next spare day or two he had,
he would devote to the repairs of it.

   At first he thought the whole of the rafters must

come down, but on a more minute examination he
found that the beams at the base were alone un

sound, so he determined to raise the entire mass

above and wedge it up, in order that he might be
able to insert some new beams beneath.

   As we said, the whole of the little village of
Llanvach was gathered outside the cottage, eager to
see the wonderful feat performed. There was Evan

Griffith of the "public," and Jim Gam, the bow-

legged ostler; and there was Toom Price, the preacher
of the shop, and all the little Prices, with pretty
Lyddy Powell, their servant girl (she had just run
out from her work, and had her linsey-wolsey skirt
still tucked in a bunch at her back); and Roger
Wilkins of the mill was there in his brown paper-
cap, with his tall wife in her large white dimity one ;
and old Betty Watkin, the lame pauper, and Davy

                                         c2
20 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

Prichard, the labourer, from the common, with his

tools over his shoulder, ready to start on his way to

the fields; and Mr. Lloyd, the retired horse- dealer,
who lived in the large stone house at the end of the
village, with his buxom daughter showing off the

new parasol she had lately bought at the market town.
On the other side of the road, too, close against the

meadow, was old Captain Jones -- his long, white
hair streaming over his shoulders --seated in his
Bath-chair, with the warm sun shining full upon
him, and his tidy housekeeper knitting stockings by
his side; and looking backward from the bridge
stood John Jarman, the blacksmith, with the fish-

basket at his back and his long rod dangling over
his shoulder like a huge cart-whip, and his boy close
behind him carrying the salmon spear and the little

keg of beer, slung at his side --both on their way to

the ferry to take the " that year's fish" the black
smith had noted lying under the shelf of rocks, and

marked as his prey.

   Yes, all the little village was there, for Llanvach
numbered among its population none but the families
we have mentioned. Neither butcher nor baker
was to be found in the place ; and even " Shoon, of
the Falls," who did the little tailoring the villagers
required, lived some five miles away, and eked out
his living partly by keeping hives and brewing
"mead" from the honey (he was celebrated for it
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  21

" cunning man" to the simple folk of the neighbour
hood, and guessing at the thief when any of their
little property happened to be missing.

   In front of the rustic group might be seen

Davy Evans busy rolling a round clump of wood
before the walls of the cottage, and seated on the
long stout beam that lay on the pathway was little
Owen himself, with his head stretched back and his

eyes fixed on the roof, wondering what the clump his

father was rolling had to do with the lifting of the
thatch. And so rapt was the boy in his own
musings that Davy had to call to him some two or
three times, whenever he wanted him to fetch any
tool from the shed.

    But Owen had not long to remain in suspense,
for the clump having been placed some short dis
tance from the walls, the beam was soon " canted"
on to the top of it so that one end was much longer
than the other, projecting far into the roadway.

    Then the boy beheld his father mount the laddei
placed against the cottage, while his elder brother,
assisted by two or three of the stoutest villagers,
hoisted up against the wall an upright spar, the
upper end of which was placed underneath the
eaves, while the lower was made to rest on the

shorter arm of the beam.
    Yet even now, though Owen saw the beam poised

upon the clump, with the short end of it thrust un
derneath the spar that reached to the edge of the
22 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

roof, and the long end protruding half across the
road, he could not, for the life of him, understand

how all these beams and spars could enable his
father to accomplish the object he had in view. To

him they seemed rather to increase the weight to be

raised than lighten it.
   But now came the exciting moment ! The little

crowd, with Owen amongst the number, were

driven back lest either of the beams should fail or the

walls give way and injure any of the group. Owen

however, all impatience, wriggled himself into the

foremost rank, and when he saw the ladder removed

he scarcely breathed, so great was his anxiety.

Presently his father advanced towards the ex

it
          !" V

                                   !"

                      if

                                                    it,
treme end of the beam, and leaning across raised

his feet from the ground, so that the whole force of

his weight might be brought to bear upon it.
" Does move
                     he cried.

All eyes were strained towards the roof, but none

could see the least motion in it.

   Owen could have burst into tears as he heard the
people shout " No " No and he turned his head

towards the bridge to see young Jarman still

stood looking on. But when the lad found the

blacksmith had gone, he smiled faintly, for he did

not so much care about the disappointment now

that Master John was not there to glory in it.
   " Hugh Hugh shouted the father, calling to
!

                 !"

his elder son, and, as the stout lad came running
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  03

towards him, he cried, " bear on, bear on ! it wants

more weight."
    Owen as he heard this, half laughed with delight

to find there was still a chance of his father succeed

ing in his object after all.

    Hugh no sooner threw his body on the beam, than

Owen shrieked --
    " It's moving ! it's moving !" and as he said so, the

boy, half mad with joy, jumped up and clapped his
hands, for he had caught a glimpse of a silver thread

of light shining beneath the dark eaves.

  I I" knew should be the first to see it rise if ever

it did so," he inwardly exclaimed, as he swung his

arms about, and glanced round exultingly at all the
villagers as much as to say, " Look how clever my

father is."

   " It's going, it's going ! Well done, Davy, boy !"

cried the neighbours, one and all ; and two or three
of the most enthusiastic threw their caps in the air.

   " Hurrah !" shouted some.
    " Hurra-a-ah !" echoed Owen, swelling the cheer,
on the chance that young Jarman might still be near
enough to catch it ; and, as he did so, he turned round
once more towards the bridge, hoping that he might

have been mistaken before, and that the blacksmith's

boy might yet be there to witness the triumph.
    " Here, Prichard, good lad," cried Davy Evans,

as with his boy he weighed down the long arm of the
beam, " run you and slip yon prop under t'other end."
24 THE SHEPHERD -BOY PHILOSOPHER.

It was but the work of a minute for the sturdy

labourer to do as Davy Evans had requested, and
the beam once secure in its position, the good man
removed his weight from it and hastened to wedge

the spar firmly up.
   " There," cried Davy, as he drew back and looked

Iexultingly at his handiwork, " call that a pretty
Ittidy job.
             won't take long to get the new rafters

under the roof now, and then the old thing will be

as sound and strong as when it was first up."
   " What do you think of that, lad ?" he asked, as he

turned to Owen, and patted the delighted boy on

the head. " You see it's not so very difficult for a

man to lift a roof after all."
   " Not for a man? replied Owen, looking up at

his father as if to measure his height and strength.

   " No ! nor for a boy either, for the matter of

/that," replied Davy Evans.
" Could have done          it,

                                     if

                                                               a
                                                                                 ;
                             father," timidly inquired

the youth.                        the other end of
   " To be sure you could, Owen,

the beam had only been long enough."
   The words sank deep into the little fellow's soul

he could think of nothing else, but that he, child,
could lift a heavy mass like that he had just seen his

father raise:

   "/could have done it!" murmured he, over and
THE FIRST GLEAM OF LIGHT.  25

ifhave done what he did--big man as he is-- the

other end of the beam had only been long enough."

    The thought took such possession of the boy's
mind that he no longer saw the things around him,
and the crowd of neighbours, who still stood round
gossiping, in little groups, about the wonder, was all
a mist to him. He neither heard what they said,
nor felt them, as some pushed by him to join the

others.

  "If the other end of the beam had only been

long enough? he repeated to himself, as he strolled

pensively towards the meadow that led to the water

side.

   " Hurrah !" shouted the villagers in one voice, as
they gave their last cheer at Davy's handiwork,

before going to their labour.

   The cry woke the boy from his reverie. As he

wandered through the meadow, and could see far

away up the river, he caught sight of the square
punt crossing the ferry, and he knew by the long
fishing-rod carried by one of the passengers, that
the blacksmith and his boy were in the boat.

   " Young Jarman must have heard that, thank
goodness!" said Owen, full of glory; and as he

strayed along to the water's edge he kept his eyes
fixed on the ferry-boat until it reached the opposite

shore.
26 THE SHEPHERD-BOY PHILOSOPHER.

mind and once more recalling his father's words,

Owen stretched himself at full length on the bank,

/and, with his hands clasped on the crown of his head,

said over and over again, " could have done it if

the other end of the beam had only been long

enough. What could father mean ] What difference
Ifcould that have made?
                           the other end of the beam

had only been long enough  .'"
                   CHAPTER II.

      THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S FIRST EXPERIMENTS.

How small a spark will fire a train of thought in a
young mind !

    The boy-poet, Chatterton, could not be made to
learn his letters until he happened one day to be
struck by the quaint-looking old English characters
on one of his mother's thread-papers.

    The genius of the illustrious mechanician, Vau-
canson, might, perhaps, have been lost to the world
had not his father confined him, when a lad, by way
of punishment, in a spare room; and the child
amused himself by pulling to pieces an old clock
that was in it.

   And even the great Newton was, as has been
before stated, first incited to study by a feeling of
revenge that made him resolve to excel a senior boy
at school who had severely ill-treated him.

   Thus it was with little Owen Evans ! Had it not
been for the wonder begotten in him by his father's
28 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHERS

raising the roof of their cottage, he might, perhaps,

have never troubled his brain concerning the laws of

motion.

  " What difference could it have made if the other

arm of the beam had been longer?" he asked him
self. " How could a yard or two, added to the end

of a log, have given me the force of a man and even
of a giant 1 What power has a foot or two of wood
to make me lift a weight more than enough to crush

me?"

Such were the inquiries that crossed the boy's

mind as he lay on his back, with his eyes fixed

vacantly on the clouds that flitted across the sky

like breath upon a mirror.

Presently he started to his feet, for a sudden

thought had struck him.

  A short distance from where he lay stood a huge

block of stone -- a lump of the adjacent rock, torn

off by the floods, carried down the stream, and de

posited at the edge of the river.

it ifOwen went towards

                                  it,
                                      it,

                                                                        it,
                                                                       if
                              and placing his hands

against the block, pushed with all his might to see

he could move it.

The effort was vain. The mass was as firm as

were set deep in the earth.

Then having satisfied himself that he had not

power even to shake much more to raise he

turned away, and began hunting among the trees

that grew by the water-side.
           FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                                                                   2U

   He did not wander far before he came to the
stump of an oak--the one, he remembered, Davy
Prichard had felled some days previously -- and

round about it were strewn a heap of the smaller

branches.

    Selecting the stoutest and the strongest, he re

turned with it to the heavy block of stone.
    " Now," said the boy to himself, " we shall soon

see whether a foot or two of wood will give me

power to move a mass like this."

Owen worked the end of the branch far under

the lump of rock, and having rolled a heavy stone

           it,
                          it

                                               it

                                                                                             ;
towards    rested the branch upon as he had seen

his father do with the beam that morning then

placing his hands at the further end of the branch

he bore down upon with all his weight.

To the intense delight of the youth he beheld the

heavy block vibrate to and fro with each exertion

of his strength.          he cried, " that a mere
    " Oh, most wonderful
it
                   if

                                                   !"
                                                                                            a
bit of wood should give me strength to move

weight a horse could scarcely stir."
    " Father said the arm of the beam were longer

would give more power still." Musing thus, the

boy withdrew the branch as far as he possibly could

from beneath the rock, and allowed the end merely

to rest under the edge of it.

Then once more placing his hands at the further
 30 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHERS

extremity of the bough, he found that he could stir
the heavy mass as easily again.

    Owen's mind was filled with astonishment, for
now he discovered he could move the solid mass even
with one hand ; and his delight and wonder rose
higher and higher, as he beheld the immense block
lean over on its side more and more, in answer to his

pressure.

   At length the lad grew so excited with the feat,

that exerting his whole force, he pressed the end of
the bough violently to the ground, and saw, to his
terror and amazement, the huge and heavy lump
topple over into the stream, making the water fly
high into the air as it did so ; while the branch, sud
denly released from the weight that held darted
from his hand and whirled upward with a power
that to Owen's simple mind seemed something super

natural.

   Frightened almost out of his wits, the boy in
stinctively fled from the spot and as he darted in
and out the trees, his bewildered imagination saw
in the shadows of the foliage playing on the ground,

  troop of figures hurrying at his heels.
   But when he was once more in the broad day
light of the open meadow, his fears soon left him,
and as he turned round and discovered that there
was nobody behind him, he laughed inwardly as
he thought how silly his alarm had been.
a
                                                                  ;

                                                                 it,
     FIRST EXPERIMENTS.              31

At first he felt inclined to return to the water

side and repeat the experiment he had made. Then

he stood still for a minute, and asked himself "Where
was the good of that V He had satisfied himself that

he had power to move a weight heavy enough to crush

him. No! he would go home and see what he

could find in the tool-shed that would help him to

understand something more about the strange dis

covery he had made.

   As he sauntered across the meadow, he specu

lated as he went.

   " What can there be in a mere beam that should

Irender me so much stronger than am, and why

should my force be made greater merely by making

one end of a log of wood longer than the other?

IIt's very strange ! It's easier to break a long stick
than a short one; so  should have thought the

Ilonger the end of the beam was made, the weaker it

would have been. But it isn't so ; or else could

never have moved that stone. I'll find it all out,it,

II'm determined! won't say a word to father, I'll
Ido it every bit myself, and when know all about

    I'll make machine that will lift anything--ay
     Ia                                           !
            I iIf
even a mountain,      wish it. What will John
                    II
Jarman say to that, should like to know How
                                  t

savage he'll be when he finds  can do more than he

can? Yes, won't rest till      have done it;" and

the boy walked quicker as the thought fired him.!
    " Won't father be pleased, too Perhaps he'll
32 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

Ithink I'm clever enough to go out to work, and

then shall be able to earn some pocket-money for

myself, like Hugh does. And young Jarman will
find that other boys can do something besides him

Iself. I'm sure don't see anything so very grand

in being able to make the holes in a horse-shoe."
   Amusing himself thus by speculating --now upon

the delight he was to give his father, and then upon
the vexation he would cause the young blacksmith,

Owen reached the cottage, and making his way

quickly to the tool-shed at the back, he began rum

maging among the many odd things stored there, to
discover what he could render subservient to his

purpose.

First he looked up at the roof, and cast his eyes

along the strange medley of old lumber that dangled
from the rafters -- the donkey's ragged collar, and

the battered horn-lanthorn, and the bill-hook. For

a moment he thought he would have that down,

it
                                               it,
but no ! hanging close beside                       he caught sight of

the long-handled shears for clipping the hedges, and

these, he fancied, would do much better.

Owen was about to mount the little ladder, when

struck him, as he stood on the first step, that he

might find something more suitable still. So he

went up another step or two, in order that he might

take a good survey of the roof, and then he glanced
from the spoutless kettles and leaky saucepans --that
hung there waiting to be mended--to the hen
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                             33

coop his father had made out of the old cradle, and

then to the mason's square and plummet --and the
old flail -- and the many-jointed broom Davy Evans
had contrived for sweeping the chimneys --and an

infinity of odds and ends besides. But none of

them seemed to suit the boy's fancy.

Descending, therefore, from his perch, he began to

search in all the corners of the queer building.
First he took up the scythe that was stowed away

(its blade wrapped round with straw) against the
wall. Then he looked at the spades and pick

axes, but not one was to his mind; so he turned

towards the rough carpenter's bench, and began
playing with the loose handle of the large wooden

screw in front of it.

Suddenly a new notion seized him, and he darted

over to the discarded pigeon-house that was nailed

against the opposite wall, and now did duty as his

father's tool-box. From one of the pigeon holes in

which the brads and screws were stored, he took a

long nail ; then returning to the bench, he got the
hammer, that lay at one end of and drove the
                        D it, it
                                     it,

                                            I
nail tight into the wall before him; he had no
sooner done this than he proceeded, by means of the

same instrument, to draw out again.

As Owen held the end of the wooden handle, and

felt the nail gradually forced from its hold by the
                        he said to himself, "
iron claw that grasped

could not have pulled that nail out with my fingers.
34, THE BOT-PHILOSOPHER S

The handle here, then, gives me the same power as

the branch did with the rock."

After this he tried to draw another nail that he

found driven into the bench; and now he placed

his hand at the other end of the handle, close

against the head, but then, strive as he would, he
could not stir it ; so he slid his hand a few inches

higher up the shaft, and then found that, by using
all his strength, he could just loosen the nail.

Directly, however, he raised his hand to the far end,

he could remove it with the greatest ease.
   " It's every bit the same as with the beam," he

cried; "the longer the handle, the greater the

strength it gives me."

Suddenly his eye lighted upon the treadle under

neath the lathe, and throwing down the hammer, he

hastened towards it. He placed his foot close

against the rod that connected the treadle with the

it,axle above and pressing on the board he easily
            it, it,
               itset the wheels in motion. Next, he drew his foot

backwards along the treadle, and found that he

could scarcely stir     until at last when he trod

right at the end of the board, though he balanced
himself on one leg, so as to let the whole of his

weight bear upon        was impossible for him to

give the wheel the least motion.                          exclaimed.
                                                             hundred
   "How strange!" the boy inwardly

" I've seen father work at this lathe
I

                                it

                                                         a
times, and myself have made     spin round over
             FIRST EXPERIMENTS.  35

Iand over again, and yet never noticed this before !
IIt's all as father said, can move anything, if the

beam is only long enough."

    Owen paused for awhile, and then murmured as

he mused again, " Though it's all the same -- though

the power comes in the same way in every one of

these things, yet how different each one is from

the other."

Then he got a bit of chalk from one of the

pigeonholes, and began to draw on the bench rude

outlines of the several instruments.
   " Look !" he cried, still talking to himself, " the

hammer is like that--

   " And the treadle is like this :

  I" And the branch moved the rock with was so.

    " They're not a bit alike," he exclaimed, as he
surveyed the rough sketches he had made. " They
all turn on different points. See here !" he went

                                        d2
36 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER 8

on, "the hammer turns on the head; and the long
arm," he said, as he pointed to the line which indi
cated the handle, " is not in the same direction as

the short arm ;" and he put his finger on the curved

end that stood for the claw of the instrument.

I" Now, the branch," he proceeded, " turned on
the stone that  set close against the rock, and

the short and the long arms were both in the same

line.
    " But the treadle, again, is different from either,

for it turns on the end, and has but one arm

instead of two. And yet they're all alike still--for
the same thing holds good in every one of them --

the longer the beam the greater the strength."

Owen, however, was far from satisfied with the

knowledge he had gained. He saw that he was

not a whit nearer to the solution of the puzzle --

how comes it that the power depends on the length

of beam?
   Seating himself upon the bench, he began think

ing what means there were at hand to enable him

to clear up the mystery, swinging his legs back

wards and forwards as he pondered over the matter.
   Suddenly he sprang to the ground, for the pair

of scales that dangled against the opposite wall had

just caught his eye.
   As he snatched them from the hook, he wondered

how he could have been there so long without

seeing them. They were the very things he wanted
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                               37

all the while, he knew, and yet for the life of
him he couldn't think of them. " He could clear it

all up now; yes, he could! --he felt he could !"-- and

the boy half danced with delight.

Owen was so impatient to come at the result

that he would hardly give himself time to suspend
the balance from the rafters in the shed. Accord

ingly, he had to mount the ladder some two or

three times before he could get the beam of the

scales to hang as he wished. First, the nail was
loose ; next, the string was too short --then it was

all of a tangle.

  At length, however, he grew more calm, and in a

few minutes the scale beam was properly suspended

from the roof. Then he placed in each of the

pans an equal weight, and he was delighted to see

that the one exactly balanced the other.         " Of

  " It is just as it should be !" he exclaimed.

course there can be no power gained when the

two sides of the beam are of equal lengths, as they

seem to be here."

To make sure of the fact, however, he took his

father's foot-rule and measured the distance from

each extremity to the point on which the beam

turned as its centre.

  I" It is as thought," he ejaculated, " it's just ten

inches on each side."

   " Now, then, I'll soon have it !" he chuckled, as

he loosened the scales from the strings, and laying
38 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

the beam down on the bench, drew, with the aid of
the foot-rule, a chalk line straight along it. This
he then marked off into inches, so that the beam

was scored with chalk somewhat after this fashion --

    Having proceeded thus far, he lifted the beam
back to its former place, and tied the string round
it just at the first mark from the end, so that when
suspended from the rafter it hung all on one side,

thus --

                               Owen drew back a few paces to
                        have a good look at the balance,
                           and he stamped his foot on the

                      ground impatiently, as he beheld it

              Iall askew, saying to himself the

                      while, " That will never do. must
                      make it swing straight somehow."

                            Presently he remembered his
                        father had a bag of shot. Yes, he
                      knew where he had seen it ; so he
                          skipped over to the pigeon-house,
                        and thrusting his hand into one
                        of the holes withdrew a small canvas
                FIRST EXPERIMENTS.  39

bag. As he did so a heavy shower of bullets that

he had dislodged from one of the corners fell

rattling about his feet.
   " This is capital," he cried, as he stooped to pick

them up; "they're as good again as the ounce
weights, and will save me a lot of trouble."

  It took some little time for Owen to balance

the scales by means of the shot. Having sus

pended the bag from the upper end of the beam,

first it was too heavy --then it was too light--

and he had to tie it up and pull it down many

times; now taking some out, then putting a little

more in, until the impatient lad grew so fidgety

over the work that he could hardly stand still to

finish it.

   At length, however, the balance was fairly poised,

and Owen -- his fingers tingling with delight at the

certainty of the experiment he was about to make --

dropped one of the bullets into the scale-pan that

dangled from the longer arm.
" Now then," he exclaimed, as he beheld the scale
"Idescend,
                shall see how many bullets that one

will support."

Accordingly the enraptured boy proceeded to

throw first one bullet into the scale-pan, suspended

from the upper and shorter end of the beam.
   " Ah," he cried, as he rubbed his hands with

Iglee, " one doesn't make the least difference, of course.
  knew it would lift that quite easily."
40 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

Then he dropped another in--half timidly --for

he almost expected to perceive the upper scale-pan

sink beneath the increased weight, as he did so.
"It"No!" he said.
                       doesn't fall yet. It lifts

twice its weight, that's certain;" and the little fellow

jumped again for joy.

Next he drew another bullet from the pocket

where he had stored them, and slid it, as gently as

possible, down the side of the scale- pan, holding his

breath the while, for he made sure the balance

would turn this time.

But when he saw it remain steady as ever in the

air and that the one bullet supported three others, he

Iclapped his hands again and again, and shouted, "

only wish young Jarman could only see what I've

found out."

   " Well, another must drive it down anyhow," he

said, when his excitement had slightly abated, and

he was calm enough to proceed with the experiment.

I" don't so much care if it does, either," he added,

as he let a fourth bullet fall into the scale.

  I" declare it's as still as before," he whispered
Ito himself; " do really believe it will take another

yet. Ay ! that it will !" he continued, as he placed

his finger on the edge of the pan, to ascertain what

power it required to force the beam down.  " Yes,

Iand two more, shouldn't wonder."

Accordingly Owen dropped a fifth bullet in, and

finding the beam showed no tendency to descend,
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.  41

he grew bold now that the first excitement of the
trial had passed, and tossed a sixth among the

rest.

  I I" Well, never saw such a thing ! do believe it's

bewitched !" he ejaculated, as he flung one more into

the scale.

   " That makes seven !" he murmured, as he tossed

his head in wonder at the fixedness of the beam.

   " Well, you shall have another, old fellow, if you

want it," he said, laughing and talking to the balance,
" I've a lot more in my pocket here."

   Still no effect was produced. The one bullet

supported the whole eight.

   " Yes ! and another still, if you like.

   " Ay, and another after that."

    The beam, however, hung as slanting as ever,

with the pan holding the ten bullets poised high in
the air, while that with the one in it remained

far below.
    " Oh ! there must be something wrong ! The

beam has stuck fast, I'm sure," and so saying the

boy-experimentalist approached the scales, and once

more tried to force down the upper pan.
   " No !" he tittered, as he found it yield to his

pressure. " There's nothing the matter, it only

wants a lot more, that's all," and he rubbed his
hands with delight at the seeming incongruity of
the matter. "But that difficulty is soon got over,"
so he threw another bullet into the upper pan.
42 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

I" There goes eleven, beg to say !" he remarked.

" Twelve !" he counted, as another dropped from

his hand.

    " Thirteen !
    " Fourteen !
    " Fifteen !"

Owen paused once more, for he could hardly
"Ifcredit what he saw.
                          father had told me as
I Imuch, really don't think should have believed
it," the lad soliloquized. " But there must be an end

to it shortly, so I'll put in two this time.

    " Now, sir, that makes seventeen you've had !"

he went on, still talking to the scales, while he threw

in the brace of bullets.

"And two more will be nineteen." Another

couple were added to the number.

But scarcely had the second brace fallen from

his fingers than the upper pan descended beneath

the increased weight.

   " I've put in too many," shouted Owen, as he saw

Ithe beam go down. " No ! haven't," he cried, when

he beheld it rise again, and continue vibrating less

and less each time.

" No !-- no !        no !" he half whispered, as he

watched the space through which it rose and fell

become gradually shorter and shorter, until at last,

when he saw the two pans equally balanced, Owen

danced and capered about, and threw his cap up in
the air, half wild with joy.
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                                43

    The excitement over, the boy returned to the
scales, and withdrew one bullet from the nineteen.

   To his astonishment, he beheld the one in the pan
suspended from the long end of the beam lift the
whole of the eighteen in the other.

   Then he replaced the nineteenth bullet as gently

as possible, and finding that it brought the beam

back exactly to a balance, he took one of the small

shot he had emptied from the bag, and depositing

it in the pan with the one bullet, found to his in

tense glee that the one, with the least weight added

to would raise the whole of the nineteen others.
   " No wonder then," he thought to himself, " that

the branch made me move the rock, for that was
it,
                                         is  here, and father said
much longer than the beam

the power depended on the length of the arm."

The idea no sooner struck him, than he set to

work to ascertain how much longer the one arm of

the scale-beam was than the other. Whereupon he

proceeded to count the chalk marks on either side of

the string by which the balance was suspended.
   To his great joy, he discovered that there were

nineteen inches chalked on the long arm of the

"Ibeam, and only one on the short arm.            all;

  "Ah! now see!" he ejaculated,
is I                                         see

   it

                         a

                                              it
the one arm nineteen times longer than the other,
and therefore can lift weight nineteen times

heavier than its own. Yes, it's as plain as the
44 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHERS

side, and only one on the other ; and there's one

bullet in this pan, and nineteen in that."

   He paused for a moment to consider, and then

returning to the scales, he said, " I'll soon see whe
ther that's the reason of for I'll hang the balance
                        it,
                           ;"
from the second inch here and as Owen said the

words, he proceeded to tie the string tight round

the second chalk mark from the end.

   When he had done this he paced up and down
the shed, muttering to himself as he went, " Now,

there are two chalk marks on the one side, and

eighteen on the other.  wonder              can find out
                        I
                             iIf

                                  iIf
what weight the long end should lift this time.
Oh have it," he cried, "
!I                                          count how many

two inches there are contained in the eighteen

inches marked on the other end of the beam, thatis
will tell me how many times the one end longer

than the other.

   " It's just nine times longer," he ejaculated,
chuckling as he made the discovery, " and therefore

one bullet, and a little bit, placed in the pan at the

long end should be able to lift nine bullets in

the other pan.      I'm right

   " Now, I'll see
    a

          if

                                        !"
Owen was not many minutes in loading the pan at

the short end with the requisite nine bullets, and

then, with trembling hand, he dropped the one

bullet and the shot into the opposite scale, fixing

his eye the while on the beam above.
              FIEST EXPERIMENTS.        45

As the bullet slipped from his fingers, Owen was

overjoyed to see the scale descend, and the pan con

taining the heavier weight gradually rise in the air.
" Yes, I'm right ! I'm right !" he shouted, " It is
Ias thought.
              As much longer as the one end of

the beam is than the other, so much the greater

weight will it balance.
I" should like to try it once more though. Oh !
I Inever felt so happy in all my life.
                                        would give

up anything to be able to find out things like this
every day. Ha ! and I've done it all myself --

Ithat's what pleases me. Won't father be glad.

wonder what he will say when he hears it. He

always told us we did not know what we could

I Ido till we tried, and I'm sure if hadn't tried
Ishould never have known what do now. Yes, I'll

try once more, to make sure. I'll tie the string

round at the fourth chalk mark from the end now,

Iand see if can guess how many bullets one bullet

will raise then."

Having shifted the string to the stated point, he

counted the marks on the long end.

   " Now there are sixteen marks on one side, and

four on the other," observed the boy. Next he

reckoned how many four marks were contained in

the sixteen --counting first one four, then two fours,

and so on, as he had previously done with the twos;

for the little fellow was but slightly skilled in

arithmetic.
-MS THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

Having finished the calculation, he remarked that

the one was now only four times as long as the other,
consequently the least bit more than one bullet in

the pan at the long end should lift four bullets at

the other.

   The point was soon settled, and the boy was once
more charmed to find the result turn out as he had

conjectured.

  I" It's all the same, try it any way will !" he

cried. "Just as much longer as one arm of the beam

Iis than the other, so much the greater weight will it
balance ; yes, that's it.  understand it all now."

Then Owen vaulted on to the bench, and sat for

a minute or two considering, playing the while

vacantly with the stick inserted in the large head of

the wooden screw in front of it.

  I"No ! don't understand it at all--not a bit of
Iit," he suddenly burst out. " How stupid am," he

exclaimed, for--mere boy as he was--he could see,

I

           it

                                 !

               !I
                                    a
                                        a

                            I it,
                                                                                                                      1
                                       I
though he could not express  that he had dis

covered only the ride and not the reason of the

matter.
   " Why should one arm of the beam," he went on

ruminating, " merely because it's longer than the

other, be able to lift greater weight That's what

  want to know. How silly of me to fancy had

found out all in minute.

" Dear dear  don't see how am ever to get at
           FIRST EXPERIMENTS.  4,7

I Ithat," he added, after a few moments' considera

tion. " wish there was some one could ask--

Ijust to put me in the way, you know. And yet

shouldn't like, either," he continued ; " it's so nice

after you have found it out, to feel you've done it

all yourself, without a bit of assistance from any

one. Oh ! no, no ! I'll try on still ! There's

nothing like trying, as father says. But how to set

about it--that's what puzzles me."

The boy lapsed into another reverie, and at

length growing restless at his inability to hit upon

any plan that would help him, he jumped down from
the bench and began pacing the shed again. But

it was all in vain.

Accordingly, after a few turns up and down, he

stopped before the scales that were still hanging

suspended by the string from the rafters, and loaded
with the bullets as he had left them. For want of

thought, Owen struck the beam with his finger and
made it vibrate up and down.

   As the lad stood listlessly watching the oscilla
tions, he suddenly exclaimed, " Look ! how much

larger a sweep the long arm, as it moves up and

down, makes than the short one. The one arm is
four times as long as the other," he said, " and as
Iwell as
           can judge, it seems to go about four

times as far. There may be something in that !"

mused he.
it,48 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

   "I know what I'll do; I'll find out how much

 farther it really does go, and then I'll see whether

 that will help me."
    Here arose a fresh difficulty. How was this to

 be done 1 there was no means of measuring, with
 any precision, the space that either arm moved
 through, in the position that the beam then occu

 pied.

   At first Owen thought he would take the balance

 down, and removing the scale-pans from the ends of
the beam lay it on the bench, and there chalk
down the lines it described as it moved.

    But when he had untied the string it struck him

that, even if he did as he had proposed, it would be

impossible to make the beam turn on any point but
the middle, for there were no holes through it in any

other part.

    He knew what he would do! He could easily
cut out a beam in wood. There were some nice

laths handy in the corner.

    The notion had no sooner entered his head than

the busy lad set to work to carry out his project,
and it was not long before he had fashioned for
himself a wooden beam of exactly the same dimen
sions as the iron one from which the scales had

depended. Then having chalked the inches all
along as he had done with the metal-beam, he bored
a hole with the brad-awl at the first inch mark from
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.  49

one end, and after that another hole at the second

inch mark, and lastly, one at the fourth.
   Next he placed the wooden beam on the bench

before him, and driving a small nail through the first
hole from the end, proceeded, by means of a piece
of chalk held at each extremity, to mark out the
lines that both ends of the beam described as it

turned upon the nail.
   Afterwards he removed the beam to another part

of the bench, and having driven the nail this time
through the second hole from the end, went through
the same operation.

    Finally, he repeated the process a second time, but
then he took the fourth hole for the centre.

    When the work was done, the chalk lines described
on the bench were as follows, with the exception of

being considerably longer, and they had then none

of the " ticks" placed at the side of them:

    Owen paused for a moment to contemplate the

Ivarious lengths of the curved lines.

   " It seems to be as thought," he murmured --
" but I'll soon make sure of that."

                                                    E
50 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHERS

   So saying, the boy took some string, and cutting
a piece precisely the length of the smaller curve in
the first figure, proceeded to ascertain how many
times it was contained in the larger curve, chalking
ofF the lengths as he went.

    " That's all right !" he cried, as he summed up
the number of chalk marks. The one arm here

is just nineteen times as long as the other, and there
fore it goes through, as it moves up and down, pre
cisely nineteen times as great a space as the short one

does."

   Measuring then the second figure in the same
rude manner, the delighted boy found a similar pro
portion between the lengths of the curves and the
lengths of the arms; the one end of the beam in
this case being nine times as long as the other,
and the space described by the long end being
consequently nine times as great as the short

one.

    Nor was it in any way different with the third
figure, for here the one curve was four times as long
as the other, and the length of each arm in precisely

the same proportion.
    " Come !" said Owen, as he pondered over the re

sult with no little satisfaction ; " I've found out two

wonderful things to-day --that just as much longer

 as the one arm is than the other, so much the greater

weight will it balance, and so much the greater space
does it pass through, as it moves up and down.
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                                                              51

I" Still," he observed, after a few minutes' thought,
" what want to know
it                                                          the reason whya     does

                    aall this. Let me see!" he mused, as he fixed           it

                                                         ?his eyes intently on the figures chalked on the

                                                is,Ifbench. " the long end passes through greater

space than the short end, and both ends move

up and down in the same time, then the one must

go quicker than the other. Yes, to be sure                                      it
must--just as much longer as the one arm than
                                                            V
the other, so much the swifter must its weight
                                                              if
travel --that's quite clear."
   " But would this make any difference he went                  it is

on. " Can weight have more power merely because

moves more quickly It's strange, indeed,                                    has."

Then Owen hung the scales up once more, still

talking as he did so. But this time he attached
the string immediately above the tongue in the

middle of the balance. Having done this, he flung
it

                                    ;
                                                       a

                                             it

                                                           is
                                                                                   a
bullet into each pan, and as he made the beam

vibrate with his finger, he said--his eyes rivetted
upon the while-- " Here the weights are equal, and

the spaces gone through, at every turn, by each end

of the beam are equal too so that                                         clear one

bullet, with the least atom over, in falling through

so much space, in such and such time, will lift
another bullet of its own weight just as far, in the

same time.

   " Now," he continued, " in the case where the one

bullet and little bit lifted nineteen others, the one
a
                      e
                             2
52 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

travelled nineteen times as far, and nineteen times

as fast as the others did ; therefore it is plain --since
the one bullet lifted every one of the nineteen, just
the nineteenth part of its own distance--if we add

these nineteen parts together, the whole nineteen
bullets must have passed through the same space, in

the same time as the one did. There can be no
doubt of it," said he, " for look ! the long arm fell
nineteen inches while the short arm rose one inch ;

as then every one of the nineteen bullets was lifted
one inch, it is as clear as can be, the whole of the

nineteen together must have gone through nineteen
inches, and that in the same time as did the one

bullet by itself."
    Owen, however, was not yet convinced that he

understood the matter thoroughly, and the boy bit
his lips with perplexity at the difficulty of the

problem.

   " But if the spaces described are equal," he mut

tered, still in doubt, " it's impossible to make out
that the weights are the same, any way."

    Then, having considered for awhile, he exclaimed,

"No it isn't, either, for as the one bullet falls

through nineteen times the greater space, and is
always, as it falls, acting on the others, it is evident
that it must be one bullet acting nineteen times
over. For suppose," he argued to himself, " the
ends of the beam had been both of the same length,
and the one bullet, and a little bit, had lifted the
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                          53

nineteen others through an inch space, one by one

instead of all together. Then, of course, by the time
the one bullet had raised the whole of the others

one inch each, it would not only have fallen through

nineteen separate inches, but, have acted as nineteen

separate bullets ; so that, when one arm of the beam

is nineteen times as long as the other, the one bullet

does merely the same thing all at once, and conse

quently has nineteen times the power."

The knot once cut in this case, there was no

longer any difficulty in comprehending the others.

Where the one bullet raised nine, it was now easy to

see that the long end of the beam travelled nine

times as quick and nine times as far as the short

end; and, consequently, that a weight suspended at

the longer end had the power to balance nine times

as much at the shorter one. While, in the instance

where the one end of the balance was four times as

long as the other, it was evident, that the long end

moved four times as quickly, and therefore had four

times the po wer of the opposite one.       do

  I" So then !" ejaculated Owen, " at last
understand it all. It is beyond a doubt that the

power of every weight is greater the quicker it moves,

so that the lightest body, if it could be made to

travel fast enough, might have the same power

given it as the heaviest --even one of these small

shots have the force of a cannon ball, pro
54 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

cannon ball as the ball was heavier than the shot.

Oh, yes ! it isn't the weight merely that makes the

power of a thing How stupid I've been ! No ; it's

I Ithe weight, together with the speed with which it
moves.  see the reason now, why was able to stir

that heavy rock. My weight at the end of the
Ibeam moved as many times quicker as was lighter
Ithan it--that was the reason.
                                remember hearing

father say once, that some great man he had read

about, had declared if he could only get a place to

rest a beam upon, he would lift the whole world with

a straw. Ay, and so he might, to be sure," added
the delighted lad-- " with a feather, for the matter of
that-- as father said this morning, the other end
        if,
of the beam were only long enough."a

By this time the brain of the little fellow wasI if

wearied almost to exhaustion, so by way of recreation

he passed over to the lathe and began working the

treadle with his foot, pleased to find how easily now

he could increase the power at will. Then he made

the wheel spin round violently, and having done so,

he retired few paces to contemplate the rapidity

of the motion.

   As the wheel slackened its pace, and the spokes

became more and more visible, Owen could not help,

now that he was somewhat recruited, lapsing into

his former train of thought.               those

  "It seems to me," he whispered, "as

spokes there were only so many levers.   should
               FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                55

just like to find that out, and then I'd have
Idone for to-day. Oh ! see how to do it," he ex
Iclaimed ; " it wont take me long, now
Imuch as do."                                    know so

Accordingly Owen proceeded to unhook the

treadle-rod from the crank and to remove the strap
from the fly-wheel ; then he set off into the cottage
to fetch the tape measure his father used when

tailoring.

   Returning quickly with he proceeded to takea
the dimensions round the rim of the wheel, anda
after that to ascertain the length of the circumference
of the axle. Next he measured how many timesa it,

the one was greater than the other, and findinga   if it
to be eight-and-twenty times, he said, "Now,a
I'm right, the least bit more than pound weight
at the outside of this wheel should be able to lifta

as many as eight-and-twenty pounds at the axle     ;
for as the axle," he added, " must turn round once

every time the wheel does, weight fastened to

the rim of the wheel would go through eight-and-

twenty times as great space as one hanging from

the axle."                                       matter to

  It did not take long to put so simple

the proof. Having tied pound weight to one
end of piece of string, he fastened the other end to
the rim of the wheel, and then proceeded to attach
to the axle, by means of stout cord, the quarter of
a
            a
hundredweight he had borrowed for the purpose
56 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

from Roger Wilkins, the clothier hard by. Next

he added a slight extra weight to the pound, so as

to give it a sufficient preponderance to start the

wheel, and was overjoyed to see the heavy weight
rise as the lighter one fell.

  I" This is beautiful !" he cried, as he repeated the

experiment over and over again. " could tell

Inow what power was wanted to lift any weight if

only knew the size of the wheel and axle, or the
length of the two ends of the beam.

    The words had no sooner escaped him, than

springing up from the ground where he had been

Ikneeling to watch the wheel of the lathe revolve,

he shouted : " know what I'll do ! I'll be off to the
draw-well, --that's just the thing for me! There's
a wheel and axle there, and I'll soon find out now

what gain there is in the power with it."
    The well to which Owen alluded was at the top

of the common. It was not utterly unpicturesque

in appearance. Round the mouth of it a stone
wall was raised breast high; this was nearly black in
the inside, and had a moist green look, while the

outside was half hidden by weeds and brambles,
excepting where the bright worn handle of the

winch projected, and there the ground was bald, as it

were, and the grass for some little distance worn and
trampled by the many comers. Above the axle
was a little roof to protect the cords from the wet,
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.  67

and the thatch of this was partly covered with thick
clumps of bright green moss.

    The well itself was noted for miles round for its

depth and the purity of the water ; though as you
craned your neck over the edge of the wall, and
peeped down the long dark perpendicular tunnel, the
water looked more like ink as it lay shimmering
there in the darkness at the bottom.

    Owen having come prepared with his tape
measure to take the circumference of the axle, was
not long in satisfying himself as to its dimensions,
and then ascertaining the length of the winch, he
described a circle on the ground by means of the same
measure tied to a bit of stick, and thus obtained the

length of the space passed through by the winch at
each revolution it made.

    Then, after a long cogitation, he found how many
times the circumference of the circle, described by

the winch as it revolved, was greater than the cir
cumference of the axle ; and so at length discovered
exactly how much more easily a man was enabled to
raise water by such means than he could without it.

   By this time the energies of the little philosopher
were fairly spent. He had never thought so much
in all his life before, and now that the excitement
58 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHERS

him, he felt as tired as if he had walked with his

father to Builth market and back.

Insensibly the little fellow fell asleep beside the

circle he had described on the ground; for what

with his restlessness the night before, and the men

tal labour he had gone through that morning, he

was utterly overpowered, and slumbered on with

out a dream to ruffle his rest.

   At length old Jack, who had returned to his

quarters on the common, strolled on, as he nibbled the

short herbage, to the brow of the hill, and dis

covering his young master stretched at full length

on the ground, began rubbing his nose, as was his

wont, against the lad's cheeks.

Owen, roused by the animal, smiled as he opened

his eyes, and found his pet brute at his side.

   " What, Jacky, are you there 1 Is it you, you

old rascal? You're sure to find me out, you are !"

he cried, as he started to his feet, and shook the

donkey playfully by his long, furry ear. Then, still

full of the discoveries he had made, he said, " Ah,
IJack, you little know what I've found out.
                                             wish
I could tell you, old fellow, for then you'd be as happy
I Ias am-- know you would. Why, I've found out,

Jacky, the way to make you move any weight, and

that without tiring you at all, too. I'll tell you what
I Imean to do, old fellow, when grow up, and get to
Ihave some money of my own.
                                   mean to build a
        FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                                         59

Ihave the beam so long, that you will be able to push

it round almost without knowing it. Then shall
be rich ; and then slwSnt you be fat, sir-- ah, that

you shall ! You shall be as fat as Mrs. Williams's

lap-dog, over at the Court, yonder. And I'll always

have my pockets full of lumps of sugar and apples
for you then, old beauty. Ah ! who tore my Sunday

coat, last Christmas-tide, trying to get at the apples

in my pocket, you wicked old thing, you." And the

boy hugged the pet brute as he upbraided him.

   As Owen jogged down the common talking to the

donkey about the many fine things he was to do

when he had invented this same grand machine,

he caught the sound of the throbbing of the water-

mill at the clothier's in the village below, and this

started a new train of thought in his mind.

  I" Many and many a time have leant over the

little bridge yonder," he murmured, as the memories

bubbled up in his brain, "and seen the water come

pouring down the sluice all of a foam, from the dam

        it,

                       a

                            !" I
                                                                a
beside  and watched the large black shiny wheel

roll round and round, as the troughs filled one after

another, while the water dripping from them sparkled

in the sun, with thousand colours --for all the world

like the crystal drops to the Squire's chandelier

--and the stream beneath was all of lather, and

white as drifting snow. Oh!  think it's the

prettiest sight in all the world he exclaimed.
60 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

bridge, and gazed at it all--the little fall with the

water streaming over the dam, like a sheet of glass,

and the large feathery drooping willow growing from

out the high red rock on one side, with the slender

branches hanging down, and the tips of them just
dipping in the water, and the green reflection of

its form showing in the pool below, all zig-zaggy,

as the current danced along. Ah, many a time

II've sat watching all this, and, as heard the clatter

of the wheels within, mingling with the hum of the

falls, I've wondered and wondered how it was that

a few buckets-full of water could ever have such

power. But now it's as clear as daylight to me. Isn't

a bucket-full of water too heavy for me to lift?

What, then, must be the power of ten or twelve of

these always at work at the edge of a wheel that is

as high as our cottage 1 Why, it must have force

Ienough to do anything. It would tear up oaks as

easily as could pull a rush from a pond.

  I I" understand it all-- understand it all !" he
Iadded; "and now I'll go home, but won't say a

word to anybody about what I've found out till

I've written it all down, and then I'll show it
Ito father.
             wonder what he'll say when he sees

it-- whether he'll think me as clever as he was

at my age 1 I've heard him say he used to make
Ifhis own kites and things.
                             he's very pleased,

I'll get him to teach me to turn at the lathe, and
              FIRST EXPERIMENTS.                         61

Iof things for myself. Oh, yes, dare say he will, if
I ask him, for he's so good to us--yes, very good to

us indeed --ever since poor mother died. He isn't
like John Jarman's father, always coming home

tipsy from the public of a night, and beating

his boy about, till his cries sometimes can be heard

all over the village. No, father's quite different to

that. Why, when he comes home after his work,

he sits down to teach us, for he would have given

the world, he says, to have had any one to instruct
Ihim when he was a youngster.
                                  wonder whether

he'll be as glad this time as he was when he found out

Ithat I'd learnt myself to read. He said wasn't old

enough, and that there was no use bothering me with

Isuch things afore my time --ha! ha ! but used to run

round to old Betty Watkin, and get her to teach me

my letters out of the sampler, with the funny red

            ;I
                a
                     ?"

                           if

                                                  ' it,
worsted trees worked at the bottom of that she

did when she was little girl of nine, and that's just

sixty-two year ago,' the poor old thing used to

say. Oh, yes        wonder father'll be as pleased

now as he was then

   Early the next day Owen was busy preparing for
the execution of his plan. Having broken his little
earthenware money-box, he took out the new six
pence Squire Williams had given him when he
carried home the young Squire's toy poodle dog,
62 THE BOY- PHILOSOPHER Sa

a halfpenny added to the boy purchased copyit,
book and new pen at the little village shop that
was at once the chandler's, mercer's, ironmonger's,                   a

stationer's, and, indeed, the repository of almost;"   it
everything for the neighbouring population.is                             it
                                        ;
   He then shut himself up in his little room, and
proceeded to give an account, in his own boyish way,it
of the several experiments he had made; these
he illustrated with rude sketches of the lever, and
the wheel, and axle, showing whence arose the in
crease of power derived from such mechanical

instruments.

  It took the lad some days to complete all this,

and many an experiment had he to try in order to
perfect it. But when was done, was, perhaps,
though Owen himself was unconscious of the fact,
the greatest marvel ever wrought by boyish in
genuity.*

   Still, delighted as the lad was with the little trea
tise he had written, he was half afraid to show
to his father, and he put off doing so from day to
day, though every morning he made up his mind

* This  no fiction the boy Ferguson achieved the same

wonderful task when he was "about seven or eight years of

age and the incident of lifting the roof, which has here

been made to give rise to Owen's discovery,            is  merely an

elaboration of the event which originally incited Ferguson to

the study of mechanics. -- See Ferguson's Autobiography,

prefixed to his Lectures.
              FIRST EXPERIMENTS.            03

that he would let him see it that evening after his
work was over.

   At length, one night, as the timid boy sat twist

ing the copy book round and round, his father,

noticing the fidgetiness of the lad, demanded to

know what Owen was fumbling about there.

  It was not in Owen's nature to prevaricate, so he
told him, " It was merely a little book he had

written," and then jumping up and throwing his arms

round Davy Evans' neck, the nervous boy hid his

head as he kissed his father, and confessed that he

wanted him to look overI"                   but did not like to

trouble him.                           it,

Davy embraced his boy in return, and Owen,

gaining confidence, placed the roll of paper in his

father's hand.
    " Hem exclaimed the good man, half laughing

with pride as he glanced over the pages, and

minutely examined the penmanship, saying -- " Yes,

Owey, it's very nicely written indeed for you!

The letters are formed well enough, and, if you

only take pains, you'll get into a good hand by and

by."
   "But-- -- --but wasn't the writing, father,
it

   I

                  ;a

           Ia
              I
                 I it
that wanted you to look at," stammered the

bashful lad " -- -- -- wanted you to read what

was about."
 64 THE BOY-PHILOSOPHER'S

and mechanical powers; but I'm tired now, Owey

boy ; I'll look at it another time. What book did

Iyou copy it out of, lad?"

    Owen blushed red to the roots of his hair --"

Ididn't copy it out of any book, father," he answered,

nervously, " did it all out of my own head."
    Davy Evans drew himself up in his chair, and

looking his boy sternly in the face, said-- " Owen,

you never told me a falsehood yet."
    The little fellow lost all fear in a minute, and

Iangry at his father's doubt, he returned his glance

proudly, as he said-- "Nor do tell you a story

now, sir !"
    The courage, however, that fired the lad lasted but

for a moment, and then poor Owen burst into a

flood of tears, saying, as he buried his head on

Davy's shoulder -- " Oh, father, father, you have told

Ime should not doubt your word, then why

should you doubt mine 1 You never did so before !"

and the little lad sobbed aloud as if his heart would

break.

   The old man clutched his boy to his bosom, and

Ihugging him fondly, exclaimed -- " was wrong, lad !
I was wrong ! But come, now, come ! wipe your

eyes, and tell me what all this is about."
   Owen then narrated to him the several experi

ments, and told his father how those words of his,

" if the beam had only been long enough," had so
FIRST EXPERIMENTS.  65

he had discovered why a greater length of beam

should give greater power.

   To the infinite joy of the lad, he beheld his pa

rent, when the tale was ended, open the book, and
though tired, as Owen knew him to be, he read

every page from beginning to end. As he did
so, Owen never took his eyes from the good man's
face, but watched every smile and nod of approba
tion he gave, the boy's blood tingling the while

through his veins.
   " Very good, Owey ! very well done, indeed !"

cried Davy, patting him on the head, as he came to

the end of the little treatise; and a wonderful

discovery it would have been had no one ever
done it before you."

   " Done it before !" echoed Owen, as his father's

words went through his brain like a pistol shot.

   " Yes, lad ! if you'll go to Parson Wynn's and ask

Ihim to let you see that big book of his, which used

to have reading, you'll find it all printed there, and

a great deal more beside."
    The words had no sooner been uttered by his

father, and Owen learnt that what he imagined he

had been the first to discover had already been
found out by another, than he dropped into his chair
almost broken-spirited with the intelligence.
                                                                                                                                                   I,

                    CHAPTER III.

      THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER. --WHAT COMES OF

                                     THROWING STONES.

     Owen was broken spirited.
        For a time he sat moodily in his chair, ashamed

    to cry, and yet ready to burst into tears. All the

     bright hopes he had raised had been suddenly
     destroyed. For days he had buoyed himself up by
     imagining the delight his father would feel on seeing
     what he had done, and wondering whether his parent
     would think him as clever as he himself had been

    when a boy. His chief pride, too, had been that

     the work was entirely his own, for he could not con
     ceive the possibility of any one having done it before
      him.

         Accordingly when he heard his father say that some
     one had forestalled him in the discovery, the words

    came upon him with the force of a heavy blow. All

      his calculations and contrivances seemed to have

v
        THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER, ETC.    67

days to find out that which he might have learned

from a book with little or no trouble.

  At first he felt so disgusted with the worthless-

ness of what he had written, that had his father not

been present, he would have torn the copybook to

atoms. Then what was worse than all, his father

seemed to slight his work, and this was almost more

than Owen could bear ; so he sat silently brooding
over his bitter disappointment until Davy Evans,

noticing the lad's dejection, inquired what was the
matter, saying, " Come, Owey, boy, don't be down

hearted."

  I" think you're not pleased with me, father,"

cried the little fellow, starting up and throwing his

arms round Davy Evans's neck so that he should

not see his tears.

  I"Yes, am, Owey," replied Davy, as he patted

his boy, encouragingly, on the back.

  I" No ! but you are not so pleased as fancied you
Iwould have been," sobbed Owen ; " thought you

would have kissed me as much as you did when you

I Idiscovered had taught myself to read, and am

sure what I've done now was much harder to find

out by myself than the alphabet was. But all

                    'that some one has done
you say at present  is,

                               I

                                                       it
                                                             it
before,' and you ask me what book copied out
of; but what hurt me more than all was, you de

claredI  was telling you a story. Oh, it's very

                    f

                           2
68 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

cruel of you," he cried ; the tears gushing from the

poor lad's eyes as he summed up his grievances.

    The good man smiled as he heard the boy upbraid
him for his want of encouragement; and as he

clasped him to his bosom, he said, " Well, well, lad,

I Iperhaps haven't been so kind to you as ought,

I Iand didn't praise you for what you had done so
much as  should, if had only thought for a

moment, Owen, how soon you take a thing to heart.
IThere, don't fret, boy !
                           think it very clever, I'm

sure ; and there are few men that could have done

what you have. Now, does that please you J"

Owen laughed outright through his sobs, and
I Ianswered, " Yes, father, it does please me -- it makes
me feel so happy, can't tell you.          could do any
I Ithing to hear you talk so to me, for then think

am getting a big man, and shall soon be able to

Iwork for myself. Do you think shall ever be as

clever as you are, father ?" he inquired.

"Yes, Owey," chuckled the labourer, "and a
Ideal cleverer, too. Remember,
                                   had nobody to
Iteach me when was a youngster, for there wasn't a

man nor a woman in the village then as could read.

Old Squire Williams's father, to be sure, they used to
say, was a great ' scholard,' but he was always out

fox hunting, or shooting, or fishing, or something

Iof that kind; and there were no Sunday-schools

neither in them days. Besides was put out to a

Imason when was five year old, and had to be off
       WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.       69

with him at six in the morning--sometimes to go

ever so many miles to the work, and obligated to run

all the way there, too, for my little legs couldn't keep

up with his long ones. There was no learning to

Iread in such times as them, Owen; and was a
Igrown-up man afore felt the want of it. It wasn't
I Itill married your mother (rest her soul !) that

got to know my letters. She were obligated to be a

bit of a scholard, for her father, you know, kept the

Bronllys turnpike, and she had to take the tickets
I Isometimes.
       wouldn't let her teach me, though ;

was proud-spirited, you see, and liked to do every

I Ithing for myself; so she just put me in the way

like, and wasn't long afore got hold of the

Iwhole of it. "When found the help it was to
Ime, used to tell her that our children shouldn't
Ibe brought up without any learning, if starved

for it."

  "It was very good of you, father," said Owen.

I" Poor mother used to teach Hugh, remember, and

look what a clever scholar he is. Why, he can tell

how much timber there is in a tree merely by mea

suring it."

   " And so will you, boy," answered Davy, " if you

go on in this way. You'll be able to do much finer

things than that if you'll only strive, for there are
Iwonderful matters to be learnt, Owen.
Iwhen                                   am sure,

       used to read in that big Cyclopredy of

Parson Wynn's, the astonishing things that had
70 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

been found out, I've thanked God over and over

again that I've lived to know so much of his good

Iness and glory. Often and often I've wished were

a gentleman, with nothing to do but to study such

matters and teach them to you, my lad. Some day,

Owey, you'll get to read about the stars, and learn
how every one of the little tiny specks of light you
see in the heavens are great big worlds, and how

they are millions and millions of miles away ; and
you will see, then, how clever men have measured
the size of them, and weighed them, and told how

far distant they are."
   " Oh ! father," cried the boy, his mind almost

overpowered with wonder, as the flood of new
thoughts swept through his brain, "who could

ever do that? Why the stars are too far away

for any one to get to measure them, as I've seen

Hugh do with the trees ; and if they are so big

as you say, how would they ever be got into a pair
Iof scales to weigh them ?
                            always thought they

were like those 'jack-o'-lanthorns' one sees after

Idark, floating about in the air over the marshes.

Oh, should like, father, to learn about the

stars."

  " All in good time, lad," returned Davy, laying

his hand on Owen's head ; " you've got more than

twenty years the start of me, and besides you are

well on the right road now. So go you up to the

Parson's to-morrow, and learn all about what you've
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.  71

Ibeen doing --they call it the laws of motion, think

-- and directly you know them, you can set to work

about the stars as soon as you please."

   Early the next morning the little fellow set off

delighted on his road to the minister's, and as he

went, he called at the mill to return the weight he had
borrowed of Roger Wilkins a day or two before.

The water-mill of Llanvach was one of those little

old-fashioned factories, studded throughout the

country, where the work-people consist merely of the

owner's family, and the farmers for miles round bring
the produce of the last year's shearing to be made up
into cloth for their coats, or linsey-wolsey for their

dames' gowns, and where, when the work is slack,
the weaver occupies himself by making up a small
roll of Welsh flannel to take to market on his own

account. On entering the little factory, Owen was

half-bewildered by the clatter of the machinery, the
whirling of the wheels, and the hurrying to and fro of

the long leathern straps that extended from one end

of the shed to the other. On one side of the building
stood the carding machine with one of the Wilkins

boys feeding it with wool, the white flocks clinging
to his dark hair and eyebrows like gossamer to the

bushes. At the end of the building was the wife in

a huge long pinafore, tending the spinning machine ;
while on the other side was the loom at which Roger

Wilkins himself was seated, with the threads like

cobweb stretching before him, and the shuttles
72 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER --

darting in and out between them like bats flitting
in the dusk among the branches.

   Roger Wilkins knew sufficient of mechanics to
be able to direct the repairs of his own mill ; so
when Owen showed him the little book he had
written, with all its ingenious experiments concern
ing levers, and wheels, and axles, the clothier,
pleased with the boy's tastes and the cleverness he
had displayed, " knocked off" working for awhile,
and took Owen round the mill to explain to him
the uses of its several parts. He showed him
how one cogged wheel with fifty teeth to it
working into another that had only ten teeth,
caused the second to make five revolutions in the
same time as the first made one, and how the
power of the second was, consequently, five times
less, for, said he, " every machine is merely an
instrument for changing the direction of a force, or
for increasing either its power or velocity."

   " You see here," said the weaver, " in this mill,
the direction of the force of the water is entirely

changed. The stream, you know, Owen, is running
on in a straight line outside, and here we have the
force twisting round and round in this carding
machine, and moving up and down in that loom."

    Then Roger Wilkins reminded Owen that a
windmill was a machine that changed the direct
course of the wind into a circular one, causing the
stones to revolve, and so to grind the corn.

    " Indeed, this change of the direction of a force,"
      WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.                                                  73

he added "is one of the main objects of every

machine, but," continued he, "another object is to

increase either the power of the force that drives

the machine, or else its rate of travelling."

   When the power is increased, Roger told the boy

it was always done at the expense of time, saying,
" Just as much stronger as the machine makes the

force, so much the slower does it travel."
   " And when the rate of travelling is increased,"

he added, " it is always done at the expense of the

original force; for just as much quicker as the

machine moves than the force, so much the weaker

is its power."
   "Look, Owen!" he went on, "these wheels here

travel many times quicker than the water-wheel ;

that while the water-wheel goes round once, they
      it is,
         is is

                  !"

                       is

                                 it is

                                                        a

                                                       it

                                                                                  !"
go round some hundred times, and therefore the
force in them more than a hundred times less

than        in the large wheel outside."

It" precisely the same in clock," he added.
" See, lad
            the weaver said, as he drew Owen

toward the large wooden timepiece that hung
against the wall, " this the weight that sets the

whole in motion. Just feel the heft of

The little fellow placed his palm beneath the

mass of lead, and found was almost more than he

could sustain with one hand.

"Now," proceeded the weaver, "mount them

steps, and touch the top wheel, and then see how
74. THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

little man, you can prevent this heavy weight falling
with the mere force of your finger V

   Owen descended the ladder, delighted with the
experiment he had made ; the more pleased to find
that everything he saw and heard confirmed the
truth of his own discovery.

   " Look you, boy !" continued Roger Wilkins,
" that wheel you touched is the one that moves the
pendulum of the clock, and goes round once in about
half a minute, while the minute-hand, which is
driven by the weight here, goes round once only in
an hour; consequently it travels something like one
hundred times as quick as the minute-hand, and
so takes a hundred times less force than would be

needed at the axis of the minute-hand to prevent
the weight falling."

   After this, Roger showed the lad how easy it was
(upon the same principle) to stop the mill, though

the water-wheel itself, he said, had power to crush
either of them.

    " But there are many machines just the reverse
of these," the weaver went on to say, " and where
the power is increased by the rate of travelling

being decreased ; such are cranes, where a man is

made to lift as great a weight as twenty or even a
hundred men could raise without any such instru
ment ; but in all such cases the machine causes the
weight to travel as many times slower than the power
as the power is rendered greater by it. The wheel and
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.  75

kind ; so that you see, Owen," he added, " there are

but two things a machine can do--the first is to

change the direction of a force, and the second either
to increase its power by decreasing its speed, or to
increase its speed by decreasing its power. Or to
put the matter more clearly, we may say it is im
possible to augment both the power and speed of a

force at one and the same time ; for just as many

times as the one is made greater, must the other

be lessened."

   When the weaver had finished his little lecture on

mechanics, he patted the boy kindly on his shoulder,
and bade him come in to see them whenever he
wanted, assuring the little fellow he would always be
glad to help him in any way he could. Roger
only wished that his lads were half as handy as
Owen was.

   Owen blushed again, and thanked Roger Wilkins
kindly for all he had told and shown him, saying,

I" can't tell you, Mr. Wilkins, what a deal I've

learnt from you and then adding, that " he was
going up to Parson Wynn's, to read there in the big

book his father had learnt out of," the boy put on

his cap, and was about to depart.
    " Here ! Owen, Owen !" shouted the weaver, as he

sat down again to his loom ; " I've got something for

Iyou. didn't think of it till it caught my eye here."

    Owen Evans hastened back to the weaver, and
found him in the act of taking down some dusty
looking curiosity from the top of the loom.
76 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER --

   " Look here, lad, this'll just do for you," said
Roger Wilkins, as he puffed a cloud of dust from

the crannies of the wood-work, and disclosed a little
model of a water-mill. " It's an over-shot wheel,

just like the one here, and all done to scale, too.
I IIt's many years ago since made it.
                                       was up at

Llanelly then. There, take it with you, lad, it'll be

a nice toy for such a boy as you. My lads would

only break it in a week ; they've no taste for such

things."
    " Oh ! thank you, sir," cried Owen ; " thank you ;"

and the enraptured boy turned the model round and

round again, as he greedily eyed every part of it.
"Did you cut it out with a knife, sir?"

   " Ay, I'll tell you all about it when you come in

another time," answered the weaver, impatient to

get to his work again. " And I'll tell you, my boy,

nice stories about Arkwright, the poor penny barber,

who invented one of our best spinning machines,

and made no end of money by it--died the richest
man in the kingdom. I'll tell you, too, how his wife

in a passion broke the model of the machine when

he had finished!           vowing would bring them to
                           !
                    ! it,
ruin, and that he'd much better keep to his pennyI" it
shaving. Ha ha ha " roared the weaver, tickled

at the recollection.

"No, did she though                 exclaimed the simple-

minded boy; " was very cruel of her."
               it it
" Yes, lad,           was. There, there, you go now,I
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.  77

Ihaven't time to talk, for must finish this ' cut ' afore

nightfall," responded the weaver. "When you

come again, I'll have thought of a lot of stories for

you, about people that have invented things.

There's poor William Lee--that's very pretty-- the

scholard of Cambridge, who invented the stocking-

frame -- a wonderful thing that !-- he did it from
watching the motion of his wife's fingers while she

was knitting a pair of stockings, as she rocked the

cradle with her baby in!

                         it,

                                            I
                             when they were very

poor. But there! there you must go, Owen, or

shall stop chattering to you all day and get no

work done."

   Clank, clank, went the loom again, and the little
factory rattled once more with the motions of its

many wheels.

   " Mind you come again soon, Owen," roared the
weaver, through the noise. "Such nice stories!"

Owen nodded, as he smiled at the weaver, and

then lifting the latch, took his departure with the

little model under his arm.

As the door slammed back, the weaver stopped

his loom for moment, and shouted to his wife,
" That little lad will live to be somebody, take my
it,

       a
word for girl."

   Little Owen, having left the model at home,
went jogging merrily on his way to Parson Wynn's,
78 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

had been to him, and how much he should like

to hear the stories the weaver had promised

to tell him about the great men who had invented

the wonderful machinery for spinning and weaving.

Then the lad fell into a reverie concerning the poor

penny barber, and wondered how one so poor

could ever have learned enough to become so clever.

This kindled in the boy a hope that, poor as he was,

still, by striving, he one day might find out some
thing which would bring his father " a goodish bit of

money," and that would be very nice, for then the

old man needn't work any more, and he (Owen)
would no longer be a burden to him.

   When the little fellow had exhausted this part of

the subject, and had mentally made everybody in

the village happy and comfortable with his imaginary

riches, he amused himself by contemplating the

immense amount of knowledge he fancied himself

the possessor of. He repeated, over and over again, to

himself what the weaver had told him was the two

fold object of all machines, saying, as he sauntered

on, and strove to impress the fact on his memory,
" Every machine has only two uses ; the first use

to alter the direction of force, and the second -- let
it

                                    a

                      I
                                                                             is,
me see! what was the second?  remember the first

well enough, for Mr. Wilkins said the force of the

water outside his mill was in a straight line, and in

side was made to turn round and round, and so

to card the wool and spin the threads. But how
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.                            79

Istupid of me to forget the second use. Oh ! know it

now !" he said, as the memory flashed across his mind ;
" the second use was either to increase the power by

decreasing the speed of the original force, or else to in

crease the speed of the force by decreasing its power.

Yes, that's it !" exclaimed the excited boy, striking

Ithe palms of his hands together as he went ; " know
Iit all ! and I'm sure could tell now what was the
I Igain or loss of power in any machine saw.
                                                          should

only have to calculate how many times quicker or

slower the machine went at the end where the work

was done, than it did at the beginning, where the

force was set to drive the wheels, to find out exactly
how much stronger or weaker it had become. Oh !

Iisn't it beautiful to know all this. Whenever see
Ia windmill or a watermill again, shall understand

a

           it,

          I

                       it

                                                      is
all about and shall be able to tell any one how

the force of the wind or the water made to move

round and round inside the mill, instead of going on

in straight line as does outside of it."

  All this, Owen, as we have said, repeated to him

self again and again, so that he might be perfect in

the matter by the time he got to Parson Wynn's,

for the boy was anxious to let the minister see

how much he knew on the subject, and then, per
haps, Mr. Wynn would let him have the big book

by and by to read by himself.

Thus occupied on the way, Owen at length
 80 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER

 a moderate sized cottage, built sideways to the
 road, and all that could be seen on approaching
 it was its white gable end, for the front was half
 hidden by the trees of the small orchard that grew
 in the meadow before it. The only point at all
 remarkable in the exterior, was the two huge flat
 stones placed slanting over the door-way, so as to
 form a rude kind of porch.

    Within the door (that stood always open) might
 be seen the bright white tins and yellow brass candle
sticks shining over the mantelpiece, while ranged

beside the ample fire-place appeared the minister's

large hooded bee-hive chair, with a brown ham
or two dangling from the rafters above it ; and
stowed away in the far corner the eye caught sight
of the large cask of cyder --the produce of the last
years crop of apples from the little orchard without.

   The room thus seen served not only for the
kitchen and sitting-room of the minister and his
daughters, but it also formed the work-room of the

two girls, who were the milliners and dressmakers to
the surrounding villages ; and generally the little
table by the window was littered with some bright-
coloured cotton print that " the Misses Wynn"
were busy making up, according to the last Brecon
fashions, for one of the neighboring farmers'

wives.

   The minister himself was far more peculiar than
the cottage in which he lived. Had it not been
PARSON WYnN IN SUNDAY COStUME. -- PugC 81.
COMES OF THROWING STONES.                    81

                                              1 "~n of muslin

                                             · " crreat

UiLlli <~

blue as the bloom on a rijjo
                                          6
.
%
 ')

1

r.

4

                                         WYNN IN SUNDAY COStUME.-- PtlgC 81.
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.  81

for his white cravat (tied like a whisp of muslin
round his neck) and his long Quaker-cut black great
coat, it would have been difficult to have distin

guished him from a farmer; for he wore a felt hat,
somewhat of the shape of a wagoner's, but of a
rusty black hue, and the nether half of his body was
incased in what the people round about would call
" a drab breeches," and high Wellington boots that
reached up to his knees.

    This costume the clergyman had adopted on
account of his having to ride some fourteen miles to

his little mountain church --or rather chapel, for it

was no bigger than a cowhouse, and had nothing but
a bell perched at one end of the roof to mark
it as a place of public devotion. Every Sabbath
he and old Jessie, the mare that nibbled the
grass among the apple-trees in the orchard during
the week, might be seen jogging along with one of

the girls perched up a-pillion behind, and the other
walking by the side, on their way to early morning

service--the minister, and his family, and horse,

being entertained at some of the farmhouses on the
hills between the hours of worship.

  It did not require a second glance at the Par

son's face to tell that he came of the ancient

British stock, for his complexion was of the swar
thiest hue, his eyebrows thick and black, while his

chin and cheeks, even when newly shaven, were as

blue as the bloom on a ripe plum ; and the hair,

                                           a
82 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER

which hung long and lank about his shoulders, was
as black as the fringe round his pulpit. His figure
was tall and spare, and rendered more ungainly by
a roundness of the shoulders that amounted almost

to a hump.
   The girls were sufficiently like their father to be

far from prepossessing in appearance, for they were
disfigured by the same rotundity of shoulder, while
their arms were unnaturally long, and their hands
almost ape-like in their dimensions.

   At first, it was far from pleasant to look upon

them, and yet as you got to know them, and to
become better acquainted with the kindliness of
their natures, all recollection of the original im
pression wore off, and you grew to think them
almost pretty. The devotion of the girls to their
father was a beauty not to be forgotten. Their

mother they had never known -- for they were twins,

and she had died a few hours after they were born.

   Nor were the virtues of the girls confined solely
to their own home, for they were the nurses to the

sick poor for miles round, and scarcely a cottage
could you enter but some villager had long tales to

tell of their goodness and charity. Without the
means to render any pecuniary assistance in the time
of distress, they brought to the suffering what it was
impossible for money to purchase, and what even
the poorest have it in their power to render -- sym
pathy and consolation. Then, too, they were the
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.  83

peacemakers of many a home, and boys who dreaded
their father's anger always flew to them.

    The girls had long ago made up their minds (as
they said) " never to marry," observing, playfully,
that they were too ugly for any one to think of
having them, and doubtless it was a sense of their

personal defects that made them cling the more
fondly to their father ; for when the old man, who
from long association and deep affection for his
children, had grown to be almost blind to their de
formity, used to twit the girls with leaving him
some day for some good-looking fellow of a
husband, they would assure him that nothing on
earth could ever make them part from him. Nor

was this a mere passing sentiment, for so conscious
were they that it was their destiny never to be
linked to another, that they had been led to seek
a livelihood for themselves, well knowing that their
father's humble means (the "living" of the little
parish yielded him but twenty pounds a year) were
insufficient for the maintenance of them all.

   Owen, indeed, loved the two girls dearly ; he
scarcely knew which he liked the more. Betty was
so kind and gentle, and Lucy so playful with him.
He could just remember the many weeks they had

sat by his sick mother's bedside night after night--
first one and then the other --all the time she lay
ill with the fever ; and how they used to bring her

nice cooling drinks, and would come and read to

                                    a2
84 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

her when she was able to bear it. Then, after his

poor mother's death, when his father hardly knew
what he was to do with little Peggie, the girls had
taken her home, and brought her up like one of

themselves.

   There was no house that Owen visited with

greater delight than Parson Wynn's, and none at
which he was more welcome. He had long ago
got to call the girls " Auntie," although they were
in no way kin to him, and he never went to their
cottage but one of them was sure to fill his pockets
with apples for himself and old Jack, and the other
to give him one of the dough cakes, hot from the
oven, whenever she had any baking going on.

    The girls no sooner heard the gate creak on its
hinges, as Owen let it swing back, than Lucy put
down her work to see who was coming ; and as she
caught sight of the boy tripping along the pathway,
she ran towards him with her arms outstretched,

and throwing them about him, as she stooped down,
kissed the little fellow again and again.

    Then she seized the boy by the hand, and dragged
him along as she ran back to the door, crying to
her sister, " Auntie Betty ! Auntie Betty ! here's
little Cock Robin come to see us."

     " Auntie Betty" no sooner heard the words than
she left the lump of dough she was busy kneading
(for it was her week to do the duties of the house),
and hastened to meet the boy.
WHAT COMES OP THROWING STONES.                 85

" Don't touch me, Robin, dear," she said, thrust

ing back her bare arms, which were as white as a

plaster-cast with flour, and craning her neck for

Iward, as she pouted out her lips to kiss the lad,

" don't touch me, or shall make you like a little

miller's boy."

   As soon as the congratulations and embracings

were ended, Lucy commenced, as usual, putting
Owen " to rights," as she called it.

    " Dear, dear Owen, what makes you drag your
hair into your eyes in this way?" she cried, as she

took off his cap and lifted his head back by his
chin so as to have a good look at him ; " you seem

to take a delight in hiding your nice forehead," and

so saying she drew one of the side combs from her

hair, and began to make the lad look (to use her
own words) " like a little man."

   " There !" she cried, kissing his forehead, when

if

                                        it,

                                    I
she had combed the hair from  "you're some

thing like my clever little Robin now, but before,

declare you didn't look like that sleepy old Jack
of yours -- indeed, indeed you did, sir."

   This operation was no sooner finished than "Aunt

Betty," who had been intently watching the effect
produced, exclaimed, " Do look, now at the boy's

collar. Whatever has he been doing with the

corner ofit
   " Oh you little monkey, you've been bitingV

!                                              it

                                                     !

It's all wet, declare Uch-a-vee.'" screamed Lucy,
   I    !
86 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER --

as she let it fall from her fingers, and added, play
fully, " Was a poor little Robby so hungry then

that he must nibble his shirt collar along the road?"

Then suddenly altering her tone, she inquired
sharply, but half laughing the while, " what ever

I
                 it,
                                   ?"
made you do sir
   " don't know, Auntie," replied Owen, as he

looked astonished at the moist and mangled corner;

" wasn't aware had done it. You see was
I                                         I
     I                                        I

                       a

              I

                           it
thinking of lot of things as came along, and
                                       I

suppose got biting then."
   " You're always thinking, little Mr. Clever, you

are," returned Lucy, patting him playfully on the
cheek. " I'm sure
                                       didn't know you, should
a

          ' iIf

                                                                !
                                                                                                    !

                             !I
fancy you were not all there' sometimes," she added.
Suddenly she cried, " Oh look here just see
what state now your boots are in Why the

upper leathers are as wet as that nasty sucker of

yours. There, go and take them off, or you'll be
catching your death of cold, and then we shall have

to nurse you. Go and take them off, sir, do, and

pop your feet into my side-laced boots while they

are drying by the fire."

The latter part of this speech was spoken so

sharply that, though Lucy meant for fun, Owen,
                                          it
                                                                it
who knew he had been too much occupied on

the road to pay attention to the swampy places
that lay in his way, and was half ashamed to find

he was nearly wet through to the feet, took
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.                       87

seriously to heart ; and fancying the girl was really!"
scolding him, he could not refrain from sobbing as
he knelt down on the hearth rug to unlace his                 is,I

soppy boots.                                                                                  a
                                                                                                      a
   Betty caught the sound of the lad fetching his
breath through his tears. Hastily rubbing the
paste and flour from her arms, she ran to him,

ejaculating, "Why, Lucy! you've made the poor

child cry," and then lifting him on to her knee, she
hugged him fondly to her.

   The tender-hearted Lucy no sooner heard the

words than she flew towards her sister, and kneel

Iing down at her feet, said, as she placed her cheek

near Owen's ; " Why, Owey, boy, was only in
play ! Auntie Lucy wouldn't hurt her dear little
Cock Robin," and then she began prattling to him
as women love to do to pet children. " There ! him
dry him little eyes." (Betty wiped them with the
corner of her apron.) " Oh ! he's his Auntie Lucy's
own dear little Cock Robin, he and a ducks-a-

diamonds, too," babbled on the girl, while she
pressed his cheeks between the palms of her hands.

    Owen burst out laughing amidst his tears, and
kissed both the girls, as he said, " can't bear to
think you are angry with me."

    " There, never mind exclaimed Lucy, running
into the adjoining room, and returning with wet
towel and hair-brush. " Let me just wipe your
face with this now, and put your hair straight
88 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER

bit, and then my little Cock Robin will look like

himself again."

   As Lucy was busily engaged in rubbing the boy's
cheeks until they were as red and shiny as the
apples in the orchard, Betty was soothing him the
while by promising to make him a nice sweet cake
directly she had got the dough in the oven.

   In a few minutes the two girls had resumed their

work. Betty was burying her knuckles in the
dough, which yielded like an air cushion to her

pressure, and Owen on a stool at Lucy's feet, hold
ing up the skein of white silk that she was winding

on one of " The Misses Wynn's" cards.
   " Who are you making that grand cap up for,

Auntie Lucy," inquired Owen, as he moved his
straightened hands to and fro to let the silk wind off

them.

   "It's Lyddy Powell's, of the shop," answered
Lucy. " It's for her wedding, Owey, and here's the

gown she's going to be married in. " Don't you
think it's sweetly pretty ? Her master made her a

present of it--it's one of the most expensive cotton
prints he had in his shop. Isn't it a nice genteel
pattern? We were both of us up all last night

finishing it."
   " When you are going to be married, Owen, will

you let us make your wife's wedding dress ?" asked

Betty, looking round, as she placed the large red
earthen pan of dough before the fire to rise.
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.       89

I" Yes, that will," innocently responded Owen,
" because it will be for yourself."

" Oh, indeed, you little fickle fellow !" cried Lucy,
Ilaughing. " Why you told me the other day that
you meant to have me.  shall be nice and

jealous."

   "Well then, Auntie Lucy," responded Owen,

I" I'll never marry at all, for love you both alike."
    " He's a darling !" exclaimed Betty, as she turned

Iback to the table ; " and now I'm going to make

him the nice seed-cake promised him, and he shall
have it hot out of the oven when he goes home this

evening."
    " Yes," answered Lucy, " and then he can take

Betty Watkin's loaf down to the village for us, so as
to let her have it new for her supper. Besides, it
will save the poor old cripple the walk."

   " To be sure," added Betty, " and Owen can carry
her at the same time the bottle of stuff I've made up

for her to rub her leg with, for the old woman

says it gets to pain her dreadful now she grows in

it,years."

   " Ah, but little Cock Robin must promise us to

take great care of and not to get thinking again
on the way," laughed Lucy. " Oh, Betty, Betty!"
then she cried, as she glanced out of the window

towards the orchard, "just come here and look at

father yonder."
   The sister left the cake she was preparing, and
90 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

ran to the casement, Owen at the same time starting

to his feet.

       Well, what will father do next with that mare !"

exclaimed the girl, as she stretched her neck over

ILucy's shoulder. "Why, do declare he's giving

the creature a drink of table-beer out of our pudding

basin."

"And just watch the old thing!" interposed

the sister. "Isn't she pleased? See how she's
Iwhisking her long tail about.
                                think she dearly

loves a drop, do you know, Betty?"

   "Ain't they like two kittens at play, Owey?"

asked Betty, as she pointed to her father and the

mare in the orchard.
   " Yes," replied the boy, " and isn't he a kind old

man to be so good to the animal ? He's had her

ever since she was a colt, hasn't he, Auntie ?"
   " Ay, that he has, and now the poor old creature

has got scarcely a tooth in her head, and is nearly
as blind as a bat in the daylight," returned the

girl.
I" Oh, yes," repeated Owen, " Mr. Wynn is very
kind --very.  remember he told me a long time

ago it was by kindness all animals were tamed,

and that they were only savage because they were

afraid we intended to hurt them, and they were

obliged, for their own protection, to be always on
their guard. But directly we taught them, by

being continually kind to them, we didn't mean to
       WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.   91

harm them, and that they were quite safe with us,

Iand were fed by us instead of being ill-treated,

they all became as gentle as cats, which, recollect,

he said were the most savage animals --kinds of

Itigers, think--in a wild state.
   " There's a good tender-hearted little fellow," cried

both the girls, as they kissed him one after the
other. " Very nicely said too, Owen."

   " Yes, Owen," said Betty, " there's no power like
kindness in all the world. We may force both

men and beasts to do what we want through fear,

but then they are always ready to deceive us. By

treating them kindly, however, we make friends of

them, and then they are anxious to serve us of their
own free will, even before we desire it."

   Encouraged by the precepts of the gentle girl,

Owen told her he had brought something to show

Mr. Wynn -- something he had been writing " out

of his own head."
   " You've been writing something out of your own

head !" echoed the astonished Betty. " Let me see
I
                   it

                                        a

                                                        it
                                                             it
                                                                         it,
do." Whereupon the two sisters pressed round the
boy in their eagerness to discover the subject of his

work.

Owen drew the copy-book from his pocket, and

having handed  to them, the girls held  be

tween them, and ran their eyes over     hastily

together.               bit about it," said Lucy,
    " don't understand
92 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

I" but dare say father will. I'll run and call him

to you."

   " Isn't he clever?" whispered Betty in her sister's

ears, as they both stood at the door.

   "Father! father!" shrieked Lucy, running in

pursuit of her parent, and dodging under the boughs
of the trees, as she went, " here's little Owen

Evans come to see you."

   In a few minutes the girl came tripping back to

the kitchen, crying, " Owen ! father says you are to
go to him. You'll find him down by the cherry-
tree. You're to take with you what you want him
to read, and a couple of chairs as well."

   When the boy had left, Lucy returned to her seat
at the window to finish the wedding cap, and as she
fashioned the white satin bows, she cast her eyes

occasionally to the end of the orchard, where she
could just see the old man and the little boy, their

figures dusked by the shadow of the tree under

which they were sitting.
   " There's father kissing little Cock Robin, Betty !

and now he's rubbing his old spectacles with that

bit of wash leather he always carries in his pocket.

I Ican tell what he's doing as well as if was leaning
Iover his shoulder.
                     do wish he would wear some

Ithing besides that old straw hat, Betty, when he's at
home.  can't bear to see him in it."

   "Yes," said the sister, "when we get paid for
Lyddy Powell's things, we'll buy him a nice black
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.            93

velvet skull-cap next time we go to Brecon. I've
seen them marked up very cheap at ' London

House,' in the High-street there."
   " Now father's patting Owen on the head, Betty,"

continued Lucy, as she stopped sewing and gave a
                                   " He's very pleased
Ifresh glance towards the couple.  know, for that was

with the little fellow's work,

Ialways his way with us."

   " do think he's as proud of that boy as if he was

one of his own," the sister exclaimed.
   " And now he's taken him up on his knee," added

Lucy, looking side-ways, like a bird, towards the
orchard again, "and he's put his arm round his

neck."

  "Ah! he wont be able to bear Owen's weight

long," remarked Betty, "for father isn't half as

strong as he was a year or two back."

Then came a short pause.

   Presently Lucy cried, as she glanced from her

Iwork once more towards the end of the orchard, "

wonder what's the matter now! Here comes

Master Owen, tearing and skipping over the grass

Ilike our Jessie used when she was a young foal.

He's as pleased as Punch, can see !"

   In another moment the boy bounded into the

room, his cheeks flushed crimson with excitement,

Ifsaying, " you please, Auntie Lucy, Mr. Wynn

says will you give me one of the volumes of the
IRees' a--a-- forget the other name    "
94 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER --

    " Cyclopaedia," interposed Lucy.
    " Yes, that's it ! out of the sitting-room," added

Owen. " It's the volume containing the letter M

he wants, please Auntie."
    As Lucy stepped into the adjoining room to fetch

the book, Betty ran towards the boy and inquired,
" What did father say to your work, Owen ?"

    " Oh, he said it was a wonderful thing for me to

Ido all by myself," answered the delighted boy.

" And what do you think, Auntie 1 he told me was
just like father --he did indeed, indeed. And now
he's going to read, and explain to me all about
mechanics out of the big book that father got his
learning from. Isn't it good of him 1"

    " There, take care of it," said Lucy, as she returned
with the heavy volume and placed it in the boy's
arms. " Mind you don't fall down with it as you
go, or else father would never forgive you; for it was
given to him by his godmother when he took his
degree at Lampeter College, and she was own cousin
to the gentleman who wrote it. Mustn't he have

been a clever man, Owey, to do all that V

    The boy was too impatient to stay to answer

Lucy, and had no sooner got the huge book under
his arm than back he scampered, eager to com

pare the discoveries he had made, as to the power

of the lever, with what was printed in the book his

father had studied from.

   At length the volume was spread open in the
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.  95

Parson's lap, and the lad was kneeling by his side,

looking over the page as the old man read aloud, ex
plaining the difficult passages and " hard words" as
he went. And when Owen found that he was right

in all the facts he had set down, the little fellow's

heart throbbed audibly, and looking up in the
minister's face, he said, as his eyes almost filled with

tears, "Oh, isrit it a pleasure to find we're right,

Mr. Wynn?"

  " It my lad," the Parson replied, " when we

delight in the right merely for the right's sake, and
is,I
        itnot becausemakes us proud of our own petty

powers. hope that not the cause of the pleasure
                  is
                            is

                           I
you say you feel, Owen."

   "Oh no, sir; the reason why am so happy,"
returned the little fellow, " because, far from being

proud, was doubtful of my own powers, and what
I
      VIhave done serves to give me some little trust in

myself. But why   is     wrong, Mr. Wynn, to be

                     it

proud inquired Owen.                              it
    " Because, my boy," answered the minister, "

makes us despise all those whom we, in our stupid

conceit, fancy to be inferior to ourselves. Then,

again, pride  is  invariably the result of ignorance.

The proud man has his eyes always turned to the

earth, and seeing only those things that are beneath

him, gets to fancy himself something vastly superior

to the worms at his feet whereas the humble man
                  ;

looks upward ever, and with his eyes fixed upon
98 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER --

perfection, feels how small and insignificant a crea

Ature he must be in the eyes of the Omniscient.

man, proud of his little knowledge, Owen, is like the
owl who begins to see in the dusk, and mistakes the
darkness for the daylight ; but the man humiliated
by his learning is like the same bird in the sunshine
--the excess of light serving only to make Nature
appear still dimmer to him."

    Then the Parson proceeded to read to the boy

about levers, and wheels, and axles, and pulleys, and
inclined planes, and wedges, and screws, explaining
to him, by familiar illustrations, the law which

regulated the increase of power in each of them.
And when he had brought the little lecture to a
conclusion, he pointed out to Owen that there was
but one rule governing the whole, namely, that the
gain of power was always in proportion to the loss
of speed; and that for a lighter force to lift a
heavier, it was necessary, in all cases, that the
heavier should rise just as many times slower as its

weight was greater than the lighter one, adding,
that a machine --no matter whether it consisted of

levers, wheels, pulleys, inclined planes, wedges, or

screws--was chiefly an instrument for attaining

such an end.

  I" Oh, yes, understand it all thoroughly, thank
Iyou, sir," said Owen, when the clergyman had

finished. " never thought about the inclined
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.     or

means of doing the same thing as the lever does in

another way --that is of making a lighter weight fall

quicker than a heavier one rises, and so enabling

Ithe less to lift the greater one. Oh, yes, see it all
Iclearly now, Mr. Wynn, and shall never forget
II
                                                                               it,
am sure," and in his excitement Owen rose and

began half dancing, while he added, triumphantly,
" know all about mechanics now."

" Nay, nay," said the minister, smiling at the self

satisfaction of the boy; "not quite so quick, my
Iflittle man.
               I'm not much mistaken, you know

very little about the matter."

Owen looked confusedly at his tutor.

" You know, lad, only about the dead inert

instruments that are used to modify the forces that

put them in motion," answered the clergyman, re
proving the little ebullition of boyish pride " but
                                ;

                                                     1
of the forces themselves, sir, what do you know

and with them the high knowledge, after all, Owen.
it is
             itThe machines, boy, are of the earth, earthly but the
                                ;

forces that quicken them come from the Great

Fountain of all power, and turn the mind to

Heaven, filling with higher and nobler thoughts."

The clergyman was delighted as he watched the

eyes of the boy wander in his amazement to and fro.

He could see he had opened a new vein of thought

in the youth's mind, and was one that the minister

felt far more pleasure in working, than that with

which they had been previously engaged. To say

               H
 OS THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

the truth, Mr. Wynn had but little love of science
in his soul, and he delighted to travel from the
physical to the metaphysical, that is to say, from
the ordinary operations of nature to the subtle and
mysterious principles which are concerned in pro

ducing them. It was this quality of his character

that had made him instil into Owen's father a sense
of the superiority of the principle of faith to that of
reason as a guide to knowledge; for he was fearful,
lest the untutored mind, whilst contemplating the
mechanism of the universe, should, in the rapture of
its first perception of the beauty and order of crea

tion, ignore the powers of the Great Artist who

designed and perfected the whole. Science to Parson

Wynn was but the translation of the physical
Bible, the deciphering of the will of the Almighty
as written in the heavens, the air, the earth, the

waters, and the creatures that live and breathe
therein. And he cared far less for the physical
happiness that a knowledge of the laws governing
the elements was the means of rendering humanity,
than he did for the spiritual elevation it had the

power of producing. In a word, he loved the poetry

of science as much as he despised, and indeed
dreaded, the literality of it.

  "I" The forces F' echoed the bewildered Owen;

never thought of them."
   " And yet," returned the minister, smiling, " you

say you know all about machines now. Like the
WHAT COMES OP THROWING STONES.  99

Ishort-sighted owl told you about, Owen, you

mistake the dusk for the daylight. Every machine

requires some force to drive it. When once
set in motion, the instrument is governed by

regular laws, modifying either its power, its speed,

or its natural course; but the great question is --

what is the nature of the wondrous principle that

primarily moves it?"
   Mr. Wynn looked at Owen, and paused again for

awhile to watch the workings of the lad's brain

through his eyes.

   Owen said not a word.

   " The great forces of the world, my little man,"
continued the minister, " to which humanity is

indebted for all that is produced, and every change
that is wrought without and within us, are as

numerous as they are various.

   " First there is the wind which turns the mills

that grind our corn, and drives the ships that bring

us the luxuries and comforts of other lands; and

which here fans us with its breezes, and there

devastates cities, or lays a forest like a field of corn,

with its hurricanes.
   " Secondly, there is the power of the water, at

one time refreshing the earth with the bubbling up
of its springs, and at another deluging it with the

outpouring of its torrents; and this power again

is used not only to grind our corn, and to work the

machines by which our clothes are spun and woven
                                  h2
100 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER --

--the timber sawn wherewith to build our houses --

and many a like service rendered us; but also to

give an irresistible hydraulic pressure even to the

energy of a child, and to carry our vessels, by

means of the locks to our canals, up some steep

declivity.

   " Then comes fire--the force to which we owe

some of our greatest benefits and some of our

greatest evils. It is this which expands the water

into the steam that drives the many engines in our

towns now-a-days. It is this that impels our car

riages across the land with the rapidity of a whirl

wind, and our vessels across the seas despite of

Itadverse winds.  is this force again, which, acting

on gunpowder, breaks up huge rocks into workable

stones, and gives a deadly speed to the bullets and
balls which nations use in warfare to destroy one

another. And it is this same force which, diffused

in the sunbeams from above, quickens the be

numbed vegetation, pushing forth the buds, expand

ing the flowers, and ripening the fruit and grain on

which we live ; and which, imprisoned in the bowels

of the earth, bursts forth in burning fountains from

volcanoes, and floods the soil around with red-hot

streams of liquid lava.
   " Next comes gravitation, drawing down the

weights of our clocks, and forcing up our balloons,
and keeping every thing fixed in its place to the

earth, and above all, producing not only the tides, but
WHAT COMES OP THROWING STONES.  101

the wonderful revolutions of the planets and the
stars, even to the remotest corners of the heavens.

   " And after that, we have the wondrous and subtle

power of electricity, as seen in the lightning; this,
man has already trained to carry his messages with
the speed of the light over the land and under the
water, as well as to work the metals for him, to move

his time-pieces, and to guide him by means of the
little magnet's unerring finger across the pathless seas.

    " Then follows the force of elasticity, which men
in olden times availed themselves of to drive the

arrows from their bows, but which serves us now for

kindlier purposes, making the strings of our musical

instruments vibrate, and giving power to the springs

of the little watches we carry about us. It is to

this force too that we owe the rebound and play of
the various gases and vapours in the atmosphere

around us.
    " There is also the force of cohesion, from which

every material that we use either in our buildings
or our machines derives its strength; as well the

force of crystallization, binding together the parts

of some rocks, separating and so breaking up others,
and (as in the crystallizing, or ' freezing' as it is
termed of water) rending pipes, splitting trees, and
 crumbling the soil.

    " And again, there is the force of what is called

chemical affinity--which is the power that produces

every change, and every fresh combination among
102 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

the elements round about us ; making the fire
burn, rusting the metals, dissolving the rocks, feed
ing the plants, and even sustaining the life that is
within us.

   "And lastly, we have the force of animal life
itself --the most wondrous of all--without which it

would be impossible for us to make a single move
ment, and to which we owe not only the benefits we
derive from our own exertions, but all those man
reaps from the many beasts of burden he has trained

to serve him--the ox that treads out the corn ; the

mule that carries the mountain pack ; the deer that
draws the snow-sledge; the camel that bears the
traveller across the desert ; the horse that moves our

carts and carriages."

  I" Dear, dear !" said Owen, when the long cata

logue was ended. " shan't be able to remember

Iit half. What a deal there is to be learnt.
Ishall never know as much as you do, Mr. Wynn.

Ithought when you had read to me about mechanics
    understood all about powers and forces, and

I Inow see understand little or nothing about the

matter."

   "Ay, my boy," responded the minister, "the

more we know the more there seems for us to know.

The circle of knowledge is very much like the
horizon, Owen. The ignorant man thinks there
is nothing beyond what he sees; but the wise
         WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.                          103

circle as far as he will, he will never get to the

end of it."

"But do tell me, Mr. Wynn," interrupted the
Ieager boy, " what is a force ?"
   " That is more than can do, lad," replied                     the
Iclergyman. " All can tell you                                   not
                                                  is,  that  it

matter. By that mean                           not solid, nor heavy,is
       is                                                                  a

           it

               I

                                  it

                                           is
nor has      length, breadth, or thickness, like the

ground and stones at one's feet; and yet some

force    the cause of solidity, heaviness, exten

sion, and every other property of matter besides.

You cannot have pint of force, Owen, nor yet
                          a
                               a

                                           a
yard of one, nor yet pound. The principles that

give power to the elements in the world without are

something as subtle and mysterious as that which

quickens and strengthens you yourself. All the

wisest of us can do to give this same force
'                                                                ;a

              it

                          '

                               is
name, and call            spirit,' so as to distinguish from
                                                             it

the stocks and stones' which would remain for ever

immovable without it."

   " Force spirit, then," mused Owen.
   " Look you continued the minister, as he rose
             is

                      !"

from his seat and picked up a stone from the
ground. " Here
       it                       a dull dead lump of matter

                            is
place where you will, there must remain to all
                                              it

time, unless stirred by some force, for has no
                                                       fI it
power to move itself. Now, see Owen                          jerk my

arm suddenly, and away the dull dead stone flies

through the air like bird, instinct with determi
                                a                      a
104 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

Ination to proceed in the course in which pro

pelled it."
   " How strange !" cried Owen, as he watched the

missile dart over the trees. " I've thrown many a

stone, and yet never thought why it moved before."

  I" What did the stone get from me, lad V in

quired Mr. Wynn. "Say that injected into it

some subtle fluid or ' ether,' as it is termed, but this

will not help you, for the subtlest fluid is but a
light gas after all, and gas is only solid matter in
the form of vapour, and therefore dead and inactive

as the stone itself. So you see, Owen, the only

thing the stone could have got from me was force,

Iand force, as told you, is spirit."

   " Was your spirit in the stone, then V asked

Owen.

   " Part of it most assuredly was," replied the

Iminister. " Did not determine it should go in the
Idirection flung and was not quickened with
      ?"                     it
                                             it  left my
           it
                        it,
the same determination immediately

hand

    " That was," said the perplexed lad.
    " A force, then, Owen, would appear to be simply
determination --or inclination,  if

                                    a
                                                                   a
                                 you please" --re

marked the clergyman, " given to body to act in a

itparticular manner. Consult what force you will,
   merely amounts to this. Now determination or

inclination are the terms we give to the operations

of our will, so that we must conclude that force the
                                                 is
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.         105

result of will. But matter, being dead and inactive,
can have no will of its own; hence, whatever force
resides in it must have arisen from the will of some

I                                      precisely

                                it
                                                          it,

                                                                                        a
one else having been impressed upon

in the same manner, lad, as you saw my will just now

impressed upon that stone."
   " begin to see," said Owen, thoughtfully. " The

wind has a force because has had some will given

to it. But whose will, sir?"

   " The will, my little man," said the minister, in
kindly voice, " of that Great Being who willed the

light and the light came."             it

   "Oh! sir," exclaimed Owen, "you have filled myis

mind with thoughts that almost overpower me. So

all the many wonderful forces you spoke of just now

are merely the workings of God's will?"
   " You are right, my good boy," murmured the

minister, as he let his hand fall on Owen's shoulder.

" God not only created the world by His will, but
His will that upholds and sustains to this day--
                            it
                                   it
prolonging Creation as were by the continuance
                        it

of the very power that called into action. The

Almighty, you see, Owen, did not create the world

and then leave  it, it  to follow out the laws He had

impressed upon but His will still active everyis

where, and to be perceived in everything; in the

lightning and in the sunshine --in the streamlet, the
dewdrop, and the ocean -- the summer breeze and

devastating whirlwind --in the sprouting seed, the
106 THE BOY VISITS THE MINISTER--

opening flower, and the leafless forest--the falling
stone and the revolving planets --in the change of

the seasons, the succession from day and night, and

the transition from life to death--all are the results

of the will of Him, the Great Fountain of every

force without and within us."

 IOwen was lost in contemplation for awhile.

Presently he exclaimed, " shall now see God in

everything." And as he threw his arms about the

good man's neck, he added, " Oh, you've made me so

happy, Mr. Wynn. I've never felt like this before.
I I Ican't tell you what mean.
                                don't know the
Iwords to use, like you, sir, but feel my thoughts
Ilifted far away till it seems almost as if was up
Iamongst the stars.
                     shall never forget what you've

told me to-day --never." Then the boy let his head

fall on the minister's shoulder, as if entranced with

his meditations.
I" You can now see,
                     dare say, Owen," returned

the clergyman, " that the law of the lever and the

inclined plane is but the Almighty's will expressed

in those instruments."
   " Yes, of course it is," murmured the boy, as he

raised his head and withdrew himself abstractedly

from the minister. " Will you let me go home now,

Mr. Wynn. I'll come again to see you soon, but at

I Ipresent, I'm so confused, hardly know what say.
I should like to go home and be quiet."

Parson Wynn was too pleased with the evidence
WHAT COMES OF THROWING STONES.  107

of the impression his precepts had made upon the

boy to seek to interfere with his desires, so telling

him he should like to see him again soon, and to hear

how he progressed with his studies, he accompanied

Owen to the cottage, and told his girls that the little

fellow was going home.
"I"Oh, dear!" they both cried,
                                thought we

should have had him to tea."

   " Whatever liave you been doing with him, father V

said Betty, drawing Owen to her side, and kissing

him again and again; "he looks quite an altered

boy."

   "Yes," chimed in Lucy, "and little Cock Robin
was so merry when he left us."

   The girls soon perceived by their father's look
that he did not wish them to press their inquiries;
so packing old Betty Watkin's loaf and Owen's own
seed-cake in a little basket, they took an affectionate
leave of the lad, and watched him saunter home
wards along the lane, with his eyes bent upon the

ground.

   "What is the matter with the child, father?"

Betty and Lucy inquired, as they returned to the

kitchen.

   " The little fellow, my girls, has learnt," replied
the ininister, " to find ' sermons in stones, and God
in everything.' "
                   CHAPTER IV.

THE BOY TRIES TO MAKE A CLOCK, AND HAS A
      TALK WITH THE MASTER OF THE MILL ABOUT
      CLOCKWORK.

As Owen journeyed back from the parsonage, he

knew as little of the way he went as when he came.
He was busy all the while revolving in his mind the
subtle lesson he had been taught by the minister.

   The boy had learnt, for the first time, that there
were other things in the world besides what he
could see and feel, and that these constituted the
most wonderful and mysterious part of creation.

   " The force which moves me," he mused, while

Iremembering what the clergyman had told him, " as
   walk along now, is spirit, and without this spirit

Imy body would be like that stone. Yes, it must be

so ! remember poor mother as she lay in her

Icoffin, the last time ever looked upon her. When
I touched her hand it was as cold as the stone itself,
Iand, oh, so heavy !--as took it up it fell from mine

like a dead weight would have done. How different

Ito when she was alive ! When touched her hand
     THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES TO MAKE A CLOCK. 109

then, it pressed mine and curled about my neck, and

hugged me to her with a force that made my heart

leap again. Yet when she was dead, poor thing!

there she lay, the same in body but without the
same spirit to move her. That was the only differ

ence between her dead and her living, and yet how

Igreat a difference it was to me. Nothing

could see or feel had gone, and yet all had fled that

Imade that form my mother. How strange could

not think of this then."
    The trees that arched above the lane rustled with

the passing breeze, and turned the lad's thoughts into

another channel. As he saw the shadows of the

leaves that mottled the ground dancing among the
sun-drops at his feet, he stood still, and looking up

wards said : " What is it makes those branches swing
in the air, but the Great Spirit, who, as Mr.
Wynn said, is the Fountain of all Power ?"

    When he had reached the end of the shady lane,
and looked down into the valley beneath, the boy,
intent on discovering everywhere some instance of
the principle which absorbed his whole thoughts,
paused for awhile to note the forces that gave life to
the scene before him. First he tracked the little
brook winding through the thick dark wood that,
like a mass of nodding plumes, overhung the dingle ;
he beheld the distant streamlet, narrow as a silver
riband, twisting and turning as it traversed the
thicket, now lost among the foliage, now beaming
110 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

in the sunshine, like a plate of mother-of-pearl,
iridescent with its many colours, and now white as

a snow-drift as it tumbled headlong over the brown

rocks.

    Then he glanced at the fields of ripe corn undu
lating in the breeze, like a sea of gold, and watched
the reapers in some, their figures half hidden
among the ears, and the tall stalks falling around
them as they went; while in others that were
tufted over with many a sheaf, he saw the high-
piled wagon, with its long team, go tottering
through the gate, the yellow load swaying to and
fro on its way.

   Next, he marked the sails of the towering wind
mill flashing in the sun, and their long black

shadows flitting, as the wings revolved, across the
hill-side meadow that sloped before it.

   After this he noted the white round masses of

clouds above him--heaped up and dazzling as if

they were mounds of snow sparkling in the sun

shine--go drifting across the blue lake of the

heavens, and shading the fields below for a mo
ment, as they swept over them, like a passing
memory. And he beheld the thin gray smoke
rising straight up from the cottage beside the dingle,
and filming the foliage like a veil of the thinnest

gauze before the trees.
   The little lark, too, he saw bound from the

corn-fields high into the air, carolling joyously
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  Ill

as it fluttered up and up, and the white-bellied

swallows skimming and circling over the surface
of the river, with the cattle drinking at the pool,
their legs half hidden by the stream, and the reflec
tion of their brown and white forms tinting the

water beneath them.

    Then, as the breeze blew towards him, he could

just catch the ring of the blacksmith's hammer on
the anvil, the throbbing of the clothier's water-
wheel, mingled with the shouts of the village
children, and now and then the tinkling of some

mountain sheep-bell.

    As Owen observed all these signs of motion and
life, he could not help thinking of the many various
forces that he now knew were necessary to animate
the busy scene. And he wondered how he could
 have lived so long, seeing only those things that
 were palpable to his senses, and failing to perceive
 the mighty and mysterious power without which all
 things must have remained as dull and motionless

 as the rocks about him.

    This truth once impressed upon his mind, the boy
 could think of nothing else all that day and a good
 part of the night too, for in the change from light
 to darkness he traced the same Almighty power at
 work. As he watched the moon rise in the heavens

 he lay awake thinking of the Great Spirit that

 moved it; and when he beheld the stars come
 112 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

 vault above, he speculated, in his own simple way,

 upon the Omnipotence of Him whose Will moves

 and governs all things.

    Next day, however, when Owen rose, boy-like, his
 mind was filled with a new thought. He was
 determined to put his mechanical knowledge to some
 practical test, and it struck him that the best thing
 for him to make would be a clock.

   It would be so nice to have a time-piece in his

own room, the little fellow thought ; for then he

Jwould be certain when it was five in the morning,

without listening for ack at the kitchen door ; for
the knowing brute was the chief guide as to the hour

he had now. It was true in summer Owen knew the

time by the place of the long shadow from the
spruce-tree that skirted the meadow facing their
cottage. But then he had noticed that the shadow
did not fall across the same part of the road as the
days shortened and lengthened, and it cost him no
little trouble to make due allowance for the difference ;
while in the winter he was in the habit of telling when
the hour arrived for him to get up by the setting of
one of the bright stars behind the western edge of the
Garth on the other side of the river ; but this again
he could do only when the weather was clear and

frosty.

   Accordingly, it did not take him long to deter
mine that it would be much better to have a clock
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  113

of his own making; for it would be so pleasant, he fan
cied, to watch the rod that hung at the back of it
swing to and fro, and hear it " tick" and " tick" till it
lulled him to sleep in the bright summer evenings.

   Owen was busy the whole of that day planning
the machinery for carrying out his project. He
was anxious to contrive it all himself. When
Roger Wilkin s had told him to put his finger on
the top wheel of the Dutch clock in the factory, the
boy had just had time to notice the arrangement of
the works, and he wanted to see whether he knew

enough about mechanics now to be able to make a
timepiece like the clothier's ; so, though he felt
tempted again and again to run round to the mill and

ask Mr. Wilkins to let him have another peep at
the wheels, his desire to accomplish the task with
out the least assistance was too strong to allow him
to do so. Indeed, Owen was naturally of too
inventive a turn of mind to sink without a struggle
into a mere copyist.

   "The short hand," he said to himself, as he bit
the end of the pencil he had procured in order to
sketch down the plan, " goes round once every
twelve hours, and the long hand once every hour ;

so the one hand revolves twelve times as quick
as the other." That he could easily manage. He'd

make a big wheel with a heavy weight to pull it
round, and it should have twelve times as many
teeth round it as a small one had, and then of course

                                          i
] 14 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

the small wheel would turn twelve times as fast as

the big one did.

   This at first appeared to Owen to be all that
was required. But presently he began to ask him

self how he was to prevent the weight descend

ing at too great a rate, for upon this he soon saw
                          "If the weight falls too
the whole depended.

quickly," he said, "the hour hand will move too

fast, and then the minute hand will do the same, of
         I see," the lad cried, " everything rests
course.

upon the rate with which the weight descends.

IAnd how am ever to make a weight fall as

regularly as the clock should go"
   For awhile Owen remained silent, brooding over

the problem.

   In a few minutes, however, it struck him that if

he was to double the weight, it would fall as quick

again, and that if he halved the weight, it would

fall only half as quick. So he thought all he had

to do was to adjust the weight to the rate at which

the wheels were to turn.

Still, after some further reflection, the boy was

far from satisfied that the increasing or decreasing

of the weight, according as the hands moved too

slow or too fast, would have the desired effect.

  "A leaf," argued Owen, "doesn't fall to the

ground at the same rate as a stone, certainly. But
then," he added, "the leaf does not fall straight

down ; for it seems to be blown about by the air,
              TO MAKE A CLOCK.  115

and so it must take a longer time to reach the

Iearth. Now, suppose was to take a small stone

and a big stone," the boy went on reasoning to
himself, " would the big one fall quicker than the
Ismall one 1
              should fancy it would, because a

heavier weight must have more power than a lighter
one. But there's no use fancying," he said, rising

from his seat, and throwing the pencil down on the
table, " the best way is to try whether it will or

no."

Accordingly, Owen hurried off to the well ; for

that seemed to him the best place for performing

the experiment. There having provided himself

with a large stone and a small pebble, he was as

tonished to find, on letting them fall, both together,
from his hand, that the two struck the water at

one and the same time.

This was a new source of wonder to the little

fellow's inquiring mind, and to convince himself of

the fact he repeated the experiment again and again,

each time varying it in some slight form.

   At first he searched about for eleven pebbles that

were each, as near as he could judge, of the same

weight. Then having tied ten of them together

in a piece of paper, he let the packet of pebbles and

the single one fall at the same moment, and found

precisely the same result produced --the time occu

pied in the descent of both being equal.
   Then he went in quest of eleven more pebbles,

                           i2
116 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

each alike in weight, and let them drop, all together,
loosely from his hand. Still there was no difference
in the effect ; as he craned his neck over the edge of
the well, he could perceive every one of them dimple

the water at the same moment.

  I" see how it is now," he said to himself, as he

turned from the well and proceeded homewards.

I" The big stone that let drop at first was about ten

times as heavy as the little one, and so was like ten

Ilittle stones made into one, just the same as when

tied the ten pebbles in a packet together. Now
there's nothing very strange in the fact that one
stone of the same weight as another should take the
same time to fall through the same distance. Then

if two stones do this, why ten or twenty, or a hundred

stones, of the same weight, would do so too; and it's
no matter whether the stones be separate, or all made
into one big and one little one, for it can only be the

same number of stones after all. It wouldn't have

I Imade any difference either, can tell, if had used

pound weights instead of stones, for a weight of a
hundred pounds can only be made up of a hundred

different pounds; and as each of those pounds, if

they were all separate, would fall to the ground at
the same time as another pound, why of course

they must do the same when they are made up all
together into one heavy weight.

   " So then," murmured Owen, " here's another
   TO MAKE A CLOCK.                             117

fall to the earth at the same rate as a hundred

weight, for if the hundredweight was a hundred

weight of feathers, of course every one of the feathers

in the hundredweight would fall at the same time as
each by itself would. It's only because light bodies

float in the air that they take longer to go through
Ifit than heavy ones.
                        we could only take away the

air, why then the lightest would reach the ground
at the same time as the heaviest, I'm sure of that

now."

   " Isn't it wonderful !" he cried, walking quicker

and quicker, as he grew more and more delighted

Iwith the strangeness of the discovery. " never
Iwould have believed it if hadn't tried and I'm
                                    it,
                                         it

                                           if

                                                it
sure should never have dreamt of trying
I

hadn't been for making the clock."

The idea of the clock had no sooner crossed his

mind again, than his thoughts reverted into their

former channel.              great weights fall at
                           if
   " Now," mused the lad, "
                                            it
the same rate as small ones, how would be pos

sible for me to make the wheels of the clock move

round as regularly as the hours go on."

   Then, as he turned his steps towards the dingle, in

stinctively seeking out some sequestered spot where

he might quietly ponder over the problem, he busied

himself, as he sauntered along, with devising   a

variety of projects by which he fancied the desired

end might be attained.
118 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

  It struck the boy that, as the air retarded the

descent of bodies, it might be possible to make the
weight of the clock fall at the proper rate by means

   it
                  it,
of a wheel with fans to that should press against
the air as the wheels revolved. Still the boy saw
no means of regulating such an apparatus easily
                                              ;

so he fancied would be better and simpler to put

   drag upon the wheel, as he had seen the wagonera

do to prevent the wagon descending the hill tooa

rapidly. After few moments' reflection, however,

he thought there would be the same difficulty with

this as with the other. It would cost him no end

of trouble to adjust the motion by such means.
   Suddenly Owen remembered that at the back of

Roger Wilkins' clock there was rod with a round
                  it,

                             a
weight at the bottom of that kept swinging to
and fro as the clock ticked. He stood still as
he asked himself what could be the use of that, and

wondered whether  was intended to make the
                  it

                           ;
wheels move at a proper rate.                 it
                                                V
  " It must be so," he said " but how can that do

   The little fellow puzzled himself with his en

deavours to understand the use of the pendulum

until he was fairly worn out. It was beyond his

simple powers to comprehend so, at length, when;
he had grown fidgetty with his inability to account
for its action, he determined upon going to the millit

and asking Roger Wilkins to explain to him.
   As Owen journeyed towards the little factory, he

was delighted to find that the mill had ceased work
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  119

ing, and he remembered then that he had heard

his father say there wasn't enough water in the
stream to drive the big wheel. This gave the little

fellow courage, and he quickened his pace, anxious
to avail himself of the clothier's leisure.

   The lad found Roger Wilkins alone, enjoying his

pipe at the factory door, his wife having availed her

self of the holiday to go over to Brecon " shopping,"
and taken the boys with her. Owen had no sooner
explained the cause of his visit than the clothier,
delighted to foster a talent in any way connected with

machinery, led the lad inside the little building,

and taking down the clock proceeded to explain to
him the use of its several parts.

    " So you want to know about the pendulum, Owen,
do you?" inquired Roger; "and you thought you
could make a clock without one, eh? That would

Ihave been clever, lad ! for shall tell you what a

clock is? Why, do you know, a clock is only a piece of
machinery for marking the number of swings made by

a pendulum --or rod as you call it-- and for forcing

the pendulum at the same time to keep on swinging.
This heavy weight here, you see, makes the clock go ;
that is to say, it makes the pendulum continue to
move backwards and forwards; but it's the pen
dulum itself, my lad, that keeps the time. Look at

this," he continued ; " I'll take the pendulum off.

Do you hear, Owen, at what a rate it's running?

'Tick! tick! tick! tick!' it goes. Why it's more

like calling pigs than beating seconds !"
120 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

   The boy laughed at the clothier's illustration, and

asked-- " Does the pendulum, then, beat only once

every second, Mr. Wilkins?"
   "Yes, my lad," answered Roger; "and now, of

course, little Mr. Inquisitive, you want to know

Iwhy it does that? Well, I've a little story to
tell you on that point.  know you like stories

Iabout inventions and discoveries, and so do I, Owen.
   remember many of the wonderful things that

have been found out merely by the stories about

them.

   " Well !" proceeded Roger Wilkins, as he filled a

fresh pipe, and seated himself on the edge of the

carding machine, "you must know that nearly

three hundred years ago there was a young Italian

student, named Galileo Galilei. He lived to be a

great philosopher afterwards. It was he who put

together the first telescope --that's a kind of spy

glass for looking at the stars, and making them seem

ever so much nearer --and it was with this he dis

covered that one of the stars, called Jupiter, has
got four moons to Owen --four moons just think
!"

    it,

                 a
                                                                            !
of that, and we've only one."
    " Dear, dear exclaimed the enraptured boy.

   " Well, when he was youngster of nineteen,"

babbled on the clothier, "and had just returned

from college --where his father couldn't keep him any
longer, because he was too poor --young Galileo hap
pened one day to enter the cathedral of Pisa --that

was the town in Italy where he lived, and indeed,
TO MAKE A CLOCK.       121

where he was born. Then walking down the middle

of the church, he noticed one of the lamps swinging --

it was suspended by a long cord from the high roof
-- and it struck him, as the motion grew less and less,

that, no matter whether the distance the lamp went

was great or small, it swung backwards and forwards

in the same period. So what did he do but set to
swingwork to time its
                       by his own pulse, and he

found that it took just as many pulsations to go a

short distance as it did to travel a great way.

Afterwards, when he had become a great man, he
applied the knowledge he had gained in this way

to the regulation of clocks, by means of a pendulum."
   "So you see, Owen," added the clothier, "the

swings, or vibrations, as they are called, of the pen

dulum, are all performed in equal times; that is to

say, a pendulum takes no longer to swing a mode

rate distance than it does a short one. Now it has

jbeen found, lad, that a pendulum a little bit more than

3 feet long, will swing once exactly every second,

or 60 times a minute; and that if the pendulum be

13 feet long, it will swing once every 2 seconds, or

but 30 times in the minute, whereas if it be only
about 9J inches long --inches, mind!--it will do so

once every half second, or as many as 120 times

every minute."
   " How very strange !" cried Owen, who had sat

all the while with his eyes rivetted on the clothier.

I" never could have found that out. Mustn't master

Gali --what's his name?--have been clever, Mr. Wil
122 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

kins? But what's the reason, if you please, sir, why

Ithe pendulum swings so regularly?"
   " Ah, that's more than can tell you, boy," answered
Roger.* " It's beyond me, for it wants a good deal
more scholarship than I'm master of to understand.*

* The reader should be warned that in order to ensure the

vibration of a body through different distances in equal times,
it is necessary that the vibrating body should describe, as it

moves, a peculiar kind of curve, called a "cycloid," and that

when the ordinary pendulum is made to swing a great distance,

there will be a certain difference in the time occupied by its long

and short vibrations ; or, in other words, what is termed the

--isotchheropnrisomper(tfyrombyutwoqhiechquaal,ll  and   xpovoe time) of the pendulum
                                                    its  vibrations, whether great or
small, are performed in exactly the same period --is true only
for moderate distances ; and it is true only for such distances,
because the pendulum in swinging describes the segment of a

circle rather than the cycloidal curve before spoken of, and be

cause the curve of the cycloid coincides for a short range only

with that of the circle.

   A cycloid is the curved line described by any point of a circle
as it rolls along a straight line. For instance, a nail in the

rim of a cart-wheel traces a cycloid in the air as the wheel rolls

along the ground ; or, if a hole be made towards the rim in

the top of a pill-box, and the point of a pencil be introduced

therein, the pencil will, if the lid be laid flat on a sheet of

paper and made to revolve against the straight edge of a board,
trace a cycloid on the paper as the top of the pill-box rolls

along. Now the reason why the cycloid is what is termed an

isochronous curve, is that it is precisely of that form which
causes a body in descending one half of it to pass through a

long space in the same time as a short one (owing to the

increased acceleration of the force being exactly proportional to
the increased distance it has to travel), and thus the body
acquires, during its descent, sufficient force to enable it to

ascend through an equal distance along the other half of the

curve in an equal length of time.
                      TO MAKE A CLOCK.  123

I only know it does so ; and what's more, that it

requires a pendulum to be of a different length to

swing seconds at different parts of the earth, and

that if we went to Guinea in Afriky, the pendulum

must be shortened to do as much as it did in

England, for the same pendulum would give nearly

6 more swings in the hour in these parts than it would

in those ; so that a clock that went right here, would

go too slow there, unless a little bit were taken off

what you call the rod at the back. Now you mustn't

Ibother me, Master Owen, with any of your questions

about what's the reason of all this, for can't tell
Iyou; it's beyond my learning, as said before. All
I know
        is,depends upon what they call gravita

          it

                      !"
tion."                    echoed the boy, thoughtfully. "I
   " Gravitation

think that was the name of one of the forces Mr.

Wynn spoke to me about but don't know what
                          ;

                              I

    means."it

   " Well, then, I'll tell you, lad," responded Roger;

Wilkins " and there's a little story about that, too,it

which makes all the better."

   At the prospect of another tale, Owen sidled the

inverted hamper on which he was seated close to

Roger's knee, and looking up, fastened his eyesis
intently on the clothier.

   " To begin," said Roger, " you must know, that
what they call gravitation, the force which gives
weight to everything, and which makes us and
124 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

wasn't for that, we should tumble right off, and fall

bump into the moon, may be."
   " Ho ! ho !" laughed the boy, " that is funny.

But it's impossible for anything to fall upwards,

Mr. Wilkins, and the moon is above us, you know."
   " Very good, little master Clever," said the clothier,

as he stooped down to pat the boy on the shoulder,

" but suppose there isn't any such thing as up or

down, no more than there is any back'ards or for-

'ards in nature. Now look you here, I'm afore

you now, aint I! Well, turn you round," and as

Ihe said so, Roger twisted Owen round on the ham

per, " and where am then? Why, behind you, to

be sure. So you see, for'ards is back'ards, all accord

ing as you're looking. Just you give me that

ball of yarn there, out of the basket under the

loom, my little man."

Owen having complied with the request, the

clothier proceeded.

   " Now this ball here, we'll call the earth, and this

Ipin" (he drew one from the cuff of his jacket, where

he kept a small row), " which stick in at the top of

the ball, we'll call Owen Evans, and this t'other pin,
Iwhich stick in at the bottom right under
it                                               we'll
                                            it,
call my cousin Tom, who's out in New Zealand. Well,

now we'll hang the ball up to one of these straps

here, and there is," he added, when he had done

so, "just like the earth, with Owen Evans on one

side, and cousin Tom right under him on the tother.
                                                       TO MAKE A CLOCK.  125

must be up'ards to Tom, in the same way as what's      '

up'ards to you is down'ards to Tom ; and that if Tom      a it
                                                               it,
wasn't kept in his place, why he'd fall away right
up as he would call for all the world as when                                      if

loosen the hold of this pin against the ball--away                                  I

tumbles cousin Tom, you see, up or down just as you

please, master Owen."

   "But Mr. Wilkins," laughed the boy; "your

cousin Tom would be going about with his body
hanging down, just like the flies do on the ceiling."

    " Yes, and little Owen Evans would be doing the
same thing," returned Roger, smiling at the humour

of the illustration -- " for look here, we will put one

ball down on the ground, and another right up at the
top here, close against the strap. Now, we'll suppose
the one underneath the middle ball to be the sun, and

the one up above to be the moon, then, of course,

it's day to cousin Tom, and night to Owen Evans.
Well, we'll stick pin in each of them balls, and
we'll suppose the one to be that celebrated gentle
man known as the man in the moon,' and t'other
Mr. Any-body-you-please, in the sun; well, you see
now, Tom would certainly seem to the gentleman in
the sun, here, to be walking with his head down,
but Owen Evans, too, would look as he was prac
tising the same difficult feat to the man in the

moon."

    The little fellow chuckled again with delight, as
he saw the force of the illustration, and observed
126 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

only different ways of looking at a thing, the
same as behind and before. " But is the earth

round like a ball, if you please, Mr. Wilkins V he

inquired.

  I" Yes," returned Roger, " but we needn't trouble

our heads about that now, for want to tell you

about gravitation ; and one thing at a time is my
maxim. Well, my boy," he proceeded, " gravitation

is,

  I
                          I
    as said afore, the force that draws everything

down to the earth, and that keeps them there when
they are drawn down. Now see, Owen, by the
look of you, that you don't understand it. Well,
you'd better run into the house, and fetch me that
little magnet as bought my youngsters you'll find

   in the kitchen drawer."
it                                                ;

             I                                        a

   The lad scampered off, and returning in minuteisit
or two, placed the magnet in the clothier's hands.is
                                                                            a
   " This bit of iron at the end," said Roger Wil'

kins, what called the keeper.' Now, we'll tie
bit of thread to that, and hang over one of these
pulleys, in this way," chattered the clothier, as he
performed the operation, " and then we'll fasten a bit
of stick to t'other end, just to balance the keeper

in the air-- so, my man. Well, you see, Owen,

directly put this magnet little way under the
it I                               a

keeper, pulls down towards                 a it,and makes
      it                                                   it

descend for all the world as       if      were stone dragged

                                      it

down to the earth."     a                  inquired Owen.

   " Is the earth then              V
                                   magnet
                         TO MAKE A CLOCK.        127

  I"That can't say, lad," answered Roger, "and
I Ididn't mean you to take what was saying in
Ithat light at all ; only wanted to give you a notion

how one thing might be attracted to another. Now,

I dare say, boy, you fancy as it was the magnet that

drew the keeper to and you'd be astonishedI      is iIf
                        it,
showed you that the keeper drew the magnet as

much as the magnet drew the keeper, or what

the same thing, that they both attracted one another.

For look you, have only to tie the magnet to one

end of the string, instead of the keeper, and putit a

heavier bit of wood at the other end to balance

over the pulley, when you'll see   iIf     hold the keeper

underneath, the magnet itself will be attracted. Look

you there, Owen Didn't you see the magnet de
?"

                                !
scend cried Roger, as the little red horse-shoe was

drawn down to the piece of iron beneath it.
   " But surely, Mr. Wilkins, you can't mean to say

that the stone attracts the earth as well as the earth

attracts the stone towards         it    interrogated the
                                      V

eager boy.

   "Yes, do, youngster," retorted the clothier,
nodding his head at the little fellow " and the rea
I                                          ;

       II                                because it's easier

                     it
son why the stone only moves       is

for the earth to move the stone than for the stone

to move the earth."                           I  think
   " Oh, see what you mean now, sir, and

understand thoroughly, thank you," said Owen,

as he pressed Roger's hand in his.
128 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

  I" Now, Owen, suppose was to tie a number of

these magnets round a small hoop, so that the poles or

Iends of 'em stood up all round the edge ; then suppose
   was to tie some more magnets in the same manner

round another hoop, and to put the one hoop through

Ithe t'other so that it stood right across it ; and then

suppose again, took two more hoops with magnets all
round them like the others, and passed them in the
same manner through the t'other two, so that the

Iwhole of the hoops together, crossing one another,

should form the skeleton of a ball. Well, if

Iwere to cover this all over with anything, should

have a perfect ball of magnets, you know; and then,

if we were to roll it in a lot of iron filings, we should

find the little bits of iron would cling all round

the ball, so that you might hang it up in the air

without one of them dropping off; and there you'd

have a perfect little model of the earth, with all the

things on its surface, held to it by the force of

attraction. Now do you understand
I                                  lad but
             I it
                   I

                                            it,

                                                                                            ?
mind, you must remember that the earth attracts

everything -- stones, and men, and trees, and water,

just the same as the magnets do the iron filings."
   " Oh, yes, understand perfectly, Mr. Wilkins,"

said Owen, "but please, sir, you've forgotten the

story."                         haven't," replied the
   " No, young Impatience,
                            "but was obliged to
clothier, good humouredly,

make you comprehend about gravitation before you'd
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  12S

Ibe able to comprehend about that. Well, now, as

think you know all concerning the force as draws

things down to the earth, and so makes them feel
heavy to us, I'm going to tell you what a boy named
Isaac Newton did. His father, you must know, was

a farmer at Woolsthrope, in Lincolnshire, and when

he was a lad he used to make models of windmills.

It was he, Owen, as invented paper kites, and

the little monkey used to take delight in sending
them up on dark nights, with a lantern at their tail,

and frightening all the villagers round about out of

their wits, by making them believe as they were
great comets. While he was at school, at Grantham,

too, he made a sun-dial by watching the movements
of the shadows throughout the day, and this was
long known in the town by the name of ' Isaac's
dial.' Well, my boy, they wanted to make a farmer
of little Isaac, so he was took away from school
and sent to Grantham Market with the old farm

servant, to sell the things ; but instead of striving

to get the best price for the corn and bargaining
with the cattle dealers, the young rascal used to
stay outside the town and sit under a tree by the

road-side, studying some book until the old servant

returned."

  I" Well, do think, do you know, Mr. Wilkins,
Ithat should have done the same," said the simple-

minded Owen.

   " No doubt you would, you little rogue," tittered

K
ISO THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

the clothier. " So one market-day, as Master Isaac
lay stretched on a bank reading some book, a little
way out of the town, who should come by," continued
Roger, between the puffs of his pipe, " but his uncle,
who was the rector of one of the parishes hard by;
but the boy was so took up with what he was a-study-

ing, that he actually didn't know any one was nigh --
right at his elbow --a-looking over his book. His

uncle was astonished to find Isaac was engaged in larn
ing about angles and circles and such like. Luckily
though, the rector was a sensible kind of a man, so

he advised the boy's mother and step-father (for Isaac's
own father had been dead many years) to send him
to college, saying as a boy like him wasn't fit to look

after ploughing and reaping and such like. Well,

Isaac went to college, and stayed there, laming and
larning, until the plague broke out -- that was a dread
ful disease, which killed thousands a week, Owen

--and then he was obliged to leave Cambridge and
go back to the farm at Woolsthorpe. Now it was

while he was there one day, sitting under one of the
trees in the orchard, that young Isaac saw an apple
drop from one of the boughs to the ground. He
knew it was gravitation as made the pippin fall ; for

though some people fancy he discovered that, it wasn't

no such thing, because the force as draws things down
to the earth was known long afore his time. Well,

Isaac says to himself, says he, as he lay in the
shade, a- twisting and a-turning the matter over in
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  131

his mind, 'Since it's the attraction of the earth as

Ipulls that there apple down to the ground, and since

if was to go up to the top of the highest buildings

and the peaks of the loftiest mountains the attraction
 of the earth would do the same thing there, and it's
the same force again which makes the hailstones and
the raindrops fall down from the clouds, where does it
end?' And then Isaac asked himself whether there
could be any point where the attraction of the earth

would cease? and if there was no such point, why

then of course the attraction must reach to the moon,
and be pulling that down to the earth all the same

as if it were an apple or a stone."
   "Oh! but, Mr. Wilkins, that can't be," cried

Owen, starting up.
    " Yes, but it can, sir," returned Roger, " and what's

more, Isaac went to work and proved by figures that
the moon is continually being drawn down to the

earth, and that by the very same force as draws the
stone to the ground. He showed, too, that's why the
moon goes on revolving and revolving round about
our globe ; and not only is the force of gravitation
the cause of the moon revolving about the earth,
but he proved as it was the very same power that
made the earth itself and all the planets revolve about
the sun. But that's not what we're about, Owen;"

Icontinued the good-humoured clothier, " was

showing you how it's the force of gravity as makes

                               k2
132 THE BOY- MECHANIC TRIES

all bodies feel heavy to us. Now it's by the length

Iof the pendulum that clever men measure this force

at different parts of the earth; and strange, dare
say, as it will seem to you, they've found out that
bodies get heavier as they come to us from the south,
and heavier still as they go from us towards the north ;
that is to say, a pound weight on the coast of Guinea,

in Afriky, is less than a pound weight here -- so much

so indeed, that 1000 pounds in these parts would
weigh as much as 10034- pounds in those. For the
same pendulum as swings once every second there,
and so makes 86,400 such swings in a day, would,
when carried to London, make 1 35 more swings in
the course of 24 hours, or 86,535 in the same time.*

* The reason why the force of gravity becomes greater as we

proceed from the equator to the poles  that the parts of theis,
                                                  a
earth's surface at the equator revolve at the rate of about 1000

miles an hour whereas, the poles themselves being fixed points,
or extremities of the axis on which the earth turns, can have
      a

                   ;
no revolution whatever; and the parts of revolving body

acquire greater or less tendency to fly from the centre, in pro
portion to the rate of revolution. Consequently, where the

rate of revolution    is is  the greatest, the parts of the earth must

have the least tendency towards the centre, and therefore

gravitation (which merely the force giving bodies at the surface
a tendency to the centre) must be diminished in proportion as

the rate of revolution, or the force giving them tendency to fly
                                       is
      it,                                          is
          is                                          a
from          increased. The amount of the force urging bodies

from the centre of the earth at the equator found to amount

to the 289th part     of their  weight; or, in other          "wocrednst,ri-offugthael
force urging them      to it.
or (centre-fleeing)   force,"   The   former called     th"e  centri-petal or
                                 and    the latter the

oentre-seeking) force."
                       TO MAKE A CLOCK.                             183

Now as it's the force of gravitation alone, my boy,

as makes the pendulum swing, it's very clear that
where it swings the quickest the power must be

greatest ; and it's because the pendulum swings faster

in London than it does on the coast of Guinea, that

the weight of a London pound must be more than

an African one."*

  I" But, Mr. Wilkins," said Owen, " can't make

out how you can tell that; for if every pound in

London is so much heavier than every pound in

Africa, how eould you find out the difference?

Suppose you were to weigh a pound of sugar on the

coast of Guinea, as you call           a

                                         it,

                                                        ;

                                                                   it
                                           and to bring

to England, would still be pound for though
I it

                 a it
might have become heavier, the pound weight

suppose, would have got just as much heavier

too?"              clever little man smiled the clothier,!"
   " There's      quite right in what you say, and the

" for you're

difference couldn't be come at by any such means.

* The following             the rule by which to measure the force
                       is                  of
                          by                                     of
gravity at any place means a pendulum a certain length:
                                of of
Divide the length of the pendulum by the square of the

number of times beats in every second, and multiply the quo
                  it

tient by 9-8696.

To find the length          of  a pendulum which shall swing a cer

tain number times in a second, the rule as follows:
of                                         is

                                                      of
Multiply the square of the number of seconds by 3-2616.

   While to find the number times a pendulum              a certain
length will swing in a second --

Multiply '55372 by the square root of the length.
 134 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES                           I it it,

But suppose, Owen, we were to have a pully rigged

 up atop of a high post at the equator, and another

pully atop of another high post at the North Pole,

with a long cord reaching from the one to t'other, and

Ian equal weight at each end of it. say, suppose we

were able to rig up such a bit of machinery as that

--for it wouldn't be possible to do you see--then

we should find that the weight at the North Pole
would lift the weight at the equator, and we should
have to add the twelfth part of an ounce to each

pound at the equator to make balance the same

number of pounds at the pole. There, give me the

chalk, and I'll soon let you see what mean." Where

upon Roger went down on his knees once more, and
described the following figure on the floor.

   "Now, you see, Owey," continued the clothier,
" that's meant for the earth, with the pulleys spoke
of rigged up on -- one at the equator, another at
the pole, and a third, we'll say, at London. Well,

then, there was cord passing over them pulleys,
if

               it

                       a

                                I
                TO MAKE A CLOCK.

I
       I

                                                 it 6
                                                              it,
and a weight fastened at each end of we should

find that exactly 195 pounds would be needed at

the equator to balance 194 pounds at the pole, for

every one of the pounds at the pole would be, as

   said afore, just about tVth of an ounce heavier
than each pound at the equator. But, though 194

pounds at the pole would balance 195 pounds at

the equator, about 194 pounds ounces would be

required to do the same thing at London. Now do

you understand?"

   " Yes, understand what you mean, sir," returned

the lad; "but you yourself say wouldn't be pos

sible to tell the difference in weight in that way."
   " Very true, lad," was the reply, " but there are

other modes of weighing bodies, you see. For in

stance, we can find out how heavy things are by the

pressure they exert on spring, and scales are very
                      Ia
often made in that way now-a-days, for they don't

require any weights, and so come very handy. Ac

cordingly, with spring weighing-dial the index
                it a
would show us that a pound at the equator really

grew heavier as was carried to'ards either of the

poles. Still, it's by means of the pendulum that the
difference in the force of gravitation at different parts

of the earth found out, for where the pendulum
is

swings the fastest, as said afore, the power must

be the greatest, since it's only gravity as makes                  it

swing at all."is      Mr. Wilkins," asked Owen, " that
   " But how     it,
130 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIESa

the force of gravitation, as you call makes theI
pendulum swing? for gravitation drew the apple
straight down to the earth, but the pendulum movesa
backwards and forwards, and that can't be the
same as the other."             I it,

   "Ah! thought you'd be about that? smiled the

clothier. " Well, now, my little fellow, must have
  bit of chalk and clear space --here on the floor

will do."
   Accordingly Roger Wilkins knelt down, and

having dusted the boards with his apron, described
the following figure, but much larger than here

represented.

" There, my lad," said Roger, " we'll suppose the

straight line down the middle to represent the pen

dulum in state of rest, and the slanting dotted
          it a
lines to be the pendulum in its two farthest posi

tions as        swings back'ards and for'ards. I've
ROGER VILKINS EXPLAINS tHE tHKORY OF GRAVITATION. -- Page 136.
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  137

Imade it three feet and a quarter long, because

told you afore that is the length as swings once

every second in this country; and the round mark

I've made at the end of the rod we'll imagine to
be the ' bob,' or weight. Well, now, Owen, we'll

fancy the pendulum to be lifted slightly up on one

side, and to be in the position shown by the dotted

line on the right. Then, of course, the weight

being attracted to the earth, wants to come down

to the ground, but it's held by the rod, you know,

and this again is supported by the point it swings

upon, so that as the weight falls it is carried along

by the rod from C to B. But by the time it gets
to that point, it is plain that it has fallen from the

level of C to that of E, or, in other words, through a

perpendicular space equal to the line CE. Then the
force which it has got in its descent through that space

is strong enough to carry it up to an equal height
on the other side. But in ascending through this
space it has to overcome the natural tendency

of the weight to descend, so it is evident that by the

time it gets to D the whole of the force which it

had gained in falling down the first half of the curve

will have been spent in driving the weight up the

other half of it. Whereupon it will begin to fall

again, and so descend through the perpendicular

space DF ; but in falling down this half of the curve

it will get force enough again to drive it up the other

half, where the acquired force being once more ex
138 THE BOY-MECHAUIC TRIES

pended, it will begin to descend a third time,
and so it will keep on swinging back'ards and for-

'ards until the friction of the point it hangs upon
brings it to a standstill. And now, my little man,

you can perhaps see how a weight can fall down

and yet swing back'ards and for'ards at the same

time."*

  I" Yes, Mr. Wilkins, do, indeed," answered the
I Idelighted boy, " and fancy can almost see, by the

motion of the pendulum, how gravitation could

make a body that was continually falling move round

in a circle, as you say Isaac Newton showed was the

case with the moon."
   " Well, well, we'll talk of that another time,"

Iejaculated Roger ; " there's one more experiment

Iwant to show you, and then we shall be ready to
understand all about the clock.  want to show

you, Owen, that a pendulum of a certain length

really does swing once every second. Now, what

Iwas the length that said the pendulum should be

to do so?"

"Three feet and a quarter," answered Owen,

briskly, and not a little proud of his knowledge.

  * It will be borne in mind that the isochronous property of

the pendulum is true only for very small portions of circular

curves ; the cycloidal curve alone being of such a nature that
the weight of the pendulum, in descending through a large arc,
has its motion just as much accelerated as that arc is greater
than a small one, so that it falls through long and short spaces

in the same time.
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  139

    " There's a fine little fellow," said Roger Wilkins,

as he pressed the boy encouragingly to him,

" it's quite a pleasure to teach an attentive lad like
you. Now let's measure the pendulum to the
clock here. I've got my foot rule in my pocket,"
he proceeded, as he withdrew the measure and ap
plied it to the instrument. " There's one foot,
Owey," he said-- " two foot --three foot, and three
inches just about. Now, how are we to tell at what

rate the pendulum swings?"

   " By hanging it up at the back of the clock and
counting how many swings it makes in a minute,"
cried Owen, as quickly as he could, for the previous
praise had made him anxious to display his little

knowledge once more.
    The clothier stretched out his legs, and stood

looking at the boy for a minute or two ; then he
shook his head at him, and said, " No, no, sir, you're
out this time, and a good way out too. You're a

Ipretty fellow ! you'd be putting the cart before

the horse with a vengeance. Didn't tell you that
a clock was a piece of machinery merely for marking
the beats of a pendulum, and here you'd go and use
the clock to tell whether the pendulum beats rightly

or no ! Why, if the pendulum, Owey, beats too

quick or too slow, of course the clock must go too
quick or slow as well."

   The boy bit his fingers with vexation at the

mistake he saw he had committed.
140 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

   " Well, never mind, lad," said the good-humoured
Roger, " there's a better way of doing it by far.

You've a watch about you that'll do nicely."

  I" No, haven't, sir, indeed and indeed," exclaimed

the astonished little fellow, as he instinctively looked

down towards his pockets.

   " Oh, yes, you have !" returned the clothier, laugh
ing, " you've got one in your wrist."

   " In my wrist," echoed Owen, almost bewildered
by the information, and turning up his cuff as if he

expected to see a pair of hands there besides his

own.

  I"There, there, boy, mean your pulse," added

Roger ; " that's the watch Galileo used in order to time
the beats of the pendulum, when he first discovered

the law of and surely the same timepiece as heit,
worked with will answer our purpose. Now, Owen,
              a
we'll hang up the pendulum by itself on this hook,

and you shall count the vibrations up to sixty--
that'll be just minute, you know --while I'll reckon

the beats of my pulse up to seventy-five, for that's

the number of pulsations which occur in full-
                              a

grown man in the same time. Mind, we must both

start at the same moment, and repeat the numbers

silently to ourselves," said Roger Wilkins, as he

placed his fore finger on his wrist, and bade Owen

touch the pendulum gently and begin to count the

swings immediately commenced vibrating.
   The boy having raised the " bob" slightly on one
           it
                          it
side, let  fall from his fingers, and the moment
   TO MAKE A CLOCK.

after, the lips of both Owen and Roger Wilkins

might be seen moving as the clock ticked.
   " Sixty !" presently shouted Owen.

"Seventy-five!" roared Roger Wilkins, at the

same moment. "There, my boy," he added, "we

have done what young Galileo did near upon three

hundred years ago. Well, that point is settled at

last ; and all we want to understand now how we
                    is

                          I
                                                               is,
are to keep the pendulum swinging, and how many

teeth we want in the wheels to make the hands

mark the minutes and the hours. It's lucky for

you, I'm thinking, my man," added the clothier,
" that the stream dry, or never should have had

time to have given you this lesson."
   " No, that you wouldn't, Mr. Wilkins," answered

Owen, " and I'm very much obliged to you, I'm sure."
   " Now, my boy, to know all about the works of

the clock, we must have the doors off. In Dutch

clocks like this, they are made to hook on at the

side, and can be taken off without hurting the

clock in any way."

The sides then having been removed, and the

works exposed to view,* the clothier proceeded to

explain to Owen the uses of the various wheels.
   " This wheel at the bottom," he said, " what
                               it

                                                 is
                                                              is
called the great wheel.' In most clocks it's made to'

drive the hour hand, but here     moves the minute

   See Engraving at p. 62.     1
    142 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

    have to be wound up every day; for you see, Owen,

    there's a pulley on the axle of the great wheel, and
    as the weight descends, it forces the axle round ; then
    this axle runs right through to the face of the clock,

    and has the minute hand fixed on to the end of
                                                  it
                                                         it,
    outside the dial, so, of course, as revolves, car
                          it it
    ries the minute hand round with it. Now, the
                                  ?"

                                         it
    minute-hand goes round once in how often  ?"

    " In every hour, isn't     inquired the boy.

    " Yes, that's quite right," continued Roger. "And

    how many times does     go round in the course of

    the day, then?"
       " Twenty-four times," was the lad's answer.

       " Well, Owen, since it's the weight as makes the

    minute hand turn round, of course the string, that

    the weight hung to, must be twenty-four times
      a is
    as long as the pulley, that the string passes over,is?"
       round. You understand that part, my lad
I is
        Owen nodded assent.

       " But in clocks that go long time," added the
    clothier, " the weight made to turn the hour hand,
                is
                         a

and as that revolves only twice day, of course the
                               a

weight in such clocks has less space to fall through,a
and so the same length of string will keep the
clock a-going longer time. But all we've got to do
with at present, with clocks like this one, as need
to be wound up once every twenty-four hours. Well,

    as was a-saying, the weight here pulls the axle of
      TO MAKE A CLOCK.                             143

know how to make that axle, while revolving
I

        if

                is,

                            I

                                                                                      ;
once every hour, move the pendulum once every

second. Let us see then, lad. How many minutes

are there in the hour?"       " know that, because
    " Sixty," returned Owen.

can see the number marked over the twelve on

the dial."

   " Yes, that's right," proceeded Roger Wilkins
" and there are sixty seconds in every minute. Now,

boy, we multiply 60 by 60, we shall have 3600

for the number of times that the pendulum must

swing while the axle of the minute hand turns once

round. Well, the use of these wheels here, which

you see placed above the great one at the bottom,

merely to make the pendulum swing once every
is
second, as the minute hand revolves once every
  I
hour."
   " could never do that," exclaimed Owen.
   " Come, look here, my boy," said the clothier,

pointing to the great wheel. " On the axle of the

minute hand there    you see, cogged wheel, and
                    it is is,

                                        a
                                                7
that wheel has got 70 cogs or teeth to it. Now,

those teeth, as the wheel goes round, work into the

little pinion, which fixed on the axle just above

it    and as that pinion has got teeth, and the

   ;

wheel working into   70, it's very plain that the

middle axle must turn 10 times quicker than the

bottom one; so, of course, the middle wheel must

go round once every  6        minutes, while the great
144 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

wheel at the bottom, or that which turns the minute

hand, goes round once every hour."

   " Of course it must," said Owen.

"Then again," Roger went on; "there's another

cogged wheel, you see, on the middle axle,* and it's
70 cogs or teeth to it as well. Now this works into

another pinion on the axle above it, which has

got 7 teeth like the t'other, so, of course, the top

axle turns round 10 times as quick again as the
middle one does. Well, the middle axle revolved

once in how many minutes, Owen?"
   " Six, sir," was the reply.
   " Very good," responded Wilkins ; " and as the

top axle turns 10 times while the middle one turns

once, you would find, if you counted that the top

axle must go round once in every 36 seconds."
   " Oh thank you, sir," replied Owen " it's rather
!

                                                  ; it,

                                I
difficult for me to follow the figures, but can

understand quite well how it's done."

   "Yes, it's all simple enough, lad, when you can
reckon it," replied the clothier. " But where had we

got to? --oh, we left off at the top axle. Well, on

that axle  placed what                             called the ''scape' or
'
                  is

                                  is
                                                a

                                              is
escape' wheel, that to say, a wheel with the teeth

cut slanting, like those of saw. Now, this 'scape

wheel has 36 teeth round its edge, and each of

these teeth causes one or other of the 'pallets' --

           * See Engraving at p. 162.
                      TO MAKE A CLOCK.           115

they're little strips of brass with ends bent in

wards, something like the flukes of an anchor,
fastened to the axle of the pendulum --to rise as it

slides under them, so that it isn't very difficult to

see that the pendulum must make 36 swings while

the axle of the 'scape wheel goes round once."

   "To be sure it must," said little Owen Evans;

I" and now it's all done, and needn't trouble you

any more, Mr. Wilkins."

   "No, no, no; not quite so hasty, youngster,"

smiled Roger; " you've forgotten all about the hour

Ihand, and don't see exactly how you could have a

clock to tell the hours without any hour hand."

The boy laughed, but with a poor grace, at his own

mistake.
   " Well, that's not very difficult, Owey, and wont

cost us much time or trouble to understand," re

marked the clothier. " On the axle of the great
wheel at the bottom --which you know is the one

as carries the minute hand round, and revolves

once in every hour--there is a small wheel which

has 24 cogs to it. Well, this works into another

wheel above  it, it,  which has the same number of

cogs round          so of course the axle of this wheel

revolves at the same rate as that of the great wheel

axle. Now, the upper wheel has on its axle pinion
                                        a

with only teeth to    it,  and that pinion works
            4

into another wheel with 48 teeth; so then, you

see, the wheel with the 48 teeth must go round

                      L
148 THE BOY-MECHANIC TRIES

once while the pinion above it goes round 12 times;

and as that pinion turns at the same rate as the axle

of the minute-hand does, it's clear that the axle of

the 48-toothed wheel must revolve 12 times as

slow as that of the minute-hand. Now look, boy;

the axle of the 48-toothed wheel is hollow,

and carries the hour hand at the end of it outside

the dial, while that of the minute hand passes

               it it,

                           I
right through     and has the long hand fixed
to the end of
               in the same manner. There, my

little man, you know now all can tell you about

the clock. However, so that you may make no

mistake, I'll just mark down the numbers of cogs

to the wheels on a bit of paper for you, and

then you can toddle and make clock for yourself
I
                            !

                        if

                                  it

                                                             ;

                            Ia
                                                                                                ;

                                       I
as quick as you please."
   " Oh thank you, Mr. Wilkins I'm sure you're

very good," observed Owen " don't know what

should have done  hadn't been for you."

   "There, never mind about your thanks," said
Roger, " I'm too glad to teach you the little know

whenever I've got the time to spare. You come in

again some day, my little man, and then I'll tell you

about Benjamin Franklin, a poor printer's boy, who

used never to touch bit of meat, so that he might

live upon less, and buy books with what he saved. And

I'll tell you how he got to be the first man in America
--became kind of king there --and how he brought

down the lightning from the skies by means of
a
                  a

                                                                          a
TO MAKE A CLOCK.  147

kite. What do you think of that, Owey ? But
come, it's no use your stopping there with your
mouth wide open, for I'm tired out, and so ought
you to be, I'm sure, you voracious young scaramouch,
you ;" and as the clothier said this, he threw his
arms about the boy, and pressed him to him.
" There, go along, do" cried Roger, " or else you'll
be dragging another story out of me; but I've got

a fresh warp to put into the loom, and if I'm not

much mistaken, we shall have rain afore the morn

Iing, for noticed, a little while ago, that the flower

of the chickweed was closed, and that's as good as a
weather glass any day. It's the poor man's baro
meter like, and will tell you when the weather's
a-going to be ' showery,' and when it will be ' very

Iwet,' as well as the best glass you could buy. 1

shall be at work again, hope, to-morrow. So, run

away as quick as you can, my little fellow, and let

me see your clock when you've made it."

x. 2
                 CHAPTER V.

                         owen's dial.

Owen was too full of his clock to turn to any other
occupation, and although he had tired out the
clothier, his own interest in the subject was in
no way abated ; indeed, now that he was better
acquainted with the various parts of the machine,

he felt, if possible, more eager than ever to get to

work at it.
    The first thing the boy did was to pick out from

the lumber in the tool shed, a piece of hard wood,
out of which he could cut the wheels and axles
of his timepiece. And when he had planed it
smooth, and reduced it
to about an eighth of
an inch in thickness, he
made the great wheel
(2 inches in diameter)
cutting out the teeth
with his penknife, in the
form here shown --
OWKNS DIAL.                                   149

Then he got a bit of wire, and

bent it into the form of a spring,
thus --

   After this he cut out the " click."

And when he had finished all these,

he proceeded to fix the click and the spring  to
the rim of the great

wheel in this fashion --

Next, he got a stouter

piece of wood, about half
an inch thick and near

upon two inches square,

and out of this he carved

the pulley or "barrel"

to carry the cord -- cut

ting a deep groove in and notching all round
it,
                        it
                                      it
the edges so that the cord should not slip. On
one side of the edge of this, too, he made the

ratchets for the click on the large wheel to work
into. And when he had completed the pulley

assumed this shape --
151) OWENS DIAL.

   Now came the axle, or         .ffli
" arbour," as it is technically

termed, on which the great

wheel and the pulley were to

be fixed, and this was after

the manner of the annexed.

   That done, he constructed the little
wheel that was to work another of the
same size, whose pinion was to move the

hour hand, and made it thus --

Presently he set to work at

the axle, or arbour, to carry

this wheel, which he formed

after this fashion --

And having fixed the small

wheel upon  it,the wheel and

arbour appeared as here reprea
                                                     3
sented --
                                                                                a
   The next point was to join the two parts of the
axle together, by inserting the small square end of the
first into the square hole at the extremity of the

second, and when the two were united they looked

like this-- the whole being about inches long.

Owen then made wooden nut or collar, with
owen's dial.  IS]

hole in the middle to fix at the end of the axle,

and to keep the great wheel tight in its place.
When he had completed this, he proceeded to fix
the pulley and the great wheel in the manner here
shown, putting a piece of cord over the pulley to
see how it would work.

   He afterwards occupied himself with making the

wheel to drive the hour hand. The axle to this was

hollow, so as to pass over that of the minute hand,
and there was a little nut wherewith to fix the

wheel upon it --each as given below.
152 owen's dial.
   A nd when these were put together, they had the

following appearance.

   After this the boy passed the hollow axle of the
hour hand over that of the minute hand, arranging
them as shown in the subjoined engraving.

    The delighted lad here paused for a while to con
template his handiwork ; and as he twisted it round

and round, he inwardly wondered what Roger Wil-
kins would think of it. Then the boy longed for
the moment when it would be finished, and he could
hear it go " tick, tick," for the first time.
OWEN S DIAL.  153

   In a few minutes Owen was hard

at work again, making the stanchion
or bearings for the great wheel. This
part of the machine he fashioned
out of a bit of wood ^ of an
inch thick, 1 inch wide, and 4f
inches high. One inch from the bot
tom he bored a hole half an inch

across, and made three other small

holes above it to carry the axles of

the upper wheels --drilling these at

the places indicated in the engraving

here given.
   The moment after, the boy was

busy making another wheel an inch
in diameter, with twenty-four teeth
round its edge, similar to the one he had previously
formed; and close round the centre of this he fixed
four bits of wire to serve as the teeth of a pinion.
That done, he pointed a stout bit of wire about a
quarter of an inch long, and drove it into the lowest of
the small holes he had made in the

stanchion. This was to serve as a pin
for the inch wheel he had just formed
to turn upon. Next he bent another

bit of wire into this form --

    That was to serve as a stay to the inch wheel,
so as to keep it in its place ; and having pointed
184 OWEN'S DIAL.

well, about an inch above the other. Then he
onplaced the wheel
                    the wire axle, and brought

the stay down before it in such a manner, that,

when the two were fixed on the stanchion, the

wheel with its stay appeared as here shown.

   After this, Owen commenced making the handsit,
for the clock, which he did as follows :

These finished, he undid the axle of the minute
hand, at the joint in the middle of and having
OWENS DIAL.  IBS

passed it through the hole in the stanchion, put it
together again. Then having fixed the hands on
the ends of the minute and hour axles, the boy once
more paused to contemplate the look of the whole.

   All that now remained to be done were the wneels

to drive the pendulum. The middle one of these
(which was 2 inches in dia
meter), with its axle, pinion,
and nut, he made in this

wise--

          
156 OWENS DIAL.

And these he put together thus --the whole being a

fraction more than 2 inches long.

    Next came the 'scape wheel, axle, nut, and
pinion ;* these he made of the same size as those on

the middle wheel.

     Presently the boy was busy fashioning another

 stanchion, but this was 5\ inches long ; for it

   * The pinions are what are termed " lantern" ones, and con

 sist merely of 7 straight pieces of wire set round the axle as
 shown in the engravings.
owen's dial.  157

was to be let into the top and bottom of the frame.

At the upper part of it he bored a large hole, so

as to allow the axle of the pendulum crutch to

pass through it ; and he drilled three small holes
down it so as to serve as bearings for the axles of

the 'scape, middle and great wheels. When he had
fitted the several axles into their respective places,

the whole of the wheels put together appeared as

under --

   Then came the frame. For this he made four

fsmall supports, out of a piece of stuff, each half

an inch wide, and 4£ inches high ; after which he
 158 owen's dial.
fashioned the top and bottom, making them each
3 1 square, and piercing holes in them to receive
the rounded ends of the four supports ; and when
he had nailed the whole together, it was as here
given --the hook at the top of the front support
being placed there as a means of fastening the dial

to the frame.

   Owen had now to construct only the pendulum
crutch, and "pallets," in order to complete the works,
owen's dial.                  159

and as these were comparatively easy, he was not
long in making the following :

   Nor when these were com

pleted, did it take many

minutes to fix them, thus --
 160 OWENS DIAL.

    Everything was now finished but the back and
front. The dial, however, cost the boy more trouble
than all the works put together. The face of
Roger Wilkins' clock had a bunch of flowers, Owen
knew, at the top, and some ornaments in each
corner. For a long time he could not tell how
he was to manage this so as to make it look
anything like the clothier's. However, he chanced
at last to light upon a bit of old chintz curtain,
whence he cut out the desired bunches of flowers;
then gluing them to the top of the dial, the
face of the clock, when he had finished it, was
not very unlike that of the old Dutch clock at
the mill.
                   owen's dial.                               16]

   After this the boy

formed the back, thus --

   The hole at the top
of the back was to hang

the clock upon its hook ;

the wooden peg project

ing immediately beneath
the upper hole, with the

;

            it,
bent wire below was

to suspend the pendu

lum from and the hole

underneath this was to

allow the crutch to pass

through while the little tin plate at the side
of with small hole drilled in the middle,
it,

        ;
                a

was to serve, when fixed, as bearing for one enda

of the pendulum axle, the other end of which was              ;
made to work in an eyelet hole at the bottom of a
strip of metal let through the top part of the frame
lastly, the two pegs at the bottom were to keep the

clock from the wall.

Owen was not long, now that he had progressed

thus far, in fixing the back and front to the frame.
The back he nailed to the top and bottom, but the

front (as he might have occasion to remove
                      a                                       he

                                                         it)
fastened by means of hook attached to each of the

foremost supports at the side.

   At length, however, the back and front were added
162 OWENS DIAL.
to the other parts, when the whole appeared as here
drawn.

    The clock was now complete, with the exception
of the side doors to close the works in and keep
them from the dust. As these were merely flat bits
                            owen's dial.  I 63

 of wood (3^ inches by

5^), it did not take

long to form them.
 The hinges were made
of two bits of bent
wire, which worked
into two wire eyelet
holes let into the back ;
and there was a hook
fixed to the front part
of the doors to fasten

them to the frame.
The doors were soon

fixed, and the clock --

with the pendulum

and weights added --

hanging against the
wall.

    The timepiece once
finished, and placed
upon its hook, Owen's
hand trembled with ex
citement as he pushed
the pendulum and
caught the sound of its
first "tick," after his

many days' labour.
Then he ran back and

stood gazing at
it,

                                     !
164 owen's dial.

chuckling inwardly as he beheld the rod swing gently
to and fro, and heard it throb again, almost like
the beating of his own heart. The little fellow
sat half the day in his own room looking at the

little machine, and playing with it -- now mount

ing the chest of drawers that stood besideit
                       is it
and opening its little wooden doors, so that he
                             it
might see the wheels turn round, and the pallets
                     went --then fancying that          it it,
move up and down as

some of the bearings were too loose, and taking

down to make the imaginary improvements. When

these were completed, and the timepiece was once

more in its place, the delighted boy would try all

kinds of experiments with --at one time he would

unhook the pendulum, and laugh again as he heard

the " ticking" quickened, and the pallets rattle against
the 'scape wheel --at another, he would slide the

pendulum " bob," as  called, up the rod, and see

what difference the change made in the rate of

going.

    Presently, as Owen saw the minute hand come

round for the first time to the point of XII, he

thought to himself he should like to make strike.
It would be so nice to hear  it
                                                it

                                                        it
                             speak to him as

were, and tell him how the hours went by. He

sat for a while considering how he could do so.

It would not be very difficult, he thought, to make
it sound one at every hour, and that would be

quite enough for what he wanted. He would only
                           owen's dial.

have to put a pin in the pulley that was on the axle
of the minute hand, and as that revolved once every
hour, the pin could be made to force up the bent
end of a long hammer, and so drive the top part
back; then there could be a spring placed behind
this, so that when the bent end was released from

the pin, the upper part should be pulled suddenly
forward, and made to strike against something that
would give a sound.

   But what that something was to be, was more
than Owen could tell at that moment. Accordingly
the lad fell into a reverie again, puzzling his brains
as to what he could possibly use for a bell.

   At length he thought he might be able to manage

the matter with the neck of an old bottle. He re

membered there was one in the tool-shed, and glasses
he knew sounded beautifully.

   The boy was not long in removing the jagged
edges of the broken bottle by chipping it carefully
round with a pair of shears, for he had often seen
his father cut glass in that manner ; after which

he ground the bottom on a flat stone

with a little fine sand and water. Then
he took the clock to pieces once more,
and proceeded to set the pin upon the

front of the pully on the lower axle,

placing it as near the edge as possible.
Next he formed the wooden hammer
with the bent end, after this fashion,
 166 OWENS DIAL.

and made the shaft long enough to project two
or three inches above the top of the clock, in which
he cut a slit so as to admit of the shaft working
backwards and forwards. Then he had to search
for something he could use as a spring in order
to make the top of the hammer fly suddenly back
against the bottle when the tail slipped from the pin.
This part of the apparatus, however, he got from
an old bird-cage ; and then having corked the neck of
the bottle tight up, he passed the end of the peg
which he had set up, as a support for the bell on
top of the clock, through the cork, and so fixed
the bottle firmly in its place.

    The timepiece once more against the wall, Owen
was overjoyed with his work. As he watched the
minute hand creep round gently towards the last
point in the hour, he jumped on a chair in order
to see the head of the hammer forced back, and
there the boy stood, breathing quickly with the

excitement, till he beheld the hammer spring

suddenly forwards, and striking the side of the
glass, heard it fill the little room with a sharp
hum.

   The little fellow was too impatient to be able to
wait until another hour had passed away, second
by second ; so he took the pendulum off to make the
wheels work quicker, and sat gazing at the hands
xi ieg  two

      hid

      king
      irch
      ,da
      ack
      tin.
      om

      :rf

      on
OWEN SHOWS HIS CLOCK TO HIS FATHER. -- Tage 107.
OWENS DIAL.  167

as they ran round, and listening to the sound of

the bell, as circle after circle was completed.

   At length, however, the novelty wore off, and

Owen grew eager for his father's return from work,
so that he might show him what he had made.

   And when the lad led his parent up to his room,
and showed him the result of his labour, ticking

against the wall, he felt more than repaid for all his
toil, to find his father almost wonder-stricken at the

work.

    Davy Evans minutely examined every part of the

clock, and when he had done so, he hugged the boy
to him, and made the little fellow blush again with

pleasure, as he praised his cleverness, saying it was
more than he himself could have done. Where

upon Owen, glad to display his knowledge, explained
to his father the use of the pendulum, and the

reason he had made it of such a length. He repeated
to him, too, the story of its original discovery by

the young Florentine student --Davy Evans all

the while smiling with pride at the lad's infor

mation.

  I" You see, Owey boy, must come to learn of

you, now," said Davy, as he curled his arm round
the lad's neck, and pressed his palm fondly against

his cheek. ' « Well, I'll tell you what I'll do, my little
clock-maker, I'll give you an order. You shall
168 owen's dial.

you for it just the same as if you were in business

for yourself."

   " But I made this one for you, father," said Owen,

as he kisse d him, and hid his head against his

cheek.

   " There's a good fond lad !" added Davy. " Well,

then, I'll pay you for that."

   " No, father, don't do so," replied the son, "for it

Iwill seem as if had done it for the money, and in
Istead of that thought you would keep and prize

   when had grown big man, and was out in the
world at work --perhaps away from you," (the little
fellow's eyes filled with tears at the thought,) " the

same as Mr. Wilkins told me they did at Grantham

-- think that was the name of the place--with the

dial Isaac Newton made when he was boy. It

was known in the village long time after he died,
it

     I

                                       a

                                                              it,

'                                                Ia

 I

                          !

                                 '

                             it
                                  Va

                                           ; it
by the name of Isaac's dial,' father."
    " Well, boy," returned Davy, " we'll call this

 Owen's dial,' and we'll have taken care of in the

same manner that Isaac's was I'll paint your name

at the bottom of  too, and how old you were

when you made it."
   " No will you, father exclaimed Owen.
    " Yes, my lad, and what's more, when go over

to Llangoed again, I'll tell Squire Macnamara

there what you've done, and may-be he'll give

you job to clean one of his clocks, or perhaps to
a
          OWENS DIAL.                 169

Owey, you'll be getting a little money for yourself,
Iand wont you be proud of that ?
                                  remember the
Ifirst sixpence ever earned seemed to me the most
beautiful bit of money in the world. It told me

Ilike, as was growing a man, and getting able to

shift for myself ; for after all, lad, there's nothing

like self-reliance in life. It makes all the difference

Ibetwixt an independent man and a beggar. Now,

by an independent man, Owey, don't mean one

who is so rich as to have no need to work for his

own living, for such a man is the most dependent of

all creatures, and can't do a thing for himself. But

Iwhat do mean, lad, is a man who is able to support

himself by his own labour. So, it's to make you have

Ithis faith in yourself, that mean to pay you for

the clock, and let you see that, even little fellow
Ias you are, you can earn something.
                                      can't afford,
Ithough, you see, lad, to pay you the full price, for

couldn't have spared the money to buy such a thing

for myself; but, come, there's a new shilling for you,"

he added, as he drew from his pocket the little
leather bag in which he kept his money, " and re

member it a'n't a gift, boy, but what you've fairly

earned."

   Owen flung himself upon his father's neck, and
kissed him again and again with delight. " Yes,

Ifather," he cried, as his head rested on Davy's

shoulder, " wish you would let me do something
170 owen's dial.

Ifor myself. I'm sure I'm big enough.                                    could
Imind sheep at least, if could do nothing else. I've
Ioften wanted to ask you to put me out, for know

Ihow hard you have to labour for all you get, and

there would be so much the more for you if could

earn a little."
   " Well, good lad," replied Davy, patting him on

the cheek, " if you will, you shall be a little shepherd.

The work isn't hard, and you can study while you're

out in the field ; but, remember ! you musn't get

studying too deep, or you'd be having your sheep go

astray, and that would bring trouble upon you.

Well, well, I'll see about
       a                    Owey.                                      dare say in

         I

                                      a it,

                                 I

                                                                      a
a few days may hear of farmer on the hills as

wants smart lad, and then I'll speak word for

you."
                    CHAPTER VI.

THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH, AND THE
                    BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT.

Owen for the next day or two could think of little
else than his going out to work, and he told all his
companions in the village that his father had pro
mised to make a shepherd boy of him. Nor did he
forget to communicate the intelligence to old Jack,
the donkey, assuring him at the same time that he
wouldn't forget him when he was away, for that he
would come home once a week with his pockets
stored with good things for him. Then the old
darling should have a regular feast of peppermint

drops.
    Every evening, too, when Davy returned from

work, the boy would anxiously wait to hear whether
he had yet found a place for him ; and when he went
to bed he dreamt of strange things about his shep
herd life.

   At length, however, the repeated disappoint
172 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

ments drove the thought of going out into the
world more and more from the lad's mind, and so
made him seek to occupy himself with some fresh
work. Accordingly, Owen thought he should like
to make a watch for his " Aunties ;" but having no

idea how a timepiece could go, except by a weight
and pendulum, he began to wonder how a watch
could be made to keep time in all positions. He

wished he had asked Mr. Wilkin s the reason of it ;

he could easily have told him.
    The boy went to the hatch to listen whether the

mill was at work, and catching the sound of the
water-wheel, he felt loth to trouble the clothier in
the midst of his business. Suddenly, Owen remem
bered that he had noticed the old sea-captain who
lived at the end of the village, and was so fond
of his little sister Peggy, had a bunch of seals
hanging from his fob ; so he thought he'd run up to
the house and just ask the gentleman " what o'clock
it was," in order that he might get into conversa
tion with him about the matter.

   While the boy stood at the door making up his
mind to pay the Captain a visit, Mrs. Pugh (his
housekeeper) came down to fetch little Peggy, as
was her wont at least once a week, saying the old
gentleman had got something for her. Glad of the
excuse, Owen promised to bring the child, in a few

minutes, himself.

   As soon as the little girl had been " tidied" and
CAPtAIN JONES AND LIttLE PEGGY.-- Page 173.
AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 173

invested in a clean pinafore, away the couple trotted

up the road. The old Captain, who was sitting out

in the sunshine in the front garden, no sooner caught

sight of the little thing in her large sun bonnet,
than he cried, " Come along toddles ! Come along

Itrots! Here's such a beauty thing for her.

Ibought it a week ago of young what' s-his- name, the

blacksmith's boy --dear, dear ! shall forget my own

Iname directly -- mean him that lives close to --
Iwhose cottage is it on the common -- you know,

Owen? He caught it in the wood hard by. gave

him a good bit of money, too, for  know. Let me
iIf
             iIt
                         iIt,
see, how much was  gave? But Mrs. Pugh can

say, can't. Here! Mrs. Pugh! Mrs. Pugh!"

By this time Owen had jumped his sister up the

steps, and as little Peggy came paddling along

the gravel walk towards the cottage, the old
sailor bent down in his easy chair, and stretching

out his trembling hands, held them ready to catch

the child. Then having helped her clamber up his

knee, he kissed her as though he meant to devour

her.                      good girl?" inquired the
   " Has little Peg been
a

      I
                                   a
                                              '
                                                                                '
sailor.

   " Me dood doe," answered the child, in her own

infantine prattle.                 me sarnt' and me

   " You haven't been saying

boant' any more, hope," said the old man, holding
up his fore finger. " Do you know, Peggy, you
174 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

Itold me yesterday --and yet it couldn't have been

yesterday, for haven't seen you these two or three

days past, but it was last time you were here --you

Iloved me 'berry leet,' and that you loved Mrs.
Pugh ' berry mut' --after all those ' goodies'  gave

you, too. Oh! she's a sly boots, she is. Little puss

only said it to make me have a game with her;"

and the fond old gentleman hugged the little one to

him with increased affection at the remembrance

of her tricks.

"Now Peg," continued the Captain, "what do

you think I've got for you to-day?"
   " Barley tugar," cried the child, holding up both

her little fat hands.

   "No, it isn't barley tugar, little sweet tooth,"

answered the old man, as he tickled her in the neck,

and made her roll and kick again in his lap with
"Ilaughter. " Bless her heart !" he added,
                                                do love

to hear her chuckle. Of all the sounds in nature,
boy," he said, turning to Owen, " there's nothing to

Ian old man, as am, like a child's laugh --and so
you'll think one day, if you are spared. It's so

hearty, so truthful, so full of life and enjoyment.

IAh ! lad," he continued, " what would give to be

like this little thing --full of health, with the blood

dancing through one's veins, and a whole life to look

forward to, instead of a long mis-spent one to look

back upon. It makes us think what fine things we'd

do, if we had only our time to come over again.
AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 175

There's nothing like little children to old people,

boy ; for they've got what we covet more than any

thing else --health, and life, and spirits. Not the

Irichest, nor the wisest man in the kingdom do

envy so much as this little blue-eyed doll in my

lap. But come, trots, this will never do. We are

Igetting serious and sad, and you come here to make

us merry--don't you, little woman? Well, as was

saying, what do you think I've got in the parlour
Itfor you, Peg ?
                  isn't ' goodies,' but" (and he

whispered the conclusion of the sentence in the

child's ear) " a beauty skuggy with a tail as big as

the feather at the side of a grenadier's cap. Run

and bring the creature here, Owen."

The boy was not a minute gone, and returned,

carrying a long cage with an apparatus like a wire

barrel at the end of it.

"Oh! booty puss!" cried Peggy, directly she

caught sight of the animal.

  I" Ah ! think he is--a real beauty," echoed the

delighted old man ; " look at him, he's like a little

crop-eared hare with a fox's tail. See how nice and

white, too, he is under the belly, Peg, and notice

his small black eyes, they're like a couple of pear-

pips. Then, look, Peggy, how pink his little paws
                  ' Tooc ! tooc !' he goes --that's
are underneath.
Ibecause he can't get in his house. See, now, as

let go the round-about, how he skips and clucks
with delight, and he makes the wire barrel spin so
176 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

fast, that he looks as if he was inside so much

gauze."

   " Booty, booty !" exclaimed the little girl, clap

Iping her chubby hands with joy.        think,"
   "There, Peg, he deserves a nut now,

went on the sailor, as he rummaged in his pockets

for the remains of the store he kept in them.

" You crack Owen, for that's more than can do.
              it,
                                                  it

                                  fI
                                                                                          ;
Look, how well the cunning fellow knows the sound.

Do you see! there's his little bald nose poked
through the bars directly. You give him, Peg

he won't hurt you. Don't be afraid, little one and

so saying, the old man took hold of the child's wrist

and held her hand to the bars, as she shrunk back

with fright.

As soon as the squirrel had taken the nut from

her fingers, Peggy laughed to see the little

thing sit up on its hind legs, and nibble the kernel

between his tiny fore paws.
   " Isn't he pretty fellow sitting there with his
it

      a

                      it
tail curled up his back like a feather," babbled on

the old boy, "and nibbling away the rind, and
chucking from him till flies about like so much

bran. There, now, do you notice, Peg, he's caught

sight of you watching him, and the deep little rogue

has twisted his tail round his neck, so that you can

hardly see his head."

The child chuckled again with delight, as she

beheld the squirrel's antics.
AND THE BOY- BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT.  177

    " He's finished that nut now," remarked the Cap

tain. "You give him another, Owen, and you'll see

he'll go away and hide it under his bed of moss.
He's got a rare store there, the rascal, and he's so

savage, Peggy, if you attempt to disturb it. He'll

scold away then, and almost bark at you like a little
toy dog. Look ! he's run away into his house with

the nut, and there he is digging his nose under the
moss," chattered the old man. " Now see how he's

scattering the stuff about with his feet. He's doing
that to cover himself over, and presently you'll find
he'll be quite hidden under it--just as he is every

Inight when he goes to bed. Do you know, Peg,

let him out of his cage every day to have a run
about the parlour, and he paddles along round
and round the room, with his tail sweeping the

ground like a long brush ; and when he's tired of
that, he scrambles up the chairs and sits atop of
the backs of them, looking as impudently as you do,

Miss Peg, when you're having a game at 'peep-
boh' with me behind the trees in the garden. Then

he'll spring on to the mantel-piece, and take a run
along there, and when he's tired of that, down he'll

jump, and climb up my legs right over my back.
Sometimes he'll get on to my skull cap, where he'll
sit perched up, with his tail over his head, and eat a

bit of apple, if he can only get me to give it him.

But his great game, little Peg, is to climb up the

N
178 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

window--the --the curtains, to be sure -- and up

them he'll go ' tooc-toocing' away, as he jerks himself

to the top ; and when he gets there, he'll run along

the pole above, from one end to the other, for

all the world like a tight-rope dancer at a fair, and

keep up such a chattering as he goes, that you'd

fancy he'd got back into the woods again. Ah ! he's

a beautiful little fellow, Peggy, and he'll get to love

you dearly if you only feed him and take care not to

Itease him, by disturbing him in his bed, or taking
his nuts from him.  got him for you, Peg; so

you must give me a big kiss as you call it-- one of
your very biggest, Peg-- and say I'm a dear ' Mitter

Jone,' and you love me ' berry mut.' No ! that isn't

half a one, Miss," the old dotard cried, as the little

thing scrambled up and stood on his knee, while
she threw her podgy littly arms about his neck,
and squeezed him to her. " ' More !' as you say for

Ithe sugar plums, Peg. Ah, that's better! but

must have another still ;" and as the sailor said so,

he threw her in his lap and kissed the child under
her chin till he made her chuckle again with the

tickling.

By this time the old man had become tired with

the pranks he had been playing with the child;
so when Mrs. Pugh came out to advise him to go in

doors, as it was getting chilly, now that the sun was
off the cottage, he bade his housekeeper "take
           AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 179

the pet a good plate of that raspberry tart they'd
had at dinner. He told the dame also to bring
some fruit out of the garden for Owen, and to put
the currant wine on the table.

   As soon as the housekeeper had moved the arm
chair into the parlour and wheeled it up to the

window, the white-haired old man shuffled into the

room, leaning upon Owen's shoulder.
    The boy fidgeted about the parlour for some little

time, looking at the various shells under the side
board, and the model of a ship under the glass
case that stood on the side-table, with the little
earthen images of Indian figures set round it.
Then he turned to the Chinese fans and pictures
against the wall, and glanced at the hookah, that
stood on one of the shelves of the three-cornered
cupboard, with the old china cups and saucers
showing above it. There was a walking-stick, too,
made out of a shark's back-bone, hanging over the
looking-glass, and a dusty old stuffed albatross
standing near the window.

   But the boy was too intent upon the purport of
his visit to pay much attention to any of the curio
sities, and was, even while he pretended to be viewing

them, summoning up courage to ask the old Cap
tain to let him have a look at his watch. Presently

Ithe lad said, half to himself, " wonder what the

time is V

                                       n2
180 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

   " Oh, it's not late, boy," answered the veteran,
pulling his watch out of his fob ; " it's only ten

minutes past three, by my watch, here."

   At the word the boy turned towards the window,

and observing the timepiece in the sailor's hand,

requested the old man to allow him to look at it.

  I" Oh, understand," exclaimed the Captain, " you
Iwant to have a peep at the works. Well, was

just the same at your age, and thought the inside of
a watch the prettiest sight in the world." So say

ing, he pressed the spring, and lifting up the dial,

took off the brass cap that covered the wheels of

the little timepiece.  it is," cried Owen, as he gazed
   " How beautiful     the works, "to see the little

with wonder into

Ibright wheels twirl round, and this one here, swing
backwards and forwards.  suppose that's the same

as a pendulum in a clock, sir V

" Yes," returned the old man ; " but what do you

Iknow about pendulums, youngster I"
   " know," replied Owen, sharply, " that a pendu

lum of three feet and a quarter will swing once

every second."
   " Hey-day !" cried the sailor, " you know a good

deal, then, for a lad of your age."

Encouraged by the approbation, Owen told the

Captain that he had just made a clock, and now
wanted to understand how it was a watch could go

without a weight to it.
   AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 181

   " Well, boy," answered the Captain, pointing to
the works of his own timepiece, " that brass barrel,
you observe there, with the little steel chain round

it,what called the spring-box, and it's that
    is
                   is

                           ;
                               a
which makes the wheels revolve."

The little fellow then asked what         it it            was that

made the box itself go round.
   " Why, there's steel spring within it," answered

the old sailor " and, as that uncoils, forces the

box to turn on its axle."

But Owen had never seen any other spring than

that to his own bird-cage, so he asked how spring
                                          it

                                                 1

                                                          a
inside a box could cause the box to go round often
enough to wind all the chain upon

The old man answered that the spring was long

and thin, and that one end was fastened to the

axle on which the box turned, and the other to the

inside of the box itself, adding, that the axle was

fixed, while the box was set loose upon it.
   The boy bit his lip, ashamed to say he did not

thoroughly understand the matter yet.                                out.
   " see," said the Captain, " you can't make
I                                                          it
                                                                 it
Well, my lad, take                      long narrow piece of whale
                                  ;a    " hold one end of
bone," he proceeded                                        fast by
                                      it
your thumb, and wind round your fore finger, you
will then find that the whalebone will try to un

wind itself and you fix the other end of to thea;if        it
inside of flat ring, like the rim of a good-sized
 182 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

turn the rim round and round, and wind up a thread

tied to the outside."

    The lad thanked the Captain, and said, now he

understood it perfectly.
   " Not quite so fast, youngster," exclaimed the

sailor ; " for you see, when a spring is put in the
place of a weight to drive the wheel, there's a great
difference in the action of the two. The force of

the weight is the same all along, but with the spring
it's much greater at the beginning than it is at the

end, for the more and more it unwinds itself the
weaker and weaker it becomes."

  "I see," said Owen, thoughtfully, "and how can

that be got over, sir V
   " Why, that's done, my little man," replied the

Captain, " by what's termed a ' fusee.' "

   " What's that, if you please, sir ?" inquired the

boy.

   " Well, a fusee," responded the old sailor, " is
nothing more than a conical-shaped barrel ; that is
to say, it's a barrel made in the form of a small
sugar-loaf, bigger at the bottom than it is at the top,
and with a long spiral groove cut round it from one
end of it to the other. You know a peg-top, of course,
youngster ? Well, the small end of that with the
groove round it where the string is wound, is a per
fect fusee. The watch is wound up by turning round
the axle of the fusee, and then the chain is drawn

from off the spring-box, and twisted round and round
AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 183

the fusee barrel, in the same manner as the string is

wound round your peg-top. But as the watch goes

the spring uncoils itself, and so turns the box round

the reverse way. By this means the chain is wound

off the fusee on to the box again, and in such a

manner that at first, when the power of the spring

is the strongest, it's pulling at the small end of the

fusee barrel, while at last, when the power of the

spring is the weakest, it pulls at the thick end.

Thus the power is applied farther from the centre

of the fusee axle, just in proportion as the spring

gets weaker, and therefore the force is rendered

Iequal and regular throughout."  know what you
   " Thank you, Captain Jones,
mean very well," said Owen, " for it's the same as

the wheel and axle."

   " Very well said, lad," responded the sailor ; " so

it is. You know about wheels and axles, too, do

you 1 Well, then, master Owen, you know a great
I Ideal more than did at double your age, for was
Ia sad idle young scape-grace, and that's why
Isent to sea--between you and me and the post.  was
                                                dare

Isay, too, if Captain Chapman, of the Honourable

Company's Service, that first sailed with, hadn't

kept me ' taut' up to the mark, and made all the

Iyoung gentlemen --that's what they call the middies

--study about chronometers and such like, should

Ihave known no more about the inside of a watch

than do of the inside of a Punch and Judy
      184 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

show. I've only told you though, lad, how the
main-spring in a watch is made to do the duty of a

weight in a clock. But a watch, you know, as it
has to go in all positions, can't have a pendulum
dangling from it. So how do you think that's got

      over ? Why, instead of a pendulum, youngster,

there's a balance, or fly wheel, worked by the escape

ment, and this has a small spring to because it's
                                         is
been discovered that the vibrations of a spring,it is,a it,
whether large or small (like those of pendulum),
take place in equal times, and the consequence

    the balance-spring in the watch made to serve

      as the pendulum, even as the main-spring acts as

      the weight. There, now you know all about the

      watch, for the wheel-work the same as that in
                       is                            a

      clock."I
         " Oh thank you, sir," replied the boy.!

         " Egad, you seem, my little man," laughed the
      Captain, " to take a deal more interest in the matter

      than ever did. I've been mast-headed over and

      over again before they could get that stowed into
      Ifmy noddle.
                       I'd have learned only yesterday
                       ;

                          I
                             I

                                              it
      instead of sixty years ago, should have forgotten

        all by this time but was much fonder of catch

      ing sharks than studying navigation when first
                                                    I
                                                        I
      went to sea, and that was on the 30th of June,I

      1791. was telling young what's-his-name --that

      bought the squirrel of-- mean young -- who-do
                       I

                                         ?"
      you-call-him, of the forge yonder
           AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 185

   "Jarman?" suggested Owen.
   " Yes ! that's he," said the old man. "What a boy

that is for ' yarns' ! Why, it was only last--no, it

couldn't have been Wednesday, because somebody was

Ihere that day--who was it had with me then? --

Tut ! tut ! it wasn't the doctor from Builth, because
he came last Sunday. Let me see, though, did doctor
come on Sunday t To be sure he didn't, for Mrs.
Pugh had her friend to tea with her that afternoon --
her niece, or her cousin, or something of that sort.
She told me a long story about how she was left an
orphan by somebody or other, though for the life

Iof me can't recollect a word of it now. But
Iwhat was saying ? --let me see--let me see," mum

bled the old Captain, as he put his shrivelled veiny
hand before his eyes, and clasped his forehead in

the bewilderment of his memory.

   " You were telling me, sir, about when you first

went to sea," said Owen.

  I" Ah !" cried the old sailor, waking up, " can
Iremember that, well enough, it was a month after

left Bristol Grammar School, and Mr. Peace, one of

my father's clerks, who had been to sea himself, was

Isent with me down to Gravesend ; and recollect

he took me to the King George's Head there, and
gave me a good feast of cherry and currant pie,

saying, ' Well, youngster, you'll be a long time before
you come athwart cherry and currant pie again;
so you had better stow away in your hold now as
186 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

Imuch as you can carry.' And sure enough did.

Why, when I'd done, the gilt buttons on my buff

Ikerseymere waistcoat --for was in full uniform--

were ready to start out by the roots."
   " And did you like being at sea, sir ?" inquired

Owen.

   " Like it !" echoed the old Captain, " not at all at

first, lad. How would you like to live for four
long months --we didn't make land, my first voyage,

for fifteen weeks, excepting just a glimpse we got of

the Cape on rounding it; we ran short of provi

sions, too, towards the end of the voyage, and had

to send the men out in boats to catch turtle. But

I I Iwhere was !-- dear, dear, where was ! -- can't
Ikeep a thing in my head for two minutes together.

I'm sure the other day was talking to Squire
Williams, of Llangoed --no it isn't Squire Williams
that lives at LlangoeJ, it's Squire, Squire, Squire --"

muttered the Captain, half to himself, as he beat a

tattoo with his fingers on his forehead.
    " Macnamara ?" hinted the boy.
   " You're right lad," nodded the old man. " Well,

I wanted to tell him something I'd read in the news
Ipaper that knew would interest him greatly -- it

was either about fishing or shooting, or a railway

Iaccident, or a marriage of somebody or other ; but

for the life of me, my dear boy, when began to
AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 187

Itor what on earth it was about.  was so strange,

too, for I'd read it only that morning--that is to

say, it must have been the evening before, because
I never get the Hereford --Hereford-- Times --no,
Iit isn't the Times take, either -- but we won't
I Imind about the name ;
                   know never get the

paper till the Wednesday, or else it's the Thurs

Iday, or the Friday afternoon -- I'm sure can't
Isay which just now. Still, that's not what was
Isaying. Where did leave off, lad V

  "If you please, sir," replied Owen, glad of the

opportunity to bring the wandering old man back

Ito his story, " you were asking me how should like

to live for four months on something ; but you

didn't say what."
I I" Oh !
recollect," cried the veteran, " was

Isaying how would you like to live for fifteen long

weeks, as we 'middies' did, when first went to

sea, on maggoty biscuits, and putrid water and

'junk,'--that's hard salt beef, lad ; so hard, too, that

you could cut it into cricket-balls, and so salt,

it's like eating brine itself. Ah, many a time

I've been mad with thirst from the heat of the

day, for the sun is right over your head in those

parts, and makes the pitch in the seams of the deck

as soft as treacle. We were only allowed a pint of

water, do you --see over and above our grog and
188 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

Iit had come out of a cesspool ; why, used to strain

Iit through the corner of my handkerchief as

drank it from the tin 'tots.' The water rots, young

ster, a little while after you get to sea ; and some

times when I've been down in the hold to see it

served out to the men, I've been nearly stifled with

           '

              it,
                     it

                            a
                                                        a
the stench of as was pumped out of the casks.

It's true, we young gentlemen' had mess of our
own, and had laid in store of sugar and tea, and

hams, and potted meats and soups, and what not.

But bless you, these were all stowed away in the

lockers round the berth--that's  place about as
                                 a

                                           it,
big as four sea-chests, that six of us middies had to

live in, and with scuttle, or window to as you'd

call about as big as the lid of a work-box --and
the very first sea we shipped -- Oh remember as

well as do going to the India House to receive
I it,                            !I
                       a
                                                    it

my first pay. We were at tea, between the dog

watches, as they're called, and was a-sitting right
                          I

under the scuttle, with the cups and saucers set out

before me on the little table that was slung from

the beams above, and in the waves poured, for all

the world like what you might fancy would be the

case the mill dam yonder were taken away suddenly,
I

       if
and all the water behind let loose at once. Well,
                          I it

                                            ;

                                    I
                                              I
fancied --green-horn as   was then --that we

were going straight to the bottom so struck out

swimming away for dear life, and each stroke

made sent the crockery flying. When the torrent
I
            AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 189

had ceased there was a pretty state of things. Our
cask of sugar, that stood in one corner, was salt-water
treacle ; our packets of tea in the lockers were all
pappy ; our fresh Lemann's biscuits, too, were, like
so much sop; and there was my best uniform hat,
with its grand cockade, chock full of sea-water,
and as soft and limp as a bit of hard-bake in hot

weather."

    This was too much for Owen's gravity, and he

laughed outright at the misadventure, the Captain
joining in with a heartiness that made the tears
trickle from his eyes. " That young blacksmith
wants to be off to sea," proceeded the garrulous old
man, "but he little knows what a sailor's life is.
Why, I've seen a ship full of men thinned with a

disease breaking out in it like a hive of bees stifled
with sulphur; I've known many a man full of life

and health at mid-day, and heard the bell toll his
death before sun-down ; and the next morning I've
been summoned on deck to see him tossed from the

gratings at the gangway into the sea. Again and
again, too, I've been roused from my sleep in the
night by the cry of a man overboard ringing in my
ears, and rushed upon deck just in time to see the
boats lowered, and six anxious shipmates pulling
away in the darkness, guided only by the faint blue
light of the buoy that some kind hand had cut away,
the moment the cry was raised. I've watched that
boat, as the ship, with all the sails aback, lay still,
190 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

hunt and hunt about in the wide waste of waters --

now turning this way and then that, according as the

crew fancied they heard the poor fellow's cry for help
and life. And at last I've seen them come back with

drooping heads and sad faces to tell that another
Icompanion was gone.
                       can remember these things,

lad, well enough," continued the old man, sadly,

I" and often, as sit out at the doorway in the sun,
I Isee many a scene of that time that
                                       would

I Iwillingly forget."  heard little sister crying,"
   " Hush ! thought

exclaimed Owen, suddenly starting to his feet.

    The old man listened for a minute, and then

burst out -- " Yes, it is Peg, sure enough. Run and

Ibring her here. You're quicker at moving than

am, boy. Poor little dear, whatever is the matter ?"

   In a few minutes Owen returned with Mrs.

Pugh, carrying the child screaming in her arms.
   " Give her to me !" cried the Captain, stretching

out his hands to receive her.

   "She's only fallen down, sir," said the house

keeper, "and is more frighted than hurt."
   " Only fallen down !" shouted the sailor, angrily ;

"you should have taken better care of the little

thing, then." And he kissed and hugged the child

fondly to his bosom.

   Mrs. Pugh turned upon her heels, muttering as
she tossed her chin in the air, and left the room,
a          AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 191
              '
" You're always having a pack of young brats here,
                                  is,
you are."
    " There, there, little Peggy, don't'ee cry," said the

tender-hearted old man ; " let Mitter Jone kiss it

and make it well. It will soon be all right

again now. Bless its heart, no one shall hurt it
while Mitter Jone is here. Come, brother will carry
her squirrel for her, and she'll go home prettily,
like a darling as she is. Oh ! and here's your old
doll, Peg, you left behind you last time ;" and, as he

said so, the sailor beckoned to Owen to go to the
drawer of the sideboard, whence the boy took a
square wooden stump, with a round head rudely cut

on top of it.
   " Now she's got her own baby --and a beauty it

I'm sure," said the sailor, winking and laughing at
Owen, " she'll go back like good little pet, and
come and see her dear Mitter Jone again, directly.

So give us a good kiss, Peg, and say tata.' "
    Then the old sailor having hugged the child once

more fondly to him, sat shaking his hand at the
window as he watched the little couple go down the
walk. " There she goes cuddling that lump of wood,
and quite happy now," muttered the veteran to
himself. " Well, we must have something to love,
young or old."

    When Owen returned home with his little sister
 192 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

 Peggy, he was intent upon making the watch he
 wished to present to his Aunties at the parsonage.

   It took the lad no little time to construct one with

small wooden wheels and a spring of whalebone --

for that was the only elastic material he had at hand.
What was worse than all, however, he found on
putting the parts together, that he could not get
the watch to go when the balance was on, for the
fine teeth of the wheels were too weak to bear a force
sufficient to drive the additional weight, although
the wheels would run fast enough when the balance
was taken off.

    This was a great disappointment to the boy ; and

as he saw no remedy for the defect --for he was un

able to construct the wheels of any stronger sub

stance --he made up his mind merely to show the

watch to his Aunties, and tell them that, when he
was a better workman, he would make another for
them which should work properly.

    Accordingly, Owen enclosed the wooden works in
a rude case that he formed out of an old tin mug,
little bigger than a breakfast cup, and then he started
towards the parson's, anxious to let the clergyman
and his girls see that he had not forgotten their
kindness to him.

  It was Lucy's week then to attend to the duties

of the house, and the girl was busy with her gloves
on, polishing the tins and candlesticks that lay con
           AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT. 193

fusedly on the table before her, when Owen entered

the cottage.
   Lucy, who had been too intent on her work to

hear the gate swing, gave a start as she saw the boy

standing in front of the table. Then hastily pulling
the gloves from her hands, she jumped the little fel
low on to her knee in order to kiss him.

   "Take care, Auntie Lucy," cried Owen, as he
guarded the watch which he had tied in the hand
kerchief he held in his hand, " or you'll break what
I've got to show you."

   "Oh! let me see it, Robin dear," exclaimed the

girl, as she set the boy carefully on the ground;
" whatever have you been doing now?"

   "But where's Auntie Betty and Mr. Wynn?"

inquired the boy, looking round the kitchen.
    " Betty's gone to take some work home," answered

Lucy, " and you know it's the day for her to leave
the copy-books at the turnpike for the scholars at
our Sunday school, so that when the carters go by,
they can call for them there, and carry them back
to the farms. And father, Owey, is in the parlour,"
added the girl, pointing to the little room adjoining
the kitchen, " preparing his discourse for to-morrow,
so we mustn't talk loud. Auntie Betty has been

Igone some time, so shouldn't wonder but we shall

have her back soon. But you may as well let me
see now what you've got, and not keep me wonder
ing here till Betty returns."

                                               0
104 THE BOY-MECHANIC MAKES A WATCH,

   " Well, Auntie, do you know," said Owen, as he

Iproceeded to untie the handkerchief, " wanted to

Imake a watch for you and Betty ; and when I'd cut

out all the wheels, found that it wouldn't work
with the balance on --wasn't it a pity?"

   " Oh ! you dear fellow, to think of us ! but never

mind, Robin, we shall prize it all the same," said

Lucy.
   " No, but Auntie, it's of no use as it is," replied

Ithe lad, " so only brought it up to show you what
II'd done ; and thought Mr. Wynn would be pleased

it,

                       I
                            II
to see for he'd then know that hadn't forgotten

what he'd read to me. But Auntie,    mean to

make you a grand one, by and bye, when can work

better."
   " Do let me see this one, Rob," asked the eager

girl, as she helped to unfasten the knot that Owen
was teasing. " Oh, you clever little dear, you,"

she cried, as she caught sight of the card-board face.V

" And did you do all that yourself
   " Yes, that did," said the boy, with pride; " and
it
                                     cut them all out
          I
look here, Auntie, at the works.  I

with a penknife, and made the spring out of one of

the ribs of an old umbrella.      was obliged to put
                              II
                                  I
in this old tin case, because couldn't get any

thing else that would do for it.     wish would
                                     ;

                                         it
have worked with the balance on, though because  it

might have been of some use to you, and now its

only an ugly-looking toy."
AND THE BOY-BLACKSMITH BREAKS IT.                                  195

" I'm sure it's very, very pretty," answered Lucy;

" and we shall keep
it
       it it,

                 is,
                                       it,
                         and guard for your sake.

I'd rather have as       than the grandest gold

one that could be bought."
    " No, would you, Lucy?" inquired the delighted

boy.
   " Yes, that would, because you made
;                                              Robin,

      I

                                             it
                                                         it,

                                                              it,
dear," returned the girl; and she kissed Owen
again and again. " Father will come in when he's

done his work, and you shall show him," added
Lucy " I'm sure he'll be very pleased with
                                                                   and

Betty too."                                 I

   At this moment the gate was heard to swing

back, and Owen ran to the door with his watch in
his hand, saying, " That's Auntie Betty, dare say."

   No sooner had he reached the porch, than

John Jarman, his face crimson with heat, rushed
past him. As he did so, the watch was knocked
from Owen's hand, and falling at the young black
smith's feet, was in moment crushed beneath the
a

heavy boots of the boy.
             CHAPTER VII.

HOW THE PARSON'S DAUGHTERS TURNED THE HEART
                           OF THE RUNAWAY.

Owen shrieked as he saw his handiwork crushed

on the kitchen stones. He stood for a moment as

if paralysed by the disaster, and then running

towards Lucy, threw himself on her neck, and burst

into tears.

"What's happened to my boy?" cried the fright

ened girl, as her father, surprised by the noise,

hurried from his room.

"Look there, Auntie," sobbed the little fellow,

pointing to the flattened case as it lay on the ground ;
" and Mr. Wynn hadn't seen nor Auntie Betty
I
       I

                        it
                           it

                            if

                                                  it,

                                   I
either. wouldn't have cared so much after that.
  do think he did on purpose -- that do and

the boy having given an angry glance at Jarman,

fell to sobbing again as his heart would break.

"What does            all mean, Lucy?" inquired the

astonished minister.

The girl explained to her father the cause of
HOW THE PARSONS DAUGHTERS, ETC.             197

Owen's grief, telling him how the little fellow had

made a watch for them, and was anxious to let him

see how well he had profited by his lesson when

he was last with them.

Mr. Wynn took the boy from Lucy's side, and

lifted him on his knee, as he turned to young Jarman,
saying, " What brings you here, sir, in such haste,

that you must rush heedlessly into the house?
You're wrong, Owen lad," he added, " in thinking
Jarman did it on purpose, though want of care is

sometimes as culpable as want of feeling."

The blacksmith boy was not a little disconcerted

at the presence of the minister ; but he was in no

humour to bear rebuke, so he answered savagely,

I"You'd have run as did, if you'd a father like
II've got ; but wont stand it any longer, I've made

up my mind. I'll be off, and he may get some one

else to do his work; then he'll be obliged to pay

those who slave for him something else than blows

for what they do. Father came home drunk last

night, and dragged me out of bed, and thrashed me

I Iround the room as was--for what don't know.
II'd done nothing that remember, but use his fishing-
Irod ; and this morning, because hadn't lighted the

forge fire, he struck me over the arm with one of the

irons. Look here," he said, pulling up his shirt sleeve,
" it's all black and swollen, and pains me dreadful
I I Iwhen move it.
don't care if he is my father,
198 HOW THE PARSON'S DAUGHTERS TURNED

Iof the Miss Wynns to go down and fetch my clothes

for me, and to tell mother was going away to

Bristol to get aboard a ship, and I'd write to her
Itsoon.
          a'n't her fault, poor thing ! She can't
Ifkeep him off me, do what she will.
                                      I'd been a

little bigger this morning, I'd have" --and the boy

crunched his teeth, and clenched his fist revenge

fully.
" Silence, sir !" shouted the minister. " How dare
Ifyou give vent to such thoughts in my house ?
                                                we

are to shelter you from your father's rage, you must

have a different spirit from this."

   At these words, Lucy crossed the room towards

her parent, and letting her hand fall on his shoulder,
whispered, " But, father, think how sadly the boy

has been ill-treated."

  "My girl," returned the minister, gently, "it's

only in suffering that true nobility of nature can be

shown, for if ferocity begets ferocity, the persecuted

become as brutal as their persecutors. So far from

Icountenancing this lad in quitting his parent's roof,

   shall consider it my duty to take him back to

morrow."

    The words were no sooner uttered, than the young
blacksmith turned on his heel, and with a dogged
jerk of his head, disappeared from the place.

   " He's gone !" cried Lucy. " Run you after him,

Owen, and bring him back."
   " Nay, nay," replied the minister, " stay you here,
THE HEART OF THE RUNAWAY.  199

lad ! The boy is in too dangerous a humour for you
to be trusted with him."

   " See, father," said Lucy, " you've frightened him
from us. You, yourself, say we should be kind to
all, and more especially to those in affliction ; and

yet when that poor boy seeks shelter from his father's

fury, you turn him from you with harsh words."
   " He uttered threats against his parent, child, in

my presence," responded Mr. Wynn, " and it was

my duty to rebuke him for so doing."

  I" Yes, father, but you were harsher than ever

knew you yet, and what John Jarman wanted was

kindness, surely, in such a mood as his."

   " Well, perhaps your right, my gentle-hearted

girl," said the minister ; " we men, you see, are too

quick and hasty, and know little how to make peace

like you."
   Lucy kissed his forehead, as she said, " Let me go

after him, and bring him back, father. I'll promise
you I'll not teach him to rebel against his parent."

    " God bless you, child," cried the old man ; " go
and do as you will."

   The anxious girl hastily put on her bonnet, and

was hurrying from the door, when Betty came

through the orchard gate.
    " Oh ! Betty, Betty !" whispered Lucy, as she ran

up to her sister, " there's been such a scene since

you've been away. Young Jarman's run away from

home, and father wouldn't shelter him."
200 HOW THE PARSONS DAUGHTERS TURNED

  I" know all about it," answered the girl, in the
I Isame under tone. " met the boy up the lane, as

came along, and he told me everything. He's in
IGwillim's meadow, behind the haystack.
                                         bade

him wait there till I'd spoken to father."
   " I'll go and bring him back with me," said

Lucy, " and you run in, and give father his tea in the

parlour. He doesn't know how to deal with boys
like John Jarman. You'll find little Robin in

doors. Poor little fellow ! he's nearly broken

Ihearted, too."  know," answered Betty, quickly ;
   " Yes, yes,
" John Jarman told me he trod on the watch Owen
Ihad made for us, and that dare say, Lucy, made

father more angry than he would have been."

   " Did Jarman show you his arm V inquired Lucy.
" What a shocking state it's in !"

   " Yes, dear," replied Betty, " it quite made me

shudder, poor boy ! There you run to him, Lucy,

and I'll get something ready to bathe it with. We

can easily make him up a bed on the sofa for

tonight."

Lucy trotted off delighted with her mission, while

Betty entered the cottage, and proceeded to carry

out her sister's injunctions.

   Betty was busy in the little parlour, making her
father's tea, when her sister returned with the run
THE HEART OF THE RUNAWAY.             201

boy to do as she had told him. " Come, John," she
said, in an under tone to the lad, who hung back
moodily by the door, " never be ashamed of doing
what's right ; go and tell the little fellow you are

sorry you broke his watch and as she said this, she

led the sullen boy to Owen, who was sitting by the
chimney corner, still lamenting his loss.

  IThe blacksmith's boy muttered sulkily, " didn't

mean to break your watch, Owen."

Owen Evans looked up, and held out his hand,
Isaying, " Let's make it up, John !
                                     didn't know
Iyou had been beaten, when said you did it on pur

pose. But you're not really going to run away, are

you V anxiously asked the boy.
   " No, no !" said Lucy, " he'll go home with me like

a good fellow in the morning, and I'll see his father,

then, and talk to him."
I" I'm sure
             wont," growled the boy.  " I've

made up my mind, and nothing shan't stop me.

I've got the money Captain Jones gave me for
the squirrel; besides, there's an aunt of mine

lives at Aberga'ny, and she'll help me on the

Iroad a bit, know. She was very good to me once
Iafore, when was going to cut away to the iron
Iworks -- and should ha' done it too, if mother hadn't

come over after me and told me as how father had

Ipromised to treat me different. But a'n't quite
I Iso little as was then, and wont stand being
Iknocked about any longer --that wont."
202 HOW THE PARSONS DAUGHTERS TURNED

" Well, well, John," interrupted Lucy, " we'll talk

of that another time. We'll have a nice tea now,

and sleep over the matter ; then we'll see how it

looks in the morning. Come, John, you help me

set the things, for Betty I'm sure must be tired,

Iand want something after her walk."

   "And can't do something, Auntie?" inquired

Owen, jumping from his chair.
   " Oh yes," replied Lucy ; " you shall toast the

cakes while John puts the tray. Do you know,"

Icontinued the girl, as she handed Jarman the cups,

" think our mare wants shoeing again, John."

  I" shouldn't wonder," returned the blacksmith,
" for its a good nine months since she was down at
I Ithe forge.
remember caught that owl of mine
Iin the dingle the night brought her home."

"You helped to shoe her, didn't you, John I" in

quired Lucy, as she put the cake on the toasting

fork for Owen.

  I" Yes," answered the boy ; " made one of her
Ishoes, and that was the first ever made all by

myself."

   " Do you know, John," said Lucy, delighted to
lead the boy's thoughts into another channel, " I've

often fancied how strange it will be when you are

master of the forge at Llanvach, and we have

Ito send Jessie to you to be shod--you, a little fellow
   have nursed on my knee. Wouldn't you like

to be able to work in iron, Owen ?"
THE HEART OF THE RUNAWAY.                            203

  I "If I"Ah! that should!" replied the boy.

could only have worked in metal, Auntie, the

wheels of my watch would have been strong enough

to move the balance when I'd put it together."

  I" do think," added the girl, " metal work is one

of the most wonderful things in the world. I'm
Isure can't tell how you do
it                                            John. Why when
                                       a it,
I've been out with father, and he has taken up a bit

of rock, and has told me that was the stone the iron

was got from, I've wondered over and over again

how was possible to make horse-shoe, or any

thing else out of that, and how clever you people

must be who do it."

Lucy noticed John Jarman smile with pleasure at

what she said, and was about to proceed, when Owen

inquired--

   " But do they, Auntie, get all the iron things out

of stone?"
    " To be sure they do," responded the blacksmith

boy, turning round sharply to the other. " Where

do you think the iron comes from? It doesn't grow,

silly. When have been over to the Works at
a

      I

                      a
Merthyr with father, I've seen them smelting
                                              it,
many time, and very pretty sight                ittoo."

                                                       is,

                                                                  it
" Can't you tell us how they do John?" asked

Lucy, pleased to find the boy growing interested in

the subject and as Betty entered the kitchen, the
;

girl made signs to her sister not to interrupt the

conversation.
204 HOW THE PARSONS DAUGHTERS TURNED

· " Father's told me all about it often," continued
young Jarman, as they sat at the tea-table. " You

see, Miss Wynn, he says that the metals are seldom
found pure in the earth, but mostly always mixed
with something else, and then they call them ' ores!
The stone the iron's got from in this country,
doesn't look to have a bit of iron in it ; because, as

father says, it's all rusted like, and mixed up with

earth ; and iron-rust, you know, a'n't anything like

iron, though it's made out of it to be sure. Well,
as father says, if iron-rust is made out of iron, why

of course, iron can be made out of iron-rust."

  I" Yes, John," chimed in Betty, " should think
Iso ; but how to do it I'm sure should never be

able to tell."
   " Well, you see, that's what they call smelting,"

answered the boy, not a little proud of what he
knew of the matter. "They put something into

the furnace to serve as a flux for the earth."

   " What in the world's that, John V asked both

the girls, anxious to let the lad see he knew so much

more than they did.

  At this the blacksmith's boy laughed outright.

" Why, that's something," he went on, " that serves
to melt the earth that the iron's mixed with in the
stone, and so to separate the metal from it. You
see, it's limestone they generally use for this purpose,
because lime makes what is called a 'slag' with the
earth ; father says the slag is a kind of glass, that
THE HEART OF THE RUNAWAY.  205

melts with a great heat. Well, as the slag begins
to run, the iron of course comes from it. But,

Iyou know, told you it wasn't pure iron, but only

iron-rust that was in the stone ; so they put a lot of
coke into the furnace, as well as the limestone, and

that serves at the same time to unrust the iron;

for father says the coke when red-hot, takes
away from the iron just what the iron got when
rusting ; and so, you understand, the iron is left
behind, pure. Then it melts like the slag, but
as it's a good deal heavier it tumbles down to the
bottom of the furnace, and is there let run out into

Imoulds. Now, you remember, told you the iron

stone was made up of earth, and iron -rust. Well,

the lime, you see, melts out the earth, and the coke
unrusts the iron, and so, you know, the pure iron

must be left behind. You must excuse me, Miss
Wynn, if it a'n't very plain, for I'm not much of a

scholard, you see."

   " Oh, I'm sure you've explained it very well in

Ideed, John," replied Lucy. "I've often wondered

how it was done, and now shall know all about

it."

  "It was Tubal Cain, John, who was the first

worker in metals," remarked Betty.
   " Yes," chimed in Lucy, " and the Greeks thought

it such a wonderful thing to do, that they positively
worshipped an old blacksmith of the name of

Vulcan."
206 HOW THE PARSONS DAUGHTERS TURNED

" Did  they,  though   "  said  the  boy,  laughing.

                      1

" Well, they don't think so much of the trade now-

 a-days."

    Betty replied, "But every sensible person, I'm
 sure, John, must know how much we are indebted

to such as you. Father says it is the smith who
makes all the tools, and tools do all the work in

 the world. I've often heard him remark, that as

the hand was the most useful of all our organs,
the tool -- which was another hand to the work
man--was the most useful of all instruments."

    " Yes," answered Jarman, " it's a handy business

enough. I've often, myself, thought when the

ploughshares and the sickles has come to the
forge to be mended, how would people be able to

plough and reap without us?"
    " Yet, John," said Betty, " you think of giving

up such a noble business as this to go risking your

life at sea?"

  I" Ah," exclaimed Owen, " only wish, John Jar-

man, you'd heard Captain Jones tell me what he
did about a sailor's hardships. I'm sure you wouldn't
have liked it then."

   " The old Captain has told me a lot of things that
way," answered the young blacksmith, " but he only
does it to set me against the sea."

   " Why should you say that, John ?" asked Lucy ;

I" I'm sure the gentleman wouldn't tell you what was

untrue; and can't understand why you should
THE HEART OF THE RUNAWAY.  207

prefer such a business to your own. Why, a sailor's

only a carrier, at best ; he can't make a thing like

you."

   " That's true enough," said the boy; " but it must

be so pleasant to be on the water all your time, and

to go to foreign lands, and see what the world is like

in other parts."

  I"I'm sure shouldn't like the water at all,"

added Betty, shuddering, " with the chance of being
shipwrecked every minute, too. And only think,

John, if you were to go, the state your poor mother

would be in all the while you were away. You're

Iher only child, remember, and if she was to lose you,
  do think it would be the death of her. I've heard

you yourself say, too, that your father's very kind

to you when he is sober."
    " Yes, so he is," continued the lad ; " but he's

over at ' the public' half his time now, and mother

gets to fret dreadful about him, for the people
complains as the work's neglected, and threatens to

take it to Bronllys, if they can't have it done

sooner."

   " And yet you, John," said Lucy, " would run
away and leave her at such a time. Now just

think, lad, if your father gets to neglect his work

more and more for the drink, and the business is

broken up, what's to become of your poor mother
then? Why, there'll be nothing but the workhouse

for her, and how would you like that ?"
208 HOW THE PARSONS DAUGHTERS TURNED

I"Why,        couldn't bear it," exclaimed the

Iabashed boy, as he drooped his head at the thought.

   "No, know you couldn't, John," said Betty,
kindly ; " you've too fine a spirit for that. I'm sure
you'd rather do anything, and rather bear with any

thing, than let her come to the parish in her old

Iage."        would," answered the blacksmith's
   " Yes, so
boy, " but --but--"
" No buts, John," said Lucy ; " surely a blow or

two isn't much to put up with for her sake--after all
Ifher care of you.
                     I'd a mother, no cruelty could

ever make me forget my duty to her. And I'm

satisfied, John, that you yourself would work night

Iand day for yours."                the girl, " if you

   " So would," he added.
   " Well, then, think," continued

stay with her what a comfort you can be to her in

all her trouble. Then, if your father neglects the

                     if it,

                                       it,
                                                        it
business you can mind and what an honour

will be to you, a mere boy, to keep the home to

gether; that would repay you well for the blows

you've had to bear. But you run away and leave

your poor mother, now that you are getting to an
age to help her, take my word for John, you'd

never, never forgive yourself."     1"

   At this Betty rose from her seat, and going over

to the boy, put her arm round his neck as she said,
" Come, John, you won't go away, will you
      THE HEAET OF THE RUNAWAY.                                             209

The young blacksmith hid his face in his hands,
I Iand sobbing aloud, cried, " No !
                                            wont-- wont

go. Father may knock me about as he likes, but I'll

bear it all for her, though it is hard to put up with

at the time."

" Yes, so it
      is       good fellow," exclaimed, Betty

            ! if
                       ;
                         is,
                                   !"

                                                  it,

                                           if

                                                       it

                                                                     is is
patting him on the back, " and so much the nobler
Ifof you, John, to bear it.
                                            your father forgets

what  due to you as his son, at least do you let

him see that you are not unmindful of what due

to your parents and depend upon             you bear his

cruelty patiently, he'll see how wrong                                    much

sooner than you rebel against him."
   " Father father whispered Lucy, as she ran

into the adjoining room, " John Jarman has pro

mised to go back home to-morrow."
   " God bless you for it," returned the clergyman,

as he looked up from the book before him.

   " He's a good boy at heart, I'm sure," continued
the girl, " though he has spirit of his own."

   " dare say, my child, he's like the best of us,
I
                                         a

a strange compound of good and evil," said the
minister, " and no one knows so well as my girls

how to bring out the one and subdue the other.

You see, Lue, while I'm busy here preaching kind

ness, you're practising it. You're better ministers

of peace, girls, than your father is."

   Mr. Wynn rose from his seat, and entering the
kitchen, went towards the young blacksmith. " I'm

               p
 210 HOW THE PARSON'S DAUGHTERS TURNED

glad to hear, boy," said he, as he took him kindly
by the hand, " that the prodigal is to return on
the morrow. Filial ingratitude, my lad, is the
worst of all kinds of ingratitude, for it puts an
end to the most sacred of the social ties. The

birds and the beasts leave their parents immedi
ately they can shift for themselves ; for such is the
care of life where there is no foresight, and no
store for the future, that each has enough to do
to struggle for itself in the world. Moreover, few
of these live to become old and helpless, and so
to need the care of their offspring in after-life, as
we do. But man, you see, Jarman, is twice a
child ; and they who have toiled to foster their chil
dren in their helplessness, come, in the round of

nature, if they be spared, themselves to need the

like fostering care from the hands of those they've
reared. For as soon as the young are getting to
help themselves, the Almighty has ordained that

the old should mostly be losing the power to do so.

And as He has made it the duty of the parent
to protect the child in the weakness of infancy,
so has He made it the duty of the child to protect
the parent in the like weakness of old age. Why
not strive, lad, to be like Owen here 1 His greatest
ambition is to be able to assist his parent ; and I'm
sure when his father has taught him the means of
earning a livelihood, he'll be the last to think of

running away, and leaving him, just at a time, too,
THE HEART OF THE RUNAWAY.                                        211

when his labour is getting to be of some service

to the old man. He thinks how his father has to

work for him now, and longs, like a grateful boy,
to work for his father in return."

   As Owen heard these words, he could not help
thinking of the vow he had made, that he would so

excel the blacksmith's boy, that he should hear his

praises wherever he went. But the moment after,
the generous lad felt it unworthy of him to triumph

over the other at such a moment, and went towards

Mr. Wynn, saying : " But John, sir, is returning,

so that he may work for his parents too."                        " But
   " I'm glad to hear it," said the minister.

come, we'll say no more about the matter; John

Iand will pass the evening talking over pleasanter

things, and in the morning Lucy shall walk with

him down to his father's, and get Mr. Jarman

to promise to treat the boy more kindly for the

future."

   " Now, little Robin," said Betty, laughing, " it's

time for you to think of returning to your nest.

Do you see the sky how red it                                    It's
p                              yonder
    2
as much as you'll do now to get home before dark."
                   is,
   As Owen was about to leave, young Jarman fol
lowed outside the door, saying, "Just call at                 1

mother's, will you, Owen, as you go back, and tell

her I'm up here, or else she'll be getting frightened

about me.

   " Oh, yes, John, I'll be sure to let her know," re
213 HOW THE PARSONS DAUGHTERS, ETC.

Iplied Owen ; " and shall say you're coming home

to-morrow V
   " Yes, you may if you like," responded the young

blacksmith. Then as the little fellow was pulling

back the gate, Jarman ran after him once more, and

Ilaying his hand on his shoulder, said : " didn't

Imean to hit your donkey, Owen, with that bit of
iron the day you came to the forge.  should have

told you so before, only you chose to quarrel about

it. We'll make it up now, won't we, eh?"

   Owen pressed Jarman's hand affectionately, saying,
" We're friends now, John, and won't fall out again ;"

and hurried off, thinking how much happier he felt

now that he was at peace with his former com

panion.
             CHAPTER VIII.

THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH THE OLD SAILOR
                      ABOUT THE "LOG."

Early in the next week, to Owen's great delight,

Mrs. Pugh came to the cottage to say she had been
sent to fetch him, to spend that afternoon with the

Captain.

   On returning with the housekeeper, Owen found
the sailor by himself in the little parlour, and the

boy had no sooner entered the room, than the Cap

tain cried -- "How about the watch, youngster?

have you got it altogether ship-shape yet 2" where

upon Owen proceeded to recount to the old man how

ithe had made
                      it,

                                     ;

                  I
                                        I
             and how, to his great annoyance,

   had been broken shortly afterwards.
   " Well, never mind," said the sailor, at the con
clusion of the tale " sent for you this afternoon,

lad, to make you a present of a real silver one."

Owen was so startled at the unexpected news,

that he could hardly stammer out his thanks.

   " It's the first one," answered the sailor, " ever
214 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

Ihad given to me, and that was when passed my

examination for fourth officer in the East India
IMerchant Service.
                    used to call it the ' Tea Service'
                              I was a sad wicked
Iin my young days, ha ! ha !
dog when  was a middy,        to be sure -- always

rigging out bits of wax candle on a hook with

feathers stuck at the side of 'em, to catch the

boneta --that's a large fish, and very tidy eating, too,

I can tell you, when one hasn't had a bit of fresh food

for months. You see, we suspend the hook to the
end of the dolphin striker --which is a wooden spar
hanging down under the bow-sprit--so that when

the ship pitches, the candle and the feathers just

dip into the water, and then, as the ship rises again,

and cuts through the sea, they skim through the air

and seem for all the world like one of the flying-fish

that the boneta chases in those parts. Flying-fish,

youngster, you must know, can only keep above

water as long as their wings --which are only large
fins after all--are wet, so the bit of candle skim

ming over the water at the end of the dolphin

striker, makes a perfect model of them. Many and

many a live flying-fish I've caught, merely by putting

a lighted candle at the scuttle at night-time ; for then

Iin they'll dart like moths at a flame. Many a

dolphin too, I've hauled up by the bit of candle spoke

of. You've heard about the dying dolphin, young

I Ister, dare say. Well, it's no fable, can tell you;

for after they're taken out of the water, every quiver
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."       315

they give as they lie gasping at your feet, brings out

a new colour; at one moment they're all silver like,

the next they're purple and gold, and the minute

after, spotted all over with blue ; you can see

their agonies painted before your eyes as one tint

trembles into another. But all this, boy, has

Inothing to do with what wanted to say to you ;

Ionly you see the thoughts will come into my
head, and they run away with me now.  seem

to get to have no more power over them than if

I was dreaming. Do you know," went on the old
Captain, " I've been thinking, Owen, as you've

got such a fancy for clocks and watches, I'd tell

you something about time; for, to know well

how to make a machine to measure time, boy,

we must have some notion of that which we want

to measure. Well, did you ever think what time

was, my little lad?"

 I" No, sir; I'm sure never did," answered the

boy.

   " Time then, youngster," replied the Captain, " is

the measure of the rate at which anything moves."

   " The measure --of the rate --at which anything

moves," echoed Owen, as he repeated the words

slowly in an under tone to himself.
   " So you can't make it out, boy, eh V asked the

old sailor. "Look you now! Aboard a'ship we

measure the rate at which the vessel is going through

the water by the log-line--that's a line with knots
 216 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

all along it at regular distances, and a piece of wood
which we call ' the log ' at the end of it. When the
log is thrown on the water it remains where it falls,
unless, indeed, there are any currents running --but

we'll put them out of the question just now ; so, as

the log stops in the same place, the line is drawn from

Ioff the reel it's wound upon, precisely at the same

rate as the ship moves. Well, the knots told you of
are usually placed along the line at every 44th foot,

because that's the 120th part of a mile, and the 120th

part of an hour, you know, is half a minute; so you

can easily understand if the ship is going a mile

in the hour, one of these knots will run out every

half minute, and if she is going 5 miles in the hour,

why of course 5 of the knots will run out in the
half minute then. Well, while one of the men heaves

the log, another stands by with the half-minute glass,

and according to the number of knots that have run

out by the time the sand is down, so many miles --
' knots,' as we sailors say --is the ship going per hour.
Now you see, Owen, in this case the half-minute

glass is the measure of the rate at which the ship
is moving. But in the same way as we discover

the rate of moving by the time, we might, if the ship

always went at the same speed, discover the time by

the rate of moving. Let us suppose for instance,
lad, that we could make the ship go regularly 5 miles

an hour, then every 5 knots along the line would
stand for half a minute, and every 10 for a minute,
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG.  217

of course ; so that when 300 had run out, we should
know that half an hour had passed, or ' one bell,' as
we call it at sea."

   " But even if you could make the ship go regu

larly, sir," said Owen, " surely that would be a very
funny way of telling what o' clock it was ?"

  I" dare say it may seem strange to you, lad," re

plied the old sailor, " but still it's only by a similar
process that we're able to tell what o' clock it is in
nature. The earth, you see, is the ship we're all
a-board, while the sun is our log floating in the ocean

of space, and we tell the time simply by the rate at

which the earth travels."
    " But," laughed the boy, " you haven't any line

to your log, to measure how fast the ship's going,
sir?"

   " Well, now, just fancy the log-line to be wound

on a large reel, lad," returned the old Captain, rubbing

his head to brighten his ideas, " --so large, indeed,

that as the line ran out the reel would turn round

once only in twenty-four hours ; then, of course,
it would not matter whether you saw the line or

not, for you could tell the time merely by watching
the reel revolve as the vessel went on. When it had

turned a quarter round you'd know six hours had

passed --half round, twelve hours -- and once entirely

Iround, that a whole day had gone."
   " Oh, see," exclaimed Owen, " then the earth is

the ship and the reel as well."
218 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

" Ay, ay, that's about
            it ;        youngster. Now, there
               V

                    is, is
                             it,

                       is I
                                             ;
                                         it
                                                         is,

                                                                                         ?

                                                                             ?"
are three such logs," continued the sailor, " floating

in space, which will serve us to measure our time on

the earth by. And these are the sun, the stars,

and the moon but the worst of               they all tell

different tales. You think, dare say, youngster,

that a natural day twenty-four hours long
" And isn't
               inquired Owen.

" No, lad," said the Captain " but the first ques

tion to be settled what a natural day Well,

let us see what goes on in the sky during this time.

In the first place, we notice the sun to come up

somewhere about the east, and to appear to ascend

gradually higher and higher in the heavens, until

mid-day, when  reaches its greatest altitude
it
                it

                                                       ;

                                             it it
                                                               it ;
then begins to sink, seeming to fall lower and

lower as the evening draws in and at length

disappears altogether from our sight in some part of

the west, or opposite quarter to that rose in--

having appeared to make the entire sweep of the

sky above us, and to have kept, while did so,

more to the southern than the northern part of it.

After this, the twilight sets in, and the stars begin

to peep out, the brightest appearing at first, but as the

darkness increases, more and more specks of light

shine forth, till the whole sky spangled over with
             if

                                        is
them. Now,     we turn ourselves south, and fix

our eyes on some of the most brilliant of the stars
-- taking care to select such as we shall be sure to
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."                                           219

know again after looking away from them for some

time-- and refer their apparent places to some build

ings or trees round about us, we shall find, after
some few hours, on comparing these stars again with

the objects we referred them to, that as the night

has advanced they have shifted their places, and
moved in a westward direction. Those towards the
east, for instance, will appear to us to have risen

from the horizon, while those which lie about the

west will seem to have sunk towards
if                                               and be

                                            it,
noticed finally to disappear beneath it. Others,
again, in the eastern quarter, will be observed to

come up as out of the earth, and, joining in the

general procession, pursue their course with the

rest towards the opposite point of the sky. After

this, if we turn our eyes to the stars which

are far above the horizon, and notice their

movements, we shall find that, whereas those in

the extreme south appear to describe only a small

arc, or portion of a circle, in their course across

the firmament, and to remain but for a short

time in sight, the stars, as we progress towards
the centre of the vault, continue to be visible

for longer and longer period, and seem to take
a
                                                                       a
larger and larger sweeps through the heavens, till

some appear to describe precisely half                                    circle,

and keep twelve hours above the horizon, those

rising exactly in the east setting exactly in
220 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

northward, we shall observe stars again which in

their motion just graze the horizon at its north

point, or only dip below it for a moment, and

others that never touch the horizon at all, but

                   it,
                                                 of
keep always above  revolving in such a manner

that we can see they would, in about twenty-

four hours, complete an entire circle in the sky,

while the circles described by them grow smaller

and smaller as they approach towards one point,

which seems to be the common centre                  all the

movements, and which alone amidst the whole shift

ing train appears to be immovable.   We shall

farther observe that the relative places of all the

stars--with the exception of some two or three
wanderers in the south --are not changed among one

another by their continued movements, but that at

whatever hour of the night they are observed, or in

whatever part of the heavens they appear, they

always form with each other the very same groups

or figures as when first we noticed them. And

lastly, we shall perceive, we've patience to watch
                   if

                                                        a
through a long winter's night, that those stars

which we saw in the early part of the evening setting

in the west, have again, as the morning comes round,

risen in the east; while those which were rising

when we first began to notice the heavens, have

completed their course, and set just as we are

ending our observations. Many and many time
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."  221

Ideck in the night at sea, and can behold the entire

starry band now trooping before my eyes almost

I Ias vividly as did then. But where did leave off,

lad, eh?"

   " You were telling me, sir, what a day is," replied

Ithe youth.
   " Oh ! remember," returned the Captain. " Well,
you see, youngster, the course of everything in the

heavens is to move from some particular part of

the sky back to precisely the same place again in

a certain number of hours. Now, astronomers, boy,

call a day the length of time that elapses between

the apparent departure of some celestial body from
a certain point in the heavens and its apparent

return to precisely the same point."
   " But how can they tell," asked the little fellow,

" when a star or the sun reaches precisely the same

spot in the sky, sir ? There are no marks up there

to guide them."
   " That's true enough, lad," returned the sailor.

" But there's a very simple way of doing this.

You've only to turn your face towards the south, and

as you look through a small hole in the shutter, or
in a plate of tin fastened to your window, to fix your

eye upon a sharp well- defined line at the corner of

some building a little distance from you --such as

the edge of a stack of chimneys --and then notice

the exact time at which any star that you would
 222 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

stack on two evenings following. This, of course,
will give you the precise period that the star
takes to return to the same spot in the heavens.

You can make the same observation with the sun,

only you must look through a piece of smoked glass
then, and observe first the moments when one edge
of the orb disappears, and then the time of the

other's doing so, behind the same place. The in
terval between the vanishing of the two edges must
then be halved and added to the time of the disap
pearance of the first edge, and by that means you
will ascertain what you could not directly have

observed--the time of the disappearance of the

centre."
    " So, then, a day," said Owen, " is the time that

the sun or the stars take to return to the same
place in the heavens as they were in twenty-four

hours before."

   " Hold hard !" cried the sailor, " not twenty-four

hours, boy ! for if we measure the day in the manner

I've told you by the stars, we shall find it's but
little more than 23 hours 56 minutes long, or very
nearly 4 minutes short of the 24 hours, and that's
what is called a sidereal day. If, on the other hand,

we measure by the moon, the day is--on the average
-- 24 hours and 54 minutes, or very nearly 25 hours

long ; and this is what is called a lunar day.

Whereas, if we reckon by the sun, we find that the
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."  223

together. Sometimes it's more, and sometimes it's
less than twenty-four hours. About the end of
September the day is half a minute short, and about

the end of December it's nearly as much too long.
And it's only a very few times in the year that the

day, as measured by the sun, is precisely 24 hours
long.* Now, this again is what's termed a solar day."

    " Dear, dear ! how odd !" cried the bewildered

little fellow ; " for if a day in nature, as you say,

Captain Jones, is seldom twenty-four hours in

length, all our clocks must be wrong."
   " Nay, nay, my lad, that doesn't follow," replied

the sailor; "for if you were to keep noticing the

time the sun takes to return to the same place over
head day after day for a whole year, you'd find, at the

twelvemonth's end, on adding up the lengths of all
the different days and dividing the total by the gross
number of days in the year, that you'd have what's
called an average of 24 hours to every day throughout

Ithe twelve months. For if you remember, told

you that some of the solar days were too long, and
some too short ; so that at the year's end, you see,

    * The times above referred to are generally a day or two

about the 10th of February, the 14th of May, the 26th of July,

and the 2d of November in every year. The solar day, how

ever, at such periods, does not coincide with the clock day in

any other way than its length, for when it is XII by the sun

it is always at these times some few minutes before or after

XII by the clock.
224 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

the long ones just make up for the short ones, and

that what's called a mean solar-day ; that is to say,

it's not any particular solar day, but an average of

Ithe whole of the solar days throughout the year."
   " can't quite make out what you mean, sir," in
Iterrupted Owen, " because
                            don't know what an

average is."

   " Well, youngster, that's not very difficult to ex
plain to you," answered the sailor. " Now, suppose

I was to give you Gd. this week, and Id. next week,

and 5d. the week after, and Is. the week after that ;

and then suppose you wanted to find out at the

month's end how much I'd given you on an average

each week--that is to say, not in any one week, but
I Ihow much
should have given you if had por

tioned the money out equally through the whole

time. Let us see how we should have to set to work

to find out that. Why first we should add the

sums all together; we should say Gd. and a Id. and

I5d. and Is. make 2s. or 2id. in all. So you

perceive should have given you 24c?. altogether

in the month ; and then dividing this amount by

the number of weeks I'd been paying it to you --
and that would be 4 of course -- we should find that

I had given you just Gd. every week -- on the average,

as it is called. For you see, lad, it would come to

Iprecisely the same thing at the month's end, if
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."                   225

Irunning, as if were to give you first 6d., then Id.,

then 5d., and then Is."
   " That's very plain, sir," said the boy.
   " However, to impress the point on your mind,

it's better, perhaps, to put it to the practical proof,

so here's 6 to begin with," chuckled the good-
if,
                     c?.

                           if I it
                               I
humoured old man, as he drew the piece of silver

from his waistcoat pocket and placed in the boy's
hand, saying, " Now mind, youngster,
                                            shall give

you a different sum for three weeks after this one,

and at the month's end, you can tell me how

much I've given you every week --on the average --

why you may keep the whole. But you can't tell

me the average amount I've paid you, why shall

expect you to give the money all back again. So

keep a sharp look out a-head, for this'll brighten

your wits a bit, I'll warrant."

   The little fellow laughed, as he answered, "
                               is,

                                            I
should recollect what an average sir, without that,
  think though you're very good, I'm sure, to teach
I

                  ;
                            a
me in so nice way."
   " But bless us and save us, where was    Owen
                                            I,
                                                  if

                                                               !"
said the old Captain, tapping his forehead as he

were sounding cask to see whether there were any
thing in it. " It's all gone right out of my head
;

    aI
                 a
again you see it's so strange, boy, can remember
                               QI
                                      if I
everything learnt when was a youngster, more

than half century ago, whereas,             you were to
226 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

I Iask me                            could tell you
           really don't believe
Iwhat had for dinner yesterday. Let me see, now,
Iwhat did have?" added the sailor, half to himself.
" It wasn't pickled pork ; no, no, we finished that a

good bit back --it couldn't have been eggs and bacon,
Ifor that always disagrees with me -- Irish stew, no,

that's not it either --well, it's no good trying --but

I I Iknew couldn't before began. What was say

ing, though, lad?"
" You were telling me, sir, about the average--

a--a--the average solar day, didn't you call  a it,  sir?"

answered the boy, hesitating over the hard words.

  "Ay, ay, youngster, that was it," exclaimed the
sailor. "Well now, youngster, we'll put the names of

the different kind of days into plain English, for it's

the hard crack-jaw terms that puzzle boys like you,

and we'll say there's star-day, a moon-day, sun-
                    is a
day--though the last doesn't mean the day aftera

Saturday, mind, but the day measured by the sun--
Aand an average or mean day.
                                     better name

for the last, however, would be a clock-day. Now

each of these days of different length, simply

because they are measured by different logs. The

star-day measured by the time the stars take to
is
       is
return to the same spot in the heavens the moon-
                                     ;
                                                     ;
                                                                ;
day measured in the same way by the moon and

the sun or solar day in like manner by the sun

while the average or mean day no particular dayis
             THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."                      227

together the length of every one of the sun or solar

days throughout the year, and dividing the total by

the entire number of days, in order to make them
each of the same length--just as you are to do, Owen,

at the end of the month with the four weeks' different

pay I'm to give you. Do you understand it now, lad?"
   " Perfectly, sir, thank you," replied Owen.
   " Well, lad," continued the old man, " the length

of the days, and even the years on the earth, is dif

ferent, according as they are measured by different

logs in the heavens. Now, you'd hardly think
                                    is
dare say, but star-year just one star-day longer
             a                is           iIt,
                 ;              is
than a sun-year that to say, the star-year con

sists, in round numbers, of 365 solar days, and of 366
star-days. For you were to observe, in the way
             if

told you, the return of the sun and any star
I

          a
you please to the same spot overhead, day after day,

for whole twelvemonth, you'd find, at the year's

end, that the star had returned 366 times, and the

sun only 365 times. So that, as a day the length
of time between the return of any celestial body to
the same place in the sky, the star-year must

be one day longer than the sun-year. And now, my

little man, I'll tell you the reason of this."

    " Oh do you please, sir," asked the lad " for
I                                   ;
                           !
                                        II
                it if                                          ;
can't make out at all, now and can always

remember a thing so much better when know the

reason of it."
   " Well, my boy," continued the sailor, "
                              Q                                   you
                                  2

                                                      if
228 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

were to set out in a ship, and keep on sailing to the
wesCard till you got right round the world, and

came back to the place you started from, you'd

appear to have lost a day ; that  ;      though you

might have entered every day in your log as reguis,

larly as the day passed while you were on the

voyage, you'd find when you got back that what

you called Monday the 21st of May, for instance,

the people who had stopped at home would declare

was Tuesday the 22d."
   " Is that really true, sir inquired the astonished
                        a
lad.                       ?"

" True, boy    aa 1  Why, it's been done over and over

again," answered the Captain. " And what's just as

strange, you kept sailing to the easfard, instead
      if

of the west'ard, as before, you'd find, on your

return, that you'd gained day then and that what

you reckoned up as Monday, the 21st of May, as
we said before, the people at home would stand you
out hard and fast was Sunday the 20th."

    Owen could keep his countenance no longer, and
bursting into hearty laugh, at the apparent ab
surdity, said, " Well, never heard of such strange
                     I

things before."

Old Captain Jones was tickled at the boy's

mirth, and having indulged in good chuckle hima
self, said, after few minutes' rest, " Now suppose,a

youngster, you had been        year away, why, of
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."  229

been sailing to the east'ard, just 366 days to your

year, precisely as there are 366 days to the star-

Iyear."         see," said Owen ; " but why it should
   " Yes, sir,
Ibe so can't make out."
" Why, boy," replied the sailor, " you would have
been sailing then --for we supposed you to go,
you know, from west to east--in the same direction

as the earth itself moves ; and since the earth goes

round so many times in the course of the year, and

you yourself in the ship had gone once round it be

sides, in the same time, why, of course, it must have

appeared to you to have made one turn more than

the usual number ; for there is your own turn round

it, remember, to be added to the others. Whereas,

if you had been sailing in the opposite direction
to the earth's motion -- orfrom east to west--the earth

must have seemed to you to have made one turn
less than usual ; because, while it was going round so
many times one way, your ship would have gone
round once the contrary way, and this revolution, of

course, would make the year appear to be one turn

I Ishort."
   " think begin to understand a little what you

mean," remarked the lad, thoughtfully.

   "Well now, youngster, the sun, you know,"

answered his friendly tutor, " appears to go round

the earth from east to west, and to do so 365 times
230 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

this, astronomers have discovered that it seems also to

be continually shifting its place among the stars, so

that it appears to pass through one regular line of

them, and to make the entire circuit of the heavens

in the twelve months. That is to say, the sun is found

to be among exactly the same stars at the twelve

month's end as it was twelve months before.

Well, this apparent yearly revolution of the sun
among the stars, boy, takes place in the opposite

direction to its apparent daily revolution round the

earth, which you know is from east to west, while

the other is from west to east. So you see, it

comes to the same thing as the ship sailing round

the earth the contrary way to its motion. The

consequence is that, whereas the stars appear to go

round the earth 366 times in the course of the

year, the sun appears to go round it only 365 times
in the same period ; because it seems while it's
doing this to go round once in the reverse direc
tion. For the earth really turns round 366

times in the year, though we fancy, from there
being but 365 days and nights in that time, that

it makes only the latter number of revolutions.

The fact  is,  my boy, that owing to the apparent

backward motion of the sun among the stars, the

earth has to make the 365th part more than one

turn round every day, in order to bring the sun

into the same place over our heads, or, in other
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."                231

that in the course of the year the 365 revolutions,

with all the 365th parts added to them, must be

equal to 366."
  I" Oh ! thank you, sir," exclaimed Owen ; "
I can make out what you mean."                 think

" But let us understand, Owen, before we go any

Ifurther," proceeded the old man, "what a year
really is. Well,  told you, if you remember,

that the sun, while appearing to come back to the

same place over our heads, day after day, seems at

the same time to be moving in a contrary direction

through the stars. Now if the sun's course through

the stars be watched from time to time, and his

different positions among them be pricked down on
a chart, in the same way as we mark the course of a

ship, over the different parts of the earth, we shall
find that it appears to make the entire circuit of the
heavens, and to get round again in a certain period to

the very same point among the stars as that which

it previously set out from. It is this period that con

stitutes what is called a year. So mind, lad, a day

is the length of time that the sun or any other

heavenly body takes to travel from a point over our

heads, round again to the same point ; whereas a
year is the length of time that the sun takes to

travel from any place among the stars, round again

to the same place among the stars."

The boy nodded assent, and the Captain proceeded.

" You must bear in mind then, lad, that the sun
233 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

year is not exactly 365 days and a quarter long,

but a little better than 1 1 minutes short of that

period ; for as the return of the seasons depends

on the sunyear, we shall find, if the exact

length of it be not taken into account, that
our longest and shortest days will be falling at
different dates in different years ; and, indeed, the

return of our spring, summer, autumn, and winter,

I Irendered altogether vague and unsettled."
   " think shall not forget that, sir," said the lad.
    " Now," continued the Captain, " we know what a

sun-year and a star-year too. But as there was
a
                  is,

                it

                                     a
                                           a

                                                        a
                                                                       ;

                                                                          is
                                                                                             a
moon-day as well as sun and star-day, so there

moon-year as well as sun and star-year for the

moon, while seems to go round the earth from day to

day, appears to traverse the stars, and to make the

tour of the heavens in a certain period, just the
same as the sun does --though in much shorter
        a
                                    is

                                                              a
                                                                                 is
time. Indeed, so much shorter a time does the

moon take to do this, that the period of its return

to its former position among the heavenly bodies,

called month rather than a year. Accordingly, the

lunar or moon-year  made to consist of 12

months or lunations, as they are called. Then, as

there are nearly 29 days 13 hours in each month,
there can be but barely 354 days hours in the
moon-year; so that this kind of year, you see, no
                    9

                                   is

less than 10 days 21 hours shorter than the sun-

year."
               THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG.     233

" But you know, sir," said Owen, " there was not

only a star, a sun, and a moon-day in the same way

as there is a star, a sun, and a moon-year, but there

was an average or mean day, as you called sir. Is
               I

                         a

                                         it,
there then an average or mean year, Captain Jones?"
   " Very well said, my little man," answered the

sailor, " that's just what was going to tell you.

Well, you see, in olden times, many, many years ago

--the Romans (they were  great people who

lived a long time back in Italy) were in the habit of

calculating their year by the moon.* But as the

moon -year was several days shorter than the sun-

year, which regulates the return of summer and

winter, why they found, that after certain period,
                         a

their summer used to get round to the same month

as their winter had previously fallen upon --which

  the same thing as if our Midsummer- day was to
is
come at Christmas time. Thus the Roman year got
            ;
to be so fickle and unsettled like, that the High

Priests, in those times, were obliged to publish table
                                               a

to tell the people when the spring and other seasons

began while the magistrates and other great folks,
in order to make the seasons fall as near as possible

in the same months, used occasionally to lengthen or

    * The Roman lunar year was 61 days short of the solar year.is

It consisted of only 10 lunations instead of 12, and had an extra
month thrown in--or "intercalated," to speak technically --every
third year. The intercalated lunar year termed the "lunar

embdvmic year.'
234 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

shorten the months just as the fancy took them.

At last, however, the poor Romans got into such a

confusion about their days, and months, and years,
and seasons, that Julius Caesar, who was one of their

greatest kings like, called an eminent astronomer*
to his assistance, and it was then arranged to change
the mode of reckoning by the moon-year, to that of
the sun-year. Still, as the sun-year was 365 days
and nearly a quarter long, the question became, what
were they to do with the odd hours every year ]
Well, after twisting and turning the matter well
over, they settled that it would be best to have two

years, one of 365 days long, and the other of 366,
and to make the year of 365 days go on for three
years, and the one of 366 days occur every fourth
year ; that is to say, youngster, they cast the quarter
of a day at the end of each year over to every fourth

year ;t and as four quarters must make a whole, they

added one day then to the 365 days in the other

years."

  I" Oh ! see," cried the little fellow, growing

more and more interested in the subject. " That
was very clever ; wasn't sir
t

              ;

                  is

                                      it,

                                       V
* Sosigenes of Alexandria.

       The Roman intercalary day, or, in other words, the extra
day inserted in the calendar every fourth year-- as our 29th of
February --was made to fall on the 6th day of the calends of

March that to say, this sixth day was reckoned twice every

fourth year,  and  "sobgisostexttoilebeyecaarl.l"ed  "bis  sextus  dies,"  whence
the name of   our
      THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."          235

      " Yes, that it was," replied the sailor, " and it

    occurred about 45 years before the birth of Christ.

    You may have some notion of the state that the

    IRomans' reckoning was in before that time, when

    tell you they were obliged to pass an act of par

    liament like, to make the year previous to that in

    which the change took place 445 days long. It was

    owing to this circumstance that that year was called

    'the year of confusion.' Well it might have been,

    Itoo, I'm sure ; for how the captains managed about

    their quarter's pay in that year is more than can
Itell. All know
                 is,I

                                                                          a
                     shouldn't have liked to have

served in their merchant service 445 days for

twelvemonth's pay. And what the landlords did

about their rents, or the old Roman ladies, with

long annuities like, about their dividends at that

time, puzzles me sadly to make out. Dear dear
                                             !" !
I it  must have been nice muddle to be sure
                 a                                                !
                            a
      The couple paused for while to amuse themselves

    with fancying all kinds of strange things that must

    have come to pass at such time.
                               a

       Suddenly, however, the old man broke off with!
    his customary " Dear, dear what will become of me
      Ia
                                  !

                                a
      can't remember thing now, unless it's what hap

pened to me when was almost youngster like you.

Where on earth were we?" he inquired for about

the hundredth time.

      Owen smiled, as he reminded the Captain that he

had stopped at the year of confusion.
236 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

   " Ay, ay, lad, so we were," tittered the old man,

I" and we've not got out of the confusion yet, can
Itell you. Well now, Owen, was telling you that

the sun-year was not quite 365J days long."
   " Yes, sir," replied the boy, quickly, " you said it

was a little better than 11 minutes short of the

quarter."

" Bravo ! bravo !" shouted the Captain, clapping
Ihis hands; "what would
                             give to have your

noddle, you young rogue you." And as he said

so he took hold of the boy's hair and rolled his head
playfully about, saying, " You can't sell it me, can

you ? But we must keep to our bearings, for I've still

a little more to tell you before you go home. You

                             as near as we can come
" it,see then, lad, the sun-year
           it it
to 11 minutes and 10 seconds short of the 365£
                                       !"days. Consequently, when his Roman majesty got
                                              is,

                                                                                  ;

                                                                    4
overhauling the reckoning, he and his astronomer
didn't set straight after all, but made the four

years altogether 44 minutes and 40 seconds longer
than they were in nature."

     But surely, sir," remarked Owen, " that didn't

make much difference."

   " Didn't though answered the old sailor, " let
us see now. Well, Julius Caesar, you know, was

trying to give us an average sun-year but his year

being more than the average period, the consequence
was, though the error was trifling for years, that
         THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."   237

to be pretty plain ; for you'd find, if you calculated

    that in about every 129 years the seasons would,
it,
according to Caesar's average year, be coming round
         if
one day earlier than they used before that time.

So, in about the 15th century, the people got to

wonder what on earth had come to their longest

and shortest day. Instead of falling towards
the end of June and December -- as those days

should,      the average year had been exact, and

as history told them they used --why they'd

wriggled themselves up to the other side of the

middle of those months; that to say, the time
                   it,
of the seasons had got out no less than ten daysis

since the reckoning was altered. Accordingly
another gentleman took the matter in hand, and

he was Pope Gregory XIII. It's from him we

have our present average sun-year, or Gregorian

year as they call  in contradistinction to the

Julian one. Well, lad, Julius Caesar arranged

that every year which was exactly divisible by  4

should consist of 366 days, and all the others of 365;

but Pope Gregory finding that this made the year
too long by about one day in 129 years, settled to

do with the hundredth years what Caesar had done
with the other years that to say, he determined
                   ;

                               is

that only each 400th year should consist of 366 days,

and every other hundredth year of merely 365 instead
of 366, as all the hundredth years would have done

according to the Julian arrangement --since everyone
238 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

of them is capable of being divided by 4 without

any remainder. So you see, boy, Pope Gregory

shortened the average Julian year in this manner

by three days in every 400 years."*

   "Dear, dear, how clever!"
   " But Gregory didn't finish there, lad," continued

Ithe Captain ; " for you know told you the seasons

had got about ten days ahead of their proper dates.

Accordingly, he ordered that after the 4th of Oc

tober, 1582, ten entire days should be struck out of
that year, and that the dates should run on--not as

usual the 4th of October, the 5th, 6th, and so forth

--but jump right away from the 4th to the 15th.

So you see, Owen, in the year 1582 there was really

no 5th of October, nor a 6th, nor a 7th, nor indeed

any day between the 4th and 15th."

" Bless me, how odd !" said the astonished lad.

I" Suppose one's birth-day had fallen on one of those
days --and somebody's must,  fancy --why, they

wouldn't have had a birth-day at all that year."
   " That's true enough, youngster," added the sailor,

  * It will be found, on calculating, that whereas the Julian

arrangement made the average year 11 minutes 10 seconds longer

than the solar or tropical year, the Gregorian arrangement makes

it only a fraction more than 22 seconds longer. This amounts
to 2 hours 28 minutes and 40 seconds in every 400 years, which is
scarcely a day in 3000 years ; or, but 2 days 14 hours 24 minutes
in every 10,000 years. This, as Sir John Herschel observes,
is surely "more than sufficient for all human purposes--those
of the astronomer excepted, who is in no danger of being led

into error from such a cause."
THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."  239

Itittering. " only wish they'd have done the same
Ithing in my time, and then might have thought

myself a year younger, you know. But to finish,

Owen --for it'll be getting late--it wasn't until the

year 1752 that the change of style, as it is called,

took place in our own country, and then eleven

days were struck out of the calendar of that
year ; so that the last day of ' Old Style,' as the

phrase goes, was the 2nd of September, and then

the date made a leap right over to the 14th, ' New

Style,' instead of going straight on as usual to the 3d,

4th, 5th, and so forth ; cutting all the days between

the 2d and 14th of September completely out of

existence. Therefore, if you ever hear any one tell

ing you of anything having happened on the 3d or

4th of September, 1752, or indeed any day between

the 2d and the 14th of that month, in that year,

you can be certain it's a taradiddle ; for, you see,

there never were any such days in the world."

  I" understand, sir," said the boy. " Oh ! shouldn't
I like to have a game with my brother Hugh about
Iit ! I'll tell him when go home that there was

no person ever born or died between the 2d and

the 14th September, 1752 --that no work was done,

that no shops were open, no coaches ran, and no

bread was sold to the people--indeed, that no one

did anything, ate anything, or slept a wink for the

whole of that time. Oh ! won't it be a bit of fun,

Captain Jones V
  240 THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH

    "Well, boy, I'll tell you something else, too,"
 added the old man. "You can say besides, that

 there was a year once in England that was only
 three quarters, or nine months long. And when
 they ask you what year that was, say it was
 the year 1751; for before that time, the year
 always began here on the 25th of March, and
 so indeed did the year 1751 ; but the one after
 that was ordered to begin on the 1st of Janu
 ary; so that as 1751 commenced on the 25th of
 March and ended on the 1st of January, 1752, it

 could have been only nine months long, you see.

IWell, do you know, Owen, that's the only year

ever heard tell of that a poor midshipman could

have got his half-pay."

    " Indeed, sir. But why ?" eagerly inquired the

 boy.

    " Because they say on board a ship," returned the
Captain, " that a middy's half-pay is three farthings
a year, paid quarterly. So, you see, it was only
when the year was nine months long, that the
reefers could have received their quarter's divi

dends."

    Owen chuckled at the Captain's jokelet, and rose

from his seat to take his departure.

   " Heave to, youngster!" cried the sailor ; " for I've
yet to tell you what was the drift of my spinning you
all this yarn about the different kinds of time. You
     THE OLD SAILOR ABOUT THE "LOG."                   341

    you're going to measure the length of the hoursis,
in the average, or clock day. But suppose the
  T
instruments you measure by are wrong. Suppose

the hours that your timepiece marks are too short

or too long, why, the day will seem to be either too

long or too short also. Well, then, how are you

to tell whether the time that your watch or your

clock shows the proper average or mean time,
         is

                   I

                                                   is
lad The old man paused for an answer.

   Owen thought for awhile, and then shook his
head as he said, " I'm sure can't say, sir."

   " Well, then, of all time the truest star time,

because, as the stars never appear to change their

places among one another, like the sun and moon do
among them, their time of returning to the same

point overhead doesn't vary every day as sun or

moon time does. Besides, star time the easiest to
                a

                         I
                                       is
observe correctly. Now, you know told you before

how to find out when star got back to the same

point in the sky. Well, you're to do this for two

nights running, and then, on the second night
         ;
                 a        minutes 56 seconds

                 if

                      it

                             3 if
                                            it
the same star disappears

sooner by your clock or watch than did on the

first night, it's certain sign that the timepiece      is

going true and  doesn't show this difference,

why, the timepiece must be regulated accordingly.

Now, you'll come to me to-morrow, I'll try and
     if

make you understand how   it       we know that the

                               is
24S THE BOY HAS A TALK WITH, ETC.

across, though we can't get through it ; and how,

too, we can tell it's moving, although all the houses

          I
                                   ?
                                   it,
                                            ;

                               II

                                 I
and trees, and things upon appear to be stand

ing still. There now, we've done, and so you weigh

anchor, youngster. Come, don't you know what

weigh anchor means  Why, hoist all sail and be

off. I'm sure you must be tired for know am
--as tired as was of salt junk when first went

to sea."

Owen wished the old man good night, and thank

ing him again and again for what he had given

and what he had taught him, left the parlour,

promising to make the star observation before he

went to bed that night.
   The boy had got half-way across the garden in

front of the cottage, when the Captain tapped

loudly after him at the window, and beckoning

Owen to return, shouted to him through the

panes to be sure and come early on the morrow.

And here he added, as he raised the sash just high
enough to thrust little paper cone underneath
" give these sugar plums to my little toddles, with
big kiss, remember, from Mitter Jone.' "
          a
                         '

                                                       a it,
                    CHAPTER IX.

  THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE AND
              MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH.

When Owen reached home, he set to work imme
diately that the stars began to peep out to make
the observation described by the Captain.

   Having selected a bright star -- a large one in the
centre of three that appeared to be nearly in a line
with each other --he got his brother Hugh to note
the exact time as he cried out " now," the moment
he beheld it disappear behind the edge of the
blacksmith's stack of chimneys; and the little fellow

was overjoyed to find he could make the observation
much easier than he expected.

   This was the first experiment Owen had ever
made with the stars, and the interest he took in it
was increased as he watched the course of the little
specks of light, and recalled what the sailor had told
him about their movements; for he noticed that all
the old man had described came true.

   After this, the boy led his brother to the front

                                           R2
244 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

window of their little bedroom, telling him that
Captain Jones had said there was a point in the
north which all the stars appeared to move round,
and that the circles they made in the sky became
smaller and smaller the nearer they got to this

point.
   But though the two watched patiently for a long

time, and noticed star after star disappear behind

the western side of the mountain, in front of the

cottage, they could discover no such fixed point
in the heavens.

  It was late that night before Owen closed his

eyes, for his thoughts, turned into a new channel,
kept on sweeping along, one after another, almost
in the same endless procession as the little points of
light he had been gazing at. He had never noticed
the motion of the stars before, and the little fellow
was full of wonder at the new discovery. What
could it mean ? Where were they all going to ?

What would they look like if a person could get near

them ? Were they lamps or what ? and where was

their use to us 1 and why had they been set up there

to move on and on, year after year, as he felt as
sured they must have done from the beginning of the

world, and would continue doing till the end of it?
    Hugh and Owen lay awake in their beds, long

speculating, in their own simple way, upon all these

matters ; and when Hugh--tired by the day's labour
--had fallen asleep, Owen still kept on pondering
        AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 245

over the fresh marvel, and before he closed his eyes
that night the little fellow, enraptured with the
strange beauty of what he had found out, thanked
God heartily that he had got to know so much of

His goodness and power.

Early the next morning, Owen was busy think

ing over all the Captain had made him acquainted

with the day before, and what the old man had pro

mised to tell him that afternoon.

The lad remained in bed, longer than usual,

wondering how it was that people could make out

the world was round.

   " Everybody says it is so," he whispered to him
self-- " Mr. Wilkins and Captain Jones, and all.

IAnd remember yesterday, the Captain was very

particular every time in saying the sun and stars

appeared to go round the earth. But how can they
tell whether they only appear to do so or not V he
asked himself again and again. " I'm sure the earth

looks quite flat to me, and when I've been on the

Itop of the Garth," he went on, " I've often thought
  could walk to the end of the world. I've fancied

it was like the top of a big table, and that one could

go to the edge of and look right down over the
; it

               if

                        it,
                                                 ;

                                                  it

                                                                              a
sides, like into a great deep well and many time

I've wondered, we could only peep over the brink

of what we should see there. Still  can't be

flat for Captain Jones told me that people had
246 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

sailed all round it. Then why should the ground
Aseem to go straight along ?
                               round never looks

like that. Besides, I've heard father say that all

water finds its own level, and that's the reason he

uses his spirit-level to tell when things are per

fectly even on the top. But if water does find its

level, the sea must be quite flat, and then how could

persons sail round it. Besides, if the world was

really round, all the sea would run off as waterit,
would off ball. Still, Mr. Wilkins, when he was,
it                                        a
talking to me about gravitation, and showing me
          a

          it

                  a

                  it
how was people didn't fall off the earth, took ball
of yarn, and said the world was like that. Yes, he

must have meant was ball wanted to know
                        a
more about then, but didn't like to ask. They
must mean it's ball, I'm sure. Captain Jones, too,it
said the earth turned round 366 times in year,
                             ;I         a

and that when went to him to-day he'd explain toI

me how the things upon --trees, buildings, and
all--those were the very words he used --were

moving, though they every one seemed to be stand

ing still.  can't make         out any how. My bed
!"

  if I
           I

                           it
doesn't feel to be moving."

   Then the boy remained perfectly still for minuteaa

or two to see he could detect any motion in the little

imitation chest of drawers that served him for couch.
" No said the lad, " and I'm sure the bed had
                                 it if
stirred in the least, should have felt then for
                                            ;
         AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 247

Iwhen I'm on old Jack, know very well I'm being

carried along. Besides, the day Joe Powell, the

Iwagoner, gave me a ride in his wagon up to Builth,
   could tell well enough when we were going on.
How can they, then, make out that the world's

moving if it isn't possible to feel it."

   Accordingly the lad longed for the time to come
when the Captain was to explain the puzzle to him.
And when he had risen, he went to the dingle,
and sauntered along by the brook side, imagining all
manner of simple things that he fancied might serve
as a solution of the problem.

   As soon as Owen judged it was mid-day --and
he could tell by the shortness of the shadows of
the trees when it was about noon --he turned his

steps towards the sailor's cottage. On reaching the

bridge he looked up the village to see if the Captain

was sitting in his usual place in the garden.
   The old sailor, who was warming himself in the

sun, no sooner caught sight of Owen Evans, than he
beckoned to him as he cried -- "Here, youngster,
I've been waiting for you the last hour."

   Owen replied, as he advanced towards him, that
he was afraid of troubling him, or he should have
been with him long before.

   In a few minutes the Captain and the boy were

again seated in the little parlour.
248 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

   " Now let me see," said the old man, " what did

I Isay I'd tell you about to-day ? I'm sure forget.

It Iwas as much as could do to remember you were
Icoming, and shouldn't have done that if it hadn't

                it
                                                       it,
been for Mrs. Pugh reminding me of                          for she

heard me, you see, call to you through the window
Iflast night.
                hadn't been for that you'd have

had no pudding, youngster, for dinner to-day.
However, I've settled she's to make you a nice--
Anice-- let me see, what did settle was to be?
                      I

                                  it it
green gooseberry --gooseberry, no,       couldn't be

that they've been out of season months now. It
?!
wasn't batter either, know, because told her boys

liked fruit best. Could have been--been plum,
              it I    it
                 I
                          ;
                                  a

                             I
then No, no, for there isn't plum-tree in our

garden. Well, can't tell its apple, or currant,

or jam roly-poly, or something of that kind, boy.

But you'll see  when  comes, and I'll lay my
                      it

                                 a

                                             it

                                       I
life you'll make nearly as big hole in as did

in that cherry and currant pie Mr. Peace gave me

at the King George's Head, at Gravesend, the day

joined the 'Edinboro' Castle,' my first ship.
I
Didn't the waiter hoist his eyebrows when he saw
          !"
how I'd cleared all the fruit out of the hold of that

pie And at the recollection of the youthful feat,

the old sailor broke out into a hearty laugh,

chuckling again till the tears streamed from his

eyes.
AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 249

On drawing his handkerchief from his pocket,

he could scarcely find a part of it wherewith to
wipe the tears from his cheeks, for he had tied it

into so many knots that it looked more like a bunch

of onions than a yellow bandanna.
   " Dear, dear !" the old man cried, as he surveyed

the ball, " now what on earth do all these knots

Istand for ? Every one of them, know, was to

remind me of something very particular, but

I Iwhat on earth that something was, is more than
  can tell. Now come to think of too, do
I
  I
        it I
               I

                       iIf it I
                                                       is, it,

                                it, it I

                                                             it
verily believe tied one just after you'd left, to

make me remember some matter wanted to tell

you. But you see the worst of  lad, when

once I've tied a knot don't like to undo again,

because fancy stands for something important

that ought to recollect, and   untied why

would seem like chucking the whole thing overboard

from one's mind. So there go on putting knot after
                    it

                          I
                               I

                                                 it

                                                                       a

                                             iIf
knot in my handkerchief, until get into hard

lump, and then      seems for all the world as

was wiping my eyes with a cricket ball. At one

time tried to remember things by tying bits of
I

string round my little finger, but that was all the

same. It was as hard to know what the strings

I                   with the knots in the handkerchief;
         it
                is
meant as

and declare, my fingers used to be half covered
260 THE BOY LEAHNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

Ithe difficulty had to wash my hands then, is

Imore than anybody would believe. But what was
   to tell you about to-day? I've been trying to

remember it half the morning, and can't get at it

any how."

   " Oh, if you please, sir," replied Owen, " you said

you'd explain to me how people knew the earth to be

it
                                    it,
round, and how they measured             and how they
could tell was moving."

Then the lad informed the old man that he

had made the observation as directed. Owen told

the Captain, moreover, what he had noticed about
the movements of the stars, and that he'd been

thinking all the morning over what he was to

learn that day.
   " There's a good little fellow," cried the sailor,

at the conclusion of the tale; " and now we're going

to see first, we can't make out the figure of the
if

     I
earth. Well, then, suppose, Owen, you fancy it's

the same sun you see go over your head every day?

You don't think there's fresh one comes up every
?"
            a
morning, do you

   " Why, no," replied the lad, " that would be

funny indeed, sir."
    " So the question is," continued the sailor,

" what becomes of the sun after sets of an even
1

                     it

                                                            ?

                                         it

                                                             is

                                                      it
                                                                 it
ing Where does go to And how             that
   AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 261

opposite quarter of the earth? For you know,
lad, the sun sets in the west and rises in the

east."

  I" begin to see, sir, what you mean," answered

the boy; "it must go along under the earth, of

course."

   " To be sure it must. You should remember, too,

my boy, that it's not only the sun that seems

to move over the earth every day, but the moon and

stars all appear to do the same," added the old man ;

           a
                            a is,
"consequently, what we want to settle  how  is

this done? Well, there must either be subteris
ranean passage --that to say, passage under the

world for them to travel along --or else there must

be hole right through the earth. But hole in the
a          it

                  a
middle of the earth, you know, wouldn't do, because

the stars couldn't all pass through without being

jammed together like. And perhaps you noticed last

night, when the stars come up in the east, they're

just as wide apart as when they go down in the west,

and the whole of them seem to be altogether as

abroad as the earth."
    " Yes, noticed that myself last night, sir," was
    I
the little fellow's answer.
   " Well, then," proceeded the sailor, " there must

be way for them to go under the earth rather than

through it. So you see, Owen, what we want to
252 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

the earth, or is there a vaulted sky underneath us,

just the same as the one above ? Now how do you

think, lad, it's possible to come at that without

Iseeing it?"  can't say," replied the boy, after

  "I'm sure

thinking awhile.

   " Look you, Owen ; if you'd known how to observe

the rate at which the stars moved last night, you'd

have found that they travelled through equal dis

tances in equal times -- that
I                                  you'd have found

     athem journeying at the same rate all the time they
                              is,
were visible to you. For on observing those which rose

exactly in the east and set exactly in the west, and

which take, as before told you, just upon twelve

hours to go right across the heavens, you would have

discovered that they would have done exactly half

the distance in exactly half the time; or a quarter

of the distance in quarter of the time. You'd have

found, too, the same uniform rate of motion among

all the others. Therefore we can but suppose the

stars, after they leave our sight, to keep on travelling

at the same rate as they do while they remain visible

to us. Accordingly we must believe that those which

rise exactly in the east and set exactly in the west,

go through an equal space underneath the earth to

what they do above --since they not only remain
              it

just upon twelve hours visible, but are precisely the
it,      AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 253

for us to imagine that their rate of motion is altered
after their time of setting, why, we must come to the
conclusion that they have to journey through the
same distance underneath us, when they're out of
sight, as they seem to travel through the sky above
us."

   "Yes, of course they must, sir," said the little pupil.
   "Well, then," went on the sailor, "the stars couldn't
go along in a straight line underneath the earth; be
cause, you see, boy, a straight line across the half of
a circle is what's called the diameter, and that's only
about one-third of the length of the line which goes

round the circle. Consequently, if the eastern and

western stars passed immediately straight under the

earth, they should travel the distance below it in

one-third less time than they took to do the half of
the circle they describe above the earth: that is
to say, they should remain above the earth not quite

I14£ hours, and be hidden from us but a little more

than 9^ hours. But they remain, as said, just as

long hidden from us as they are visible to us.
Therefore, since they must be travelling at the same
rate under the earth, as they appear to do over
it's clear they must be going through the same space,
and completing the circle they left half unfinished
when they disappeared from our sight. So you see,
Owen, we're able to tell by this means that there's a
254 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

us, and the sun, moon, and stars all appear to
traverse that hemisphere, or half-globe, the same as

Ithey do our own."
   " I'm sure ought to be much obliged to you,
Captain Jones, for all the trouble you take with me,"
said Owen ; " but you've made it quite plain to me

now, sir."

   "Well, so far so good, lad," replied his tutor.

" We've got one step for'ard at least. Now, you see,
we want to find out what is the shape of the earth

that is between these two skies. Is it a large flat

piece of ground with an upper and an under side to
it like a sheet of cardboard, and resting on fixed

supports, like the top of a billiard table ; or is it a
round globe like a ball, and floating in space like a
balloon? But let us say it's flat to begin with, and
see if we can make out whether it's square like a

draughtboard, or round like a tambourine. Well,

if you go on the top of the Garth, or any high place,

Iwhat do you see?"
   " Why, see, sir, the earth spread out flat at my
feet," answered the boy, "for I've been up there

Ioften. And as I've looked away into the distance it

seemed as if stood in the centre of the world, and

the mountains far away appeared to form a ring

right round me."

   " Very good, boy, and if you'd been to sea," added

the sailor, "you'd have seen the ocean about you
          AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 265

like a perfect circle ; and let the ship journey
on as it would, day after day there would be the
same disc of water round the vessel, which would

always seem the central point of it--the same as, if

you'd been atop of Snowdon, you'd have seen the
earth spread out like a large round plate, and your
self still forming the middle point of it. Now, lad,

if the earth is flat and round, like a tambourine, as
we said, it can't have so many centres that each,

wherever we go, shall appear to be the middle
of it."

  I" should think not," remarked the boy.

   "Besides, what could it rest upon ?" added the
Captain. "The old Indian philosophers imagined
that there was a great elephant underneath it ; but
some sharp fellow, like you, Owen, suggested that
the elephant itself would need something to stand

upon. Whereupon the sages came to the conclusion
that there must be a tortoise under each of its feet

--though what supported the tortoises the wise
acres didn't trouble their heads about. Well, then,

since the earth can't be flat, how do we know that
it's spherical? Now you go and fetch me one of the
oranges out of the sideboard drawer there."

   The little fellow did as he was bidden, after

which the old man directed him to wheel the table

into the middle of the room and to set the orange in

the centre of it.
266 THE BOT LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

    When Owen had done this the sailor proceeded

to say--
   " Now you go and place yourself in one of the

corners of the parlour, and tell me how the orange

looks to you."

   The boy placed himself in the position indicated,

Itand said, " seems to me, sir, like a round."

   "Well," continued the Captain, "walk over to
the next corner, and tell me how it looks

there."

  It" seems just the same," cried the lad, as he

shifted his place to the other angle.
    " Go ahead, youngster, and keep your eye fixed

on the orange all the while."

  "It still appears the same round, sir, as when

I first looked at it," remarked the boy, speaking as

he went.

   " Go on," cried the Captain, " go right round the

room, so that you may see the orange from all

Iquarters."                      can see, sir," added
   " There's no difference that

Owen, as he continued his tour.it,

   " And do you notice, lad," asked the sailor, " not

only does it appear always round to you, but from

whatever point you behold you seem to be looking
straight at the middle of the circle?"

    " Yes, that's quite right, sir," rejoined the Cap

tain's little pupil.
AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH.                                 257

   "Now you've been all round it," said Captain
Jones, " we'll put it on the ground, and you shall

look down upon it."

  IIt" appears just the same whichever way look

at it," said the lad, as he placed the orange at his

feet, and stood gazing at it.

  I" Give it me, Owen," said the old man, " and

let me hold it as far as can above your head,"

and as he did so, and stretched his arm high in

the air while the boy held back his head, he added,
" there, do you see, it's still the same figure, is it

not ?"                                                       seen  it
   " Quite the same, sir," replied the lad.

   "Well, then," said the sailor, "you've

from every point of view. You've been right round

it it,                                                       and still it's

    is

       I
                      a
                        V
                                                        it,
you've looked over and under

always appeared to be the same figure to you. And

that figure circle having the point your eye fell
upon for the centre. Now do you understand how

my little man

" Yes,  can tell what you mean, Captain

Jones," replied the lad; "you would say, as all

persons see the earth to be round from whatever

part they look atit
                it,

                            s

                          V

                                                              a
                   and fancy themselves to be

right in the middle of the circle they see about

them, that its shape must be that of                             ball.

Isn't that what you mean, sir
   " To be sure must, boy," observed the Captain,
258 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

"for a globe is the only body that can appear as a
circle from all points of view."

   " But, sir," exclaimed Owen, " the orange didn't

Iappear to me quite like the world does ; for the

earth, when look at seems flat circle like, and
           I
                            it,
                                               a
the orange,      could see, always bulged out in the

middle."

   " Very true, boy, very true," returned the sailor,
" but the orange was so small that you could always

             it,

                     aa
                                        is
see one half of and the earth so large that your

eye can take in but  small portion of its surface at
Ifonce.               fly on that orange, Owen, or
         you were

an ant --and even then in comparison with the size

of the earth, you'd be bigger than the greatest gianta

that ever lived --you could only have seen but

little way over  it, and how then could you have
                       it
told whether or not bulged out, as you call it?

Still," continued his goodhumoured teacher, "we

can tell by certain observations that the edges of

the circle we always see wherever we stand on the

earth, are lower down than the point from which

we ourselves are looking. Now, lad, you run into

the kitchen, and fetch me bit of silk, and a pin or
                           a
two."
                              it
When the boy returned, the Captain tied one end

of the silk round the top of the pin that he had pre

viously stuck in the rind of the orange, and holding

the other end between his finger and thumb, drew

the thread tight as he made slant downwards tili
          AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 259
it touched the surface of the fruit at a little distance
from the pin, thus :

    " Now, boy," continued the old sailor, " the pin
at the top of the orange shall be you yourself, and
the silk shall represent a ray of light coming to
your eye from that part of the little globe where
the thread just touches the rind. And the way
you see distant objects, remember, Owen, is simply
by such threads, or rays of light reflected from
them, and entering your pupil. But, as the rays
always proceed in a right line, it's plain that all such
parts of our little globe here as lie below where

                                                  s2
260 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

the silk touches its surface would be invisible to you,
since no straight line, or ray coming from them,
could possibly reach the eye. Well, boy, we'll

suppose Mr. Pin to turn his head round and
look in another direction. But still he would be

able to see no farther than before, and for the
same reason--no rays could possibly enter the eye
from any point of the surface below that touched
by the silk ; and as all the points so touched are
equally far removed from the head of the pin,
it follows that the line bounding the sight in the
distance, would appear to form a perfect circle.

ILook you, youngster," continued the old man.

" While move the thread gently round the orange,
you trace, with the point of one of the steel pens
yonder, the figure described on it by the silk just at

Ithe point where it grazes its surface."
    " declare it's a perfect ring, sir," cried Owen,

just as he was putting the last scratch to the circle
with the dry point of the pen, and when the mark
was made it was like that indicated by the dotted
line in the engraving.

    " Yes, lad ; that ring now is the pin-head's

horizon, and if we shifted the pin's place to any

other part of the little globe, we should find that
the visible boundary-line would be invariably of the
same figure. For you see, youngster, the horizon --
or, in other words, the limit to the sight --results
from the roundness of the earth, and does not pro
AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH.  261

ceed from any inability on our parts to see objects
at a greater distance, or from their being any haze
or mist in the offing to screen them from the
eye. This we know to be the case, because

objects can be seen perfectly well beyond the

horizon --or ' offing,' as we call it at sea--provided

they are raised above the level of the ocean. Get
another pin, Owen, and do you stick it in the
orange just a little way below the point where
the silk touches the rind, so that the head of

it may stand just above the line formed by the silk.
Do you see, boy V inquired the Captain, when

Owen had inserted the pin as here shown.
262 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

  " A ray of light could now reach the eye from the
distant pin-head, and if we supposed this to be the

mast-head of a vessel, why we should see it looming

above the horizon; and then, as it came nearer

to us, we should perceive more and more of the

masts and sails, precisely in the same manner as

we shall see more of the stem of the pin, if we

move it closer to the point where the silk touches

the surface of the orange."

The lad shifted the pin to the place represented

by the dotted line in the preceding engraving, say
"Iing, as he thrust it in,
                             see, sir, just now, the

thread came close up to the pin's head, and this time

there's about half the stem above it."
   " Well," returned the old sailor, " you've only to

think that thread a ray of light, youngster, to un

derstand how any object on a line with or above
it,

    if

                         it

                                  is a

                                    it
                                              it
                                                  it

                                                              it,

                                                                                                      ;
could be seen by person similarly situated to

the pin, and how all things below  would be

hidden from his sight, so that would be only

when the object reached the point where the silk

touches the orange, that     would be rendered

wholly visible. If, however, the pin at the top be

made higher than  at present, we shall find the

silk will touch the orange at a more distant point

and we raise the top pin so that the thread grazes

the surface just at the point where the other pin

stands, we shall perceive that the visible boundary
         AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 263

will be thus extended,* and the whole of the objects
that we could see only in part before, will thus
be brought into view without shifting its place.
So it is found with ships in the offing at sea ; for on
going to the mast-head we see more of distant
vessels than is visible from the deck, and often
the whole of their hulls can be distinguished from
aloft, when only the tops'ils could be seen from

below."

  I I" think needn't trouble you, sir, to tell me
Iany more about the shape of the earth," said Owen ;

" for can see now that it can be nothing else than

a globe, as you say."

   " Very well, lad," replied Captain Jones ; " then
as we've settled the figure of the earth, we'll now

Iproceed to ascertain the size of it."
    " Oh, yes, sir, shall like that," interrupted the
boy, " because you told me yesterday you'd show
me the way to find out how many miles it was
through the earth, though no one had ever been to
the middle of it."

  I" So did, youngster, and now we'll set to work

to see how we can measure it," proceeded the sailor ;
" but for this we shall need the orange again, and

these two pins that we have stuck in it already will

just do for what we want, only we'll make the bit

          * See the dotted lines in the engraving at page 261.
264 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

of silk which is tied to one of them, fast to the
other as well --in this manner, lad.

   " There, Owen, we'll suppose the two pins to
be two rocks-- or whatever you may please to call

them -- with the tops just visible to one another over

the edge of the horizon, which you know would be
where the thread touches the orange, halfway be
tween them. Well, it has been found by observa
tion, that two such points, each 10 feet above the
surface of the earth, cease to be visible from one
another, over still water, and in ordinary weather,
at a distance of about 8 miles ; so that you see,
the horizon which is halfway between the points,
would be just 4 miles distant from either of them.
Consequently we have given us for a guide in our

reckoning half the length of the arc--that is to

say, half the portion of the circle between the two

points --as well as the heights of the points them

selves. This is quite sufficient to enable us to
find out the length across the entire circle, without
going either through or round it ; as indeed you'll
know when you learn how to measure angles and
' secants ' and ' tangents,' lad. For it comes out by
AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EARTH. 268

calculation, that the length across the earth is as

many times greater than the distance of the horizon,
as that distance is greater than the height of the place

of observation. Accordingly, let us see how many

times the distance of the horizon, in the case

we have just mentioned, was greater than the height

of the places of observation. The distance of the

horizon, you remember, was 4 miles, and the height

of the places of observation 10 feet. Therefore the

length across the earth must be just as many

times greater than 4 miles as 4 miles is greater

than 10 feet. Well, in 4 miles there are 21,120

feet ; so this is 2112 times greater than 10 feet,

and 2112 times 4 miles, are 8448 miles --or say

in round numbers, 8000 miles. Consequently this,

with a slight allowance for the errors of observation,
we may consider to be the actual length of the dis

tance through the earth. You see then, lad, it's

quite possible to measure the earth without going

;I
          it,
                  it

                          it
through      or round either."

" can't make out how you do sir," replied the
                                is it,
                                                   is

                                                               1"
boy " though seems to me to be something like

the way father tells how much timber there in a

tree before  it      cut down. But the earth, Cap

                 is

tain Jones, so big as to be 8000 miles through
   " Yes, Owen, very near upon it," responded the

old man " it's nearly as many miles through as
         ;

there are days in 22 years."             a length A
   " Dear, dear," cried the lad, " that  is

                                                                          !
266 THE BOY LEARNS HOW TO TELL THE SHAPE

Imile's a good distance know, and to think of so

many coming one after another, like the days in

the number of years you mentioned ! Why, there
would seem to be no end to it."

   " Very right, lad," added the Captain ; " but even
this gives us scarcely any notion of the size of the

earth. The mountains and valleys, and abysses, that

appear to us to make huge lumps and pits on its
surface, are no bigger in comparison with the whole
of it than the little specks and pores you see here on
the rind of this orange."

    " Oh ! but Captain Jones," exclaimed the half
incredulous boy, " the Garth, on the other side of
the river, appears to me to take up a good bit of
the earth, and I've heard father say that Snowdon

is much bigger even than that."
   " Yes, youngster," said the old man, smiling at

the lad's simplicity, " and there are mountains again
much higher than Snowdon. Still the highest peak
in the world is only 5 miles straight up above the

ground ; and 8000 miles divided by 5, gives us
1600 ; so that you see the loftiest mountain is
only the 1600th part of the earth's diameter. Now

if you were to get a ball 16 inches across -- and

that's a good big one, remember, for it's about as

large round as the dial to a church clock -- such a

mountain would be represented on such a ball by a
little dot of cartridge-paper, only 100th of an inch
in thickness."
AND MEASURE THE SIZE OF THE EAETH. 267

I" Well, never could have believed
a                                   sir," said
           a

                      1

                    6

                        I if
                                                 it,
                                                                       is
the little fellow, jerking his head, " if you hadn't

told me so."

"The figures alone, youngster,      you were to

calculate them yourself," replied the sailor, " would

convince you of the truth of what   say. The

deepest mine, moreover," he continued, " does not

go half mile down into the ground, and this

only the 16,000th part of the entire thickness of the

earth. So on  inch sphere, a scratch that the

thinnest fibre of cotton wool, 1000th of an inch

in thickness, would lie in, would be sufficient to

show such an excavation. The highest hills would

be indicated in proper proportions on such a globe

by mere particles of dust and the whole of the
              a
                                        ;

                                                                ;
land, with its cliffs that appear to us to tower

above the level of the sea, would be, relatively, no

thicker than piece of thin writing paper while

the sea itself --whose greatest depth does not ex
ceed that of the highest lands --would be duly repre

sented on our little model world by the mere film of

liquid that would be left by a wet brush drawn over

    and the entire atmosphere above us--which
calculated to extend about 80 miles high--would be
it

   ;

                 I" it

                           a
                                                    is
                                                                                    is
fairly typified by an outer case of glass the 6th of

an inch in thickness, and this not more than the

downy skin of peach, in comparison with the size

of the fruit envelops."
   " Bless me cried the little fellow at the con-
268 THE BOY LEARNS THE SHAPE OF THE EARTH.

elusion of the comparison, " what a monster of a
ball it must be to make all those things that look to

us so big, appear so very small."

   " Ay, ay, that it must, Owen," added the Captain,
delighted with the wonder he had excited in his
little pupil. " Why a man six feet high--and that's
half a head taller than your father is--would be

only the 7,000,000th part of the earth's diameter ;

and if we had to show such an one on our 16

inch globe, we could find no insect small enough to

represent so insignificant a creature ; a gnat's wing,
which is only 100,000th part of an inch thick,
would be four times too gross to give his proper

proportions."
                    CHAPTEE X

             THE BOY AND HIS OBANGE WORLD.

" We have measured the earth, boy," continued
the Captain at their next chat, when he had been
once more reminded as to the point where he had
left off, " but very roughly as yet, for the method we
used is by no means an exact one. The portion of the
surface dealt with on such occasions, you see, is so
small that the least error becomes greatly exagge
rated in the gross result ; therefore we must consider
the dimensions arrived at by those means only as a
slight approach to the truth. The length of space
that the observations extended over, you will remem
ber, Owen, amounted merely to 4 miles, and this is
but the 6250th part of the entire circumference
of the earth ; accordingly when we seek to infer
the size of the whole by so small a fragment of

its surface, it is about the same as if we endea

voured to come at the size of our 1 6 inch globe by
measuring the curvature of the 390th part of an
inch upon it."
270 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

   "Oh, if that's the case," exclaimed the disap

pointed little fellow, " perhaps what you've been

telling me is only a mistake, after all."
   The old sailor replied, " Nay, nay, it isn't so bad

as that, though it's not sufficiently accurate to be
of any real use to us ; and you see, my little man,
we can measure but little bits of the earth's surface

at best. We cannot grasp the whole of   it,                 you

know, nor go so far away as to see                  ;
                                    it  all at once

so all we can do to creep about its surface, and
                      is

apply our little measures to small parts of                 it

in different places, and then make up by reason

ing for the defect of our physical powers. Conse

quently behoves us to be most accurate in the
it
dimensions of the portions that we do measure, for
     a
           aan error of mile in a degree --since degree the
360th part of circle --becomes magnified into 330
              it
miles in the circumference, and 115 miles in the
                      is a          is
                                            a
                                                        is
diameter. Still, as         degree  not more than

70 miles in length          quite possible, now a days,

to ascertain the precise extent of such a portion

of the earth's surface within very few feet, or
                                    a

                                                it,

                                                      V
indeed inches."                         sir in

   " But what a degree, as you call
               is is
quired the boy.       the 360th part of any circle --

  A" degree

large as well as small," answered the Captain.
   " Then, sir," said Owen, " how could the people

who were measuring the earth know when they had
      THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.                       271

finished a 360th part of unless they first knewV
                           it,
the length of the whole
   " That's just what we want to settle, my little

sharp one," the old man returned "and what's more,
      is

       I

                  it

                                         ;

                                                       ?

                       I
how are the people to be certain they are measuring

in straight line along the earth for both of these
it a
conditions are necessary for accurate measurement."
   " That I'm sure can't tell; and don't see how

any body else to find out either," said the lad.
   " Let us see, youngster," responded Captain Jones.

"Well, in the first place, the earth has no landmarks

on to point out the degrees, nor any traces in

scribed on its surface to direct us exactly in            aa

straight course. Nor will the compass help us in

such a case, for though that does well enough as

guide for the mariner,                            too subject to varia
is
              if,

                                  it

                                              is
tions to be depended upon where extreme accuracy

   required. We must, therefore, since we can find

nothing on the earth to aid us, turn to the heavens,

and see among the natural marks up there, that

are as permanent as the earth itself, we can find

any that will serve us as beacon-lights to mark
our whereabouts on the globe. But before doing

this, let us parcel out the earth itself into certain

equal portions, and see what we can learn from

that. Now, as we know the earth to be round

like a ball, we can divide in the middle into
                                it

two parts, each of the same size, and the line
it,273 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

                            Vor equalizer, simply because the parts on either
                                        ifside of it are of like dimensions. But let us have
our little model world again, boy : do you get the
aorange and cut a small furrow in the rind round

         itas nearly in the middle as you can judge."

                          ;" Will that do, sir asked the lad, when he had
                                               a
scored the orange round as directed.
                                                           it," Oh, yes," returned the old man, " quite well

enough for what we want, for the parts on each
side of the line are not exactly equal, why we'll
imagine them to be so, and that will be all the same.
Well, this point where the stalk has been, you see,"
he continued, as he placed his finger on the top

of the orange, " we'll call one of the poles--the
North Pole shall be-- and the little speck there

at the bottom, directly opposite to the other, shall
be the South Pole and take my word for we'll
have beautiful little world in minute or two."

    Then some more circles were scored round the

orange, so as to be parallel with the equator. These,
the Captain explained to the boy, formed what were
styled "parallels of latitude;" and he told him,
moreover, that all countries situated on the same

parallel were the same distance from the equator and
the pole. Then laying his finger between the fifth
and sixth lines north of the equator, he pointed out
to the boy how between these parallels lay England

in one part; in another part Sweden and Prussia;
and after that portion of Russia next to this came
a
                                     ;
THE BOY AND HIS OBANGE WORLD.  273

and as he named the several countries he amused the

boy with curious rambling stories about the people
in each of them.

    Presently Owen was at work again cutting a flat
broadish ring out of a piece of stout card-board
under the captain's guidance, and making the aper
ture in the middle of it large enough to admit of
the orange passing freely through it. This finished,
and the circle portioned out into spaces of 1 0 degrees
each, the old sailor, who grew almost as pleased with

the contrivance as the boy himself, bade Owen pass

a long pin through the edge of the ring, so that it
might run between the card-board, from the outside
to the inside of it, and have the point standing out
so as to serve as the axis for the orange to turn upon.
When this was done he directed the boy to pass
another pin through the card-board in the same

manner as the first, and directly opposite to it.
    "And what are we to call this pasteboard circle, sir V

said the little fellow, as he proceeded with the work.
    " Why, that's what's termed a meridian," was the

answer. "It's so called because meridian in Latin

signifies mid-day, and that's the line the sun always

crosses at noon ; so that there are as many different

meridians as there are different places round the

globe. Now it's along that meridian line degrees of
latitude are measured. Latitude means breadth,
that is to say, it's the breadth of the world from
the equator to the poles --for that's the way the
latitude, or breadth, is always measured."

                                                   T
274 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

I" And      suppose, sir, as there's breadth to the

world there's length as well V remarked the pupil.

"Yes, youngster; and as the breadth is called

latitude, the length is called longitude. The length

of a thing you know extends directly across the

breadth ofit it Iand so the longitude measured at
                                   is is
right angles, as we say, to the latitude. But weis it,a
won't confuse ourselves with thinking about theis

longitude at present. The latitude what we want

to measure, and so we'll keep to that. Well! a

degree, told you, the 360th part of circle --
no matter whether the circle be large or small --

whether be a line running round this orange, or

round the earth itself, or even the sphere of the

heavens --  considered to be divided into 360

equal parts, and each of these parts  is  termed a

degree. But to make the divisions on our little

globe plainer, we have divided the meridian into only
36 parts, so that each of those parts will stand for

10 degrees. Do you go to work at that, Owen."

Next the Captain told Owen to form second
        it
           it,

                                                    ;
                                                                           a
card-board ring, with the same sized aperture, but

doubly as broad as the previous one, and to cut two

slits in    one on each side and extending half

across      from the inner edge. As soon as these

were completed the orange was fixed by means
of the pins within the first ring, and then this, with
the orange in the middle, was passed down through

the slits into the second ring so that the one stood
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.  279

at right angles to the other, and the orange in theit
       it,
centre of the two.
   The next step was to hunt for something that

would serve as a stand for the tiny world. After

some little time the glass sugar-basin was thought of,
and, having been emptied of its contents, a cork
was placed at the bottom (as a support for the card
board meridian), and a slit cut down so that the

meridian might pass freely through when turned

round.

  It did not take long to arrange the puny globe on

its glass-stand, and when the work was all done the

little orange-world had this appearance--

t2
276 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

   "Doesn't it look pretty, Captain Jones?" cried
Owen, as he drew a few paces back and twisted his
head from one side to the other, in order to have a

better view of the whole object.

   " Ay, ay," responded the sailor, " it's a little

fairy world; and by-and-by, when we've finished

with     it it,Iyou, like                                great ogre, can gobbleiIt, it

up."                a
                                   a
   The little fellow laughed outright, as he said,
" Wont be funny, sir, to eat the earth?"

   "Yes; and very pleasant eating you'll find

dare say,  shouldn't wonder, now, but what you'd

like to have world to devour every day, just as a

relish after your dinner-- you horrible little Fee-fo-

fum, you! But come, youngster, isn't time to
 pipe all hands to mischief just yet --we must wait
'                                                        it

                                                                  ?"
till the 'dog-watches' for that. So, where were we?

let me see dear-o-me where were we

   " You were going to tell me about the latitude,
         !I
                 !

                              !"

                                                      !
sir," interposed the boy.

   " Oh    know proceeded the volunteer school

master. " Well, the broad ring resting on the sugar-

basin there, stands for the horizon, Owen --supposing

you to be able to see half over the earth at once.

Now the horizon has its poles as well as the earth

itself. These are situated right up over head and

right down under foot and no matter whereabouts
                      ;

on the earth we may be, as the horizon shifts wher
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.                          277

ever we shift, and we're always in the centre ofit,

why the poles of as said before, are alwaysI
straight up above and straight down below. The    it,

two poles of the horizon are called the 'Zenith' andis
'Nadir;' the Zenith being the point of the sky directlya
over us, while the Nadir, or nether* pole, the point
of the sky directly under us. These two poles therea

fore are exactly 90 degrees, or a quarter of circle,it,

adistant from every part of the horizon. Now," con
tinued the sailor, " we've got our little world right
   is
on end, and supposing you to be on the top ofis
its north pole would be directly in line with your
zenith, or the upper pole of your horizon; and itsV
south pole in line with the nadir, or lower pole of
your horizon. Then it's plain that you'd be in 90
degrees latitude; that to say you'd be 90 degrees
distant from any part of the equator; and the pole
of the earth would be 90 degrees distant from any

part of the horizon. You see that, don't you, lad
   "Oh yes, sir; there's the figure 90 standing right

up at the top, and the equator exactly level with

the horizon here," answered the lad.

   " Well," the Captain went on, " let us twist the
globe round one quarter of the circle, so that the

poles may be level with the horizon, and the equator

perpendicular to --like this, my little man and as
   it

                                                ;"

* Nether and Nadir are etymologically the same words.
 878 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

 he said so, the old man shifted the little world into
 the position here shown --

   " Now what do we find?' inquired Captain Jones.
" Why, supposing you to be standing on the equator,
midway between the poles, you'd be in no latitude,
since the equator is the point where the reckoning
starts from, and the poles of the earth would be no

height above the horizon, because, you see, they're

exactly level with it. There, look at it well,
youngster, and convince yourself of the fact."

  I"Yes, see," observed Owen, as he examined the
I Imodel; "there's the 0 mark up at top, and so, of

course, if was there should be in no latitude; and
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.               279

here are the two pins for the poles right down on

the card-board ring which stands for the horizon,

and so the poles can't be any height above it."
   " Very good, my man," added the teacher. " Well,

you know, in the first case you were in 90 degrees

latitude, and the poles of the earth were 90 degrees

high, and this time you are in no latitude and the

poles are no height."

   " Does it then, sir, always follow that the latitude

is the same as the height of the earth's poles above

the horizon?" was the boy's inquiry.        " We'll
   " Let us see," was the old man's reply.

shift the globe once more, and get the poles into

this position--
280 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

   " Now, you perceive," continued the sailor, " you
would be in 30 degrees latitude ; for that is the
figure which is in a line with the zenith at present ;

and, if you look, you will find that the poles of the

earth are exactly the same number of degrees

above the horizon."

  I" Bless me ! yes, so they are, declare !" exclaimed

the boy, as he gazed at the figures to assure himself
of the fact. " Dear ! dear I how very odd ! Then it is

so, sir; the latitude of a place is always the same as
the height of the pole of the earth above the horizon."

  I" You're quite right, lad," the sailor replied ;

" and you'll think it just as strange, dare say, when

I tell you that 'the complement of the latitude? is

invariably equal to the height of the equator above the

horizon."

   "What does the complement of the latitude
mean, if you please, sir ?" asked Owen.

   " The complement of the latitude, boy," answered
the Captain, "is the number of degrees required
over and above the latitude to complete the 90.
For instance, we are in 30 degrees latitude on
our little globe here, and therefore the complement
to that latitude-- or the ' co-latitude,' as it's called
for shortness sake --would be 60 degrees ; since 60

degrees added to 30 make 90. And now, if you

look at our little model, you will perceive that the

equator, or point where the 0 mark stands, is just

60 degrees above the horizon. The latitude, bear

in mind, is measured from the equator to any part
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.  281

of the earth, and the co-latitude from that part of

the earth to the pole."
   " But, Captain Jones," interrupted the lad, " why

is it that the latitude is always the same as the
height of the pole above the horizon, and the co-lati
tude the same as the height of the equator above it V

  I"Ah! thought you'd be at that, Mr. Inqui

sitive," smiled the old man. " You must have the

Ireason for everything. However, to make you under

stand this, must get you to do me a little bit of a

drawing."
    Accordingly, Owen was despatched for the Cap

tain's case of mathematical instruments ; and, when
these were found, the little fellow was shown how

to describe, by means of the compasses and graduated
arc, the subjoined figure.

ARC OF THE SKY.

             Zenith.
282 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

   "There, my youngster," said the delighted old
man, as soon as the diagram was finished, "the
upper half circle represents a section of the sky,
and the lower half circle a section of the earth,
and there are 180 degrees in each. Well, the
equator, you know, is at 0 degree on the earth,
while the poles are at 90. Now let us suppose you,
Owen, to be situated at 60 degrees latitude, then
you will have, of course, the upper pole or zenith of
the horizon right over your head. But, this
zenith point, you observe, divides the arc of the
sky into two equal portions, having exactly 90

degrees in each. Then if a line be drawn from the

zenith down to the centre of the earth, it will divide
the arc of the earth also into two equal portions--

each containing 90 degrees as well. Since, then, the
equator is 60 degrees from the place we've supposed

you to be at, on our little globe here, why the

equator must be, at the same time, 30 degrees above
the line of the horizon, because that is the number

of degrees required to make up the 90 with the arc
of the earth on that side of the zenith line. But

30 degrees is exactly the co-latitude of that part of
the little globe here which we've supposed you to be

upon, and therefore the co-latitude -- or your dis
tance from the pole--must be exactly equal to the

height of the equator above the horizon. On the
other hand, your co-latitude being 30 degrees, and
 there being likewise 90 degrees on the other side of
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.                                              283

the zenith line, why the height of the pole above
the horizon must be just 60 degrees. But this
is your latitude, and therefore the height, or altitude

of the pole is precisely the same as the latitude of

I I Ithe place."
   " see it now, and
                        don't think  shall forget

it very soon," said Owen, and then he repeated to
himself over and over again ;-- " The latitude of a

place is the same as the height of the pole above the

horizon, and the co-latitude the same as the height of

the equator above it."

   Suddenly the boy paused, as a new thought
entered his mind, and he exclaimed, " But, Captain

Jones, where's the use of knowing all this, unless we

can tell how high the pole, or the equator, really

is above the horizon ? for unless we could find out

that, we couldn't tell what the latitude was at all."
   " You're very right," returned the old man, " and

now we are going to see how that's to be done.
Well, there's nothing upon the earth that will serve

us in this matter; nor can we get outside of Owen,
a

      if

                                                                        :

                                           if it,
to have peep at the pole or the equator, and so

learn how high they stand above our horizon.

Besides, even  we could, when we were outside

the globe, we should find that our horizon and

zenith were no longer the same and so that plan

would be of no use to us. Consequently, we must

turn to our old friends the stars, and see we can
learn anything from them. Well, you will re
284 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

Imember told you the other day that the stars all

seemed to be turning round some fixed point in the

sky."
   " Yes, sir," answered the pupil. " That
                                             ;                        they

                                                 I
                                                                 is,
seem to be doing so, though Hugh and last night

couldn't find any such point at all for every one of

the stars we looked at appeared to be on the move."

   " Well, we wont mind about that, just now,
youngster," said the other, " though there such
                             it                                       Va
point, sure enough, and
                                              ;

                                               if is
                             isn't any star, either.

But, as was saying, all the stars appear to revolve
       I

about some fixed point in the sky and you had

noticed them long enough last night, lad, you would

have found that the circles they described are all

inclined to the horizon that to say, none of the
                             ;

                                         is

stars appear in this part of the globe to rise straight

up from the earth, nor to sink straight down below

it,  but to take slanting course through the heavens,
       it, it if
                             were on the slope --just the
                     a

                         it
and to revolve as

same as you were to tilt barrel on its end, and
                             a

make turn round on its edge, when the hoops

about      you know, would all be seen to circulate

slantingly."                                               peg-top,

   " Wouldn't they be like the rings on
                                             it

                                                        a
sir, when  leans on one side as              spins round
           if it
suggested the boy.
                  it,
   "That's just my little man," responded the Cap
tain. " But you were to set out on long journey
                                             a
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.        285

happen?" (The boy nodded assent.) "Why, the

slanting circles that the stars appear to describe

here, would get straighter and straighter, until at

last, when you reached the equator, you would find

that the stars there all rose and set perpendicularly

to the horizon, and traversed the sky straight from
one side to the other --the same as
                  it                 instead of

                             !"

                                                 if,
                                                               it
tilting the barrel on its end as before, you turned

down and caused to revolve on its side, when all

the hoops, of course, would be seen to run round

straight up above the ground."
   " How very odd, sir exclaimed the boy.
   " And what's odder still, youngster," went on the

sailor, " you'd have found, as you travelled in this

direction to the equator, that the stars in the

extreme south, which told you rose here only just
                Ia I
above the horizon, and showed themselves but for a

few moments, came up higher and higher, and re

mained visible for longer time while those in the
                      ;
north, which, as
                           it
                  said before, just grazed the

northern horizon, and dipped below for an instant
in this part of the globe, would, as you journeyed on

to that part, get to sink deeper and deeper below

the earth, and continue invisible for greater period.a

Until at length when you reached the line midway

between the poles you would perceive that the fixed
point in the north part of the sky, which all the

stars here appear to revolve round, had sunk so low
that, instead of standing high above the earth as with
286 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.                      a

us, it would seem there to be on a level with the        it,
horizon itself; while the stars immediately round
about which in these parts never set, but revolve                                   a
continually above the earth, would in those parts
perform only half their course above the horizon.                                       a
Moreover, stars that had never risen before to your
view, would have sprung up in the south, one after
another, as you went on; so that at last you'd dis
cover at the equator that there was another fixed point
in the southern quarter of the heavens which the
stars revolve about, like that in the north. You'd
find, too, that, not only the stars that never rose or
never set to you here, but every one, indeed,
throughout the heavens, would there remain for
twelve hours visible, and concealed for the same time
--each little orb performing half its circle above and
half beneath the horizon, and all revolving round
two opposite points in the sky that seemed, from
such station, to be on line with the horizon itself.
Then, again, at that point of the globe no part of
the heavens would be altogether hidden from your
sight, for the upper and lower sky would become
visible to you one after the other, and in a night of
twelve hours* the whole vault of stars which you
 first observed above you when the evening drew in,
 would, by the time the morning came round, have

    * Supposing such                                   continuance of darkness to be possible
at the equator.
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.  287

it,been carried down beneath, and the lower vault

brought up from below."

   " How beautiful it must be to go there," exclaimed

IOwen, with his eyes riveted on the old man. "

suppose you've seen it often, Captain Jones, when

you were at sea?"

    "Ay, ay, boy! scores of times," replied the seaman,
and he had immediately half a dozen stories about
the matter start to the tip of his tongue; re
membering, however, the many facts he had still

to communicate, the old man dismissed the tales
from his mind, saying, " but we must keep our head
well up to the course we've laid down, lad, or we

shall never reach the port we're bound for. Well,

youngster," he continued, " if you were to go on still

south'ard past the equator, you would perceive that
the fixed point, which the stars in the south were
revolving about, would appear to come up above
the horizon as you went, while the one which the
stars went round in the north would be seen to sink

below the earth and disappear from your view; and
when you reached that part of the globe which
was just as many degrees removed from the other
side of the equator as the place you just started
from was distant from this side of you would find
the whole appearance of the heavens reversed. The
stars in the north, which never set to you before,
would never rise to you then; and those in the
south, which never rose at the spot you departed
              THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

from, would in your new place never set, but remain
visible all the night through; while the whole of
the orbs, instead of coming straight up from the

horizon, and sinking straight down below the earth,
and each remaining in sight for exactly twelve
hours, as they did at the equator, would once more
appear to traverse the heavens in a slanting direc
tion ; but instead of sloping as before, towards the
south when they rose, their circles would now be
seen to be inclined up towards the north; and
again, no two of those that rose and set would con
tinue visible for exactly the same period."

   " Go on, if you please, sir !" said the youth, more

and more delighted with the description of the
wonderful changes.

    " Then, supposing it were possible for you to
continue right on until you reached the south pole
itself, you would perceive that the fixed point in the
sky, which the southern stars revolved about, kept
on rising higher and higher in the heavens, and the
circles of the stars growing less and less inclined
to the horizon as you proceeded ; so that at length
when you stood on the very pole of the earth, the

fixed point in the sky --instead of being level with

the horizon, as it appeared at the equator, or seeming
to be raised halfway up the sky, as it did when you
were but halfway towards the pole --would be seen,
now that you had reached the extremity of the earth,
right over your head; while the stars about it would
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.  289

appear to revolve in circuits neither slanting nor

perpendicular to the horizon as formerly, but per
fectly parallel to it ; nor would any of them ever rise

or set there, but all would remain for ever revolving
sideways above the earth in circles that grew smaller

and smaller towards the zenith, like the coils in a

bee-hive."
I" Oh !
            am so much obliged to you, Captain
IJones !" exclaimed the enraptured boy ; " it makes

me feel so happy to know all this ! And yet can't

tell why it should, for what good can the stars ever

do me?"
   " The stars, Owen, have done me many a good

turn," retorted the sailor; "they've saved me and my

whole crew from shipwreck over and over again.
And who can say, boy, but they may be one day
the same trusty friends to you? But to keep

to our point, lad. Well, if you were to set off from

the south pole, where we left you, and come back

again to the equator, you would find that the fixed

point, which stood right over your head at the

southern extremity of the earth, would begin to sink
again, and the stars to slant in their circuits; so that

when you arrived at the equator once more, the

two opposite points in the sky, about which the stars
revolve, would again become visible to you, and ap

pear level with the northern and southern points of

the horizon, while the stars themselves would no

longer circulate sideways about the earth, but go

            u
290 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

straight up over it. Then, as you progressed to
wards the other pole, the southern fixed point
would begin to sink and the northern one to rise
in the heavens, while the little orbs would be seen

once more to take a slanting course through the sky
but in the opposite direction to that which they were
observed to move in on the other side of the

equator ; and at last, when you reached the north
pole, you would find the fixed point, which the
northern stars revolved about, was straight over

your head --even as the southern fixed point was

when you were at the south pole; and that the stars
again never rose nor set, but kept on moving con
tinually in circles parallel with the horizon. But
though the movements of the stars would seem the
same at this pole as at the other, you would find on

noticing the orbs themselves, and the figures they
formed with one another, that not a star you saw

at the opposite extremity of the earth, was to be
observed at this end of it ; for while at the south

pole you would have seen only the southern half of
the sky, at the north pole only the northern part
of it would be visible to you, whereas at the equator
in the course of twelve hours you would have beheld

the two hemispheres -- the one succeeded by the

other."

  I" Oh ! see," cried Owen ; " we should catch sight

of an opposite half of the sky from each of the
opposite poles, and see the two one after another at
THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.               291

the equator, just as a bluebottle inside a humming-

top would see if he looked up only the upper half
of the top spinning sideways about him ; and if he

looked down only the lower half doing the same

thing; but, if he looked towards one of the sides,

of course he'd get as the humming-top spun round,

a view of the whole."
   " Very nicely explained, youngster," said the old

sailor, patting the boy on the back. " And what do

you think would happen, Owen," added his teacher,

" if you could be suddenly carried from this side of

the equator across to the other side of and backis
                                                  it,
again immediately to the place you started from?
                                                              ;
Why, you'd see the two fixed points in the heavens,

with all the stars about them, move up and down

just like two youngsters playing see-saw."

This supposition tickled the boy's fancy, so that

he tittered again at the idea of seeing the stars in

dulge in any such frolics.
   " Well," proceeded the Captain, " let us see what

we can glean from all this. In the first place, then,

we have found that when we're at the north pole the

northern fixed point of the heavens, which the stars

are revolving about,  straight up over our heads

when we are at the south pole, the southern fixed

point stands over our heads in like manner; and

when we are at the equator, the two fixed points

are seen on a level with the horizon, and to occupy

the northern and southern points of it. Now our
  292 THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.

 little globe has shown us that when we are standing
 on the equator the poles of the earth are also on a

 level with the horizon, and when we are on either

 of the poles themselves that they are perpendicular

 to the horizon ; so that if we were at one of the poles

 and a line were drawn from the opposite pole

 through the one we were standing upon, and ex

 tended on each side to the sky, above and below

 us, that line would touch the zenith and nadir,

 or upper and lower poles of our horizon--that is

 to say, the points directly over our head and
 under our feet. But these points would be also

those round which the stars were revolving. And

 as a similar line drawn through the poles of the

earth when we are at the equator --where the poles
would be level with the horizon, you know --would
if extended to the sky again meet the fixed points
of the heavens -- (for they would be also level with
the horizon then) --it is plain that the two fixed
points in the shy round which the stars revolve, must
always be in a direct line with the poles of the earth

Iitself."
    " Why, yes, so they must, indeed, now come to
think of it," said Owen, thoughtfully.

   "And that's the reason, my boy," returned the
Captain, "why those fixed points in the sky are
called the poles of the heavens, or poles of the world
if you like."

   Here the conversation was suddenly interrupted
         THE BOY AND HIS ORANGE WORLD.                            293

by the entrance of the housekeeper with the tray

full of plates, glasses, and knives ready to be set for

dinner.

As the dame stood with the table-cloth in her

hand the old man inquired whether she couldn't

give them a few minutes longer; but being informed
that the pudding would be "all abroad," as Mrs. Pugh

           it,

                                                               a
expressed  and the chicken burnt to cinder, the

Captain said, "Well, Owen, we must clear the decks,

and you must come again to-morrow and have some

more astronomy and some more pudding."
               CHAPTER XI.

HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE ARE NO ROADS,
    FIND THEIR WAY WHERE THERE ARE NO SIGN
    POSTS, AND KNOW HOW FAR THEY HAVE JOUR
    NEYED WHERE THERE ARE NO MILESTONES.

Owen was with the Captain early the next morning,
when as usual, he had to repeat to the sailor the
greater part of their conversation of the previous day,
before he could get his oblivious old tutor to re
member the precise point where they had left off.

   This, however, was at length impressed upon the
Captain's mind, when he proceeded to say, " Well, then,
first we've found out, you know, that the latitude of
a place is just the same number of degrees as the
height of the pole of the earth is above the horizon;
and secondly, that the poles of the earth are in a
HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL, ETC.  29B

straight line with the poles of the world ; we have
settled also that a degree is the 360th part of a circle,
whether the circle be large or small ; consequently,
the latitude of a place, north or south of the equator,
must be the same number of degrees as the north or
south pole of the heavens appears to be raised above
the horizon. So, you see, we've only to measure
how many degrees high the fixed point in the
heavens, which the stars revolve about, seems to
stand above the horizon, in order to know the
latitude of any place we may be in upon the

earth."

   Owen smiled as he said, "It's all very well,

ICaptain Jones, to say we've only to measure this

height, but how is that to be done, should like to

know ? You can't climb up there and put a tape
to it." And the little fellow laughed outright at the

absurdity of the notion.
   "Why, no, lad," returned the old man, enjoying

the apparent difficulty as much as the boy himself ;
"but there are other ways of measuring besides with
a foot-rule, or tape, or yard-sticks. So our next
step must be to find out how we can measure the
heavens without any such instruments. But to make

this quite plain to you, you must do me another

drawing."

   Accordingly, the boy was busy again, with the
old sailor at his elbow, showing him how to describe
296 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE
the following figures by means of the compasses and
arc.

    "There, now, lad," said the sailor, when the
diagrams were finished, " the big arc up above is
intended to represent in both drawings a portion of

the sky, and w've placed a star there, 50 degrees
above the level of the earth, the horizon being

shown by the dotted straight line at the bottom of
each plan. The height of this star above the
horizon is what we are going to measure by means
ARE NO KOADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.  297

of what is called a quadrant, which is represented
at the corner of both of the drawings. This qua

                                        4

drant consists of a piece of board, cut so as to form
a quarter of a circle, and graduated round its edge ;
that is to say, it is divided into 90 degrees there.
On one side of the quadrant are placed a couple

of little metal plates, with a fine hole in each

of them, for the eye to look through, and these are
called ' sight-holes;' while, from the centre point of
the circle of which the quadrant is the quarter, is
suspended a thread with a weight or plummet at the
298 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE                     it,

end of so as to cause the line to hang always per        ;
pendicular to the horizon. Now, suppose, youngster,
you want to measure the altitude of the star repre         is it
sented in the drawing. Well, you hold the qua                    it
drant level with the horizon, and then, of course, the
                                                                              0
plumb-line hangs at degrees on the graduated arc.                                   a

As you slant the upper edge of with the sight-                                          it
                                                                                                          it
holes along 10 degrees above the horizontal line,
the other edge of the quadrant passes just 10                                                                                is is

degrees beyond the plumb-line, and so on--each        V

degree that you incline the one edge upwards, the        is
other edge thrown just one degree out of the
perpendicular, and the extent of the inclination

duly indicated by the plummet; till at last the sight-
holes are brought into direct line with the star

whose altitude you wish to ascertain. Immediately
the rays from meet the eye, the plumb-line
held fast then the number of degrees that
found to cut, or hang over, on the graduated arc,
tells you exactly how many degrees the upper edge
of the instrument has been inclined in order to
bring the little orb into sight, and this consequently
gives you precisely its altitude above the horizon.
The star, you perceive, 50 degrees high, and the
plumb-line in the second drawing hangs at 50 de
grees on the graduated arc of the quadrant. Do
you follow that, Owen

   " Oh yes, sir," returned the boy, " and I'll make

one of those quadrants myself, by and by. It wont
           ARE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.                                     290

be very hard to do, will sir Is quadrant one of
r

         is

            II
                             it,
                                                                           1
                                                     a

                          is I
the things you used to work with at sea, Captain

Jones
    " Yes, lad," replied the old man, " but mine was

rather different, for made the one I've explained

to you as simple as could, so that you might

have no difficulty in understanding it; still the

principle  the same as the one used at sea.

Well, now we know that not only the latitude

of any place equal to the altitude of the pole of the

earth, and the altitude of the pole of the earth again

equal to the altitude of the pole of the heavens,

but we know also how to measure the height of any

celestial object, and consequently that of the pole

of the heavens among the rest."

" Oh       can make out how you do                                            ?"now,"
;
cried Owen, " for measuring the height of the pole                              it,
  !I
                                                                                         it
                aaof the heavens above the horizon tells you the lati

            Itude of the place you're in, of course. Isn't

clever of people to find out such things
  " But wait while, my little man," interposed

the sailor, "we haven't got over all our difficulty yet.

If there was star fixed in the pole of the sky, of

course the only thing required would be to measure

the altitude of that star in order to get at our lati

tude but unfortunately there     no such star to
                                 is
                                                              is ;
mark the point that all the others revolve about

for you remember    told you that this pole
300 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

part of the heavens to enable us to distinguish it

from any other point of the sky ; it is in fact merely

the centre of all the circles, that the stars appear
to describe in their course above the earth. So

Iwhen call it a pole you musn't imagine, lad,
Ithat there's a long stick up there, as used to do
Iwhen was a boy; nor fancy that the pole of the

earth comes out at each end of and that the world
                     it,
                                is a
is  made to spin round upon this like teetotum.

The pole of anything, bear in mind, merely the
fixed point or end of the axis on which the thing

turns. Well, then, you understand that the pole

of the heavens  is   merely a fixed point that the

stars seem to revolve about, and the question

how are we to tell exactly where that spot in the
                                      is
                                                is

sky, since there's no mark set up there to distinguish
it?"

    "That's too hard for me to answer," was the

boy's reply. " should never find out                           would
    it,
give me the fidgets  were to try."
        I
              1 iIf

                                              ?

                                        it

                                                            ;

                                                   it
    " Well, youngster," replied the old Captain, " sup

pose you wanted to find the centre of a circle, how

would you proceed Why, you'd measure straight
across wouldn't you and take the half of the

length, which would give you the middle, of course.

So you've only to do the same thing with the stars to

come at the same result--you've merely to measure
ARE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.  301

them as they revolve about the pole of the heavens,

to find exactly where that pole is. The star that is
usually selected for the purpose of finding the alti
tude of the celestial pole, is one called the ' pole star,'
for it is a very brilliant one, of the second magni
tude, and but little more than one degree and a half

from the pole of the world itself. Being so near

the pole, the pole-star, of course, never sets, and is
therefore of great importance to sailors in the

northern hemisphere. Now, the pole-star is the last
in a group of stars, or constellation, known by the
name of the ' Little Bear,' which is easily distin

guished by its being formed of seven stars, arranged
in the same manner as those in the group or con
stellation styled the ' Great Bear,' from some fancied

Iresemblance to the shape of that animal."

   "But how shall know where to find those
constel--constellations, didn't you call them, sir--
in the sky ?" inquired Owen.

   "Well," replied the sailor, " if you turn yourself

towards the north, some fine starry night, and

cast your eye up to the heavens at some distance

above the horizon, you will perceive four bright
stars arranged in the form of almost a square, and
three others extending in a bent line from the

faintest of these. The three stars represent the
tail, and the four form part of the body of the Great
Bear ; they are all, with the exception of the one
302 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

that the tail extends from, of the second magnitude,

and therefore easily perceived. Then if you carry

your eye along the sky in a direct line with the

two stars in the body of the Great Bear that are

the farthest from the tail, you will perceive, at some

slight distance from them, a cluster of seven other

stars, smaller than those of the Great Bear, but

arranged in the same manner though in a reverse

direction ; that is to say, the three stars in the tail of

the one will point the contrary way to the three stars

in the tail of the other. The seven smaller stars

constitute the constellation called the ' Little Bear;'

the four in the form of a square being the body, and

the three extending in a bent line from one of these
being the tail --in the same manner as with the

Great Bear. Now the last star in the tail of the

Little Bear is the brightest of the whole seven --

some of the others being only of the 4th and 5th

magnitude --and this is the pole-star. It is always

in a line with the two stars in the fore part of the

body of the Great Bear, which two stars are con

sequently called ' the pointers,' because they in

Ivariably point towards the pole-star. But to give

you a clearer notion of what mean, I'll get you,

Owen, to step into the back-parlour and bring me

I Imy atlas, for we shall find there a plan of these
two constellations, that  drew when  was a

youngster."
   The book was soon brought and spread out on
ARE NO ROADS, SIGN- POSTS, ETC.  303

the table before the couple.  On the fly-leaf of it
was the subjoined diagram.

   " There, youngster, you see the Great and Little
Bear back to back, and with their tails pointing in

opposite directions," said the old man, as he placed

his finger on the animals in the drawing ; " and in
whatever part of their circles they may be, they
304 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

Ifanother.  you look close you'll see that the mag

nitude of the stars composing the two groups is

shown by the number of rays.* Those stars which
are of the second magnitude -- and they are the
largest here given --have six rays to them ; those of

the third only five, and so on down to those of the

fifth magnitude, which are the smallest in the draw

ing, and have only three. The two foremost stars

Iin the body of the Great Bear--and which, as

said before, are called ' the Pointers' --you will see,

by the series of dots extending from them, are in

a line with the pole-star. The dotted circles

are intended to point out the apparent course of

each of these stars round the pole of the heavens,

the arrows showing the direction in which the

movement seems to take place ; and this you can

see by the letters at each of the four points is from

the east round by the south to the west and thence

back by the north to the east again. Now, whether

the circle that a star appears to describe in the
heavens be large or small, it is completed in one

and the same time ; that is to say, the star'at the

   * The magnitude of a star signifies simply its degree of

brightness. The brightest stars are said to be of "the first

magnitude ;" those which fall so far short of the first degree of

brightness as to make a marked distinction are said to be of

"the second magnitude," and so on down to the sixth or

seventh, which comprise the smallest stars visible to the naked

eye in the clearest night.        Those beyond the latter mag

nitude are termed "telescopic stars." The smallest stars are

supposed to be the most distant.
                   ARE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.  305

tip of the tail of the Great Bear, and which you
perceive is the farthest in the drawing from the

centre or pole of the heavens, would take no longer

to travel round, from the point where it now
                                                   is '
back again to the same point, than would the star
                                                           is,
at the tip of the tail of the Little Bear, and which

ityou see          the nearest of all to the centre. So,

               is
although the pole-star has much less space to pass
through, in its apparent revolution round the pole,
                   ;
   seems to travel proportionately slower, and consea
quently completes its circuit in precisely the same
                      it a
time as the most distant stars. The circles described

by the stars round the celestial pole are called the

diurnal circles,' because they appear to be completed
in exactly one star-day, which you remember just

upon 23 hours 56 minutes of mean solar or clock-

day."

   " Ah this makes what you said to me about time
I
                !a great deal plainer than was before, sir," ex

claimed the little fellow.
   " dare say, youngster but we can't learn all at

once, you know," returned his tutor friend. " Well,

now we want to measure the height of the pole by
Ifmeans of the pole-star.
                           you look at the drawing

again you'll see line running down straight
                   '
                                a

                                                            ;'

                                                                  is

                                                              is it
                                                                       it

                                                                                     is
from the north to the south point. This what's

called the celestial meridian that to say,

the line which divides the vault of the heavens into

two equal parts, one on the east, the other on the

                   x
306 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

west. This line extends directly north and south,

passing through the zenith or point immediately
overhead, and through the poles of the heavens as
well. Well it's on this meridian line that all stars

attain their greatest and least altitudes in the course
of their apparent revolutions round the pole. For

instance, Owen, if you look at the drawing once

more, you will see that the pole-star is in the
nearest position which it could possibly reach to
the north. This position, therefore, would be that of

its least altitude above the horizon, and when it

reached the opposite point in its circle, it would, of
course, be the farthest away from the north, and
therefore at its greatest altitude."

  I" So can see it would, sir," remarked the boy.

    " Well. let us suppose that the altitude of the

pole-star is found to be, when measured by the

quadrant at the moment when it no longer appears
to approach the horizon --that is to say, at the period
of its least elevation -- 50 degrees. Then let us
suppose again that at the period of its greatest ele
vation --which would be about two minutes short of
twelve hours after its least--it was found, at the
precise moment when it ceased to recede from the

horizon, to be exactly 53 degrees high. Now, since

the star was 50 degrees high at its least altitude,
and 53 degrees at its greatest, it is plain that the

difference between these figures --which is 3 degrees
ARE NO BOADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.                       807

it described in the heavens. Then halving this

difference, we have 1£ degrees for the distance of
the centre point.* Then adding this 1^ degree

to the 50 degrees --which was the extent of the least
altitude--or subtracting the 1^ degree from the 53
degrees, which was the extent of its greatest--

we have 51^ degrees for the altitude of the centre
point, about which the star appears to revolve, or in

other words the altitude of the north pole of the

heavens itself. Consequently, this would be the north

latitude of the place where the observation was

made ; that is to say, the place would be precisely

J51 degrees distant from the equator on the north

side of and that within fraction, the latitude
"                          is,
        ! it,
of London."                 I it
                               I

                                            a

                                          if 1

                                                 it

                                           I

                                                              it
                                                                      it
      Oh thank you, Captain Jones; you've made
so plain to me," said the boy, " that do think

when I've made my quadrant shall be able to

measure the height of the pole of the heavens and

the earth, all by myself.     wish I'd got the qua

drant ready now; for looks as                        would be nice

and starry to-night, and then I'd soon find out the

pole-star for I'm sure should know where was,
is
after what you have shown me about the Great and
      I;
the Little Bear. But there are no real bears up in
                        1
the sky, suppose, sir?"

* The distance of the pole-star from the pole of the heavens,

precisely degree and 41 minutes, but                 here made 1J de
                              2

                                          it

                                                 is
gree for the sake of simplifying the calculation.

                           x
306 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

   The old man smiled at the boy's simplicity, as he
said, "No, no, lad ; they are no more real bears than

they are real castles and mountains that you see in

the fire sometimes. The ancient shepherds, who
were the first astronomers, fancied as they lay out
in the fields at night, tending their flocks, and
gazing at the stars the while, that the figures
formed by the different groups of stars were like

bears, and swans, and eagles, and fishes, and ser
pents, and all kinds of strange things ; so they
called these groups of stars, or constellations, after

the name of the creatures they imagined them to
resemble. Perhaps this was done as a means to

 impress the figures formed by the stars on the me
 mory, and so to know their places among one an
 other easier than they could otherwise have done."

    " Yes, indeed, sir, and a very good way it seems

Ito me," remarked the boy; "for I'm sure shall be

 able to remember the figure of that Big and Little

Bear much better than if you had told me they were

two groups of seven stars in the form of a square
 with a bent line running out from one corner."

   "I'll be bound you will, my little fellow," an

 swered the sailor. " Well, Owen," continued the
 old man, "we know how to measure the altitude

 of the pole by the pole-star. But, to do this, we
 require two observations at very nearly twelve
hours apart, and it is seldom that the night admits
AHE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.                     309

readier way of learning whereabouts we are upon

the earth. For if we couldn't ascertain that, lad, by

some means which we could avail ourselves of every

day, how could ships be navigated on the high sea,

where there are no roads, nor milestones, nor sign

posts, to tell us which way we are going, or how far

we have travelled-- nothing, indeed, in the vast

desert of the ocean to mark one spot from the other.

In such a position therefore, we can only look to

the heavens to guide us. Now, you'll remember we

found out that there are two ways of ascertaining

the latitude of any place we are in ; one that such
                                     ;
latitude (or, what the same thing, our distance
                   is is                      is,
from the equator)         equal to the height of the

pole of the earth above the horizon and the other,

that the co-latitude (or our distance from the poleis
of the earth) equal to the height of the equator
above the horizon. Accordingly it's immaterial

which of these points we measure our distance from,

since the result in both cases must be the same."
   " Yes, sir, you explained that to me before," said

the boy.

   " Let us see, then, by what means we can find

out how high the equator appears above the horizon

in different parts of the earth," proceeded the old

sailor. "Well, as the poles of the earth are in
                                     it
line with the poles of the heavens,
                                         is

                                                 if

                                                            it, a a
                                     plain the

earth were cut right through at the equator, and

large flat circle placed between the two halves of
310 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

that circle wouldit a       were large enough to reach to
                     (if
the sky), exactly divide the heavens into two equalit

portions, as the equator does the earth itself. The
ring of stars that would be in a line with the

circumference of this immense flat circle, what is
                                              it is
called by astronomers the equinoctial line,' and this
                            a'                   is
always precisely level with the equator, in the
is
same manner as the poles of the heavens are always
 I
      it Iin a line with the poles of the earth. Well,found

that the sun, in his apparent course through the

stars every year, takes slanting direction with

regard to this equinoctial line, which he crosses
twice in the twelvemonth. But let me see, how

can give you clearer notion of all this       V           And

the old man shut his eyes, and kept on mumbling

various plans to himself.       !I  have it. That old
   Presently he cried, " Oh

glass globe used to keep the gold fish in till they
died, will do famously. You get down from the
                                    it

top of the china cupboard.
" There, put
                   on the table, Owen," continued

the old man, when the boy had mounted chair and
                                        a

reached from the shelf; "and now you must fill the

globe half up with water."

This did not take long to do, and when the vessel

was half filled, Owen, at the old man's direction,

got plum from the sideboard, and dropped into
a

                                                      it

the centre of the globe.

"We've got another little world now, you see,
ARE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.  311

lad," exclaimed the Captain, pointing to the plum.
" And we'll suppose the surface of the water to be
on a level with the equator, or middle of the plum,

and the place where the stalk has been shall be the
pole of our little world as before. Then, as the
fish-globe stands for the sky, the line where the
top of the water touches the glass all round the

sphere will represent the equinoctial. Well, if you

tie a bit of thread round the outside of the glass,
so that it shall slant a little above the level of the
water on one side of the sphere, and a little below the
level on the other side, then that thread will give

you a tolerable notion of the ecliptic, or line that
the sun seems to travel along in his apparent course

through the stars every year."
    The thread was soon fastened round the glass

sphere as directed, and in the manner here shown.

   "The points where the thread or line of the
ecliptic cuts the edge of the water which stands for
is312 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE
        it,
the equinoctial line," the old man began, when the
                           'little model was complete, "are called the equinoxes,
the one to the east being termed the vernal (or
it,spring) equinox, and the other, on the west, the  '
                                                         g
autumnal equinox. At these points the sun is on a
                                                                         a
level with the equator, and consequently has no de

clination whatever. Then if we suppose the sun, in

his apparent yearly course among the stars to pro
ceed from E, the vernal equinox, where he is on
the 21st of March every year, and to travel, along
the line indicated by the thread, round the glass
sphere, you will perceive that as he journeys on,
day after day, he will slant away to the north of
the equinoctial line, and get farther and farther
from until he reaches (on the 21st of June) what

   termed the summer solstice,' and then his dis

tance from the equinoctial will be 23 degrees,
or in astronomical language, the sun will have
attained his 'greatest northern declination.' After
this he will begin to slope back to the equinoctial,
getting nearer and nearer to the level of the
equator, until he gains the western point, W, or
autumnal equinox, which he does about the 23d
of September, and then he will, once more, be in
line with or in other words, the sun will for the
second time in the year have no declination what

ever. Then passing the autumnal equinox, his
southern declination will commence, and this will
increase day after day until he reaches the winter
         ARE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.            313

solstice,'* on the 22d of December, when it will be

at its highest point, and the sun precisely as many
degrees south of the equinoctial line as it was north
of it at the summer solstice six months before.

Leaving this point he will again draw nearer and
nearer to the level of the equator, until he reaches

again the vernal or spring equinox, and then he
will once more have no declination whatever."

As the old man entered into the above explana

tion he drew his finger round the sphere so as to

point out to the boy the direction of the sun's ap

parent path through the stars every year.
" The thread round the glass globe has made the
I Imatter much plainer to me, sir," said Owen ; " and
suppose  am to fancy there are stars all over

the glass sphere, as you call  I it,and that your
                                               ?"
finger was the sun passing through them

     Now," the Captain went on, " think we under
"

stand this matter quite well enough to be able to

comprehend how it's possible to find out the latitude

of a place by the altitude of the sun. You have
only to bear in mind, lad, that what meant by
         is,

           I
                           is
                               is
the sun's northern or southern declination simply

its distance north or south of the equinoctial line;

and as the equinoctial line as have shown you

here, always on a level with the equator, why the

sun's declination expressed in degrees, merely the
                               is

                                   is

                                              ;
   * Indicated by the place where the thread tied the point of
the summer solstice being supposed to be directly opposite to this.
314 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

number of degrees that he is above or below the
level of the equator itself."

  I" shall take care to remember that," said Owen.
  I"Now, my lad, get the compasses and do me

another diagram as direct you."
   The boy did as he was bidden, and the following

plan was the result.
ARE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.  SIS

    "Well, Owen," said the Captain, " we'll imagine

you to be standing there, right under the zenith,
and you want to find out how high the equator is
above the level of the horizon. Then a little before

12 o'clock you take your quadrant and you measure
the height of the sun above the horizon, just at the
moment when he appears to cease to ascend in the
heavens, and that of course will give you his greatest
altitude. Now let us say that you find this to be
precisely 20 degrees, as represented in the drawing,
then that amount added to the sun's declination, or

subtracted from it--according as he is north or south

of the equinoctial at the time of your making the
observation -- will give you the height of the equinoc
tial line, and consequently that of the equator
above the horizon. Well, there are tables published
which tell the amount of the sun's declination for
every day in the year, so you turn to these and find,
maybe, that on the day you have measured the sun's
altitude, his declination is then 20 degrees south
of the equinoctial. So you add this to his meridian
altitude, which was 20 degrees, you remember, and

thus have 40 degrees for the height of the equator
above the level of the horizon. Then, as the
height of the equator is equal to the co-latitude
of the place you are in, and the co-latitude of any
place is merely its distance from the pole of the
earth, you thus find out that you are 40 degrees
316 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

pole itself is 90 degrees from the equator, it is plainis,
that if you subtract the 40 from the 90 you will
                                I
have 50 degrees for your latitude, or distance
                                      V
north of the equator itself. Or let us imagine on; it

the other hand, lad, that you find the meridian
altitude of the sun at another period of the year

to be 60 degrees, and that his declination, as given
in the tables for the day you made your observa

tion, is 20 degrees north of the equator; then,

subtracting that amount from the 60 degrees,

you have again 40 degrees for the height of the

equinoctial line ; and since this as said before,

the same as the height of the equator, you have only
to subtract from 90 degrees in order to find the

latitude of the place you're in."
   " Oh isn't nice and plain now, sir cried the

boy. " And that's the way you used to do at sea,
I
                           !

               V it
                    it
   suppose

   " Ay, ay, youngster," answered the sailor " every
day a little before twelve, there we were on the
quarter-deck, with our quadrants in our hands, and
spying away at the sun, until we found he had got
to his highest point in the heavens, and then we
used to make twelve o'clock, or eight bells,' as we
it                            '
  it                                                     !"
say at sea."                                                 ex

   " And so you found out where you were

claimed Owen, delighted that he could now under

stand how was possible to ascertain the place of a

vessel where there were no marks to distinguish one
AEE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.  317

spot from another. " How clever sailors must be,
Captain Jones !"

    " Nay, nay," returned the old man, " sailors didn't

make the discovery, remember --for it was astrono

mers who taught them how to use the sun and stars
as beacon-lights in their course ; and though the little
luminous specks that spangle the heavens at night

time seem to the uneducated eye to be as useless

as will-o'-the- wisps, still had the sky above us been
one blank black dome we should never have been

able to navigate the seas out of sight of land, but

could only have crept timidly along the coast, and
have remained not only estranged from other nations,
 but deprived of many comforts that we now derive
 from foreign countries. So when you drink your
 tea, lad, that has been brought for you from the

 other side of the globe, and sweeten it with sugar

 that has been shipped from the Western Indies, you
 may thank the little stars above you for it all."

   I" Oh ! now see, sir, that the stars are of great

 good to us," said the little fellow, thoughtfully.
     " Yes, Owen," added the sailor, " and when you

 come to know more about them, you will see that
 they are the greatest good to you --giving you the

 highest knowledge, and filling your mind with
 thoughts of the wondrous power and perfection dis
 played in the universe, and so leading you to the
 contemplation of Him who made and harmonized

  the whole."
  318 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

   I I" I'm sure wish knew all about them as you
Ido, Captain Jones," was the boy's remark.

     " know, youngster, but little concerning the

Istars," replied the old seaman ; " only as much, I'm

 sorry to say, as was obliged to know in order to
 be intrusted with the management of a ship. Ah !

I wish I'd my time to come again, what a clever
Ifellow would be to be sure ! But, unfortunately,

 so we all think when it's too late ; so let it be a

 warning to you, my boy, and learn as much as you
 can in your young days, for when you're like me

 you'll be past being taught ; and then to try and
impress any new thing on your memory, will be like

a child scribbling on the sands --the next wave will

wash it all out and leave no trace behind. But come,"
said the old man, "we've still to get at the precise

Imeasurement of the earth, and it's getting on to

dinner-time can tell by the scent from the kitchen.
Well, Owen, you know now how to tell when
exactly 1 degree of latitude has been measured. But
in order to do this properly, it's necessary that you

should always keep to the meridian line."

   "And how are we to make sure of that, sir?"

asked the boy.
    " That's not very difficult," proceeded the old man ;

" you have only to notice the time at which the pole-
star is at its greatest or least elevation above the

horizon --that is to say, the exact moment when it

crosses the meridian of the place from which you're
ARE NO ROADS, SIGN-POSTS, ETC.  319

whether it continues to cross the meridian at pre
cisely twelve sidereal hours afterwards (for it can
do this only in the meridian line), why that will be
a sure guide to you whether you are measuring in a

straight course or not. So you see, lad, if you found

the pole-star to attain its greatest and least altitude
above the horizon in more or less than 12 sidereal

hours apart, why you might be certain that you were
not directly in the line of the meridian, but had gone
a little way to the west or east of it. Now you

understand how what's called an arc, or a certain

portion of the meridian line, can be measured ; and

you know how to tell when you've travelled exactly

1 degree farther away from the equator, and you

know also how to tell whether you've been travelling
in a direct line with the meridian or not, and when

you've done this you can proceed to measure how

many miles there are between the two places."

  I" So you could, sir, easily, should think," re
Imarked the lad. " suppose they measure the

miles with a chain, as I've seen them do the
fields V

   " Yes, youngster, it's done in some such way as
that," said the sailor; " and the strange part of the

business is that it's found that 1 degree of latitude
is of different lengths in different parts of the world.
For instance, in Peru, which is near the equator,

there are somewhat less than 363,000 feet to the

degree; at the Cape of Good Hope, which is about
820 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL WHERE THERE

                                                                     -.

364,000 feet to a degree; in England, which is

about 52 £ degrees from the equator, there are nearly
365,000 feet to a degree; and in Sweden, which is

about 66J from the equator, there are somewhat less

than 366,000 feet to a degree."                "I
   " Dear, dear ! how very odd !" cried Owen.

should have fancied that as a degree you told me was

the 360th part of a circle, every degree would have

been of the same length."
   " And so they all would, youngster," replied the

old man, "had the earth been a perfect sphere; but

since it's found by the most accurate measurement

that the degrees are of different lengths in different

parts of the world, and, moreover, that their length

increases the farther you go from the equator, it is

plain that the earth cannot be a true sphere, but

must be flattened at the poles where the degrees

are the longest; and, consequently, that it must be

more the shape of an orange than that of a perfect
ball. Look at our little model world," he went on,

as he drew the orange globe towards the boy; "do

you see how flat it is at the end where the stalk

Ifwas, and also at the opposite extremity?

you were to measure it by thrusting a long

darning-needle from the stalk end right through

to the opposite point, you'd find that it would be a

little bit shorter from the top to bottom than it is

straight through from side to side. And it is
ARE NO ROADS, SIGN POSTS, ETC.             321

of the degrees in different countries, that the

diameter of the earth itself must be a little shorter

from pole to pole than it is from one side of the

equator to the other; that is to say, it is rather

more than 7925^ miles through from one point of
the equator to the other, and but little more than

7899 miles through from one pole to the other.

Consequently, you see that the polar diameter, as it

is called, is about 26^ miles shorter than the equa
torial diameter ; or, what is the same thing, the one

is very nearly l-300th part longer than the other.

This is so trifling a difference, that with a 16

inch globe it would amount to only the 20th part

of an inch; and, if a model of the earth were

turned of this size in wood, with such a difference

between its two opposite diameters, the nicest eye

or hand would not be able to perceive the flatten

ing. Therefore, it is sufficiently correct for

ordinary purposes to speak of the earth as a globe,
                                           is
though, when strictly described, its form
                                                           's all
                                           what

called an 'oblate spheroid.' There, boy, now we

have done we have measured the earth accurately
:

                    1

                        it

                                    is
--so accurately, indeed, that           said the error, if

any, cannot exceed mile in the diameter; and, as

convenient numbers for you to remember, you can

bear in mind that in degree of our latitude there
are as many thousands of feet as days in the year;
is
                 1

              Y
that a degree about 70 miles long, and that the
322 HOW PEOPLE TRAVEL, ETC.

                                                           »

earth is a little less than 25,000 miles round at the

equator."*

   "And now, Owen, we can pipe to dinner," said

the old man, laughing.

   * The equatorial circumference of the earth is precisely

24,899 miles.
                  CHAPTEE XII.

 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF A THOUSAND MILES
                                       AN HOUR.

When Owen Evans made his appearance at the
old sailor's cottage on the following morning, he
had to run over, as usual, the heads of the several
matters which the old man had communicated to
him on the previous morning.

   " Well, youngster," said the Captain, as soon as
he had been reminded of the point where he had
ended the day before, " we've measured the earth

Iright round, and know all about the latitude. But,

as said before, we two may be situate in the same
latitude and yet be many hundred miles apart. For

instance, if you were at Edinburgh, in Scotland,

Iand was at Copenhagen, in Denmark, and your

father was at Moscow, in Russia, we all of us would
be in, as nearly as possible, the same latitude-- a little

t2more than 55^ degrees north of the equator --and
324 TRAVELLING AT THE EATE OF

yet your father would be a long way from me, and

I, again, should be a long way from you. So, you

see, there is something more than the mere latitude

required, in order to find out our exact place upon
the earth. We must know not only our latitude,

or how far we are from the middle or end of the

globe, but also our longitude, or whereabouts we are

across it."

   "You said, Captain Jones," remarked Owen,
" that the latitude was the breadth of the earth and

the longitude the length of it. But how is it that

the breadth runs from one end to the other and the

length goes crossways like?"
    " Because, my boy," answered the sailor, " the

polar diameter of the earth as told you, not so
                               ; is,

                                 I

                                             is
long as its equatorial diameter that to say, the

globe 26 miles longer across from east to west
      is is
at the equator, than  it       from north to south, or,

                           is

what         the same thing, from pole to pole. Now

you must suppose the earth to be divided into

360 equal parts right round, longitudinally as

well as latitudinaUy, and imagine that there are a

number of meridian lines scored upon ts sur

face for this purpose, and running from one end

to the other of like the marks upon melon.
             it

                 is
                                        is

                                                           a
Well, the latitude always measured along these

imaginary meridians, up or down, from the middle

to either end, while the longitude measured across

them, round to the right or left of some particular
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  325

meridian. But do you cut these lines on the orange,

Owen, and then you'll be sure not to forget them."

   "Are those like the meridian lines on a globe,

sir?" inquired the boy, holding up the orange when
he had scored it up and down after the Captain's

directions --thus :

    " Yes, they'll do well enough," answered the old

man, "though on a globe the lines are placed at

every 10 degrees, and here we've put them 15 degrees

apart, because, as you'll see by and by, 15 degrees
of longitude is exactly equal to one hour of
time. Well, now we understand, the circles passing

through each end of the globe are the meridian lines,
while tlwse across it are the parallels of latitude ;
the distance up or down these meridians is the
measure of the latitude, while the distance across
them is the measure of the longitude --the latitude
386 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

and the longitude East or West from some par

I Iticular meridian."  shall make any mistake about
   " don't think

that now, sir," said Owen.

  I"Well, you remember," proceeded the Captain,

"what told you about the poles of the heavens

appearing to shift their places as you travelled

north or south V

  I" Oh, yes, sir," exclaimed the boy, " recollect it

very well. You said, that if we could be carried, in a

moment, backwards and forwards across the equator,

we should see the poles of the heavens playing see

saw in the sky --first one coming up and then the

other ; and that the further we went to the north
or the south, the higher each of them would appear

to be lifted up; while the stars, you said, would

seem to slant more and more across the heavens as

Iwe travelled away from the equator, where they
would rise exactly --perpendicular,  think you

called  it,  to the horizon whereas at the poles they
                       ;

                                         if
                                                                                                           1
would all move round quite --what was the word

oh, yes, quite parallel to it."

"Capitally said, my little fellow," cried the
sailor. " Well, then you see, Owen,
                                     you travel

along any one of the meridian lines, the heavens
will be continually changing their appearance to

you, so that to persons situate along the same meri

dian, and consequently having different latitudes,

the sky must be different at all moments; that  is,
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  327

 they will not see exactly the same stars, and the
 circles of those they do see will be differently in
 clined to the horizon, while the stars themselves will
 attain different altitudes above it. But to persons
 situate on the same parallel of latitude, and therefore
 having different longitudes, the vault above them
 will present precisely the same aspect; the stars

 will be seen to attain the same altitudes, and their

 circles to be equally inclined to the horizon. So at

 different longitudes, remember, there is not, as there
 is at different latitudes, any marked change in the

 appearance of the heavens to tell us that we are at

 different parts of the earth."
     " Then how can you find out your difference of

longitude, sir," asked the pupil, "if there's nothing

 in the heavens to show that you 're in a different

 place?"

    "Not quite so quick, youngster," cried the old
 Captain; "for though persons situate in the same

  latitude, but at different longitudes, see the same
  stars, and these attain the same altitudes, they do

  not cross the meridian, or, what is the same thing,
  reach their greatest and least heights, at the same
  time; while to persons having the same longitude, but

 in different latitudes, though the stars do not attain
  the same altitudes, they all come to the meridian
  at the same moment. So, bear in mind, Owen, that

  at different latitudes the stars attain different alti
  tudes, but cross the meridian at the same time,
328 TRAVELLING AT THE BATE OF

whereas at different longitudes the stars attain the
same altitude but cross the meridian at different

times."

  I" can partly understand that," observed the lad;

" for as the stars seem to go over our heads from
the east to the west, of course they can't pass over
my head at the same moment as they do over the
head of any one else who is farther to the east or

Iwest than am."
    " There's a sharp little man," replied the tutor ;
" and you're quite right too. Well, then, you per
ceive, lad, that as we learnt to tell the latitude by the

different altitudes attained by the sun and stars at
different distances north or south of the equator, we

must now try if we can't learn to tell the longitude

by the different times that the sun and stars come to
the meridian at different distances east or west of

some well-known place. But, to begin ; let us

understand what would happen if we could be in

different places to the east or west at the same time.
Let us suppose, my little man, that you are pos
sessed of the wonderful flying carpet spoken of in fairy
tales, and that you can transport yourself by its
means round the world at a moment's notice. Well,
we will imagine you to be at the Cape of Good

Hope, where you 've just measured the sun's altitude

with your quadrant, and found it to be exactly

on the meridian above you, marking the very mo
ment of noon, and the people there are abroad
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.          829

with their large umbrellas to screen themselves

from the fire of its rays. Then away you fly to
Cape Horn, the extreme point of South America,

and, reaching it the instant after, there you per

ceive to your astonishment the east still crimson

with the dawn, and the sun like a huge liquid ball of

fire just peeping above the horizon, while the work

men, newly risen from their beds, go trudging

along, yawning, on their way to their labour. Away

you fly again, and the next moment you are at

New Zealand, where you find the stars sparkling
in the sky, the moon silvering the sea with her

beams, the villages all still, and the country dusked

with the shadows of night. In an instant you

are off once more, and gain Australia ; here you

behold the western quarter of the sky purple

with the last rays of the setting sun, and the
evening star shining alone in the vault, while

the lights are beginning to twinkle, one after
another, in the casements, and the cattle in

the plains lowing as they go to their places of

shelter for the coming night. Flying from this by

means of your magic carpet, you return to the

place you started from, and arriving there, the

a                                  you see the sun still

                              it,
moment after you quitted

high in the heavens, with his beams raining light

and heat upon the land and sea, and bathing the

earth in flood of golden lustre."
330 TRAVELLING AT THE BATE OF

exclaimed the delighted boy; "but of course there

are no such things as magic carpets, Captain Jones?"

   "No, youngster," returned the old man; "but

there are things much more wonderful, and quite as

rapid, now-a-days; they are what are called electric

telegraphs, for by them it's quite possible to com

municate with different parts of the earth as swiftly

Ias the lightning travels. So if there was only a

wire reaching to the countries have just spoken of,

and you were to send a message along         it,
                                                     it
                                             inquiring

whereabouts the sun was in those parts when was

over your head at the Cape of Good Hope, you'd

have just such an account as have given you of
                                aa
the different time of day at each of those places.
                                    it, ; I
Strange, too, as                may appear to you, although
a
           a 's

                       a

                      it it
there no telegraph wire right round the earth yet,

message often reaches place some time before
                                             4
left the station was sent from for as the light
                                                        it
ning travels good bit quicker than the sun appears

to do, message leaving part of the earth, say at

exactly 12 o'clock, would arrive at another part that

was degree to the west of                    nearly minutes
     it 1

          's

           it

                            !"
before the time of its leaving the first."
   " How funny cried Owen.

" Yes,  may sound funny," replied the sailor,

" but   quite true for all that. However, instead

of supposing you to make the tour of the earth in an

instant, and so to see every hour of the day all at

once, let us imagine you to travel round     it  at the
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  331

rate of rather more than a thousand miles an hour.

Then as the earth is 24,900 miles round, you'd

complete your tour of it in exactly 24 hours,

which is just the same time, you know as the sun
appears to do the journey in. Let us imagine,

moreover, that you go from east to west, as he seems

to us to do --then what do you think would occur?

Why, instead of there being any sun-rise or sun-set
to you that day, or any morning, or evening, or

night, you would have one continuous noon through
out the 24 hours ; you would have no 1 o'olock, nor
2 o'clock, nor 3 o'clock, and so on, but one entire

day of 12 o'clock; for as the sun was on the meri

dian at the time you started, and we suppose you to
go right round the earth in precisely the same time

as he does, it is plain that you and he would cross
each fresh meridian exactly at the same moment, and
consequently, although one hour would have elapsed
when you both had travelled 15 degrees, there would
be nothing in the appearance of the heavens or the
earth to note any difference in the period of the
day. So that really, during those 24 hours, time
would have seemed to you to have stood still, and

when you returned you would have missed a morning

and an evening, and consequently have lost one

entire natural day as much as if it had never

existed."

    " Oh ! isn't it curious, sir ?" inquired the lad ;

I" but can see how it's done."
332 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

   " Yes, lad !" continued the Captain. " But come,

I think we understand now, Owen, that the world

is a great clock, marking a different hour at every
15 degrees of longitude, so that when it marks 12
o'clock with you, it is 1 o'clock at 15 degrees to
the east of you, and 11 o'clock at 15 degrees to

the west, and so on all round the world--the time
of every place being just an hour earlier or later,
according as it is that number of degrees eastward
or westward of another meridian. Well, then, lad,

since 1 hour of time is exactly equal to 15 degrees
of longitude,* it is plain that we can use this
difference of time between places having different
longitudes, to measure their distance to the east or
west of one another; for we have only to pro
vide ourselves with an accurate time-keeper, and
having marked the moment by it when a certain
star appears to cross the meridian of one place, then
to notice how much earlier or later the star seems to
pass over that of another, in order to find out

* A degree of longitude is divided into minutes and seconds,

like hours ; and therefore, as 15 degrees of longitude are equal
to 1 hour of time, 15 minutes, or 15 seconds of longitude must

be equal to 1 minute or 1 second of time. One degree of longi

                                                ;
                                                    1

                                                                    is,
tude is equal to 4 minutes of time. One degree of longitude

at the Equator, rather more than 69 miles long  minute of

longitude about mile 800 feet and second of longitude 101
;                               ;
                 1                           1
                        ;1
                             1
feet while hour of time corresponds to 1035 miles of space

at the equator                  minute of time to 17^ miles there and
                                                ;
                                                             1

second of time to about 1500 feet.
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  333

how many degrees of longitude the two places are

apart."

   " And is that the way you used to do it at sea,

sir?" asked Owen.
   " No, my boy, it was not quite so simple as that,"

answered the Captain. " You see, chronometers are

still too imperfect for us to trust entirely to, and we
therefore require some mode of determining our
longitude which is less liable to error, and upon
which the Captain of a vessel can securely stake the
lives of himself and crew, as well as the fortunes

of his employers. However well a chronometer may
go for a few hours, or even days, still during long
voyages, lasting for months and sometimes years,

a very slight irregularity becomes so magnified as to
make us seek for some more trusty guide than a
mere bit of clock- work to direct us across the seas.

It's true ships generally carry more than one

chronometer with them, so that each may check the
other. Still, sailors never rely on them alone. On
land it has been proposed to use a series of signals
 as a means of communicating the time from one

place to another -- such as letting off rockets at

 stated intervals ; but as these can be seen only at a
 distance of 50 or 60 miles, you can readily understand
 the large number of stations that would be required
 in order to propagate the true time at the place
 which the longitudes are reckoned from, over a small
 334 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

 however, others have proposed that geographers, and
 such as are interested in determining the longitude
 of different places, should avail themselves of natural
 ones, which are visible at once over a whole hemi

 sphere. Such natural signals are afforded us by

the eclipses of the moons to the planet Jupiter; and,
as the time at which these eclipses will be seen to
occur at Greenwich can be foretold by calculation
from previous observations, it is evident that they
may be used as a means of making known the true

time at Greenwich at the moment they are seen to

take place in any other part of the world. Accord
ingly, a person observing any one of these eclipses
from a distant place, and noting the moment of
time at which it was found to occur, might make
use of the predicted Greenwich time -- in the

same manner as if he had received a special com

munication, then and there, from the spot, telling
him the very hour, minute, and second that the
hands of the Greenwich clock were marking at that
particular instant. Then finding the difference
between that and his own time, he might at once
proceed to determine how many degrees longitude
he was to the east or west of the Greenwich

meridian."
   " This seems quite as clever as the way of finding

the latitude by the height of the Pole-star, or the

Isun at the time of its crossing the meridian, sir,"

remarked Owen. " never should have thought it
           A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.               335

                                                   it,
was possible to have a communication, as you call

from Greenwich while you were in the middle of

the sea."

" But you see, youngster,
                    ;                         quite possible,"

                       it

                             is

                             if

                                    it
                                          is
replied the Captain " and we hadn't some means

of telling what hour  by the Greenwich clock,

when we are hundreds of miles away from       it,  no

ship could traverse the sea in safety. However,  it

                                                     's

not by the eclipses of Jupiter's moons that sailors
ascertain their longitudes, for those eclipses happen

only at certain times, and even then you can't get 's
the longitude very precisely by that method. What

more, too, the observation cannot be well made at

sea. So we must find out some other means which

are of more regular occurrence, and which the sailor

can avail himself of almost every night."
    " wonder what they are," said the boy, half to

himself.

  "Well, lad," proceeded the old man, "if there
aI

          it
                      it

                                            a
                                                  a

                                                           a
                                                               is,

                                                                                      ;

                                                              it
was clock in the heavens with dial plate and

hands to always marking Greenwich time, the

longitude could easily be come at."              " but

   " Yes, of course could," exclaimed Owen

there isn't any such clock, sir."
   " Don't make quite so sure of that," interposed his

tutor. " Let us see what clock really consists of.

The dial-plate, you know, has set of marks upon

at equal distances, and the hands, by passing along
these, point out to us what the time or how many
 336 TRAVELLING AT THE BATE OF

 minutes have passed since we last looked at the

 dial-plate and found the hands in a certain position.
 If, however, the marks were placed not at equal, but

at unequal distances round the dial-plate -- and if the

 hands, instead of being in the centre, were put a

little bit on one side --and if again, instead of con

 tinuing to move round always at the same rate, the

hands went sometimes slower and sometimes quicker

than at others --still we should be able to tell what
time it was by such a clock quite as truly (though
perhaps with a little more trouble) provided in the

first place that we knew the precise distance between
the hour and minute marks ; and secondly, that we
knew exactly how much the hands were placed out
of the centre; and thirdly, that we were perfectly
conversant with the nature of the works, so as to
be able to tell with certainty at every moment at
what rate the hands were travelling, or, what is the
same thing, how far they would travel round the dial
in a certain time."

    " Yes ; but such a clock as that, sir, would be a
funny kind of time-piece, indeed," laughed the little
clockmaker. " With the hands going all askew and
running along sometimes, and creeping round at

others; and the hours too put round the dial-plate

all unevenly --why who 'd ever look at such a queer
thing?" and the boy, full of his knowledge of the
construction of dial-plates, and hands, and clock

work, chuckled immoderately at the idea of a time
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.                  337

piece so thoroughly different from all he had seen

and made.                        Captain,  " might be
    " Such a clock," smiled the  one, no
                                           doubt. If,
looked upon as a very poor

however, Owen, it was the only one we had to tell

the hour by, and if an immense amount of money

and thousands of lives depended on our having a
perfect knowledge of Greenwich time, we should
think it a most valuable boon, and consider no

labour thrown away that served to make us ac

quainted with the principle of its movements, or

that taught us how to read the Greenwich time by

it correctly. Well, the sky is the illuminated face

of the clock I've been speaking of ; the stars are the

hour and minute marks, set like jewels round the

dial-plate ; and the moon is the silver hand which,

though apparently moving always at the same rate,

is found when accurately watched to be travelling

quicker sometimes than at others --completing the

circuit of the starry dial in the period of a month ;
and gliding over some of the stars in her course, so

as to screen them from our sight, and skimming

beside and between others. Now, the moon's place

among the stars can at any period, when the

weather admits of the observation, be accurately

measured by an instrument called a sextant,* much

   * A sextant is an instrument like a quadrant, with a small
telescope placed where the eye-piece is in the latter instru-

                                                          Z
338 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

in the same way as we should measure by a pair of

compasses how far the hour hand of a dial is from any
of the figures placed around it ; and so we can find out

at any time, by the known rate of its travelling, the

precise moment of the day or night. Such, boy, is
what is called the lunar method of determining the
longitude ; for it is by studying the moon's motion

among the constellations that astronomers are able

to foretell with the greatest certainty --years even

before the time --the precise place that the moon will

be seen to occupy among the stars, from every part of

the earth at every moment, of every day, in every
year. This being done in true Greenwich time,

and the distance of the moon from the most conspi

cuous of the heavenly orbs calculated and published,
long beforehand, in Government books for the guide
of those traversing the seas, it is evident that directly

the Captain of a vessel measures with his sextant

the moon's distance from any of the ' longitude-stars'

(as they are called, from the fact of their position

Iin the sky having been determined for that purpose
with the greatest care) --directly,  say, he has

done this, and noted how many hours, minutes and

seconds it is after mid-day with him when he makes

the observation, he has indeed compared the time of

ment. The " limb, " or graduated arc on which the distances are

measured, consists of the sixth of a circle instead of the fourth,
and hence its name.
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  339

the part of the world which he may be in, with that

of Greenwich, and so determined his longitude east

or west of that place --from which all English longi
tudes are reckoned. And now you know, youngster,

how the latitude and longitude of places are made
out ; or, what is the same thing, you know how it 's

possible to tell the exact spot you are in, and
whither you are going, and how far you have

travelled, where there are neither milestones nor

sign-posts, nor indeed any mark on the earth to dis
tinguish one part of it from another."

   "Oh! thank you, sir," cried the little fellow.

I I" 'm sure shall never see the moon again floating
Iin the heavens, but shall think of the hundreds

of ships far away at sea, and how anxiously the
sailors are watching its path through the sky, and
measuring its distance from the different stars round

about it. But, Captain Jones," added the boy, after
a moment's pause, " you always speak of the sun
and stars appearing to go round the earth. I've

Iheard father, too, say that the earth itself turns

round, but never could make it out. I'm sure, if

Ithere is any believing one's eyes, see the sun rise

over towards Bronllys and set towards Builth
every day, so that it must go right across the sky."

    " Let us ascertain, then, in the first place," an
swered the sailor, " whether seeing is always

 believing, and whether our eyes may not deceive us
 sometimes, leading us to fancy things in motion

                                        z2
340 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

which we know to be positively at rest. Now, you
take this penny, Owen ; go to the end of the room

and hold it facing the window about a foot away
from you, so that it may be in a line with the bridge
of your nose ; then shut the right eye, and you will
see the penny with the left eye, in a line with the

right side of the window. After that, shut the left

eye and open the right at the same moment, and you
will see the coin appear to shift over from the right

to the left side of the window frame, so as to seem

to travel the entire width of the casement."

Owen made the experiment as directed, and
Icried out as he did so, " Oh ! yes, so it does,
Itdeclare. How very funny !
                             seems to me to

Ijump right over from one side to the other ; and as
   keep opening first one eye and then the other, the

penny appears to move backwards and forwards

just like what Mr. Wilkins calls ' the bob' to the

Ipendulum."   suppose," said the old man, " you
   " And yet

are thoroughly satisfied that the penny remained

in the same place all the while J"

  I" Oh ! yes, I'm sure of that," exclaimed the boy ;

" for held it tight."
   " Well, then, Owen," added the sailor, " you must

come to the conclusion that your eyes are not to be

trusted in this respect, and that things may appear

to you to move when you are certain they are

standing still. But now let us see how we know that
      A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  341

we are changing our place at any time. Of course

if we walk or run we are conscious that we are

moving by some effort of our own --though even

then we might be deceived. For if you were

aboard a ship that was sailing at the rate of three

knots an hour through the water, and you started

to walk from the head to the stern at precisely the

same rate as the vessel was travelling, you'd remain

exactly in the same place, and instead of going to

the stern, the stern would come to you, since you 'd

only prevent yourself being carried along with

the ship as it went. So, though you would have

appeared to have altered your place with regard to

the different parts of the vessel, you would really

have remained where you were, with regard to the

different objects outside of it. However, don't let

us trouble ourselves with this kind of motion, but

consider only what occurs when we are carried

along by some power other than our own. How are

we to tell we are moving then, supposing we close

our eyes, and so shut out all external objects from

us?"
I I" should know very well was going along by
Ithe jerks and jolts
                      should feel on the road,"

answered the boy, sharply.

   " Ah, but suppose the road was perfectly even,"
added the Captain, " and the conveyance we were

travelling in was perfectly silent. How would you
tell then I"
342 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

  I" Why, should know by the air blowing against
Imy face as went through it," replied Owen.

   "Yes," went on the old man ; "but if the air

travelled with you as it does when you pull the

windows up in a carriage, would you have any

sense of it then, think you V

   " Well, no, sir," said the lad, after a few moments'

I Ireflection ; " don't think could tell in such a
Icase as that -- at least, if wasn't allowed to look at

the things outside."                            the
   " No, my boy, you could not tell," returned  the

sailor. "You would know certainly when

conveyance moved on, or when it stopped, or if it

turned a sharp corner ; for all these would be alter

ations in the uniformity of your motion, which

your senses could give you positive evidence of,
since you would be jerked back in the one case,
forward in the other, and on one side in the third.

But if the movement was perfectly steady, and

maintained always in the same direction, and at the

same speed, there would be nothing but external
objects to guide you. Now this is exactly what
occurs in the cabin of a large vessel going smoothly
through the sea. Not a thing tells us there of the

way we are making, unless, indeed, we listen to the
sound of the water rippling past the sides of the

ship. There we read, we sit, we walk, as on land.

If a ball be thrown straight up, it falls back in the

hand ; if dropped, it lights at the feet. Insects buzz
          A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUK.  343

around us, the same as if we were sitting still

in the open air ; and the smoke ascends from

our cigar in the same manner as it would on
shore. If, however, we go on deck, the case is

altered. The air, not travelling with us, drifts back

the smoke from the galley fire and the streamers

from the mast-head, as well as any light object, such

as feathers, that may be cast over the ship's sides,

though really these remain at rest, and we leave them

behind. In the case of the movement of the earth,

however, we must remember that it is a motion
pervading the whole -- a motion common not only to

the solid mass beneath, but also to the ocean which

a                          as well as the air that rests upon it,

                     it,
flows around

and the clouds that float above it. Then, as such

  motion --in which all things connected with the
earth partake alike --would displace no object,

and interfere with no natural processes, nor produce

any shocks or jerks, or tossings from one side to the

other,  it       plain that we might be utterly uncon

             is

scious of it. Since all things on the surface would

maintain the same places one among another, we

could have no more sense of         than if we were
                           is
                                it
travelling in balloon, where the motion, even in
it

     is
                        a
the most furious hurricane, so imperceptible, that

        impossible to tell whether we are rising or

sinking, or which way we are drifting, excepting by
pieces of paper thrown over from the car. Well,

then, as  it       only by external objects that we can

               is
344 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

gain a knowledge of our change of place when the
motion is equable and steady, let us turn our eyes
to the heavens, and see what they will tell us upon

this matter."

"Of course, sir, if the earth moves altogether,
"Iand goes on always steadily," said Owen,
                                            don't

see how we are to know whether it 's moving or

not. But how could the motion of the earth make

                          o'

                                it,
the sun and stars appear to go over as they doV

  If" you 'd ever been on board ship, lad," replied

the seaman, " and looked over the side of the vessel,

you have seen the water hurrying past in an

opposite direction --this alone appearing to move,
is                                     it

     it 'dwhile the vessel itself seemed positively motion

          is ;less. Itthe same with the log when cast upon
                is
the sea though you know to remain where
                          '

                                it
                                                     is it
                                                               is it
thrown, still, you cannot but believe       to be

carried by currents rapidly away from the ship.

But when the cry of A man overboard' raised,

and you catch sight of the poor fellow in the water
before the sails are put aback, that the illusion

most complete for, though you see him struggling
                    's ;
towards the vessel, he appears to be drifting fast

astern, as if hurried from the hull by some adverse

torrent. It at such times as these, Owen, that

the illusion becomes more strongly impressed on
the mind, because, being anxious for the poor fellow

to near the vessel, we are more particularly alive to
the appearance of his being carried from it."
       A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.                                        345

  I" dare say, sir," said the youth, in a piteous voice.

   " Again, boy," went on the tutor, " when sailing
near the shore, the whole line of coast, with its

cliffs, trees, meadows, and buildings, appear to be

gliding past us, while we seem to be standing still ;

for since the different parts of the vessel always

keep the same position with regard to ourselves, we

fancy them to be at rest, and the motionof the ship

to be transferred to the objects outside of and

that in the opposite direction to its own. In
a
              ;
                      if,

                                                is
                                                                it it,
railway carriage, too, the same illusion may be

noticed for while the train darting along, we

fix our eye upon some object midway between and

the distance, the whole landscape will seem to be

thrown into rotation, and the trees, and hedges,

and houses, to move round that object as a centre--

the fields in the foreground appearing to rush rapidly

backwards, or the contrary way to the one we are

travelling, and the hills in the distance to be carried

gently forwards in the same direction as ourselves."

" But  there any reason for all these strange
       is
things, sir inquired the boy.
          ?"

                                          is

                                                                a

                                                          is

                                                        it
" We are coming to that, youngster," replied the
Captain. " You see, motion
                               not perception of

our senses, but an inference drawn by a rapid pro
cess of reasoning whenever external objects appear

to change their places with regard to ourselves.

Then, as this apparent change of place the same,

whether we or the objects themselves move,
346 TRAVELLING AT THE BATE OF

becomes difficult to tell whether they or ourselves
are really in motion. Accordingly, when we form
part of a large moving mass, such as a ship or the
earth, and the things immediately round about us
maintain the same position with respect to our
selves, we are deprived of our ordinary means of
judging, and so cannot help fancying that we are

at rest--ascribing the seeming alteration of posi

tion among distant objects to some motion of their

own."

  "I Ithink can make out what you mean, sir,"

said Owen. " When we are moving along by our

selves, the objects nearest to us seem to go the quickest

past us. But if we are carried forwards with a

number of other things, so that what is nearest to us
appears to stand still, then we fancy we are standing
still too, and that the things in the distance are
going on instead of us."

    " Exactly so, my boy," replied the sailor ; " for
it's by these near objects we always judge whether
we are moving or not. Suppose you are in a
large wood, where, look which way you will, you
can see nothing but trunks of trees, one after another

as far as your eye can carry you. Well, if you were

to move but a few paces then, you'd find a great
change in the apparent places of all the nearer
trunks, both with respect to yourself and among
one another. Some of the trunks which previously
hid those behind them from your view would seem
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  347

to pass from before the others, and allow the hinder
ones to come into sight ; others, that you could
before see the light between, would appear to glide
one over the other, and to shut out the more distant
ones ; while among the trunks in the extreme dis
tance, you would observe no great change of position."

  I I" Oh, remember, when 've been to the spruce

I Iplantation down at Llangoed with father," ex

claimed the lad, " 've seen the trees, as walked

along, move all round about me. I've watched

them often and often, and wondered whatever could

make them do so."

   " Well, youngster, if you '11 wait a few minutes,

I '11 tell you," added the old man. " Now, if you

had walked along through the wood in a straight
line, and noticed well what occurred, you would
have found that the trunks on the right and left
hand of you would have seemed to have moved
backwards as you went forwards; those that were
the nearest to you on your right or left would have

appeared to have receded the farthest, and the more

distant ones to have gone back only a short way ;
while those right before you would have remained in
the same line as they were at first, but seemed to have

grown bigger and bigger as you approached them ;

and those right behind you to have kept in the same
line as before, but to have become smaller and smaller

as you went from them. Well, Owen, the reason
348 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

with our eye is referred by us to some point of our

horizon --which, you know, is a circle having always

ourselves, or rather our eye, for its centre; and as,

when we move along, our horizon shifts --for we

carry with us, remember, the circle limiting our

view--the points on the horizon, to which we refer

near objects, appear to revolve about the objects

themselves as centres--the swiftness with which

they seem to do this being according to their near
ness to us."

   Then the old man directed Owen how to describe

the following diagram.
      A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUE.              349

" Now, to make the matter clearer to you," went

on the Captain, as soon as the diagram was finished,
" we '11 suppose the five dots here in a straight line

to be the trunks of five trees in a wood, and the

last of them to be in the extreme distance. Well,

before proceeding in the direction shown by the
if,

              ;

                          if,
arrow on the left, you were to look along those

trees, the first would appear to cover all the others,

and exclude them from your sight. But as you

journeyed through the wood, the trees would begin

to separate, each becoming visible to you, one after

another so that when you had gone a few paces,
you looked back towards them in the manner

represented by the eye at the top of the drawing,

they would no longer appear hidden by the front

one, but seem to have spread wide apart, and to

have travelled backwards along the circle of the

horizon as you went forwards, the nearest tree

appearing to have moved the greatest distance, and

the most remote to have, comparatively, stood still.

That  to say, the dot or tree marked  would
a
     is

                         a
                                         1;

                                                     2,

                                                 it I,

                                                                                       1;
have seemed, as you journeyed from one point of

sight to the other, to have passed along the arc of

the horizon from V to          for instead of appearing

in line with the most remote tree at V, would

IIthen appear in line with the point marked
while the tree marked          would seem to have

moved from the point V to      and so on, each
  350 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

 a smaller arc of the circle, till the tree marked
 V, or that in the extreme distance, would seem to

  have remained, as nearly as possible, in the same spot.
 This is what is called parallax.* If, however, we
 imagine the first tree to stand for the mast of some
 ship we are sailing in, then, as this will travel with

 us, going forwards as we go, and always maintaining

 the same position with regard to ourselves --as indi
 cated by the dotted lines in the drawing--we shall

    * Parallax is simply the apparent change of place in an object,
 which arises from a real change of place in a spectator-- that is
 to say, it is the different direction an object is seen in from
 a different point of sight. The apparent motion of a near object
 on viewing it with first one eye and then the other, as with the
 penny before described, is due solely to this cause ; for looking at
 the same boject with the other eye, is merely regarding it from

 another point of sight, and the effect is the same whether the

Jdifference between the points of sight amount only to 2 inches

 (as with the two eyes, when the observer is stationary and uses
 each of them successively) or to some hundred feet, as repre
 sented by the two eyes in the diagram -- where the observer is
 supposed to have moved on some considerable distance. The
 same principle, carried out to the stars as seen from different
 parts of the earth, is one of the most important laws in Astro

nomy. Let us suppose the dot IV in the engraving to represent,

instead of a tree, some planet as seen from the earth's centre by
the lower eye, and the point 4 the direction in which this same
planet would be seen by an observer on the earth's surface as
represented by the upper eye, then the difference between the ap
parent positions of this body, when viewed from the surface of
the earth and its centre, would be what is called the planet's

"parallax" and be equal to the arc or portion of the circle
contained between V and 4 ; that is to say, this is the distance

the planet would appear to have been displaced.
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR  351

be deprived of the principal means of judging of
our motion ; accordingly, perceiving that the object

nearest to us stands still, instead of travelling past
us at the greatest rate of all, we shall believe that
we ourselves have not moved, and that the apparent
change of place among the more distant objects

proceeds from some motion of their own. In the

same manner, too, as we are led to believe things to
be moving that are really at rest by transferring our
own motion to them in the contrary direction, so we

may be induced to fancy we ourselves are going on in
a certain line when we are positively standing still, by
transferring to ourselves the motion of some ob
ject travelling in the opposite line. Thus we can be
made to imagine that we are being carried forward
by the mere sight of something moving backward
to us. This is frequently the case with passengers
in a railway carriage on seeing another train come
in at the moment they are expecting to start. No

 sooner are the other carriages seen to move past

their own in the opposite direction to the one they
 are about to travel in, than (the effects being the

 same whether they are carried past the others or
 the others past them) all feel themselves to be

 moving, and a cry is raised of 'Now we're off'

IWell, Owen, think we understand, after all this,

 that we have no positive sense of motion in our
 selves when we are carried along steadily in one
 direction, and that, under such circumstances, it is
it ;352 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF
           it,
merely by the apparent change of place among
                                                                     isexternal objects with respect to us, we come to the
conclusion that we are in motion. We understand,

too, that when the things immediately round about
us are carried along with us, we are deprived of our
ordinary means of judging, and not only believe
ourselves to be at rest, but fancy our own motion to
be transferred to remote objects and that in the

opposite direction."

  I" Yes, sir, understand all that perfectly," said

the boy.

    "Now, Owen, let us suppose," proceeded the
Captain, "the earth to turn round, and see what

would happen. In the first place it is clear that

we, and every one else, would be unable to perceive

any motion in for our horizon --the circle limit
ing our view --being carried round with us, would,

so long as we remained in the same place, constantly
comprise the same objects, and be itself bounded by
precisely the same distant hills and plains. We

should have the same landscape continually before
our eyes there would be the same river running
through always in the same direction, the same
woods pluming the same fields, the same mountains
piercing the sky from the same spot, the same
homesteads studding the same plains, and the wind

mill on the hill always at the same point -- that

to say, the various objects round about us, which
serve us for landmarks, would always retain with
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.            353

respect to us and themselves the same invariable

situations --the east and west, like the north and

south, ever lying over against the same parts of the

distance. Then the perfect evenness and regularity

of the motion of so large a mass --a motion which it

would be impossible to feel, and which, from all

things immediately around us partaking in it alike,

it would be impossible also to infer from any change
among the objects on the earth --all would naturally

prevent us having any suspicion that we and every

thing about us, which appeared so still, were con
tinually shifting our places with regard to the
centre of the earth itself. When, too, we directed

our attention to objects not participating in our

motion, such as the sun and stars, we should un

wittingly transfer our own movement to them in

a contrary direction, and so they would seem to be

constantly moving round us rather than we round

them."

  I" Yes, can see now, sir," remarked the lad, " that

the appearance would be all the same whether the

earth went round the sun or the sun round the

earth. But, Captain Jones, if it would be all the

same, why should they want to make out that the

earth goes round the sun?"           reasons," re
   " Why, my boy, there are several
                                     more likely
plied the old man; "for that being

than the sun and stars moving round the earth.

AA
354 TRAVELLING AT THE HATE OF

so as to admit of the stars being fixed to its surface ;

for as they always keep the same places among
themselves, and form precisely the same figures, night

after night, it is evident we must, if we suppose

them to go round the earth, believe them to be
fastened in some way or other to the heavens, in order

to prevent any derangement occurring among them.
Again, the enormous rate that the sun and stars
must travel at in order to complete their revolutions
about the earth in the course of 24 hours, is beyond
all belief. The sun, for instance, we know to be

95 millions of miles removed from us, therefore if

it revolved about the earth day after day, the dia
meter of the orbit it would describe being no less
than 190 millions of miles, the length of the entire
 distance it would have to travel from noon to
 noon again would be more than thrice that extent, or
 as much as 595 millions of miles; consequently, to
complete such a circuit in the course of 24 hours, it
 must move, at the very least, at the rate of 24 millions
 of miles every hour. Whereas, in the case of some of

 the fixed stars, whose distances have been found to

 be upwards of 650 thousand times our own distance
 from the sun,* they would have to move at the
 enormous rate of about 4000 millions of miles per

    * The above is  btheeakmoefas"utrheemSenwtaonf,"Bewshsieclh,  from the parallax
of the star in the                                                is the constellation

at the fork of the Milky Way.
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  355

second in order to travel round the earth once every
24 hours. If, however, we suppose the earth to
turn round on its axis once in the same time, the

parts at the equator, where the motion would be

the most rapid, need move only at the rate of 1035

Jmiles an hour, or 17 miles a minute ; and this not

only agrees with the facts observed respecting the
difference of gravity at the equator and the poles,*
and fully accounts for all the appearances of the

   * The difference of gravity at the equator and the poles has
been shown, by accurate observations with the pendulum, to
amount to one 194th part of the entire weight of all bodies ; that
is to say, 194 lbs. at the equator would weigh 195 lbs. at the poles.
Supposing the earth, however, to move round, the difference in
the weight of bodies arising from the different rates of motion at

the equator and the poles, should amount to only one 289th part
of the whole; that is to say, 289 lbs. at the equator should weigh
290 lbs. at the poles. The observed loss of weight therefore is
one 590th part more than what should arise from the different
rates of motion. But the polar diameter of the earth is one
300th part shorter than the equatorial diameter ; consequently

objects at the poles would be so much nearer the centre to which

all gravity tends. Now it is found by calculation that owing to
the flattened form of the earth, the attraction at the poles would
be exactly one 590th part more than at the equator ; and this,
with the increase of one 289th part arising from the slower rate
of motion there, makes up exactly the total increase of one
pound weight in every 194 lbs, which has been proved byobserva-
tion to occur in all bodies going from the equator to the poles.
Therefore, as the loss of weight at the equator is made up of two
items, and one of these items exactly corresponds with the loss

that would ensue (owing to the parts travelling at a greater rate
there) were the earth in motion, we are thus furnished with a
convincing proof that it dots move.

                               A A2
356 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

heavens, but is the only supposition upon which we
can explain the movements of the sun and moon
as well as those of the planets among the constel

lations."

   " But what are the movements you speak of, sir?"

asked the boy; "and how do they prove that the

earth really moves, and not the stars J"

  " Well, youngster," replied the Captain, "if ail

the heavenly bodies invariably preserved the same
place among one another ; that is to say, like the
                                        a if,
landmarks on the earth, they always kept exactly

the same distances and bearings, perhaps then we
might come to the conclusion that the earth was

at rest in the centre of the universe, with hollow

crystalline sphere rotating about  it,  and carrying

the sun, moon, and stars, somehow or other, along

with round the globe day after day. But all
it                                             if

     athe heavenly bodies do not continually preserve the

same places among one another; and      if  some of

them appear to move in a contrary direction to the

general course, so that while the rest are being

borne forward day after day, from east to west, these

appear to be constantly changing their places

with respect to the others, and to travel among

them in backward or westward direction, we must

at once abandon the supposition of a solid sky

carrying the heavenly bodies round with     it,  and

admit that some of the orbs above us have move

ments peculiar to themselves."
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOTJR.  357

   " Are there, then, any heavenly bodies, as you say,

moving the contrary way to the others, Captain
Jones?" inquired Owen.

    " Yes, boy," added the old man. " Some of the
most conspicuous of them are continually changing
their places amongst the rest. The fixed stars, as
they are called, are so named simply because they
always appear to maintain the same position with
respect to each other, and to form now-a-days
precisely the same figures with those near them as
history tells us they did centuries ago. But, besides
those, there is a class of heavenly bodies termed

I' planets or wandering stars, which for the most part

appear to the naked eye only as the largest and most

brilliant stars; n ow these, iftheir places among the other

stars be noted and pricked on a chart of the heavens
from time to time, will be found to make, like the

sun and moon, a complete tour of the constellations
in different periods ; and to do this too in the contrary
direction to the apparent daily movement of the
entire firmament, so that while being carried forward
like the rest from east to west, they appear to move

also backwards, from west to east, among the others,
returning after a longer or shorter interval to the
same part of the heavens as they previously set out

from. Now, it is from their continual change of
place in the heavens, that these bodies have been
denominated, in contradistinction to the fixed stars,

the erratic stars, or wanderers ; for that is the literal
358 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

meaning of the Greek word which they derive their
name of 'planet1 from."*

   " Oh ! then there are wandering stars as well as

fixed stars in the heavens," interposed the lad.

I" But how am to tell a planet from a fixed star,

Iwhen see one, Captain Jones?"
   " Why, my boy," returned the Captain, " a planet
doesn't appear to twinkle as the fixed stars do.

IWe can't talk though about the planets now. But

as was saying, these planets have a movement
proper or peculiar to themselves, and not only they

but the sun and moon also. With the moon,

indeed, the change of place is so rapid and re
markable, that her alteration of position, with
respect to such bright stars as happen to be near
her, may be noticed any fine night in a few hours ;

and if her position among the constellations be

observed on two nights following, her different
situation among them cannot fail to be immediately
evident to us. Again, the sun's apparent backward
motion in the heavens is constant and rapid, though,
owing to the stars being invisible to the naked eye
in the daytime, this is not so readily perceived, but
requires a telescope to be used, and the observations

to be continued for a longer time, in order that it
may be detected. If, however, we bear in mind that
the sun's altitude at noon-day in summer is greater

                            * irXavrjrrig, a wanderer.
            A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  359

than at noon-day in winter, and that the stars

which are visible to us at night vary with the

season of the year, we shall be convinced that a

great change must be continually going on with

respect to the sun's place among the constellations."

  I" But, sir," again interposed the boy, " can't

make out how you can tell that the sun and moon

Iand planets go backwards as well as forwards
every day.  can't make out how the earth turn

ing round can make them appear to go two dif
Iferent ways at once.
                       understand quite well that

if we fancy the earth to move from west to east, it

will account for the stars seeming to go the contrary

way. But, if that 's the case, how can the motion

of the earth make the sun appear to move in two
different directions at the same time V

" Why, lad," responded the sailor, " you must bear

in mind that the earth not only turns round on its

axis like your peg-top when it 's spinning, but it
moves round the sun as well, just in the same

manner as your top sometimes does when it

describes a circle as it skims over the ground.
Now the two motions of the earth --its daily motion

round its axis, and its yearly motion round the sun

--are both performed in the same direction--viz.,

from west to east, or contrary to the way the hands

of a clock move; so that when the earth is at any
it                                                                                               360 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

            !a                                                                                   in the opposite part of and while the earth
                                                                                                 travelling in one direction through the owe-half of
                                    !" is                                                        the circle, the sun will appear to be journeying the
                                        it,                                                      contrary way through the other half, just in the same
                                                                                                 manner as the trees in the wood appeared to go
                                                 it,                                             backwards as you went forwards. But since the

                                                                                             11 ;earth in passing along opposite halves of the circle
                                                                                                 must itself travel in opposite directions, going along
                                                           it                                    one half from left to right, and along the other
                                                                                                 from right to left, the sun will consequently appear
                                                       I'                                        to travel round the ecliptic in the same direction as

                                                                       it 11 is                  the earth itself."

                                                                                                    " But it's very strange, isn't sir," remarked the
                                                                                                 lad, " that the sun should appear to travel the same

                                                                                                 way as the earth round the heavens every year, while

                                                                                                 he seems every day to be going the opposite way?"
                                                                                                     " Now, you run into the back room and bring

                                                                                                 me that big atlas," said the old man " and there

                                                                                                 show you the line of stars that the sun appears to
                                                                                                 travel through every year. You' understand the

                                                                                                 matter much better then."

                                                                                                     The little fellow soon reappeared carrying the

                                                                                                 huge volume on top of his head--for was too
                                                                                                 large to put under his arm -- and having placed

                                                                                                 on the table, the old man wheeled his chair up to
                                                                                                     and turned to the plate he had mentioned, of

                                                                                                 which representation here annexed.
                                                                                                    " Oh how beautiful cried Owen, directly the

                                                                                                 book was opened. " Why there are all kinds of
362 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

" Yes, my boy," smiled the Captain," they are

the figures the old shepherd-astronomers fancied the

different groups of stars to resemble. This line

with the degrees marked along           and going right' it,
                                             is '
through the figures, the 'ecliptic,' or the path
                            is '
that the sun appears to take every year throughis

the constellations. Only one half of this belt of

stars visible at the same time, and in 12 hours
''
afterwards the other half comes into view. The
  is

             '
brightest of the constellations lie between 'the

Bull and the Scorpion.'                 In the neck of the
                                                   '

Bull may be seen the Pleiades,' or Seven Sisters,'

while in his head a star of the first magnitude,'

called 'Aldebaran.'* In the head, too, of one of

'the Twins,' another of the brightest stars, termed

 Castor.' A third very brilliant star, named Be
'                                                  ''

                    ' a is
gums, appears in the forepart of the body of the

Lion and fourth, styled Spica,' visible in 'the'

Virgin' --at the ear of corn she holds; while fifth
                                                   a

denominated Antares,' may be observed in the body

of 'the Scorpion.' Now, you must imagine the ecliptic,

or circle drawn through the stars here, to be 596

million miles round, and 190 million miles across,

   * In the head of the Bull the Hyadcs --a cluster of Beven
stars, not so close together as the Pleiades -- may be seen. Of
these Aldebaran the name of the principal star, as Alcyon
the name of the brightest star in the Pleiades. Aldebaran much
larger than Alcyon, being of the first magnitude, while the other

   only of the third.
is
                            is

                                                                                             is
                                                                                                       is
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUB.  363

with the sun in the centre, and the earth, at any
point of the circle to be 95 millions away from
him, and travelling round the sun once in the course
of the year."

   "And that circle, you say, sir, is 596 million

miles round!" cried the boy, in utter bewilderment

Iat the figures. " That must be a long way, indeed,

for a million is a great number, know."
   " Yes, Owen," returned his tutor ; " it 's such a

number, that supposing you were to set to work to
reckon it up one by one, and to go on as fast as the

clock ticks, day after day without any sleep, it

would take you very nearly 19 years before you
were able even to count the number of miles that

the earth travels round the sun yearly."

   " Indeed ! indeed !" exclaimed the lad. " And the
earth goes all that number of miles in one year?"

   "Yes," replied the Captain. "But while the
earth is doing this, it seems to stand still, and the

sun, Owen, appears to make the tour of the constel
lations you see here in the direction of the arrows,
travelling round them from west to east in the
course of the year ; so that, the circle being divided

into 360 parts, he appears to do rather less than one
degree a day ; or, since each of the constellations
consists of 30 degrees, he passes from one group of

stars to the next every month. Now, lad, to make
you understand how it is that the sun appears to
travel round these stars every year in the contrary
364 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE OF

direction to that which he appears to travel round

our globe every day, let us suppose the earth to be
at the sign of ' the Bull,' then, of course, the sun

would be seen by us in the direction of the dotted

line, appearing as if he was at the sign of 'the

Scorpion.' But the earth travelling onward in the
direction of the arrow would, in the course of time,

reach the sign of 'the Crab,' when the sun would
appear in the direction of the other dotted line over
against the sign of 'the Goat'; so that while the earth
was travelling in one direction along one half of the
ecliptic, the sun would appear to move in the
opposite direction along the opposite half. When,
however, the earth reaches the sign of 'the Scorpion,'
the sun will seem to be in the sign of 'the Bull'; and
when the earth is at the sign of 'the Goat,' the sun,
on the other hand, will seem to be at the sign of 'the
Crab,' so that at this period the earth will be travel
ling in the apparent direction of the sun at the
former period of the year, while the sun on the
other hand will appear to move in the former direc
tion of the earth ; consequently, the sun's apparent
motion round the ecliptic every year will be from west
to east, or the same way as the earth travels round

    while his apparent daily motion will be from east

to west, or contrary to the way the earth revolves on
its axis. And now, Master Owen, you are not the
sharp little fellow take you for, this matter isn't

as plain to you as the mountain yonder."
it,

             I

                                        if
           A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.                          365

   "Oh! that it Captain Jones," cried the boy;

" and whenever look at the stars, am sure shall
                 I           it I I
                        is,           I

                                                  it

                                                                 's
think of all you have said to me about them, and

thank you for too."it

   " Well, lad," added the Captain, " 've told you allit

about the earth now. You know how to measure
 --how to tell where you are upon --and how

proved to be turning round and round on its axis
at the rate of a thousand and odd miles an hour,

though appears to be standing still with us."
         is it
    " But    it  moving so quick as that, if you please,

sir?" said the boy, still eager for fresh wonders.

    " To be sure
         ;                   at the equator," answered the

                    it

                   is,I
Captain " for didn't explain to you that the earth

had been found, by the most accurate measurement of

the length of the degrees of latitude in different coun

tries, to be exactly 7925 miles across the equator, and

if that number of miles across there, must be
it

    is

                  it a
                                          if
                                                    it
                                                       's it
exactly 24,899 round. Then, again,                          so many

miles round at the equator, and revolves once
every 24 hours, common rule of three sum will

tell us how fast must go every hour; and thus
we find that all things upon the surface of the earth

at the equator must be travelling round and round

at the rate of 1035 miles an hour at the least."

    "Dear! dear! 1035 miles an hour!" echoed the

lad; "and that's much, much quicker than the

                             it,
                                               it
railway train goes, isn't sir?"                    would take
   " Why, yes," smiled the sailor, "
366 TRAVELLING AT THE BATE OF

the quickest train -- and that 's the express, which
travels at the rate, generally, of 45 miles in the
hour--just one day to go as far as a tree, or a house,
or a man does at the equator in one hour, and that

even while they appear to stand still."
   " And what rate are we travelling at in this room

if you please, sir ?" inquired the delighted boy.

  I" Well, you see," returned the old man, " the

earth is spinning round on its poles like, as said

before, a huge peg-top leaning over on one side, and

the parts where it 's biggest round travel quickest, of
course ; while the rate of motion in all other places is

according to their distance from the axis, or line
connecting the point on which it turns. Now, as
the equator is very nearly twice as far as we are

from this same line running right down from one

pole to the other, why it is plain that the parts of

the earth there must travel very nearly twice as

fast as they do here : so, as they are going at the

rate of 1000 and odd miles an hour, we can be

doing only about 580 miles in the same time."
    " Only 580 miles an hour !" cried Owen, in utter

astonishment at the fact ; " and yet we seem to be
sitting quite still here, sir, with the room and every

thing about us all steady too."
    " Yes, as still and steady," added the Captain,

I" as if you were in the cabin of a large vessel, Owen.

And what is the earth, lad, as said before, but the
good ship we 're sailing in through the universe --
A THOUSAND MILES AN HOUR.  367

bound round the sun --and going along so smoothly
on her course that, as we sit here in one of the

' berths,' we are unconscious of there being any
' way' at all upon the vessel. On deck too, out in
the open air, it 's all the same so long as we keep
our eyes on the parts of the ship itself ; but imme

diately we look over the sides --and the horizon is
but the gun'ale of our vessel --we see the blue tide

of the great ocean around us go drifting by the
 ship, and sparkling with its million stars as the
 waters of the sea itself sparkle at night between

 the tropics."

    "And is 580 miles an hour much swifter than

 anything goes in moving from one part of the earth

 to another?" inquired Owen, anxious to come at some

 more definite notion as to the rate he was being

 continually carried along.

    " In a violent storm," responded the sailor, " the

 wind is reckoned to travel about 70 miles an hour;

  so you see the earth in these parts goes 8 times as fast

  as a gale of wind ; but a cannon ball, at its greatest
  speed, flies at the rate of 480 miles an hour through

 the air ; therefore you and I, and everything about

  us here, are constantly travelling through space

  nearly one fourth quicker than if we had been shot

  from the mouth of a cannon."

     " Oh, goodness !" ejaculated the little fellow, "it's

  enough to take our breath away, Captain Jones,

  isn't it?-- if we only felt it."
368 TRAVELLING AT THE RATE, ETC.

   " But this is nothing at all, boy," proceeded the

Isailor, "compared with the rate the earth travels

round the sun every year; for, you remember, told
you before, that the length round the earth's orbit
--that is its course round the sun --is 596 millions
of miles, and as the earth does this in the course of

twelvemonths, you would find, if you calculated it,

that it must be flying through space at the rate of
rather more than 68,000 miles an hour, which is about
1000 and odd miles a minute. So you see the

earth travels round the sun more than 60 times as

quick as the surface at the equator travels round
the earth's axis."

    " More than a thousand miles a minute !" mused

the wonder-stricken lad.

   Owen's astonishment, however, was cut short by
the Captain exclaiming, " But here's the dinner !" as
the housekeeper entered to lay the tablecloth.
               CHAPTER XIII.

            THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

On his return home from the Captain's, Owen
heard that his father had at length obtained a
situation for him. Davy Evans had been over to
Builth market that day, and having learnt there
that farmer Powell on the Hills was in want of a lad
to tend his sheep, he had agreed with the farmer that
Owen should go to him upon trial.

   The boy could think of little else that night ; for,
much as he wanted to be at work, now that the
moment had come for him to leave home, for the
first time in his life, the little fellow could hardly
bear the thoughts of parting with all he knew and
loved, and taking up his abode at a strange place,
with strange faces about him ; so he remained
awake, wondering what kind of people "the Powells"
were, and how often he would be allowed to go
home, and whether the farmer was a kind man or
not, and what would become of little Peggy and old

                                            BB
370 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

then, he thought to himself, to keep the boys on the
common from throwing stones at the donkey, and no

one to gather cobnuts for his sister's squirrel, or

to collect fresh moss for its bed. As the boy ran
over all his sorrows at leaving home, his pillow
grew wet with his tears, and the stars shone in at
his window unheeded by him ; for it was late in the

night before he had wept himself to sleep.
   As soon as Owen heard old Jack's bray at the

kitchen door the next morning, he hurried down,

ifand began telling the pet brute all his grief, as

it could understand and sympathize with him.
   " So, my poor Jacky," cried the boy, as he tock

out to the animal a thick slice of bread and butter,

well browned on the top with sugar, "you're going
to lose your best friend, you are. Who '11 put you

your nice clean straw and houze you when the cold

nights come, old fellow 1 Ah ! Jack, you '11 be

left out on the common with the snow on the

Iground when I'm gone ; for Hugh doesn't care a

bit about you, as do. But I'll speak to father, and

ask him to think of you when the frost is very sharp
and the wind's so keen it's like to blind one as it blows

across the hills ; though you 're a knowing fellow

enough to go under a hedge, if they do forget you.

Then your coat, which I've got so clean and smooth

Inow, will be left to go all wild, and shall come
Iback and find it as ragged as a beggar's, and all full

of thistle-heads, know ; for father, you see, Jack,
THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.                         371

has something else to do than to curry-comb you

Ievery day ; so you '11 have to look after yourself then,

old thing. But tell you what, Jacky, if any of

those boys try to tie any furze-bushes to your tail, do
you kick out well behind, and that will frighten

them ; for they are only cowards that teaze gentle

old things like you. People say you are obstinate,

and will do only as you like ; but let us try to make

them go a way they don't want, and see if they Ve

not quite as stubborn as you are; and, would be

Iworse, dare say, only they can't suffer as you can.

I J IWhy, remember, ack, before was big enough to

take care of you, the boys used to thrust spikes into

you, and yet you wouldn't move a foot. Wouldn't

they have run, though, if any one had served them
the same way ! Ah ! you 're a brave old thing, you

are, and can bear pain without flinching, and mak

                    it,

                         I
                               ;I
                                   I

                                              I
ing a noise about   as we do.            never thought

loved you, Jack, as much as do and shall miss

you--perhaps more than you will me-- when I'm

away." And as he said so, the boy threw his arms

about the creature's neck, and hugged him to him,

while the fond animal rubbed his head against

Owen's side as he really understood all that had
                    if

                        I

                                      ;

                               I
been said to him.

   " Oh Jack, Jack, wish could take you with
me," cried the little fellow " for I'm going to farm
I                                        a
                 !
                                                      ;
house, and you 'd get plenty of beans and corn there

for 'm sure you must be tired of that grass on the

                    b
                       b
                             2
372 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

I Icommon by this time. But, never mind, old pet ;

when come home, '11 always bring you a pocket

I Ifull of nice things, and then wont you be pleased

to see me. But must go now, Jacky ; 've got

Imy bundle of things to make up. shall see you on
Ithe common as go by, and be able to give you

a last hug." And the boy squeezed the pet brute

to him once more, the tears starting to his eyes the

while.

    Then suddenly turning from the animal, Owen

closed the hatch, and proceeded to take a parting
glance at his other pet, the squirrel.

   Opening the door of the cage, he let the pretty
little thing loose into the room, and seated him
self in a chair while he watched the tiny creature
run up his legs to get the nut he held out for it.
As the squirrel sat upright on the boy's knee, hold
ing the nut between its paws, and nibbling away

the rind till the kernel was white and round as a
little billiard ball, Owen chattered to it as he
had previously done to Jack. "Ah ! Skuggy,

Iwhat will become of you, too, when 'm gone 1

Who '11 give you your milk of a morning, sir ; and
who'll fill your cage with fresh moss ; who'll give you
nice bits of twig to gnaw, too, and watch you, as you
peel the bark off, hold them up to your mouth, for

all the world as if you were playing the flute 1 And

who '11 be here, then, Skuggy, to stop wicked little
Peggy pulling your bed about, and making you angry;
   THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.               373

for you can't bear any one to touch your moss, can you,

little darling 1 But she likes to do to make Skuggy
                       I
                                        it,
bark, and see him thrust his pretty little pink nose

up to the bars. When 'm gone, too, Skug, you '11

have no more balls of string to play with, and to pat

from one side of the room to the other, like little
                                             ;a
kitten, as you do and you nibble the things
                  ;

                           if

then, there will be nobody to take your part and

nobody, too, Skuggums, to tie your cage up to the

window in the sun, so as you may sniif the nice

fresh air every day nor to whistle pretty tunes to
                  ;

you, and to watch you shake your bushy tail

with delight at the music. No, poor Skug, you

must shift for yourself when I'm away. You

won't get fresh bed then every week, as you
   ;

        a
do now and you'll not be able to scratch away at

the moss till you get  it  over your head, and make

   ball of all round you, you knowing little
a  it

               !
monkey. Ah you 're as pretty fellow as ever
                                        a

                                                  it

                                                                       a
skipped in the woods," went on the boy, as he

rolled the squirrel over, and played with    in his

lap, " with your little white stomach, there, like

clean pinafore before you. '11 bring him some nice
                  I
                         ;I
big nuts and some pears to nibble at, every time
                                             ?"

                                                         I
come home, that will and then he won't forget

his old friend, will he, little beauty

   But Owen's leave-taking with the squirrel was

suddenly cut short by Davy Evans reminding the
 374 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

 Accordingly, the lad hastened to prepare his little
 bundle. While stowing his clothes away in the

 handkerchief, he looked up at the clock he had

 made, and, as he heard it tick against the wall, his
 eyes filled again with tears as he thought he was
 about to leave everything that was endeared to him
 for a place to which he was an utter stranger.

  IAt length the hour for departure arrived, and

 Owen felt as you and felt, lad, when we were of his
age, that to leave for the first time the place with
 which all our affections were linked, was to make
the world seem void and blank to us.

    As he kissed his little sister Peggy, over and
over again, the boy sobbed aloud. On meeting with
old Jack, too, on the common, he hung upon the
animal's neck, and pressed him to him, as though he
was parting with him for ever ; and when he and
his father were fairly on their way, the road

seemed to fly along as quickly as when we
were in the coach returning to school after the

holidays.

    Davy tried to engage the little fellow in conversa
tion by touching upon all the subjects that he knew
were interesting to him, now asking him about what
Captain Jones had told him concerning the earth
--now talking to him about clocks, and then about
levers, and wheels, and axles ; but all to no purpose,
for the boy's heart was too full to speak of things
unconnected with his home; so giving the briefest
THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.  37j

answers to his father's questions, he would imme

diately afterwards beg of him to look to old Jack
of a winter's night, and to kiss Peggy for him, or
else he would request him to go to Parson Wynn's

and tell them all there how suddenly he had been

called away, and not to forget to see Captain

Jones -- for the old gentleman had been very kind

to him --and to thank him for the many things he

had taught him.
    Davy, noticing the boy's emotion, and himself

half dreading the struggle at parting, told Owen

that if he was a good lad, and would refrain from

crying on his quitting him, he would buy him a
box of tools next time he went to Brecon, and then

he could make for himself any models he wanted.
    Thus the journey passed, and the couple at

length reached the farm-house ere Owen thought
they had got half way there. And when the

moment arrived for Owen to part from the last

and dearest link that bound him with home, though
the little fellow bit his lips to stifle his tears for

some time, he was at length unable to bear up

against it ; so flinging himself on his father's neck, he
sobbed outright with an intensity of grief that it is
the lot of few of us in after life to feel. Nor was

Davy himself unaffected by the boy's emotion, for

as Owen curled his arms about his neck, and pressed

his father to him, the tear drops might have been

trickling down the old man's cheeks.
376 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

   At length Davy Evans took his leave, and Owen

stood at the gate on the hill, with his eyes dimmed
with grief, watching his father's form grow fainter

and fainter in the distance, till he lost sight of him

altogether at the bend of the road, and then the

little fellow felt his heart sink in his bosom, as if he

were alone and unprotected in the world.

   In a few days, however, the strangeness of the

new home had worn off, and Owen got to find that
the people whom he had come among were simple,
kindly-hearted folk, who, in the primitive life they
led, looked upon all about them as part of their
own family.

    The farm itself lay high on the mountains be
tween Brecon and the Wye, and was some miles
removed from any other habitation, so that the
petty prides and distinctions of towns had not yet
ruffled the peace of that humble homestead. The
wife and daughter still wore linsey-woolsey, and
broad-brimmed hats with large frilled caps be
neath them, and stout leathern boots instead of kid
shoes and sandals. They were skilled in the manu
facture of cheese and butter, and the curing of

hams, and the brewing of ale--or " cwrw," as it was
called in those parts -- while only the younger

branches of the family, that attended the Sunday-
school at the mountain church, could write their
names, and that not very legibly. The dame her
THE SHEPHERD-BOT AND THE STARS.  877

self could speak no English. The old man, however,

from his continual attendance at the neighbouring
markets and fairs, had picked up sufficient of the
language to bargain with the dealers ; though, like

the generality of the country people in those parts,
he made sad havoc with the genders and numbers
when he attempted to talk " Saisnich," speaking of
every male individual as her, and prefixing the
singular article to all plural substances -- as, a
trowsers, a gaiters, a braces, a shears, a snuffers,

and a tongs.
    Owen, with his little knowledge, soon became a

small prodigy among the family; and when he com
municated to them all he knew about levers and

clocks, and told them what he had learnt from

Captain Jones about the earth and the heavens,
they grew to look upon the boy as somebody
superior to themselves ; so that the girls and the old
farmer would like to get him in one corner of the
settle of an evening, and listen to the boy as he
talked to them about the stars, and told them how

the earth was known to be round, and the many

thousand miles it was through, and the wonderful
rate at which it was travelling every hour. Nor

was the old farmer himself the least delighted of the

company.

  At length Owen grew accustomed to his new

home, and his mind being led back by his evening's
378 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

talk about the stars to the lessons he had learnt of

the old sailor, he got, as the nights drew in and
he saw the little specks of light twinkling above
him as he folded the sheep, to notice more and
more their places among one another, and to stay
out later and later in the fields, gazing at the
heavens, and wondering what the stars would be

like if he could fly away to them ? and what could
be the use of them ? and how far they were off? --

and indulging in a number of like simple specula

tions.

   Verily too the firmament, as viewed in the stillness
of night from the mountain tops in those parts, was
a sight to stir the dullest mind to admiration !
There the sky could be seen resting, as it were, on
the shadowy earth, and arching above it like the dim
dome of some huge temple, and blue and unfathom
able as the sea far away from land. Then as the eye
vainly sought to plumb the depths of the vast aerial
ocean, star after star came twinkling forth like a
mass of crystal points sparkling in the light, as

if the bed of the celestial sea were strewn with
gems as thick as sand. In some parts, however, the

eye rested on one star shining by itself like a drew-
drop in a violet ; in other parts appeared a cluster
of many little ones, flittering in the darkness like a
knot of fire-flies. Here were some set in the forms
of glittering squares; there others ranged as bril
THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.  379

 round a crown; while in places might be seen a
 long line of light drops sparkling like water dripping
 from a fountain in the sun ; so that the whole face
 of the heavens seemed powdered over with the in

 finite fairy forms of frost work. Then there was

 the broad luminous band streaming through the

 heavens like spray from the starry ocean, and
 strewn so thick with its million orbs that the

 stars there were more like the silver dust from a

 butterfly's wing than an infinity of suns set round the
girdle of the universe, with their beams so blended

together that they seemed as if they were a wreath

 of phosphorescent mist floating across the heavens.
    As the boy lay out on the hills watching the

splendour of the firmament, his eye was at first
bewildered by the multiplicity of sparkling points,
and he could hardly distinguish form or difference
among them. The lines they formed together
seemed to be like a tangled skein to him, and

he could no more pick out one from another than
he could have recognized each particular grain in a

sand-heap. All Owen knew as yet, was the figure

of the Great Bear, and he delighted to run his eye
from the two stars on one side of the square form
ing its body up to the little Pole-star. Then he
would sit and look at this, thinking it was one of
the ends of the universe, and wondering what he

would see beyond it if he could only get up there,
380 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

When he had grown tired of such speculations,
Owen would try to make out the form of the
Little Bear itself, and though at first he could see
only two bright stars, he found, as he looked on,
others peeped out one after another, till at last
he could distinctly perceive the whole seven shim
mering through the darkness, and forming a similar
figure, but reversed, to that of the Greater Bear itself.

    When the shepherd-boy had unravelled thus
much of the tangled web, he began to notice other
forms in the heavens, and to perceive that the

stars differed considerably in their sizes. As he
ran his eyes along in a line with the two last stars
in the tail of the Great Bear, he saw a very bright

one, shining almost alone ; and he wondered over
and over again what name there could be for that.*

    *  "Itthies  called Arcturus, which, literally interpreted, signi
fies             Bear's tail" (from apKrog a bear and ovpa a tail).

This star is one of the first magnitude, and may always be found

by continuing the eye in a line with the two last stars in the tail
of the Great Bear. In former times it was probably regarded as a

part of the tail itself (its name at least would seem to indicate as
much), but at present it is considered as being in the skirt of the
coat of Bootes, the husbandman -- a constellation that was called

by the Greeks Arctophylax, the bear-keeper (from apieroe a

bear and 0u\a£ a keeper). The name BoStes (/3oftir);<;, an
                        this constellation because   he was sup
oxherd) was given to                                another name
posed to be the driver   of the Plough --which is

for the Great Bear, and the form of the seven principal stars

in it certainly resemble the figure of a plough more than

that of a bear. However, according as the one form or the
THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.                          381

Then he tried to make out the shape of the smaller

stars near this one, so as to see whether he could trace

any resemblance in them to the form of any animal
--but to no purpose ; for the stars there seemed to

go all kinds of ways to him. Accordingly, he shifted

other presented itself to the minds of the early astronomers, so

were the different names bestowed. Those to whom the seven stars

appeared like a Plough, gave the title of Bootes, or the Plough-
Titan, to the constellation next to it ; while those who fancied

these seven stars to resemble a Bear, christened the adjacent

constellation Arctophylax, or the Bear-keeper. Fable relates

that Ceres, as the reward of Philomelus for the invention of the

art of ploughing, transferred him and his oxen to the heavens

under the name of Bootes. According to some, the Great Bear is

Calisto, an attendant of Diana (the moon, and in fable the twin
sister of Apollo, the sun), who was considered the goddess of hunt

ing, probably from such expeditions having been first carried on

during the night. Calisto was termed an attendant of Diana,

doubtlessly because the constellation of the Great Bear is one that

never sets in the northern hemisphere. It seems probable that

Calisto was also the original of A clean, who, according to the

ancient myth, was changed into a stag, and torn to pieces by

dogs, for discovering Diana bathing. The astronomic explana

tion of this would be, that the moon was shining on the water
whilst the constellation Calisto was, as usual, above the horizon --

that this constellation was afterwards changed into a Bear, or
some such animal --and that the Bear was continually pursued by

the Canes Venatici, or hunting dogs, which is the next con

stellation, to the east of  it,  and which consequently appears to

be always following the other. The same seven stars which are

called the Great Bear by some, and the Plough by others,

are also termed Charles' Wain (or wagon) by many. The

four stars being supposed to represent the four wheels of the

vehicle, and the three other stars extending from these to be the

horses. This accounts for the name of Auriga (the wagoner)

being given to another constellation close to the Wain.
  382 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

  his eye from this to the opposite quarter of the
 heavens, and on the other side of the Milky Way he

  beheld another set of seven stars, all of the same

 size as the brighter ones in the Great Bear, and

  forming almost the same figure among themselves.
  There was the same kind of square, and three stars

 extending in like manner from one corner of it,
 but in an opposite direction to those in the tail of

 the Great Bear, and at greater distances apart, while
 the square itself was larger.*

     The boy was greatly delighted to find that he

     * This square consists of four stars of the second magnitude,
 three in the body of the constellation Pegasus, and one in the

 head of the constellation Andromeda. It may be found by

 looking to that side of the Milky Way which is directly opposite to

 the one on which the Great Bear is seen. Then if the tail of the

 Great Bear be pointing downwards to the North, run the eye
 from the corner of the square in the constellation Pegasus nearest
 the Milky Way up towards the south, and three other bright

 stars will be seen extending from this point -- two between it
 and the Milky Way, and the third in the Milky Way itself.
 The two stars lying between the corner of the square and the
Milky Way, are in the constellation Andromeda, and the third
 (which appears in the Milky Way itself), is situated in the con

stellation Perseus. According to the Grecian fable, Pegasus
sprang from the drops of blood which fell from the head of the
Gorgon Medusa after Perseus had decapitated her. Hence all
these constellations are found to be connected in the heavens.
Medusa's Head is near Perseus, who is situate in the Milky Way

while Medusa is on one side of towards Pegasus. It fabled
that the Gorgons--of whom Medusa was the chief-- had but one

eye, and in Medusa's head there one bright star of the second
magnitude, called Algol. The bright stars in the body of
Pegasus are known by the names of Scheat, Markab, and Igenib.
is it,
                                       A is
   THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.                   883

could reduce some of the vast crowd of stars into

definite order, so as to be able to recognise them on

looking again to the same part of the heavens.

  I" Oh ! see," cried the little fellow, as he sat on

a rock at the hill- top, " it 's very difficult at first ;

Ibut after a time shall get to know them all ; for
I notice that the stars seem to be crowded thicker

and thicker together as they get nearer to the

Milky Way. Over by the Great Bear, there appear

Ito be but few large ones, and as run my eyes along
Ithe bright band, can see them sparkling away in

it and on each side of as thick as bees about
hive. Look, too went on the boy, " the Milky

Way seems to cut the heavens in two, and to come
              !"

                        it,

                                                                          a

up from one side of the horizon, and to stretch

right across to the other, where  opens, and has
                             is I
two branches to like the top of the letter Y.*it
              it,                     it
                                    itI
               I                                 is
Now, '11 go right along the Milky Way, and notice
   I

         it,
all the bright stars can find in and on each

side of beginning at the end where                   divided

ainto two streams. Well, first see, as run my
eye up along one of the branches, three stars, with

   bright one in the middle, and these are just on

one side of the branch that       farthest from the

   * The two branches of the Milky Way are never seen towards

the north by us. They generally rise towards the east and set
towards the west. They should mostly be looked for towards the
south. Occasionally, however, they are not visible, being below
the horizon.
384 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

Great Bear, but a good bit below where the two
I Istreams meet.*
            shall know those again, am

sure," continued the boy, musing to himself. " Then,

Ias go on and get closer to the fork of the Milky
IWay, can see one --two--three -- yes, five stars in

the form of a cross-bow, with a bright one at the

head of the bow.t These stars are in the branch of

the Milky Way nearest the Great Bear. And

look," he cried, "just on one side of these, towards

the Bear itself, there's a very large and bright star

I--one of the brightest 've seen, indeed --with three

little ones close besideis         and the whole four are
                        is

                           is it,
    * The bright star in the middle of these three    called
                                                      is

                                                                     ;
Altair, and situated in the constellation of the Eagle. It

t isof the first magnitude, and never seen in the north by us

rising nearly due east, and setting nearly due west, and appear

ing, when in the south, almost as high above the southern

horizon as the Pole-star above the northern.

      These five stars are the principal ones in the constellation

of the Swan. The form which the boy fancies to resemble a

cross-bow, the ancient astronomers thought to be like long-
                                                      a
                                                               is
necked bird flying with outstretched wings. One of these stars
-- the farthest from the fork of the Milky Way, and which
in the beak of the Swan -- celebrated as being the one of which
Bessel discovered the parallax -- and the first fixed star whose
      is
                       is
distance from the sun was accurately measured. The brightest

star of the five near the tail of the Swan, and of the second

magnitude, whereas that in the beak of the third. This conis

stellation may easily be found by looking at one of the branches
near the fork of the Milky Way, when three bright stars will be
noticed directly in line with the Milky Way itself, and two
      a

        it
others reaching across from one branch to the other.
THE SHEPHERD- BOY AND THE STARS.                                                385

arranged something in the form of a harp.* Then,

Ias go on and get close to the point where the two
Istreams run into one, can see again three stars, not

quite in a line with one another ; and these are be

tween the Great Bear and the Milky Way.f Oh ! it

Iisn't so very difficult after all, see, to tell the stars
Iwhen you set about the work properly. Now, as go

past the point where the two streams of the Milky

IWay are joined into one, can see at a little distance
Ibeyond it a cluster of stars arranged, do declare,

in the form of a chair, with a bright one at the

back ; and these stars are nearly all in the Milky

J IWay itself ; while the chair seems as if it was
placed across it. Next, as                                go on along the

* This bright star is known by the name Vega, and is one of the

ims ossittubaeteauitsifuclalliendou"r  hemisphere. The    constellation in which it
                                       the Lyre," though  it is more like the form

of an ancient Welsh harp than the horse -shoe shape which we

connect with the more classic instrument. The three other

stars in this constellation are of the third magnitude. Vega

may be easily discovered on directing the eye a little beyond the
fork of the Milky Way, and looking a short distance on one side

of the branch nearest the Great Bear. The constellation of the

Lyre is beside that of the Swan, and between it and the Bear,
so the one being found will lead to the other.

T These three are in the constellation Oepheus. They are all

of the third magnitude, and lie nearly midway between the

square of the Great Bear and that of Pegasus, being on the side

of the Milky Way nearest the Bear. They never set, and must

be generally looked for towards the north. They are easily dis

tinguished, from their                 being almost  "inCaaslsinioepawsiiath's  each other.
   { This constellation                is knownas                               chair." The

                                       CC
388 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

Milky Way, and get farther from the branches,

I can see a big star sparkling in the middle of it.
IBut that's the last of the three noticed before
Iprojecting from the large square opposite to the

Great Bear. Going past this, catch sight of a

Ivery big bright one, as big as the one saw in the

harp ; but this star is a little distance out of the

Milky Way, on the side towards the Great Bear.

IAnd, now look again, the others about it take the

form of a hay-stack, with the top pointing towards
the Great Bear itself* Oh ! dear, how beautiful,"

Icried the delighted boy. " As keep on running
Imy eye down the Milky Way, too, can see two more

large bright stars, one as big as any I've seen, and
a little distance from the side, towards the Great

stars in it are mostly all of the third magnitude. Cassiopeia, it
will be remembered, was, according to the ancient fable, the
wife of King Cepheus and the mother of Andromeda, whose
husband was Perseus. Hence we find all these constellations
intimately connected in the heavens. On the side of the Milky
Way, nearest the Great Bear, is Cepheus ; then at a little dis
tance from this, and in the Milky Way itself, comes Cassiopeia ;
while farther on in the Milky Way is Perseus, with Andromeda,

who is on the opposite side of the galaxy to Cepheus, and between
Cassiopeia and Perseus.

   * This is the constellation of the Wagoner, or driver of the
Wain or wagon (the name sometimes given to the Great Bear).
The bright star is of the first magnitude, and known by the

name of Capella. It is situate in the left shoulder of Auriga
(the wagoner). This star is close to the side of the Milky Way,
towards the Bear, and has another star near it of the second

magnitude.
          THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.                                                 387

Bear; the stars near these seem to be arranged

in a figure something like the gable end of a house,

standing on the Milky Way itself, with a bright

star at one of the lower corners of and the twoI
                               it it,
other bright ones at the top forming the back of theI

roof, as;       were. Then, directly opposite these,

some little distance from the other side of the; it

Milky Way, there's another big star, declare,

with a number of little ones about in the form of

the letter V, the big one being at top of one of the

prongs of the letter. I'm sure should have taken
them for the Seven Sisters, Captain Jones told me

about, only they don't seem close enough together.

Oh no there are the Seven Sisters, sparkling away!
like knot of little glowworms in the dark. This
  a

must be the Bull, then," exclaimed Owen, after think

ing awhile " for remember Captain Jones said
                   '

                    I
the Seven Sisters,' or Plei-- what did he call
'                      ,

    1                      it
them Ah         !  Pleiades,' --that's --were in the

Bull's neck. So the other group of little stars

must be what the Captain called 'the Hyades.'
And the big star there at the top, on one of

the prongs of the V, must be the one he called

'Aldebaran.' Yes, that must I've found out
I
                     ;

                                c

                              c it

                                                 2

                        !I
                             I

                                                                                       ;
all this, by myself, too. Why, this must be the

ecliptic, then and the sun, and moon, and planets

must all travel along near this line.      wish the

moon was up," continued the little star-gazer for

then could make sure whether was right or not.
388 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

Those stars, too, on the other side of the Milky Way,

that seemed to be like the gable end of a house, must

Ireally be the constellation of the Twins ; for

remember when Captain Jones showed me the map

of the Zodiac there were two bright stars, one in the

head of Castor, and the other in the neck of Pollux,

and a third in one of their feet.  Yes, I'm right ;

II'm sure am."

Owen turned to gaze at the Milky Way once

more, and as he looked a little below the bright

star in the foot of one of the Twins, his eye was

arrested by a very brilliant constellation close on the

other side of the galaxy, and consisting of four large

stars, arranged in the form of a square, with three

more, very near together, and placed in a slanting

direction in the middle of the others. Two of the

stars in the square were of the first magnitude,*

* This is the constellation Orion, and the two stars in
                 is
                                                         it,
which are of the first magnitude, are known by the names of

Beltegeux, and Rigel. Beltegeux at the corner of the square

nearest the Milky Way, and Rigel at the cross corner farthest

fsrtoitmuteit."   The three stars in the middle of the square con
                 Orion's Belt." Orion never appears towards the north

with us. He rises as nearly as possible due east, and sets due

west, attaining but a slight elevation above the southern horizon.

The equinoctial line passes very nearly through the upper star in

the belt of Orion, and hence this star almost on level with
                 is
                                        a

the equator of the earth, so that at its highest altitude we can

estimate the height of the equator above the horizon in the same

manner as the height of the pole may be reckoned by the Pole-

star. When Orion comes to the meridian, the most brilliant of the

constellations are above the horizon, the Great Dog and the
THE SHEPHERD- BOY AND THE STARS.  389

and all the others of the second · so that the whole
appeared to Owen to be the most brilliant constel
lation he had yet seen. " Then on the other side of

the Milky Way, and opposite to the square with

Ithe three slanting stars in the middle of it," the

boy went on, " can see two more stars, the first a
very bright one, and the second dimmer than the
other, arranged in a slanting line with one another,

and the brightest farthest away from the Great
Bear."*

    Delighted with the discoveries he had made, the
little astronomer continued for some time glancing
from one constellation to another, so as to impress
their forms upon his mind · then he began count-

the most splendid view of the celestial bodies that the starry
firmament affords. The constellation Orion is of great anti
quity, being frequently mentioned by the sacred writers. Job

alludes to it as follows :-- ' ' Hast thou an arm like God ? or canst

thou thunder with a voice like Him ? Gird up thy loins and
declare ! Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades,
or loose the bonds of Orion? Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth

fin his season, or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons

And again in the book of Amos (said to have been written by a
shepherd 800 years before the Christian era) there occurs the

following passage : "Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and

leave off righteousness in the earth, Seek Him that maketh the

Seven Stars and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into

the morning, and maketh the day dark with night : that calleth
for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of
the earth : The Lord is his name."

   * These are the principal stars in the constellation of the

Little Dog, which, according to the fable, formed one of the
beagles of Orion's pack. The name of the large star in the

constellation is Procyon.
390 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

ing how many stars of the first magnitude he could
see ; and, after some little trouble, he came to the

conclusion that there were only nine visible to him.*

Next, the boy wondered, as he watched some of the

   * The stars of the first magnitude seen by the boy were as
follows :-- 1. Altair, in the Eagle ; 2. Vega, in the Lyre ;
3. Arcturus, in Bootes, the Shepherd; 4. Capella, in the
Wagoner; 5. Castor, in the Twins ; 6. Aldebaran, in the eye of
the Bull ; 7. and 8. Beltegeux and Rigel, in Orion ; 9. Procyon,
in the Little Dog. But besides these, there are other Stars of the
first magnitude, which become visible in the apparent revolution
of the heavens ; these are, 10. Regulus, in the Lion ; 11. Spica,
in the Virgin; 12. Antares, in the heart of the Scorpion; and
13. Sirius, in the Great Dog, commonly known as the Dog-star.
The two last attain but a slight elevation above the southern
horizon, towards which quarter they must always be looked for.
Sirius is the brightest of all the fixed stars that are visible to
us. Indeed, the Great Dog is one of the most splendid constella
tions in the heavens, consisting of four stars of the second mag
nitude, and one of the first, and arranged somewhat in the shape
of a truncated wedge standing up on end. The Great Dog is
fabled to have been one of Orion's hounds. Some consider
Sirius to represent the dog worshipped by the Egyptians as the
god "Anubis," and the Egyptians certainly believed the Nile to be
under the influence of this star, which is vertical on the 30th
June, when that river overflows. The dog-days are so called
because the great heat at this period is ascribed to the influence

of the dog-star, which rises with the sun during that time --viz.,
from the 25th of July till the 24th of August. According to

the data of Henderson, Sirius is sixty times more intrinsically
brilliant than our sun ; that is to say, were the sun removed to
the same distance from us as the dog-star, it would appear sixty
times less bright than Sirius. The stars of the first magnitude
above mentioned, are many of them of different colours from the
others. For instance, Altair, Vega, Spica, and Sirius are all
white stars (though Sirius was celebrated by the ancients as a
red star); Aldebaran, Arctwrus, and Beltegeux, on the other
hand, are red, while Capella and Procyon are yellow.
       THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.  391

stars set behind the western hills, and others rise

gradually into sight in the east, what fresh constel

lations would come into view as the night went on.

So he determined to get up long before sun-rise

some morning, and see what other stars he could

distinguish then. After this, Owen noticed that
the stars in the north, as Captain Jones had told

him, only just grazed the horizon, and never sank

below  it,    remaining always in sight whereas,
                a
             ;        ;

                                        a
those in the extreme south rose but short height

above the horizon, and continued visible but for

little time while some that he had observed to

be rising in the east when he began noticing them

that evening, had since taken a slanting direction

towards the south, and were now high above the

southern horizon. The boy was greatly pleased to

find all the Captain had told him prove so true   ;

and he sat for some time endeavouring to make out

the different circles that each of the stars described

in its apparent tour of the sky. It was late that

night before the little star-gazer reached the farm.

   Owen could think of little else than the stars,

now that he had once begun to observe their figures
and their motions, and he longed to know more about
them. Accordingly as he sat out in the fields all day,
minding the flock, he busied himself with devising
some means of measuring the distances the orbs were
apart, so that he might be able to mark down the
figures they made with one another in the heavens.
392 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

  This occupied the boy's mind for some time, till

at length it struck him that by means of some
beads on a string he might be able to arrive at the
desired result. So after a few rude experiments on
the matter he took some pieces of wood out with
him to the hills, and as he sat tending the sheep he
amused himself by fashioning them into an appa
ratus for the purpose. This he formed something
after the shape of the instrument used for counting,
called an "abacus;" for there was a frame to across
which stretched number of threads with beads to
slide along them, and some six inches in front of
these was placed an upright piece of wood with a
sight-hole at the upper part of in order that the
eye might be kept in the same position; so that
when the boy had put the whole together, assumed
the form represented in the subjoined engraving.
a

                         it,
                                   it

                                          it,
fas

:-
:..

.'.-

»

:.l
OWEN MEASURES tHE DIStANCES OE thE StARS. -- Page 3!)d.
THE SHEPHEHD-BOY AND THE STARS.  393

   The rude apparatus once finished, Owen betook
himself to the hills night after night, and there lay

stringing his beads on the threads till he got them

to arrange themselves in the form of the principal
stars in the constellations he had noticed. To do

this, however, cost the little shepherd astronomer
no slight trouble, for when he had shifted one of

the beads upon the string till it cut the largest star
in the group, and he came to slide along the other
beads, so that they should be in a line with the rest

of the stars, he often found that as he moved one
he displaced the others. But Owen, once bent

upon the purpose, was not to be beaten by a few
difficulties, so he tried on and on, until at length he

got to be able to arrange the beads near enough to
the forms of the stars to satisfy himself; and this
done, he proceeded to mark down roughly upon the

paper that he kept beside him, the figures of the

principal constellations, one after another, as he

measured them.

   The boy had soon made sufficient progress in his
work of mapping down the heavens to be able to
show his " star-papers," as he called them, to farmer
Powell, who was so astonished at the little fellow's

labours, that he set him to some light work in the
barn, and put another lad to look after the sheep,
so that Owen might have time to copy out by day
the rough figures that he had sketched at night.
And often, when the little fellow was engaged
394 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STABS.

winnowing, the good old farmer would come to him
in the barn and turn the machine himself, while the
boy sat by his side drawing his plan of the stars,
and chattering to him the while about their move
ments and sizes and figures ; telling him too, that
Captain Jones said the fixed stars were millions and
millions of miles away from the earth, and how
they all appeared to be moving round one fixed
point, which was called the pole of the world ; and
how, too, it was by measuring the altitude of that
point above the horizon, that sailors were enabled
to find their way across the sea, where there was no

other mark to guide them. All this so amazed and

delighted the simple-minded farmer, that he would
creep away to the barn to do the boy's work at
every opportunity. Nor did he fail to express his
admiration for the little fellow to his daughters,
declaring " that her was the most wonderful boy in
the world, and it was a shame such a scholard as
her was should be a shepherd, for her knowed more
than many an old man with a spectacles on her

nose."

   Thus Owen grew to be an especial favourite at
the mountain farm, and often he was gravely con
sulted as to whether he could not find out by the
stars where the colt had strayed, or where the hen
hid her eggs, or whether the Scotch tea-man had
really carried off the silver tea-spoon they had missed
last time her come round, and a host of such other
THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STABS.  395

family mishaps. As the nights began to draw in

and to grow chilly, the girls too, when they found
Owen staying out late on the hills, would carry
him a blanket to wrap himself in and keep the
damp from " striking inwards," as they termed it.
Sometimes, too, they would sit by his side wonder
ing, as they watched him at his work, and get

him to tell them something about the brighter stars
that took their fancy for the moment.

   One night, after the girls had left him, and the
little astronomer lay on one of the crags observing
the form of the stars in the constellation of Cassio

peia's Chair, he was startled by a loud sound that

seemed to him like the noise old Jack used to

make as he and his father returned late at night
across the common at Llanvach. Immediately
Owen's thoughts were turned from the stars to

wards home and his favourite brute, and he won

dered whether the poor thing was out in the cold

then --for the wind was blowing sharp across the
hills --and whether

   The boy's train of thought was suddenly inter

rupted by the same sound bursting on his ear, and,
now that it was nearer, it was more like old Jack's

bray than ever.

  It" must be some poor brute that has gone

astray," thought Owen; and the boy stood up to

look across the hills and see if he could distinguish
396 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

earth was like a dark shadow, and he could make

out nothing but the black tops of the mountains

as here and there they rose like dark waves one above

the other. Then he put his ear down to the ground,

and listened whether he could catch the sound of

any hoofs pattering on the stones.

After a few minutes he started to his feet, crying,
I" Yes !
          can hear something coming across the

hills;" so he peered once more into the darkness,

and tried with all his might, as he looked in the

direction whence the sound had come, to catch

sight of the animal. Owen thought, as he strained
his eyes, he could make out some black mass in the
distance. Still he half doubted whether what he

saw might not be one of the lumps of rock project

ing through the mountain's side.

Again the boy put his ear to the earth, and

again he was convinced that the animal was coming

towards him.

  "Poor thing!" exclaimed the lad, "it must have

strayed a long way, wherever it has come from, for

there's no cottage near for miles round. Perhaps

it's lost its foal. I'll stop quite still here, and when

it comes up I'll take it back with me to the yard,

Iand make it up a nice bed in the stable till the
morning.  shall like it for poor old Jack's sake,

for he was always so fond and thankful for anything

I did for him."

   A short time elapsed, and Owen, who had been
THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.   397

Istill looking into the dusky distance, cried, " Yes !

can see it plainly now. It's coming straight towards
me, but there's somebody on its back. What can
it mean? What can any one want out at this hour,

and taking such a road as this?"

Presently, as the wind blew across the hills towards

the approaching animal, another loud bray pierced the

stillness of the night, and the lad gave a start back
as he exclaimed, " That's my old Jack, I'm sure!"

and once more the little fellow looked towards the

creature, to assure himself he was not mistaken.

"I'm sure it's Jack. Oh, they've stolen him, they

have," cried Owen, as the tears streamed down his

eyes. "He's been left out on the common, and the

Igipsies have got hold of him, know. And what

Ican do here alone against one of those wicked

Ifellows. But I'll have a struggle for it ; they sha'n't

take my old Jack from me if can help it. He

knows I'm here, for, hark ! how quick he's coming
now. Yes, he knows it as well as he used to, when

I was coming over the common, long before he saw

me. He sha'n't be taken away to be ill-treated, I'm

determined."

Owen crept behind the rock, and armed himself

with a large stone, as he watched the figure
draw nearer and nearer towards him ; then peeping
out from behind the edge of the crag, the boy
muttered to himself, " The fellow is taken with the
398 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

turned that way; so as he goes by I'll spring out

upon him unawares and throw him from his seat,
and then jump upon old Jack's back and be off.
Yes," continued Owen to himself, as he drew his
breath quicker and quicker, " the fellow still keeps
his head turned from me. Hush! here he comes,

and now is the time."

  It was but the work of a moment for Owen to

dart from his hiding-place. With a bound to

wards the rider, he was about to fling him to the

ground, when Jack wheeled suddenly round towards
his little master, and so in a measure warded off the

force of the blow. The rider, finding himself thus

unexpectedly attacked, turned round in his seat

and seized Owen by the collar. As he did so,
the little fellow shrieked, "It's John Jarman, as

I live!"

"What, Owen?" cried the blacksmith's boy, at
"Ithe same moment,
                    thought you were over at the
Ifarm yonder, and was looking at the lights there,

wondering which was yours."
   " Come, Master John," said Owen sharply, as the

fond animal rubbed his head against his side, " what

business have you with my Jack here. You haven't

turned thief, have you, and taken him away without

asking?"                              " I'm not in

  I" Thief, Owen !" shouted the boy.  can tell you.

a humour to bear that kind of talk,
THE SHEPHEED-BOY AND THE STARS.           399

If Iit is your animal, thought you were friend
Ienough that could borrow it of you without

asking."                                  Owen, an
    " Borrowing without asking," replied

Igrily, " is what call stealing."

"Do you?" shouted the other, "then take that!"

And as the young blacksmith said this, he levelled a

heavy blow at Owen. At the same moment, how

ever, old Jack, anxious to get rid of his load, bent

down his head, and kicking out his heels, sent young

Jarman--who, in the attempt to strike the little
fellow, had lost his seat on the animal's back -- flying

over his head.

John Jarman fell heavily against the crags, and

lay stunned by the fall.

 JOwen stood almost paralyzed with fright, as he

saw young arman stretched senseless on the ground,

and he thought at first, in his alarm, that the boy
Ahad been killed on the spot.
                               thousand fears rushed

instantly through his brain. He was alone there in

the dark, and what should he do with him, and how

should he ever be able to make out to the people
that it was no fault of his. Then he remembered

how sadly the poor fellow had been treated at home,

Jand, as his heart relented, he went towards the boy,

crying as he knelt down beside him, " ohn, John !

speak to me ! Oh, do speak to me ! Open your eyes
400 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

at Parson Wynn's, and don't let us quarrel again.

You may have Jack ; I'll give him to you if you'll

only promise to be good to him."

   The blacksmith's boy looked up in Owen's face,

and said faintly, " It served me right. I've had

Iblows enough myself, without wanting to give you

any. But was angry, Owen. Father's been at his

old tricks. There, I'm better now, thank you. It

was a heavy tumble though ; it shook me all to pieces

like. Father came home drunk again and dragged

I Ime out of bed a few hours ago and thrashed me, in my

night-gown as was, till was nearly mad with the

Ipain ; so seized my clothes and ran away, and there's
Ian end of it now, for I'll never go back --never.

Ididn't hit you, did I, Owen?"              should
   " No, no, John," replied the boy, " and
Ihave thought when saw you in such a place as

this, and so late at night, that something had hap

pened to you at home. But where are you going

to, John 1 and have you got any money to carry you

on the road V

   "I've got a little," answered Jarman, sullenly.

I I" sold a fish caught a few days ago. But what's

to become of mother now I'm gone troubles me.
Father's very wicked --there's no other word for it,

I IOwen --and he knocks poor mother about as well as

me. When was at home could stop him harming

her a little ; but now he'll do as he likes with her.
      THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.          401

Ilonger; so I'm off to Bristol to get a ship.  only
Iwish I'd gone before, when was up at Mr. Wynn's.

II'll send the donkey back by the wagoner, Owen,
when  get to Brecon. You needn't be afraid

about him."

   " No, no, John ! but won't you come and stop the

Inight at the farm," inquired Owen, kindly ; " they're

very good people, and know they'd let you stay

with me."
    " That won't suit me, Owen," said the blacksmith's

Iboy ; " should have some one keeping me back, and

persuading me to go home again, like a fool. But

Inow I'm off for good --or bad-- hardly care which.
IGood- bye, Owen, I'll come and see you if ever get

safe back again."

   " But stay a minute, John," said his little com
panion, as he fumbled in his pockets; "I've got a

I Jshilling or two here. One father paid me for the

clock made, and one Captain ones gave me. Do

you take them, they'll help you on your way."
   " You're a good little fellow," said young Jarman,

as he held out his hand; "they will be of use to

Ime, Owen, and when come back from sea I'll give

them to you again, and I'll bring you some nice

Ipresent from abroad for the loan of them. Ah !

was foolish ever to quarrel with you; but you see
Ieverybody in the village used to tell me, when
Icomplained of father's treatment, that
                                         should

      DD
402 THE SHEPHERD-BOY AND THE STARS.

good lad Owen EvansiIfuntil was sick of the
name of Owen Evans.  But we're friends now,
                  a

                  itI
                               is,
                           I
Owey, and  don't go to the bottom of the sea,

and can do you good turn in after life, why you

may depend upon      will, and be glad of the

chance, too. Good- bye, Owen," and the blacksmith's

boy, as he mounted old Jack once more, stretched

out his hand to Owen Evans, who threw his arm

round his companion's neck, and hugged him to him
as he echoed the other's words, " Good- bye."

  A few minutes afterwards young Jarman was

forcing the donkey onwards towards Brecon, while
Owen, with his eyes full of tears, stood on the crag

watching the two disappear in the darkness.
                                                                                                                 403

                   CHAPTER XIV.

    THE BOY TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERS TO THE ODD
              OLD SQUIRE AT THE OBSERVATORY.

Owen was some little time before he could get the
thoughts of young Jarman out of his mind, and he

kept wondering where poor John had got to --and
whether his money was all gone -- and how he would
live when it was at an end-- and how, too, he would
miss the comforts of his home, bad as he thought it.
But, boy-like, Owen in a few days had sufficiently

forgotten the scene on the mountain to be able to

continue his little chart of the heavens, and the
praises of the old farmer made him so pleased with
the work, that he grew to long for its completion.

   At length, what with staying out late and rising

early, the little shepherd had transferred to his
humble map the figures of all the constellations that
were visible at that part of the globe. When,

however, ho had brought his labours to an end, the
plan, owing to the boy's ignorance of perspective,

                                         DD 2
404 THE BOY TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERS

was far from being an accurate copy of the heavens ;
for not only had the boy drawn the forms of the diffe

rent constellations separately, and had no idea of

grouping them into a whole, under one point of view,
but having copied the figures of the stars at different
periods, had blended together the constellations that
were and were not visible at the same time, so that
when they were all spread out together on his chart,
the line that bounded them was anything but that
of the horizon. Nevertheless, it was a wonderful
performance, rude asit was, for a self-taught lad, and
had cost him no little trouble to get the several con
stellations into their right places one with another.*

   As, however, it would be impossible to convey to
the reader a correct notion of the places of the stars
by a literal transcript of the shepherd-boy's star-
papers, the following engraving has been made to
represent a view of the constellations that appear
above the horizon in our latitude, at the period

* The construction of these star-papers is no fable. The

shepherd boy Ferguson delineated them by sliding beads on a

string, and rude as they necessarily were, still, regarded as the

work of a mere boy, and one too who was comparatively un

educated, they were considered by all who could appreciate them

as the emanation of no ordinary mind. Neither is the circum

stance of the old farmer doing the boy's work at the farm,

while the little fellow copied out his plan of the stars, in the

"Ileast apocryphal.Ferguson, in his autobiography, narrates the
                      shall always have a respect for the memory
incident, adding,

of that man."
TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.        405

when Orion is crossing the meridian, and when the
best view of the heavenly bodies is to be obtained.*

   The little chart once finished, the boy grew

anxious to let his father and old Captain Jones see
what he had done. Nor was the simple-minded

farmer less proud of the work than Owen himself,

and he took especial delight in making the lad
exhibit the map to every one that came --no matter
whether on business or pleasure--to the farm,

always taking care at the same time to impress on

   * This map is intended to give the reader merely a roughnine
notion of the places of the principal stars in the firmament.
For the sake of simplicity few of the stars beyond those of the
third magnitude have been inserted, and it should be borne in
mind that the map will serve only for the nights during the

months of December, January, and February. Orion comes to

the meridian at about midnight on the 10th December, and
just upon two hours earlier every succeeding month ; that is to
say, at about 10 o'clock at night on the 10th January, and at

about 8 o'clock at night on the 10th February. It has been

before explained that a sidereal day is very nearly 4 minutes
shorter than our ordinary clock-day, or, in other words, that the
same star crosses the meridian every 23 hours 56 minutes.

Hence for each day after the 10th December 4 minutes must be
subtracted from 12 o'clock at night. Suppose, for instance, we
wished to know at what hour Orion would come to the meridian
on the 21st January, then, as this is 41 days after the 10th
December, we must multiply 41 by 4, and that gives us 164
minutes, or 2 hours 44 minutes for the time to be subtracted
from 12 hours 0 minutes ; so that we thus find this constellation
would cross the meridian then, at about 16 minutes past in the

evening.
406 THE BOY TAKES HIS STAR-PAPEES

the people that " lier was a most wonderful boy."

Consequently, Owen, had little or no difficulty in

obtaining leave of the farmer to go home for a day
or two, so as to show his star-papers to his friends.

When Davy Evans looked upon his boy's work,

the poor man was deeply affected by for he couldit,

not help feeling the bitterness of the lot thata

deprived him of the means of fostering talent that

promised, properly cultured, to yield such noble
;

    if
results and as he hugged the little fellow to his
bosom, he grieved over his sorry fortune till the

map was spotted with his tears.  The labourer was
saddened to think how pitiful     was that boy
                               it
with mind like Owen's should be forced to get hisait

bread by the labour of his hands, and--though Davya
                                                           a
generally bore his humble lot in life with sufficient
heroism to be contented with --now, however, he

could not refrain from contrasting his fortunes with

those who had been more favoured in life, and won

dering why he should have been given son, with a

mind that only wanted tuition to take rank among

the most intellectual, when he was denied the means

of educating him. The poor man could not help

thinking of the well-to-do squires round about him,

and how little their children seemed to be conscious

of the benefits that had been heaped upon them,

deeming even drudgery to have the stores of wis
   it

                a
                           ;
dom opened to them while others, less lucky than
TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.  407

themselves, felt the want of the means to acquire any
knowledge to be the most bitter of their privations.

  At length Davy Evans told Owen that he was

but a poor judge as to the merits of his work,
and that he had better carry his map to the
Captain, from whom he had already learnt so much
about the stars and the earth ; for the old gentleman
would be able to understand it better than he could.

The boy was delighted at the opportunity of visiting
his old friend once more, and hastened to do as his

father had directed.

                                                                                                                 ·

   On reaching the cottage, Owen was grieved to

find the old sailor ill in bed, and he would have

returned at once, had not Mrs. Pugh told him that

she knew the Captain would be vexed if he did so ;

for her master had been talking of Owen ever since
he had gone to the farm ; and only that very

morning he was wondering if he should ever see

the boy again. Then the housekeeper lifted up her
apron, and wiped her eyes with the corner of as
she informed Owen that she " was afeard her poor
dear master was a-breaking very fast, and that he
would never see the winter out adding, " that he
was as good master as ever wore shoe leather. And
what was to become of her when he, poor soul, was

gone, was more than she could say."

   Presently, Owen was ushered into the little bed
a
                                    ;"

                                                      it,
408 THE BOY TAKES HIS STAE-PAPEBS

white hair streaming on the pillow, and the mantel
piece crowded with physic bottles.

   The boy shuddered as he entered, and he walked

stealthily towards the bed, fearful of disturbing the

old man, if he should be dozing.

   But the invalid had heard the door creak ; and

turning in his bed as Owen approached, he stretched

out his veiny hand to him, saying, "I'm glad
you've come to see me, youngster--very glad ;"

and he pressed the boy's palm as warmly as he had

power to do in his own. "But Mrs. Pugh isn't
with you, is she ?" inquired the old sailor in a half-

whisper.

Owen informed the Captain that he was alone

with him in the room ; and, as he did so, the boy
held his star-papers behind his back ; for he was
unwilling to trouble the invalid upon any such
matters, weak as the old gentleman then appeared

to be.

 I" I'm glad she's gone," said the Captain ; "for

can't bear the sight of that woman. She haunts

me with her carn eying, hypocritical voice. She

thinks I've a little money to leave, and is like one

of the sharks that follow close in the wake of a ship
                                              If
whenever there's a chance of a death aboard.
Iit wasn't, Owen, for your little sister Peg, should

be without a thing to love in the world; and

she's a little bit of truth, bless her. There's no
TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.  409

Itlegacies to come --ugh !  would be better to

die the death of a pauper; for those about you

then would at least be honest. But Mrs. Pugh

fancies I've got some money to leave, and is always

worrying me to make my will, saying, we never
know when we may be cut off-- hang her ! I'm

well aware I've not long to live ; but what does

Ishe want continually croaking of death to me 1 I'll

foil her, though, that will. You're sure she's not

Ilistening outside the door. Go and see, lad ; for if

she heard me say as much, shouldn't be able to

get a thing from her. Ah ! boy, it's sad work,"

said the old man, sorrowfully, "to be obliged

to end your days without a soul about you, but

those whose services you pay for; and who, you

think, are waiting for your last gasp, for what it

shall bring to them. There's no one but little

IPeg that love and can trust in the world ; and
Ishe's like a little creature fresh from the heaven

hope to go to --with her beautiful laugh, as full of

truth and happiness as the voice of the lark itself.

But you see, lad, when we get old we grow sus
picious ; the blood gets chilled ; and I'd give the

world to be like you, now, Owen, with a whole life

before me, and all my actions to do over again.

IAh ! what fine things I'd do then, boy. So, do

you profit by me, and not come, as do, to look

back on your life in your old age as a waste of years,

and to see what you might have done, and how little
410 THE BOT TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERS

Iyou did. But all this is sad work for you, Owen ;

so come, tell me what you have been doing since

saw you last. You never came to wish me good

bye, though."
"I"Sir," said Owen,
                     had to leave in such a
Ihurry ; and asked father to call and thank you

for all your kindness to me."

  I" know you did, boy," answered the old man,
Ias he squeezed Owen's hand again in his ; " and

felt it deeply at the time. But at my age we are

apt to expect more attention than we have any

right to meet with. We get selfish--wretchedly

Iselfish, lad, and think everybody should give place
to us.  forget, too, that people like you have

their living to look to. But what have you been

doing, little fellow t"
   " I've been minding sheep on the hills, sir," re

plied the boy.

   "Yes," responded the old man, "when you

should have been minding your books and gather

ing up knowledge to help you through the world
in after life. That's not your fault though,

you've to struggle for your bread, and that's
dearer than knowledge, after all. It's a long time

since we had a chat together, Owen --a very long

time."

   " I've been away only a little more than a month,

sir," interposed the boy.
   " Only a month," said the Captain, thoughtfully ;
TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.                     411

I" but can't remember now, at all --my mind has
I Iquite gone.
only know used to talk to you,

and love you, boy ; for many a pleasant hour I've

had with you."
   " Yes, sir," replied Owen, mournfully ; " it was

you who first taught me that the world was round,

and led me to think of the stars. You told me

how they all seemed to move round one fixed point
in the heavens."

  I" Did I-- did J" mused the invalid. " Well, it's

all gone out of my head --all gone --all."

  I" I'm sure I've often thought of you, Captain

Jones," said Owen, " as lay out on the hills at

night, looking at the sky, and thanked you over

and over again for all you had told me."
   " Bless you, lad," murmured the old man ; " bless

you. You haven't forgotten old 'Mitter Jone,' then,

as Peggy calls him."         the lad;

  I"No, that haven't,          used to
I I" for when was doing
sir," responded
my star-papers
Isay to myself, if it hadn't been for you, might

never have thought about the heavens."

    " Star-papers ! What --what--what do you

mean, boy?" inquired the Captain, hurriedly.

I" You never had any --what-d'ye-call'em ?--from

me, that can recollect."

   " No, Captain Jones," replied Owen, holding the

Ilittle roll he alluded to closer behind his back. "

meant the star-papers I'd been doing of late."
is412 THE BOT TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERSa                 I
                                                               ;
    " You've been doing of late !" exclaimed the!                 is
sailor. " Then why didn't you bring them to show                       it,
me?"a                                                                        ;

    Hereupon the little fellow explained to the old                   I
man that he had them with him, but that he was
afraid to trouble him. The Captain, however, in
sisted upon seeing the boy's work, and Owen was at
length forced to submit them to his view.

  It was as much as the boy could do to raise the

old man in his bed, and prop him up in with the
pillows at his back. When, however, Owen found how

weak and almost helpless the Captain had grown, he
begged of him not to disturb himself on his account.

But the kind-hearted sailor felt too great an inte
rest in the lad to be deprived of the pleasure of
seeing what he had been doing about the stars.
Accordingly, as soon as his coughing fit was over,
the invalid said, " Come, I'm not so bad as all that,
Owen. I'm only little bit weak and the change
of season always so trying for me, especially the
fall of the year. Ah boy," went on the old man,
" it's a sad thing to become a child again for in
your second childhood you're as helpless as you were
in your first--but what's worse than all, you've just
 brains enough left to know how powerless you
 really are in the world. Little Peg more than a
 match for me now, and yet can remember the
 time when I've laid hulking fellow of six foot flat

 on the quarter-deck for refusing to obey orders.
       TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.             413

I I Iwish was like you, boy ; wish was like you.

But give me your papers."
   The lad unrolled his map, and having spread it

out on the bed, explained to the old man the means

by which he had constructed the figures of the

various constellations.

   " Very well done, indeed, boy --very well done,"
mumbled the invalid. " Yes ; there's the Bull with

the bright star Aldebaran among the Hyades ; and

there's Cassiopeia's Chair, and here's Orion with his
belt, and the upper star in there, just upon
                            it,

                                  ;
                                           is
the equinoctial line. You've got the Great Dog,I

too, see, with Sirius, all right and here's theI

Little Dog, declare, with Procyon in its true place
-- can remember the names of them all, you see,
though almost forget my own. Ah and there's

my little favourite Pole-star, up at the top of the
I                                      !
    I

world. Very well done, very well done, indeed,

my little man," continued the Captain, his eyes still
rivetted on the chart before him. " You've got them

all exactly as I've noticed them, over and over

again, when I've been pacing the deck in the middle

watch at night and as look at this bit of paper
     I
                        ;

                I
                     I

                                   if
here,  can see the sky spangled over with its

million lights as plainly as they were shining

above me now.  shall be among them soon --

among them soon," sighed the old man, as his head

fell back upon the pillow.

"You're not ill, sir?" cried Owen, in alarm.
414 THE BOY TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERS

   " No, no, lad," replied the invalid, " only the

sight of your chart made me think of the bright
home I'm going to. It's capitally done, boy. And

Ido you know, as run my eye along the line of the
Iecliptic here, can remember working the longi

Itudes by many of the stars about that part of theit,
heavens, and each one, as  look at        calls up in

my mind some long train of events."

   The old man was then seized with another

violent fit of coughing, which so exhausted him,

that he lay for some few moments on his pillow,

gasping for breath.

   Then the spirit of the invalid's conversation
was changed. " wish the doctor would come," he
cried, " it's his day, too, think. Let me see, when
did he say he'd come again. He was with me last
               I
                    it I
Wednesday. No, no, couldn't have been Wednes

day either. What day are we at now, Owen? for
  can't remember the least thing --it's all gone, boy,
I

all gone."

   Owen inquired whether the old man thought he

could sleep bit if he left him for a while, but the
            a

invalid shook his head, and he held the boy as

tightly as he could by the hand. Then the little

fellow leant over the pillow, and asked whether he

should go over to Builth for the doctor. Where

upon the Captain opened his eyes, and smiled at

Owen as he pressed the boy's hand, once more,

in his.
   TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.                       415

   Presently he said, " You're very good, lad --very

good; but I'm better now. That dreadful cough

Iof mine tries me sadly when it comes on. Don't
leave me yet a while, Owen.        should like to have

you and little Peg always with me; but you, boy,

have your living to get, and she--little puss --is too

full of her games for me to be able to bear with at

all times."

  I"Shall move these papers, sir, from the bed?"
inquired the lad; " I'm afraid they're in your way."

 I I"Wait a while, Owen," returned the old man.

" knew there was something intended to do, and
if you hadn't spoken of your star-papers just then,
I should have forgotten all about
                                   I'm sure."
                                   it,
                                               a
   Then the Captain directed Owen to fetch the

desk from below, and afterwards dictated letter toa

   friend of his-- Mr. Blackwater --who, he said,
   a
         a
was one of the most learned scientific men of the

time, and had grand observatory at the top of one

of the hills on the Radnorshire side of the Wye. The

old sailor, when he was Captain of the Brockelbank,

had rendered this gentleman some service he had;
brought him, he said, large piece of " wootz," or
            a

Indian steel, at the time Mr. Blackwater was

making some experiments on the hardening of iron,

and this the philosopher had prized so highly, that

he had promised the sailor to do him any favour

that lay in his power. So, although the gentleman

was very eccentric in his habits, and lived per
                                                  a
416 THE BOY TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERS

fectly retired life, going nowhere and seeing no one,
nevertheless, the Captain said, he had little doubt
that, at his request, Mr. Blackwater would allow
Owen to have a peep through his large telescope,
and he would be able to tell him, too, whether his

star-papers were accurate or not ; adding, " You'll
learn more from him, boy, in an hour, if he will
only talk to you, than you would get out of me in a

twelvemonth."
    When the letter was written, the old Captain

was at a loss to remember the precise address ; how
ever, he told Owen he had only to describe the
character of the person he wanted at the ferry, to

be immediately set in the right direction.

   At length Owen was dismissed on his errand, for

the sailor was anxious to learn the result of the
boy's visit; and as old Jack had been duly sent
back by the young blacksmith, the little fellow was
glad to avail himself of the assistance of his favourite
brute to carry him on the road. So as they jogged

along together, the boy chattered to the animal,
now patting him for his remembrance of him on the
hills, and then communicating to him, as usual, all
he was about to do, and how he hoped to make

Jack happy when he had grown a big man, and was

able to earn a good bit of money every week;
assuring him he shouldn't be left out on the common
TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.  417

in a little stable of his own, and plenty of corn to
eat, besides an apple or two, and some peppermint
drops for a treat sometimes.

   Owen had little difficulty in ascertaining the
locality of the residence of the gentleman he was in
quest of, for it was well known to every one on the
Radnorshire side of the water.

    The house was situate near the top of a bleak
hill, and round about the grounds ran wires, that
extended as far as the lad's eye could reach, while
against the walls of the house itself were placed
huge water barometers reaching upwards of thirty feet
high. On the roof stood a curious-looking "ane
mometer," consisting of a large vane with a number
of wheels, for measuring and registering the force
and direction of the wind. On the lawn, too, were
rain gauges and " drosometers," or instruments for
measuring the quantity of dew fallen in the night.

Here and there, against the hill-side, deep caverns

had been burrowed, where the owner occasionally
passed his time watching the formation of some
artificial crystal in the dark. Crowning the sum

mit of the hill a gigantic telescope might be seen,
whose long iron tube looked, at a distance, more
like the funnel to a steamboat than part of any
optical instrument. This was pointed upwards like
a huge cannon, and rested on a triangular pier of
black marble that was as high as the house itself,

                                        EE
 418 THE BOY TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERS

 while over the top of the pier projected the axis on.

 which the huge machine turned, with the end of it

 weighted with ponderous metal discs like iron
 cheeses; and down one side of the pier extended what
 was called the "polar axis" of the instrument, with a
 large wheel at the end, so that any star to which
 the telescope was set might be always kept in the
 field of view. So admirably, too, was the immense
 machine counterpoised, that though it weighed
 altogether between two and three tons, the force of
 a child might move it.

    Nor was the interior of the building less peculiar
than the exterior. The rooms were fuller of appa
 ratus than furniture. Here stood a pair of exqui
sitely-delicate scales in a glass case, and there was
an air-pump, with a saucer full of some curious fluid

set to evaporate beneath the exhausted receiver --

and there, again, a huge glass- plate electrifying ma
chine. Then there were " galvanometers," with their

needles delicately hung under glass shades, and large

gold-leaf electrometers and " eudiometers," or instru
ments for measuring the quantity of oxygen in the
atmosphere, and "hydrometers" for telling the amount
of moisture in it. There were " specific gravity" scales,
too, and "acetometers," for testing the strength of
acids. This room was filled with retorts and glass
funnels, and graduated bell-glass receivers for gases,
and gasometers, like huge japanned muff-boxes, and
TO THE ODD OLD SQUIRE, ETC.  419

a Jew clothesman carries his hats on his head.

Then another room was littered with " transit in
struments," and " equatorials," and microscopes, and
" theodolites," with large celestial and terrestrial globes,
and such a medley of instruments of all shapes and
contrivances, that the mind was bewildered in its

endeavour to comprehend the uses of them all.

    The owner of the residence was as eccentric as

the house itself. It was reported that he was of

noble birth, and claimed a duke for his grand
father on both sides, though he himself had never

been known to allude to the circumstance. His

great wealth, however, was no secret, for he had
already founded a public library in the neighbour

ing town, and stocked it at his own expense.
 Thither he himself had been sometimes seen to go
 when in want of some book that his own shelves

 at home did not contain ; nor did he fail, on such

 occasions, to sign a receipt for the volume he ob

 tained, with as much regularity, as if he were a

 visitor there, either little known or little trusted.

    But perhaps the most marked of his peculiarities
 was his aversion to strangers, for he shrank from all
 society, desiring ever to be alone with his books or
 instruments. But despite his efforts at retirement,

 his researches soon made him a conspicuous per
  sonage in the world of science, for he had been
  elected a Fellow of most of the learned Societies of
  London and on the Continent; still such a dislike

                                             ee2
HO THE BOY TAKES HIS STAR-PAPERS, ETC.

had he for worldly honours, and so intense was his
aversion to be pointed out as a great man, that he
was continually striving to keep his fame a secret,
and wondering why people would not leave him
alone in the world.
                    CHAPTER XV.

                  THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.

Owen found no little difficulty in gaining admit
tance to this strange individual. The boy was
minutely questioned by the old man-servant at the
hall-door as to the nature of his business, and was
told it was no use sending the letter up, for the gen
tleman was too busy to be troubled, and never would
allow any stranger to set foot in the place. " Scores
and scores," said the servant, " used to come -- and
some of the first people in the country, too --but to
no purpose ; for Mr. Blackwater would never see any
of them."

    To the attendant's astonishment, however, a mes
sage was at length sent down that the boy, who had
brought the letter from Captain Jones, was to be
shown into the library.

    Owen was not a little fluttered as he entered the
room and found himself in the presence of the gen
tleman of whom he had lately heard so much. The
422 THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.

philosopher was a small, spare man, with a very large

ithigh head, that had little or no hair left upon --

his eyes were piercing and deep set, with the eye
brows hanging half over them; his features, too,
were sharp and pinched, and so austere was his
look, that at the first glance he appeared to be almost
deficient in human sympathy.

    " So you want to have a peep through the tele
scope, do you?" inquired the recluse, in a shrill
voice, as he looked at the little fellow through his
eyebrows. " You'd much better mind your work.
What do you do? Keep the crows off, eh, boy?"

   "No, if you please, sir," said Owen, nervously,

I" mind sheep on the hills."

   " Oh ! you do --do you," growled the cynic, " then
why don't you keep to it instead of wasting your

time star-gazing ; you'll get better wages as a shep
herd than you will as a philosopher. Can you

read?"

    The timid boy was ready to cry as he informed
the gentleman that he could -- a little.

    " Well, then," growled on the other, " why don't

Iyou mind your books ? But dare say you fancy

knowledge is to come without learning."
    Owen could bear the severe manner of the man

no longer, and turning his head away from him he
burst into a flood of tears.

    The astronomer, on hearing the boy's sobs, was
a little softened, and, rising from his seat, went
OWEN'S INtERVIEW WIth JiR. BLACKWAtER.-- Page 423.
THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.  423

Itowards him, as he said, " Come, my boy, didn't

mean to wound you. There, dry your tears, and let
me see the papers the Captain tells me you have to
show me."

   The little fellow handed Mr. Blackwater the
chart he had brought with him, though, as he did
so, he inwardly wished he could get away from the
place somehow or other.

   The austere man no sooner spread the map out
before him, than he turned quickly round to the boy

and asked, " Did you do this yourself V

   Owen nodded assent, for his heart was too full to

speak.

   "You didn't copy it out of any book?" inquired

the other.

    The boy shook his head.

   "Well, then come here to me, lad," said the
astronomer, in a more subdued tone. " There, don't

I Ibe afraid. seem harsh, know, for I'm little used
Ito deal with the world. Well, can tell you, boy,

that this map gives great promise of your doing
better things some day ; but only with deep study,
remember, and filling your mind with the thoughts
and discoveries of all the great men who have gone
before you. You mustn't think, boy, that it's pos
sible for you alone to find out all that it has taken
mind after mind, from the very dawn of knowledge,

to heap together ; for every science, remember, is built

up by a number of workers, each adding only the
a424 THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.

   it,smallest fragment to the general structure, like the
tiny creatures whose united labours form, in the
course of ages, immense reefs of coral."

   The philosopher then led Owen to a large plani
sphere of the heavens that hung against one side of
the library, and he there pointed out to the boy the
defects of his little chart ; showing him how he had
crowded under the same horizon, at the same time,
stars that could have become visible only at different
periods. And as he compared the figures of the
different constellations with those delineated by the
shepherd-boy, he pointed out to him the various
double stars that had been discovered, and told him
how these had been found to be revolving round each
other, like a twin sun ; and how some again formed

a threefold arrangement, each continually circu

lating about the others -- "as if," said Mr. Black-
water, smiling grimly, " they were dancing a reel."

Then he pointed out to the boy the different fixed
stars, of which the parallax had already been ascer
tained ; and told him how, though the sun was,
in round numbers, 100 millions of miles distant
from the earth, the Pole-star was upwards of 3
millions of times farther removed from us than
the sun was, or more than 300 billions of miles

altogether ; which, he added, was such a distance,
that the light from though travelling more than

11J million miles minute, would take no less than
50 years to reach our eyes; so that though we
          THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.                             425

fancy we see it of a night in the place it occu

pies, at the moment of our looking uponit                              we
really and truly behold in the position   it,
half century before.                                             was in
a

                            it

Owen, who had grown more at ease as the phi

losopher became more kindly and communicative,

was about to ask the gentleman for an explanation,

as to how he could possibly see the Pole-star where              it
was 50 years back but Mr. Blackwater proceeded
to tell him that was from the discovery of theit ;
" parallax" of some of the fixed stars that they had

been able to infer the distance of the others, accord
ing to their several magnitudes. " Those of the first
magnitude," he went on, " are the brightest that we

see, and are upwards of         million times farther
                                1|

                                       3
                                                          2
removed from the earth than the sun is. Those of

the second magnitude are more than                               million

times the distance of the sun from us, and those of

the third magnitude more than million times as far

from the earth as the sun, and so on down to the

sixth magnitude, which are the smallest stars that

are visible to the naked eye. The latter are, in round

          million of times farther than the sun
numbers,  8f

                      is

                        it

                                                              a
from the earth, or," said he, " the light that you see

them by at night that which left them more than

130 years ago, while has been calculated that the

stars of the ninth magnitude --which the telescope
alone renders visible to us--are sunk so inconceivably

distant in the great ocean of space, that flash of
+26 THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER.

light, leaving them at one moment, would take
nearly 600 years to traverse the immense gulf that

lies between us and them."

   All this was so overpowering to the boy, that he

could not refrain from inquiring how it was pos
sible for men to know as much.

   The Astronomer asked the lad if he knew how

the distance of the nearest of the heavenly bodies

was arrived at.

   The little fellow told Mr. Blackwater that he had
long wanted to understand it ; adding, that he had
often, as he lay out on the hills, wondered how it
was possible to measure the distance of things that

there was no getting near to.
   The philosopher smiled at the doubt of the boy,

and said, " Well, I'll try to give you a notion as

to how it is done. Do you know what parallax

means?" inquired the philosopher.
   " Captain Jones, sir," answered the boy, " told

me that parallax was the different place that an

object appeared in when we looked at it from a

different point of view."

  "I am glad to find you know so much already,"

answered the Astronomer. " Parallax is simply
that apparent change of place in an object which
arises from a real change of place of the observer."

   " Yes, sir," said Owen, encouraged by the appro

Ibation of one who seemed so difficult to please. "

know that if you hold a coin close before you, and
THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER.  427

look at it first with one eye and then the other,
it appears to shift its place, because we are then
viewing it from different points."

    " There's a brave lad," added Mr. Blackwater,

not a little astonished to find the boy had so
thorough a knowledge of the matter. " Well, then,
listen! The coin held close before us, and viewed

with each of the eyes successively, is only a simple
illustration of one of the highest astronomical prin

ciples--the one, indeed, by which the distance of

the sun and planets is arrived at, and even that of

the fixed stars measured ; for we have only to
imagine each of our eyes to be a different observer
situate at different parts of the earth, or of the
earth's course round the sun -- that is to say, we have
but to fancy the 2^ inches that our eyes are apart
to be expanded into 4 thousand miles, the semi-

diameter of the earth --or into 95 million miles,

the semi-diameter of the earth's orbit, and to regard
the coin as some immense orb millions of miles

removed from us--to have a perfect notion of what

is meant by the parallax of the sun and stars."

  I" hope you won't be angry with me, sir, for saying
I cannot make out how you can measure the distance

of a thing in that way?" said the lad, timidly.

  I I" No, no, boy !" went on the Astronomer. " Any

thing can tell you, will. Well, my lad, if you

notice what takes place with an object held close
before you, you will find that the nearer it is to
488 THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER.

you, the greater the space it appears to travel
through as you regard it first with one eye and

Ithen the other. There, hold your finger up and see

whether am right."
   "Oh, yes! sir," cried Owen, as he made the

Isimple experiment ; " when my finger is close in front

of me, it seems, as open one eye and shut the
other, to move half across the bookcase yonder;

Ibut when hold my finger as far away from me as
I can, it moves only the length of a few books."

   " So then," was the reply, " you perceive that the
nearer an object is to you the greater is its apparent
change of place, when viewed from different points
of sight, and on the contrary, the farther an object
is off, the less is its apparent change of place when
regarded from different situations. Now let us see

if we can measure the distance of the moon from
the earth by such means. Well then, lad, if the

earth were perfectly transparent, it is evident that
a person at the centre of it would see all the celestial
bodies in their true places in the heavens; for the
centre being a fixed point, he would continually re
main in the same position ; consequently as the paral
lax of objects, or their apparent change of place, pro
ceeds only from a real change of place in the observer;
and as a person situate at the centre of the earth
would never alter his position, the sun, moon, and
stars could have no parallax to him. Do you follow
that?"
           THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.  429

  I" Yes, sir," replied the boy ; " but should never
Ihave thought of such a thing, am sure."

   " No, of course you wouldn't," continued the
Astronomer, " nor a hundred others older and wiser

than you. Well, let us suppose one person to be
situate on the surface and the other at the centre of

the earth, and see how the moon would appear to two

Isuch observers. But can show you a drawing of that

already done ;" and, so saying, Mr. Blackwater drew
a volume from the bookcase, and spreading it out
before the boy, exposed the following engraving to

his view.
430 THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER.

" Now the larger sphere you see here represents

the earth, and the smaller one the moon; and sup

posing a person to be stationed at the top of the
globe here, and another to be at its centre, it is plain
that when the moon was in the zenith, or exactly

over the heads of the two as at z, they would both
see it in the same place ; whereas when it had

appeared to pass from that point a little way to

wards the horizon, the observer at the surface would,

in the course of the revolution of the earth, have

shifted his place with regard to      and conseit,
                                              ;y it
quently, see in the direction of the dotted line
;
            it
at x while to the person at the centre, who would
have remained in the same place all the time, would

appear in the direction of the other line at that

    to say, the moon would be seen from the middle
of the earth in its true position, whereas, at the
is
                would appear depressed towards the
            it
surface,

horizon, and be referred to point in the heavens
                             it it a
that was some little distance removed from the real

place then occupied. Then, as the moon seemed
it

to draw nearer the horizon,           would be more and

more displaced, and when            reached the horizon

itself, the extent of the displacement would be the

greatest of all, for the observer at the centre would

see in the direction of the line at while, viewed
it                                    s,
                   it
                                                  is
from the surface, would then appear considerably

below its true place in the heavens, or in the direc

tion of the line at r. This constitutes what called
THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER. -  431

the ' horizontal' parallax, which signifies simply the
difference in the apparent position of any celestial
body at the horizon when viewed from a station on
the surface of the earth and from the centre. Now,

Ito comprehend this, you have only to fancy, as

said before, the distance between your two eyes to
be equal to the semi-diameter of the earth, and to
imagine the moon to be like the coin held in front
of them, and then you will perceive how the one
eye at the surface would see the object in a different

position from the eye at the centre."
    Owen assured the Astronomer that he could

follow this part of the subject with little or no diffi
culty, but still he could not make out how it was
possible to tell the distance of the heavenly bodies
in such a manner, since no one could get to the
middle of the earth to see them in their true

positions.

   " Well," proceeded Mr. Blackwater, " there are
other ways of finding that out than by observing
the sun and moon from the centre of our globe.
For instance, the moon appears to revolve about the

earth from the meridian back to the meridian

again in about 24 hours 48 minutes, consequently
she should go a fourth part round it in a fourth
part of that time, or in 6 hours and 12 minutes--

that is to say, if we could get to the middle of the

earth, we know this would be the time that the
moon would be found to occupy in performing
432 THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER.

exactly one quarter of her apparent daily revolution
about our globe. But as observed from the earth's
surface, she seems to go from the meridian to the
horizon in a little less than a fourth part of the

24 hours 48 minutes; and if you were to take note

of the exact period, you would discover that instead
of taking 6 hours and 12 minutes to do that much

of her journey, she would seem to you to perform it

in about 3 minutes less. Now this affords us an

easy method of ascertaining the extent of the angle
formed by the moon's horizontal parallax, for we
have but to convert the number of minutes that her

journey from the meridian to the horizon was short
of the 6 hours 12 minutes into parts of a degree,
in order to find the precise extent of her parallax
at this point of view. By such means as these, then,
we learn that the moon's horizontal parallax is
57' 18" or some few minutes less than 1 degree.

   Now if you look at the engraving, you will per

ceive that what we call the moon's horizontal pa
rallax represents the angle under which the semi-
diameter of the earth would appear to an observer

in the moon ; that is to say, the line A C would, at

the moon, be seen under an angle of 57' 18", or let
us call to simplify the matter, degree. Now we

know that this measures just upon 4000 miles, so
we have only to complete the circle of which this

   degree a part, in order to find out the exact
dimensions of the whole. Well, there are, you know,
1

           it,
               is

                                                                             1
THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER,  433

360 degrees to every circle, and as one of them
measures 4000 miles, the whole 360 must of course

measure 1,440,000 miles, and this gives us the entire
extent of the circumference of the circle of which
the moon is the centre. Then, dividing that amount
by 3, we have 480,000 miles for a rough approxi
mation to the length of its diameter, and halving

that again, we get 240,000 miles for the semi-
diameter or distance that the moon is from the earth.
However, let us make a drawing of this, and you
will see it in an instant.

There, boy, the little dot in the centre of the circle,"
proceeded the philosopher, "represents the moon,
and the small circle at the edge of the larger one,
the earth. Well, an eye at the centre of the earth
would see the moon in its true position in the
heavens in the direction of the thick line, and refer

                                        FF
434 THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER.

it to a point at (a), whereas an eye at the surface
would see that celestial body in the direction of
the dotted line referring it to a place in the

heavens at (6); this, then, you see, would consti
tute the moon's horizontal parallax. Now this

parallax we know by measurement to amount to a

little less than 1 degree, and as when two right

lines cross each other the opposite angles are equal,

we know also that the arc, or portion of the circle

included between the lines c                     and

                                                  d

                                                                                                    and

                                                                                        b.
                                                 must be exactly

equal to the arc or portion of the circle on the

opposite side included between the lines a
But we know, moreover, that this portion of the

circle equal to the semi-diameter of the earth,
is
                    is  in round numbers 4000 miles
and consequently

                        is

                                               c

                                                                        and

                                                  d
long.* Then, as the space between                                            repre

sents degree, and this                           the 360th part of the
1
                    plain that the length of the whole
         it

                is
entire circle,

circumference must be 360 times 4000 miles. There

fore, knowing how many miles                     round the circle,
                                                 it

                                                     is

                                                            it

                                                                   is

                                                                                               ;
we can easily find how many miles                    across

and then halving that quantity, we shall arrive at

the exact distance from the circumference to the

centre, and so learn how far the moon removed
                                                 is

from the earth."

* The line formed by the semi-diameter of the earth would

be what       called the "tangent" of this arc. In small angles,
         is
                                             is
however, the length of the arc very nearly the same as that of

its tangent.
           THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.                                  435

  I" I'm sure thank you, sir," cried the boy, de
I Ilighted to find that he could now follow the expla

nation. " never thought should be able to under

   it,

      it

           I

                                                      ?"

                                                    it

                                   is I
stand but now can see how the distances of the

moon and stars are measured, and before, sir, used
to think was all guess work, and that was im
possible for any one to tell exactly how far they
were off. Can you find out how far the sun from

the earth in the same manner, sir

   "Yes, partly so, boy," replied the astronomer;
" and the parallax of the sun, owing to its being
much farther removed from us than the moon,
           is
                                     9

                                                 a
                                                                    a

                                                                              a is
found to be not quite      seconds of                      degree.*

Now, to ascertain how far body, having such

parallax,             removed from the earth, we must go

through the same reasoning as we did in the case of

the moon, bearing in mind, however, that the arc, or

portion of the circle included between the lines d,f
                                                           9
                                                                    c
represents in the case of the sun not quite seconds
of degree consequently, as there are 1,296,000 se
conds altogether in 360 degrees, that arc will be only
the 144 thousandth part of the entire circumference
a

                   :

                                                                       ;

hence, as the 144 thousandth part of the circumfe-

* The sun's parallax  only 8" instead of 9", as has been
                      is
                                         '6,
                                                       is
assumed for the sake of simplifying the calculation; conse

quently, the sun's distance from the earth                 less than above-

mentioned, being generally taken at 95 million miles instead
of 96.

t  See Engraving, p. 433.

                           F
                              F
                                  2
i:.c THE MODERN JACOBS LADDER.

rence measures 4000 miles, the entire circle having
the sun for its centre, must measure no less than 576
million miles round. Then dividing this by 3, we
have 192 million miles for the length across the circle,
and halving that, gives us 96 million miles for the
length of its semi-diameter, which is about the dis
tance of the sun from the earth."

   " And is that the way, sir," inquired Owen, " the

distances of the planets and fixed stars are got at V
   " Yes, boy," answered Mr. Blackwater, " it is by

some such means, though there are other ways of

Idoing the same thing, but needn't trouble you
Iwith them just now. should tell you, however,

that on account of the difficulty of making accurate
observations at the horizon, owing to the refraction

there, the parallaxes are usually determined by
observations made by persons, stationed for the
purpose, at different parts of the earth ; for in
stance, one we will say is located at Vienna, and

another at the Cape of Good Hope-- which two
places are on the same meridian, but in different

hemispheres, and very nearly 83° latitude removed
from each other. Thus the two eyes are nearly one-
fourth of the circumference of the earth apart, and
the same celestial body being observed by them is
seen by each out of its true position. Accordingly,
on an appointed day, two observers measure how
many degrees the object, whose parallax they wish
to obtain, appears to be distant from their respective
THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.                               437

zeniths at the moment of its crossing the meridian.
Then adding these zenith distances together, they
find that the sum of them amounts to more than

the sum of their latitudes, and the excess is the
extent of the angle that the object has been dis
placed in the heavens, whence the horizontal paral
lax is easily calculated."

  I" But hope you won't think me troublesome,
Isir," said the boy, timidly, "if ask you how you

tell the sizes of the sun and moon 1"
   " No, boy," smiled Mr. Blackwater ; " as we have

some little time to wait before you can have a peep
through the telescope, we may as well occupy our
selves that way. When we know the distance of a
body and the angle under which it is seen, it is not
very difficult to caculate its size, for the angles
under which we see things become greater or less
according as the objects are larger or smaller, or
farther or nearer. For instance, an object close to the
eye is seen under a much larger angle than one a
long way off, and that is the reason why a man on
the top of a lofty building appears no bigger than
a child. The fact he seen under smaller angle,

and therefore appears smaller."

   " But can't make out, sir," interposed the lad,
" what you mean by seeing things under an angle."

   " Well, look here, boy," continued the astrono

mer; "as stand before you, you were to draw
I
                     is,
                            is
                                                      a

I                                                        a

                        if
438 THE MODERN JACOBS LADDEB.

met at the pupil of your eye, those two threads

would represent the angle under which you are view

ing me ; for you see all things merely by luminous

threads, or rays of light as they are termed, sent

from the objects to your eye. But if you were look

ing at a smaller object at the same distance off from

I Iyou as am--as for instance at this book which

hold now in my hand -- and a thread was to be drawn
from the top and bottom of it to your pupil, then

of course the threads from the book would not be so

wide apart on coming to your eye, as the threads

from me would be ; so that the book being smaller,

Iyou would see it under a smaller angle. But now
suppose was to leave the book where it   is,  and

                                          I
with the threads still fastened to my feet and head,

was to go farther away, you would find that as
I
     I

                       I
retired, the threads instead of being wide apart as

they approached your eye, like they were at first

when stood near you, would, the farther went,
                                         a
come closer and closer together, and so form smaller
                                          aI
angle, until at last, when had retired to some

considerable distance, they would be in line with

the threads from the book, and then you would see

me under the same angle as the book itself."

   " Ah now, sir, understand what you mean
!                                      if
                                                          ;
         II

                             a
thank you," said Owen.                   you look
   " Well," continued Mr. Blackwater, "

again at the diagram have before shown you con

cerning the parallax of body, you will see that the
THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.  439

parallactic angle is merely the angle under which a
person in the moon or sun would see the semi-
diameter of the earth ; for you have only to suppose
an eye to be placed at the point where the lines
drawn from the centre and surface of the earth

meet, and to imagine those lines to represent two
rays of light, in order to comprehend that such must
be the angle under which that portion of the earth
would be seen. Now this angle we know by measure
ment to be, in the case of the moon, 57' 18", and
then doubling this we have 1° 54/ 36", or 6876" alto
gether, for the angle that the entire diameter of the
earth would be seen under at the moon. Moreover,
we know by measurement that the diameter of the

Imoon is seen by us under an angle of 31' 2", or

1862" altogether. But have shown you that the
sizes of bodies at the same distance from the eye are

Iin proportion to the angles under which they are

viewed ; for you remember pointed out to you that
you saw me under a greater angle than you beheld
the book when we were both at the same distance

from you. Accordingly, as the distance between the
moon and the earth must be the same, whether we
suppose an observer in the moon to be viewing the
diameter of the earth, or an observer on the earth to

be viewing the diameter of the moon, it follows that

the real diameters of these bodies must be in the same

proportion as their apparent ones, and as these are
respectively 6876" and 1862", therefore the raiZ dia
440 THE MODERN JACOB'S LADDER.

meters must be as 369 to 100, that is to say, the

diameter of the earth must be very nearly 3^ greater

than that of the moon. Then, as we know the

earth to be in round numbers 8000 miles across,

we thus find that the length of the moon across

must be 2180 miles."
   " So then, sir," remarked Owen, thoughtfully,

" the moon is about a quarter as big as the earth ?

More than two thousand miles across ! And yet it

doesn't look any larger up there than father's grind

            V         sir? How big  the sun,
stone ; does                        is         you
                 it,
                                                   if

                                                                 is
please, sir
   " Why," continued Mr. Blackwater, " the sun

so large that would require about 880 earths put
              it

in a line, one after the other, like so many cannon

balls, to reach across that body or if the sun were
                      ;
                                    is
placed close against our globe, only about one-quarter
of his diameter would fill up the space between us

and the moon, which you remember        240 thou

sand miles away from us."

   " Oh dear exclaimed the lad, lost in wonder,

" to think the sun would reach up to the moon
!

              !"

"Yes, boy," added the astronomer, "and three   !"

times farther, too. But now let us see how this    is

made out. The entire diameter of the earth, viewed

from the sun, would, of course, be seen under double

the angle that the semi-diameter of would and
                      is

                                    it

                                                                  ;

                                                              is
as the angle that the semi-diameter of the earth

seen under from the sun the same as the sun's
THE MODERN JACOB S LADDER.  441

Iparallax, which you know told you was not quite

9" of a degree, it follows that the entire diameter

of the earth would, if observed from the sun, be seen

under an angle of 17T2n". But the sun's diameter,
as seen from the earth, measures a little more than

the moon's, or 32' 3", which is 1293" altogether.

Consequently, the apparent diameter of the earth, seen

from the sun, being 1 7TV'> an(i the apparent diameter
of the sun seen from the earth being 1923", the real

diameters of those bodies must be in the same pro

portion, or very nearly as 1 to 111 ; that is to say,
the sun must be about 111 times bigger than the

earth itself, so that the earth being 8000 miles

across, the length across the sun must be something
like 888 thousand miles, which is nearly four times

greater than the distance of the moon from us."
                  CHAPTER XVI.

                                     ' STAR-DUST.

"I Iam sure have to thank you much, sir, for

explaining all this to me," said the grateful little
fellow. "But the planets, sir? are they nearer to
the earth than the fixed stars?"

   " Yes, my boy, they form part of what is called
the solar system," responded the astronomer; " that
is to say, they all revolve round the sun as their
centre, just as the earth itself does, and, consequently,
they appear to be continually shifting their places

among the stars, which, on the other hand, always
seem to occupy the same positions among one

another in the heavens. Now, what is called the
solar system consists of no less than 50 celestial
bodies, of which the sun is the principal or centre,
so that, regarded as a part of the stellar universe, it
is merely a cluster of stars linked together --the
earth itself forming one, and by no means the largest
of the number."
STAR-DUST.                      443

" Do we live then upon a star, sir?" inquired the

astonished boy.
   " Yes, lad; and a very small star, too," answered

Mr. Blackwater ; " for Sirius, which is the principal

star in the constellation of the Great Dog, has been

calculated to be considerably larger than our sun,

so that to an observer in the Dog-star, the sun itself

would dwindle down to a mere bright point, and

the earth be invisible even with the highest magni

fying power. Well, boy, there are 30 primary orbs
in our system revolving about the sun as planets,

and 20 secondary orbs revolving about these primary
ones as satellites or moons. So that comprising the

Isun, our system numbers, as said, no less than 50

bodies. The little cluster of stars, of which we form

a part, consists of a disc of space 600 million
miles across, with the sun in the centre, and 30

primary orbs, as they are called, circulating at
                                IYou have, dare
different distances about him.

say, noticed the circles formed on a pool when a

stone has been thrown into it. Well, imagine that

pool to be a vast aerial ocean, and the circles upon

it to be immensely larger, so that every inch is

expanded into a million miles, and then those
circles will give you a rough notion of the orbits of
the planets in our system. Now there are 30 such

planets, remember, continually circulating about the

sun, 22 of these being mere fragments of worlds, or
' asteroids' as they are called, and the other 8 im
144 STAR-DUST.

mouse bodies travelling quicker and quicker the
nearer they are to the great contral orb ; for Mercury,
which is the nearest of all, is carried along at the
rate of 170 thousand miles an hour, Venus at 80
thousand miles, the Earth at 68 thousand, and so on,

the speed becoming less and less till we reach Uranus,
whose rate of motion in its orbit is only 15 thousand

miles in the same time.* Consequently Mercury travels
as much quicker than Uranus round its orbit as a
railway train goes faster than a man walking. Then,
again, about some of these primary orbs themselves
there are 20 other secondary orbs or moons always

Jurevolving, the Earth having 1 such attendant,

piter 4, Saturn 7, Uranus, it is believed, 6, while

   * Kepler, the celebrated astronomer of Wirtemberg, was the
first to point out that the squares of the times in which the
planets revolve about the sun, are in the same proportion as the
cubes of their distances. For instance, the periods in which
the Earth and Mars complete their revolutions in their orbits

are respectively 365^^ days, and 686T9^^ days, which are

in the proportion of 100,000 to 188, 081, while their distances from
the sun are in round numbers 95,000,000 miles and 144,000,000
miles, or more accurately, in the proportion of 100,000 to
152,369. Now, it will be found on making the calculation,
that 100,000 (multiplied by itself) is to 188,081 (multiplied by
itself) as 100,000 (multiplied by itself twice over) is to
152,369 (multiplied by itself twice over). That is to say, the
squares of the times in which the planets revolve about the sun
have the same proportion to each other as the cubes of their
distances from that body, so that knowing the time in which any
planet completes its orbit, we can thus arrive at its distance, or
vice versa, knowing its distance, we can deduce its time.
STAR-DUST.                    445

Neptune, so far as our knowledge at present leads

us to surmise, has only 2."
  I" You give me thoughts
I Isaid the boy ; " and wish  never had before, sir,"
                              had nothing else to do

but to study these things, though the numbers of

miles you speak of are so large that they quite con

fuse me."

  "I dare say they do, my lad," returned the
Iastronomer, in a kindly tone. " But let me see if

cannot give you a better notion of the solar system,

and the comparative sizes and distances of the

planets by some familiar illustration. Well, then,"

continued Mr. Blackwater, "we will suppose our

selves to be in the middle of a large level plain three

miles across. Now, if in the centre of this we were

to place a very big pumpkin, two feet in diameter,

that would represent the Sun; and then, if at the

distance of rather more than 50 yards, which is about

the length of the aisle of a large church, we were to

place a little ball scarcely bigger than a silk-worm's

egg, that would give you an idea of the size of

Mercury in comparison with that of the sun ; while

a white currant placed at not quite a hundred yards

from the centre would stand for Venus; and another

currant at the distance of nearly 150 yards, which

is about the length of the aisle of a large cathedral,
would be a type of our Earth. Mars might be shown

by a coral bead no bigger than a small shot, placed
446 STAR-DUST.

is about the width of the base of the largest of the

Egyptian pyramids; and the group of asteroids or

little planets by grains of sand placed at 300 or

400 yards -- which is rather less than a quarter
of a mile --from our model sun. Jupiter, on

the other hand, would be a good-sized orange

at nearly half a mile, and Saturn a little orange

at about £ of a mile from the central orb,

while Uranus would be exemplified by a crab-apple
I\at the distance of
                      mile from the centre, and

that is about as far as a balloon ordinarily rises in

the atmosphere."                            I" see

   " Oh ! thank you, sir," exclaimed Owen.

it much plainer now. But how big Jupiter must be

to be like an orange, while Mercury is only the size
of a silkworm's egg compared with him. But is

this cluster of stars you speak of, sir, and which you

say occupies a space in the heavens 600 million
miles across, a mere speck, after all, in the universe?"

   " Yes, lad," responded the astronomer, " it most

           for some of the fixed stars are so far
assuredly  is,

                      I

                                                                      ;
                                                                             a
distant from us, that, as said before, their light,

though travelling more than 190,000 miles

second, would take centuries to reach our eye for

the beams we see them by, as they appear twinkling

above us in the night, are those which left them

hundreds of years ago."
   " Oh that reminds me, sir," suddenly cried the

boy, as the thought struck him, " that wanted to
!

                         I
STAB-DUST.               447

ask you, if you please, how it was you could tell

that the little Pole-star is so many millions and

millions of miles away from us that we see it every
night in the place where it was fifty years back 1

That seemed to me more wonderful than any

Ithing you have told me yet, and so astonishing that
  could hardly believe it was possible for people to

be able to find out such things."

  I" dare say, my little man," added Mr. Black-

water ; " but it is possible now to speak with

accuracy on such matters, and the means by which

the knowledge is attained is one of the greatest dis

coveries of modern times ; and perhaps of any time

whatever. It is arrived at, however, simply by

finding the parallax of the fixed stars, though by a

Isomewhat different method from that by which

Iexplained to you the parallax of the sun and moon
was found. You remember  showed you that

we ascertained the distances of the last-mentioned

bodies merely by learning how many degrees, or

parts of a degree, the semi-diameter of the earth

would appear to be extended over, when seen from

them ; that is to say, we used the diameter of our

own immense globe as a yard-stick wherewith to

tell the length of the spaces between us and the sun

and moon. But though this measure is no less than
8000 miles long, it serves us only as a guide

for those orbs which are comparatively near us;

but as all things become less and less the farther
  448 STAR-DUST.

  they are removed from the point of sight, the
  semi-diameter of the earth dwindles to a mere mole
 cule, smaller than the motes in a sunbeam when
 regarded from a distance like that of the fixed
 stars. Accordingly we have to seek for some longer
 tape by which to measure these bodies -- some
 standard of length so much greater than the other,
 that when viewed from the remoteness of the fixed
 stars themselves, would appear to extend itself over
 some small space at least in the heavens. Such a
 standard then we obtain in the diameter of the
 earth's orbit, which is in round numbers no less
 than 190 million miles across. But even this
 length, prodigious as it seems to use as a foot-
rule, being nearly 24,000 times greater than the
 diameter of the earth itself, shrinks into the dimen

 sions of a grain of seed when applied to the fixed

stars-- at such stupendous depth do those orbs lie in
 the great celestial ocean which encompasses us ! For

so minute does even this immense measure become,

when regarded from the depths of space, that instead
of reckoning by minutes and seconds, as we did with
the diameter of the earth when applied to the sun
and moon, we come to tell our distances from the
fixed stars by thousandth parts of a second, even
though the standard we are applying to them is the
diameter of the earth's vast orbit itself."

   " What a way off they must be !" mused the lad
in his wonderment.
STAR-DUST.                 449

   " Well, you recollect," continued the philosopher,
" how we found the parallax of the sun and moon

by expanding the distance between the eyes into
that of the semi-diameter of the earth. We sup

posed, you know, one eye to be at the centre of our
globe, and one at the surface, and in that manner we

ascertained how far those bodies would appear to be

diverted from their true positions in the heavens ;

while the reason for our placing an eye at the centre
was that it was a fixed point, and accordingly an ob

server there never shifting his position during the
rotation of the earth, would see the celestial bodies in

their true places. But when we deal with the earth's

orbit, instead of its mere diameter, we have to

imagine an eye to be placed at the sun itself, since

that is the centre or fixed point of the circle that

our globe describes annually in the heavens; an

observer there would, consequently, see the stars

always in their true positions, while we, regarding

them from one side of such circle, must see them
Ifmore or less displaced.
                           you refer once more to

the diagram illustrating the sun and moon's parallax
you will at once understand this part of the subject ;*

for you have only to fancy that the circle which

we before used to represent the earth itself to be

the earth's orbit, and the point c in the centre to

stand now for the sun, while the smaller circle l,

See Engraving, p. 429.

            qa
too STAR-DUST.

which was previously intended for the moon, is
the fixed star whose parallax we are seeking to
measure. Then as the eye at the sun in the centre c
would see that star in its true place, and the eye at
the side of the orbit, as at a, out of its true place, it
is plain that we have only to measure how many
parts of a degree the star appears to us to be dis
placed in order to ascertain its parallax--which, for

Ithe reason have before given you, would be the

measure of the semi-diameter of the earth's orbit.

That is to say, we should ascertain by such means how
many parts of a degree, the length of our distance from

the sun, if viewed from that fixed star, would appear

to occupy in space. Now the parallax of the Pole-star,
arrived at by a modification of such means as these, is
found to be only 67 thousandth parts of a second of
a degree. Then portioning the entire circle out into
thousandth parts of a second, we have 1296 million

such parts; and dividing this by 67 (the extent that
the semi-diameter of the earth's orbit would appear

to occupy if viewed from the Pole-star) we find that

the circumference of the circle of which the Pole-
star is the centre, must be in round numbers 19^
million times longer than the semi-diameter of the

earth's orbit. Then dividing this by 3, and halving
the quotient, we obtain the semi-diameter of this

immense circle, and so learn that the Pole-star is no

less than 3^ million times our distance from the sun.
STAR-DUST.                             451

 amount of 312 billions for the length of space
 between us and the little star which we see twinkling
 of a night at the pole of the world."

    "Oh! goodness!" cried the little fellow, "and
 I've looked at that beautiful little speck of light
over and over again, and thought it but scarcely

 farther from me than some of the jack-o'-lanterns

I have seen floating a long way off in the air over

 the marshes."

    " But the parallax, boy, of only a few fixed stars
has as yet been measured," went on Mr. Blackwater ;

"those, however, which have been already ascer

tained, are sufficient to make us marvel at the

vastness of space, and the inconceivable distances

of bodies that we are in the habit of gazing at every
night. When we look at that beautiful large bril
liant white star called Vega, at the corner of the

constellation of 'the Lyre,' what person -- unless
conversant with the reasoning upon which the
knowledge depends-- would believe that it was more

than a million times farther from us than we are

removed from the centre of our system 1 Or who,
gazing at Arcturus --which is the large star that the

eye rests upon when glancing straight from those in

the tail of 'the Great Bear' -- would think it possible
that the interval between us and it could measure

more than million times our own distance from

the sun Or, again, that the light which sparkles

from the star in the beak of the Swan' would take
1

        1-|

                                   G

                               g
                                   2'
452 STAR-DUST.

10 years to reach the eye; and that the beams from

the star in one of the paws of 'the Great Bear'

would be no less than 25 years travelling to our

globe, even though the velocity of a ray of light is
such that it darts through 192,000 miles in one

swing of the pendulum ?"

  I" But, sir," cried Owen, " cannot make out how

you can tell that light travels at such a rate V
   " That is easily explained," replied the philosopher,

" and the discovery was made nearly 200 years ago,

Iby a Danish astronomer named Roemer. You re
member  told you that Jupiter had 4 moons,

and these as they revolve round the orb are con

tinually being eclipsed by it. Well, the Dane per

ceived, on comparing the recorded times of the

eclipses of these moons during many years, that
when the earth, in the course of its revolution

in its orbit, came nearly between the sun and

Jupiter, and so was nearest to the planet, the

eclipses took place some few minutes too soon; that

is to say, they occurred earlier than they should,

according to the calculation of the periods of the

revolutions of those satellites ; whereas the eclipses

which happened when the earth was farthest from

the planet, were always some few minutes later than

they should have been. Accordingly, the Danish

astronomer concluded that to bring the calculations

as to the regular periods for the return of these

eclipses into accordance with the observed facts, an
STAR-DUST.  453

 allowance in time must be made of nearly 16£
 minutes, for when the earth was in that part of its

 orbit which was nearest to Jupiter, the eclipses

\happened just upon 8 minutes before their regular

 time ; and when the earth was at that part of its

 orbit that was farthest from the planet, they occurred
 about 8£ minutes after their regular time. Specula
 ting, then, on the probable cause of this phenomenon,

 he could see no other mode of accounting for the fact

than the supposition that light, instead of passing

instantaneously through space, required a certain

time to dart from one point of the universe to

another. So as it took 16£ minutes to pass across
the orbit of the earth --and that you know is 190
million of miles in length--why it must travel at

the rate of 192,000 miles a second; a velocity so
great that it startled many when the matter was

first propounded, and made them hesitate to receive

the explanation as truth until it had obtained

some confirmation. Such confirmation, however,

has been afforded it--and that of the most indis
putable kind-- in the after discovery of the prin
ciple of "aberration." Accordingly we now know that
a ray in leaving a particular star must occupy a
certain time in travelling through the space between

the earth and and though the velocity of light
such as to be almost inconceivable, still we have mea

sured the rate of motion, among other principles as
it,
                                                            is
 15 t STAR-DUST.

along a wire with a speed that exceeds that of light
through planetary space : this, too, remember, is the
power we now use to transmit our messages from one
part of the earth to the other, with even a greater
rapidity than the beams of the little Pole-star come

twinkling to our eyes of a night, revealing it to us
where it was some half century ago. But here is a
drawing that will make the eclipses of Jupiter's
satellites, and the facts upon which the velocity of
light depends, still more plain to you." Whereupon

the astronomer taking another volume from the book
shelves, set the following illustration before the boy.
   STAR-DUST.  455

  I" Oh ! that's the Sun in the middle, suppose,

sir V remarked the lad, as he eyed the picture up
and down ; " and the balls round the circle about

the Sun, stand for the Earth in different parts of its

orbit ; don't they, if you please, sir?"

   " Yes, you're quite right," returned Mr. Black-
water; "and as the earth makes the tour of its
orbit in twelve months, the balls, as you call them,

represent the positions that our globe would occupy
every two months throughout the year. Now, the

straight lines which divide the circle into six

triangles are all of the same length, for those
triangles are what are termed equilateral, or equal-

sided ones. Consequently, the lines connecting the   it,
six different points round the circle are exactly

equal to the lines drawn from the circumference to
the centre. So that when our globe in the course
of its revolution in its orbit has passed from any
one of those points to another, it will have moved

through a part of space which, if measured in a

straight line, would be exactly equal to its distance
from the sun. The figure at the top of the drawing
represents the planet Jupiter, with its nearer side
illumined by the rays of the sun, while the farther
one is in darkness, and projects a shadow behind

just as house does with the sun shining uponait
and those little dots placed round the four circles
that encompass the planet, are intended for the four;
moons circulating about it. One of these you per
456 STAR-DUST.

ceive --that which is the nearest of all to Jupiter --is

about to enter the shadow, and so to be eclipsed by

or, what the same thing, obscured from our
it,
       it             about 350 miles greater in

                    is
                                 is

                               it

                                          is

                       If it
sight. This moon

diameter than our own. and about 20,000 miles

nearer to Jupiter, while                    revolves round the

planet in little more than                    days. Accordingly,

since completes its revolution about the orb in

just upon 42£ hours,            evident that interval of

time should elapse between the moments of its en

tering or quitting the shadow of the planet in the

course of any two successive revolutions. But                     it
                                                                      1 is
found, as the earth passes from the point of its orbit

that farthest from Jupiter (see fig.                 in engrav
ing), to the point which nearest to                  (see fig. 3),
is                          is                it
                                                  6
         it
the satellite appears to enter the shadow some few

minutes sooner than   ; it  should, according to the

rate of its revolution while as the earth passes

from the point of its orbit nearest to Jupiter to

that farthest from   it,  the satellite, on the other

hand, appears to quit the shadow some few minutes

later than   ought. For instance, suppose the

earth to be at the point of its orbit marked

on the 1st of June, and the precise period of the

satellite's entering the shadow of the planet to be

noted would then be found, on the earth's reaching

the 2d point, two months afterwards, on the 1st
;

  it
                                    8\
of August, that the immersion of the satellite into

Jupiter's shadow would occur                  minutes earlier
         STAR- DUST.  457

than it did on the 1st of June. Whereas, when

the earth reached the 5th point in its orbit --and it
would do this about the 1st of February --the satel

lite would be seen to emerge from the planet's

shadow 8£ minutes later than it did when the earth
was at the 4th point, two months before. Now, boy,

as the straight lines connecting these several points

are exactly equal to the earth's distance from the sun,

it is plain-- since the light, or first gleam, caught

from the satellite after its quitting the planet's

shadow took minutes longer to reach the eye at
the 5th point of the earth's orbit than it did at the

4th, and the distance between those places measured

in a straight line amounts to 95 million miles --it is
Iplain,
         say, that the light must have travelled

through that space at the rate of 192,000 miles a

second.

   " There now, boy," added Mr. Blackwater, " I've

Itold you how to measure the distance, and to reckon

the sizes of the sun, moon, and planets -- and have
told you, moreover, how the lengths of the infinitely

greater spaces between us and the fixed stars are
arrived at, explaining to you how some of the little
points of light with which the sky sparkles at night

time, are so far removed from us that the mind is

unable to conceive their distances as reckoned in

miles, and therefore they are usually expressed in the
number of years that their rays occupy in coming
from them to us-- even though light itself travels so
458 STAR-DUST.

swiftly that it would flash through the long interval
that separates the moon from us, in but little more
time than is occupied by one tick of the clock."

    Owen once more expressed his gratitude to the
astronomer for the many wonderful things he had
explained to him ; and as he grew to know him
better, he got to speak to him more frankly; while
the philosopher's aversion to a stranger, which had
become less and less as he found the uneducated
boy evince so lively an interest in the subjects with
which he himself was deeply engrossed, had given
place almost to a liking for the lad. Consequently,
when the discourse about the stars was finished, Mr.
Blackwater began to question Owen as to how he
had learnt all he knew, and listened with no little
delight as the boy ran over to him all the experi
ments he had made about the lever, and how he had
contrived his humble apparatus of beads for ascer
taining the figures of the constellations. Nor did the
little fellow forget to tell Mr. Blackwater about the
clock he had constructed, and the difficulty he had in
finding a substitute for a bell, and how at last he
had made his timepiece strike the hours on the
neck of a broken bottle. The boy, too, told all
these things so simply and modestly, that though
the philosopher was little given to sympathy, he

could not help feeling, when he heard them, that it
was a pity so ingenious and thoughtful a lad should
be destined to a life of manual labour. The As
STAR-DUST.  459

tronomer, however, assured the boy that any books
he wanted to read he should have from his public
library, provided he would take great care of them ;

and he wrote down, at Owen's request, the names

of some of the best treatises for him to begin his
studies with.
                 CHAPTER XVII.

                   THE MONSTER EYE.

When it was dusk, the Astronomer led the boy
to the top of the hill where the great telescope
stood, and explained to him how it was merely a
large pupil admitting some two feet, instead of a
mere eighth of an inch, of light to the eye, and
telling him how the longitude of stars was measured
by time the same as the longitude of places on the
earth. And when the tube was pointed to the
moon, he let Owen peep through it and see the
brilliant white disc shining through it like an
immense plate of frosted silver.

   As the boy gazed at the lovely orb, he could not
speak, and scarcely breathed for wonderment. At

first he could hardly believe he was looking on the
moon, so vast did the image appear to him ; but
when he had assured himself of the fact, and the
first feeling of amazement had in a measure sub
sided, he began to ask the Astronomer what the
dark spots were supposed to be.
            THE MONSTER EYE.  461

Then Mr. Blackwater charmed the lad still more

by telling him that the spots on the surface of the

orb were the shadows of mountains and the mouths

of caverns ; saying they were known to be such by

the fact that when the sun was rising or setting to

them the shadows became longer as they do with

us on the earth ; and as the sun's altitude increased
to those parts their shadows grew shorter until the

moon was full, when they disappeared altogether.

Then the Astronomer pointed out to the enchanted
boy a spot on the moon's disc that was called "Mount
Newton," and another named "Mount Leibnitz," and
" Autolycus," and " Aristarchus," and " Helvetius,"
and " Gassendi," telling him the while that from the

measurement of the shadows to the lunar mountains,

astronomers had found that the highest peak in the

Ifmoon was  mile high. After this he ran over to

the boy the names of the several large dark patches,

telling him that the one near the western edge of

the orb was called the "Crisian Sea," and that at the
upper part of the eastern side the " Sea of Showers,"
while the one below it was termed the " Ocean of

Storms;" though these, he added, are now known

to be no seas at all, but merely immense plains that
are less enlightened by the sun's rays. Next he drew

the lad's attention to a chain of lunar mountains

called the Apennines, and pointed out to him how

the tops of all the peaks were shaped like cups, and
were therefore supposed to be the craters of volcanoes.
 402 THE MONSTER EYE.

    In a few minutes the telescope was turned to

Saturn, and the boy was shown the planet with its
retinue of moons, and its broad ring with the shadow

of it striping the body of the orb itself, which was like

wise streaked with belts. Owen gazed with ecstasy
upon the wondrous orb ; and Mr. Blackwater told
him the while how some of the old astronomers had
fancied that the luminous girdle round Saturn was
the tail of a comet, which the attraction of the orb

had drawn to it and compelled to circulate about it ;

and how another astronomer had asserted that

Saturn was originally as big as the outside of the
ring itself, but that by some means the outer shell
of the planet had been broken to pieces and fallen
in upon the body, while the part of the shell at the
equator remained entire, and so formed a ring

about it ; while a third had supposed that the ring
was a part of the equator of the planet, which had
been thrown off from it owing to the rate at which
it turned round on its axis, in the same manner

as water flies out from a mop that is rapidly
trundled. Mr. Blackwater added, however, that we
might as well attempt to account for the formation
of Saturn's satellites as that of its ring; and that
the wisest astronomers now-a-days could only say
that the ring was created to answer some important
purpose (since nothing was made uselessly), though
what that purpose was, none had yet been able to
discover.
THE MONSTER EYE.  463

   After this the little fellow had a peep at Jupiter
with his belts, and beheld the eclipse of one of those

moons from which the velocity of light had been
discovered; and, last of all, the telescope was di

rected to the Milky Way, and there the boy beheld

that which before had appeared a mere wreath of
luminous vapour resolved into such a profusion of
stars, that he was overwhelmed with the splendour

and beauty of the sight. As the lad still gazed
with rapture at the mass of glittering orbs, Mr.

Blackwater informed him that one who was the

greatest astronomer, perhaps, that had ever lived,

had calculated that a portion of the Milky Way --
about 10° long and 2^° broad -- contained no less

than 258,000 stars ; being so thickly strewn
with worlds, that a disc the size of our moon would

cover as many as 2000 of them at one time.
    Whereupon Owen asked how many stars of the

 different magnitudes had been counted in the

 heavens.

    Mr. Blackwater informed the boy that there
 were only about 20 stars of the first magnitude and
 but 60 odd of the second, while of the third there

 were about 200 ; and that as the stars got less in
 brilliance the numbers increased very rapidly, so
 that down to the seventh magnitude the whole
 number of stars that had been already registered

 amounted to nearly 20,000. "Beyond the seventh
 magnitude, however," he added, "the telescopic
 4,64 THE MONSTER EYE.                              it

stars--as those which are invisible to the naked                         it,
eye are called --may be considered to be infinite                              is
in number, for there are spots in the heavens so
thickly powdered over with orbs, that one might                                                                                 a

as well attempt to count the number of particles
that make up the bloom on a plum, as to endeavour
to bring the orbs which, in some parts, lie thick
as motes in a sunbeam, within the compass of

figures."
    Then the Astronomer pointed out to the boy

how, in those parts of the firmament where the
stars were set far apart, there was always a dark
background to be seen, and which, when the tele
scope was pointed to revealed no light or lumi
nous mist shining in the far distance. He showed
him, too, how, as we passed our eye along towards
the Milky Way, the smaller stars became thicker
and thicker about that part of the heavens, until in

the Milky Way itself they were so condensed to
gether, that even with the highest powers of the

telescope was impossible to separate them and see
the dark background of infinite space frowning

between them. " It was for this reason," he added,

"that Sir William Herschel suggested that the
universe of worlds, of which our system forms but
mere point, has a form and definite arrangement, of
which the Milky Way the luminous boundary
encircling our sun and its little group of planets
like an immense jewelled ring."
                           THE MONSTER EYE.
   The night was now fast advancing, and Owen,
though he could have stayed there for hours gazing
through that wondrous tube at the glittering glories
of the starry heavens, grew fearful lest those at

home should become alarmed at his absence. Ac

cordingly, the boy expressed his regret at being
obliged to leave. The Astronomer, however, would

not allow him to depart till he had shown him the

figure that was now considered to be the shape of
the universe; and when they had returned to the
library, Mr. Blackwater took down a volume and
displayed the annexed illustration to the lad's view.

                                              HH
                            THE MONSTER EYE.

   " There, boy," said the philosopher, " you behold
what is believed to be the form of the starry boun
daries of the vast multitude of worlds with which

the endless plains of space are set--thick as the

sand in the Desert ; for though some of these orbs
may appear to our puny senses to lie millions and

millions of miles apart from each other, to the All-
seeing, it has been well said, ' the whole Universe

may be as one plain, the distance between planet
and planet being only as the pores in a grain of
sand, and the spaces between system and system no
greater than the intervals between one grain and
the grain adjacent.' "
               CHAPTER XVIII.

               THE BOY LOSES HIS BEST FRIEND.

On the boy's return home he learnt from his father
that poor old Captain Jones was not expected to
live many hours, and that the doctor and lawyer had

been with him all the evening. It was said in the

village that Parson Wynn, too, had been sent for.
   This was sorry and unexpected news to the little

fellow ; and though his mind during the ride home
had been full of the wonders he had seen and heard,
and he had busied himself in remembering the many
marvellous things he had to tell his father and the
Captain, as well as in fancying to himself how
pleased the old sailor would be to hear that Mr.
Blackwater had been so kind to him, neverthe
less, when the lad was acquainted with the sad
change that had taken place, his heart was so full of
grief that he could think of nothing else.

   Nor could the little fellow rest that night until

he had gone towards the Captain's cottage and

                              hh2
468 THE BOY LOSES HIS BEST FRIEND.

assured himself that the light was still burning in

the sick man's chamber.

   The first thing, too, the boy did in the morning
was to steal up again to the cottage, in the hope of

gaining some tidings about his friend, and he

loitered about to catch some one leaving the house,

for he lacked the heart to go to the door.

   After waiting about the gate some little while,
Owen was delighted to see Betty Wynn come down

the gravel walk, and no sooner did the girl catch
sight of the little fellow, than she beckoned him
hastily to her, saying, " she was just going up the

village for him, as Captain Jones was anxious to see

him once more."
   The words " once more," sounded like a death-

knell in the boy's ear, and the tears flooded his eyes
and choked his speech, so that he said not a word,
but held the girl tightly by the hand as she led him

to the room.

Owen walked on tiptoe to the bedside, and

looked upon the feeble old man through his

tears.

   The invalid raised his eyelids for a moment and
smiled as he saw the little fellow standing by his

side.

   " Put your head near the pillow, O wey," whispered
Betty, " he may wish to speak to you."

The lad did as he was bidden.

"Was Mr.      kind to you?" mumbled the
THE BOT LOSES HIS BEST FRIEND.      469

old man, as he waved his hand to show he could not

recall the name of Blackwater.

Owen nodded assent, for he could scarcely speak.

At length, however, he stifled his sobs sufficiently to

Iwhisper, " Very--very kind, sir."
" am glad of
;"            for your sake, boy," muttered
              it,

                              a
the invalid. " He can be good friend to you when

I'm gone and, as he said so, he raised his hand to

wards the boy.

   " He wants you to take it," said Betty softly to

the weeping lad.

   Owen placed the old man's palm gently in his

own, and bowing his head pressed softly but fondly
to his lips.

   " Bless you bless you said the old sailor in a
faint voice. " You'll think of me, boy, sometimes
And you will study hard and be a great man one
day -- and you'll be good to little Peg, and watch
over and protect her, as would have done had
!

                        !"

                            it

                                    ?

                         /

God spared me."

   The little fellow could only bow his head in

reply.

   " We shall meet again, Owen -- again, Owen." The

old man was too exhausted to say any more, and
raising his finger pointed to the skies.

   " You had better go now, Owey dear," said Betty
in the boy's ear, " the doctor will be here directly.
He has been staying in the village to be near at

hand during the night."
470 THE BOY LOSES HIS BEST FRIEND.

   The little fellow lingered, as he took what he felt
would be a last look of his good friend, and Betty
was about to drag him from the bedside, when she
noticed the invalid's lips move again. " He has

something else to say," she whispered to the boy.

    Owen bent his head down to the pillow once

I Imore, and could just catch the sound of " wish

was like you, boy, with a whole life before me, and
all my deeds to perform over again. What fine

things I'd do then ! Think you of that--think you

of that, and never do a thing you would wish undone

Iin after life. Remember what say, Owen-- re

member !"

   Betty at length led the sobbing boy from the
room, and when he had quitted the cottage, he
stole away to some unfrequented spot, and wept in

secret over the kindhearted old man. All the day

long, too, he kept returning continually to the
cottage and inquiring of Mrs. Pugh, whenever he
could catch sight of her, how the Captain was

then.

   At daybreak the next morning, the little fellow

was off to the old sailor's cottage once more to
learn from the housekeeper how he had passed the

night.

   At the gate stood Mrs. Pugh and old Betty

Watkin, and Mrs. Pritchard, the labourer's wife,
and little Mrs. Price, of the shop, and the clothier's
tall dame, who had just run up from the mill. And
THE BOY LOSES HIS BEST FRIEND.  471

as the boy caught sight of the group, his heart sank
in his bosom.

    Then as he glanced up at the window of the sick
man's chamber he beheld the shutters closed, and
he knew in a moment that he had lost his best

friend.
                 CHAPTER XIX.

            THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.

The old sailor was laid in the patch of ground
adjoining the little mountain church; and the day
of his burial was the saddest that had long been
known at Llanvach. The village children, to whom
his kindness to the young had long endeared him,
all followed the coffin to the grave ; and the parents
were there too, for they had long loved the old man
for his love of their little ones.

   But of all the sad throng, Owen Evans was the
saddest, and, in obedience to the Captain's last
request, he and his little sister Peg headed the
funeral train.

   When the band of mourners had returned to
the tenantless cottage, the lawyer from Builth pro
ceeded to read the will of the departed man. Nor
was Mrs. Pugh absent from the listening company,
for she was all anxiety to learn how her late master
had provided for her, and almost assured herself --
THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.  473

as the Captain had no one belonging to him in the
world --that the whole or greater part of his pro
perty would come to her, for she could understand
no prior claim to her own.

   To the dame's utter astonishment, however, she
found that the old gentleman had bequeathed

her only a year's wages beyond the quarter due to
her, while the bulk of his little property, amounting
to some iOOl. a year, he had left to Parson Wynn and
Mr. Blackwater, in trust for his " adopted children,"
Owen and Peggy Evans. He had made, too, a
special request to Mr. Blackwater, in the docu
ment, that he would watch over the boy and direct
his education. While to the Parson's daughters
he willed a small annuity, as a remuneration for
their future care of little Peg.

   On the evening of that day, Owen, who had re
turned home with Mr. Wynn, sat with him at the
chimney corner of the Parsonage, talking over the
many kindnesses the Captain had done him, when
the clergyman, thinking it a fit opportunity to
impress the lad with some of the high truths

that mere physical science cannot teach directly

--though it may enable the mind to reason the
more surely about them -- took occasion to ask

the boy whether he had ever thought as to what
proofs there were concerning the existence of the

soul after death.
474 THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.

The lad confessed he had never done so, adding

that he should much like to hear them.
   " Well," said the Parson, " it is the first law of

force, that a body once set in motion by it will go
on for ever --unless there be some external cause to

stop it. A ball projected into space would roll on

to all eternity, in the same direction as that in which

it was originally impelled, were there nothing beside

it to alter its course, or retard its progress."
   "Would sir?" was all the boy said; for Owen's
is
heart was still too full to talk, though he was glad
  it it,
        itto listen in order to divert his thoughts.
   " Yes, Owen, would," went on the clergyman,

" for no force diminishes or dies of itself; that to
                                       by

                                               is
                                                  it,
say, there no principle of decay or death within

and to cease,  must be operated upon     external

causes. Bodies in motion on the earth are brought

to a state of rest by the operation of forces
antagonistic to their own --such as the resistance of

the air, and the friction of the substances over

which they pass but, could these be destroyed, they
is ;
           ;would continue moving to the end of time. The

                  isearth, however, in its rotation on its axis, meets with

no such impediment, and the consequenceit          that

its rate of motion                            is,
                      the same now as was cen

turies ago for each day measured by the passages of

the stars found to be so precisely of the same length

that, according to the calculations of Laplace--
THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.  475

one of the most profound among mathematicians --
it is impossible that a difference of 100th of a second
of time should have obtained between the duration
of the days in the earliest ages and those of the

present era."

    " Indeed, sir !" briefly remarked the melancholy

lad.
    " So you see, my boy," proceeded Mr. Wynn, " a

force, once generated, has a tendency to continue for
ever without decay of its power, and would so con
tinue, were there nothing external to itself to
diminish or destroy it."

  I" Yes, see, sir," added the boy.

   " Well," continued the Parson, " life in its vege
tative quality is a mere force of accretion --a subtle

and mysterious power that enables the living body
to collect to itself those elements that are fitted for
its nutrition, and to assimilate them with its own
substance ; while human life consists not only in
the accretion of material particles but of experiences

and intuitions. That is to say, as our bodies are
made up of a collection of solid atoms, which the
vegetative force has drawn to itself, so our minds
consist of an aggregation of ideas and emotions
derived from the operations of the spiritual force,
and connected together, so as to form a distinct in
dividual consciousness. Now there is a law apper
taining to our mental constitution that is as won
    478 THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.

    derful as any of these regulating the world without
    us; for the same sequence of cause and effect as pre
    vails in external nature is also found to obtain in

the world within us. This is what is called the law

    of the succession of ideas ; and strange as it may

    sound to you, Owen, not a thought starts unbidden to

the mind, which is not the consequence of some other

      is
           is

               is
                    a

                       of

                                  it,

                                     it

                              I

                                                   it

                                                              is it,
thought or feeling that has immediately preceded

    and which, in its turn, suggests or calls up another;

    and so the train of memories, reasonings, and fancies
      carried on. It
a is                  necessary result then of this

    principle of the causation  thought, or the natural

    tendency of one conception to excite in the mind

    another that associated with either in time, or
    in place, or that like or opposed to -- say

    necessary result of this principle that the sequence

of ideas should continue for ever (in the same manner
as the motion of sphere once projected in space
      a

would go on to all eternity) unless there be some exter

nal cause to stop it; for the mental force has, like the

    other, no principle of death or decay within itself, but

rather contains the elements of endless progression."

      The boy nodded assent.

      "The question then becomes, my little man,"
added Mr. Wynn, " what cause
                      a                         there for the
                                            is
stoppage of the operation of this mental principle
when once started in human being? Can death put
an end to it?"

      Owen looked anxiously at the clergyman as he
THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.  477

awaited his answer, though the word brought the

tears again to his eyes.

   "Let us see," continued Mr. Wynn, "what oc

curs at such a time, asserting nothing farther than
the facts will strictly warrant. Death, then, is the
cessation of vegetative existence ; that is to say, the
force of accretion which enabled the body to collect
and assimilate to itself the substances that were fitted

for its nutrition has come to an end--been stopped
by some external cause -- and no longer has the

power to prevent the chemical forces without from
resolving the atoms, of which that body is made

up, into their parent gases and dust. With us,
however, death is something still more than this ;
for that same body was fitted with many wondrous

organs, by which the being within was rendered

susceptible of being affected by the things outside of
him, and of affecting them in return. He could

see, hear, feel, and have every other evidence his
senses afforded him of the existence of external

objects ; and, moreover, he could move his limbs,
and express his thoughts at will. But in death, this
faculty of sensation and muscular action being derived
from the organs that formed part of his body, ceased
with the force that held the particles of that body

together ; and accordingly the being, whom we have
known while living, has, when the vital functions
have ended, no longer the power to look upon us, or

hear our voice, or feel the pressure of our hand;
 478 THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.

 neither can he talk to us, norjby the motion of his

muscles evince any signs of pleasure or pain. In sleep,

 the same insensibility to external objects prevails,
 though to a less degree ; still we know that in our
 dreams during that state the succession of thought
may continue, even when outward consciousness has

Iceased. This, then, adhering strictly to the facts, and

asserting no more, as said before, than the circum
stances will warrant, is all that we can state of death

--the spirit, which during life was capable of being

affected by, and of affecting external objects, through
the organs of the body, is no longer able to hold com
munion, by such means, with the world without, when
 the force that held together the particles of that body
has come to an end. Can we then, consistently with
the rules of strict reasoning, assert that, because the
force which bound the material atoms into one

frame has been dissipated, therefore the other force,
which linked the ideas into one individual conscious

ness, has been destroyed? Now it cannot be said
that these two forces are one and the same, or that

the principle of the association of ideas is identi
cal with that of organic existence ; for the laws
which link thought to thought are in no way

connected with the organs of the body, but proceed
from the very nature of the ideas themselves --since

Ione conception calls up another in the mind, because,

as had said, it is associated with the other by
some peculiar relation, and not from any organic
                THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.  479

connexion between them* The law of the sequence
of thought, therefore, is a separate and distinct law
from that of mere organism, being the law of
spiritual life, and the other that of pure material
existence; while the spiritual law contains within
itself no element of cessation, but rather that of

endurance to all eternity."

  r" But, Mr. Wynn," asked the boy, " do we always

think
   " Perhaps not," answered the minister, " for it is

but natural that these two forces being knit
together in the same frame, the one should operate
upon, and impede the functions of the other ; for
as two opposing forces produce rest, it is quite pos
sible that the organic force may, in certain states of

* That organism is necessary for the original production of

sensation and ideas there cannot be the least doubt. Those
who are born deaf, or blind, can have no notion of sound or

colour, for wanting the organ upon which the ideas primarily

depend, the mind has no power to form any conception of such

things. But though organism is necessary for the original pro
duction of impressions, it is by no means necessary for the

re-production of them. Beethoven composing his finest music,

after he had lost his hearing, is overpowering evidence of this ;

proving to us that, though the organ on which the faculty origi

nally depended was dead, the soul of the musician contained

within itself the principle of reproducing the impressions divested
Ifof any such organic apparatus.
                                  then it be possible for the

soul to revive the ideas derived from one organ, after that organ

is destroyed, why cannot the soul recal the impressions of every
other organ when the whole organic arrangement of our bodies

is at an end ?
480 THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.

the body, be so far in antagonism with the spiritual

power as to bring it into abeyance for the time

being. Accordingly, in states of what is called
' coma,' or perfect insensibility, we have no evidence
of the mind being in operation ; though at the same
time we have no evidence that it is not in operation.
But, even admitting that the succession of ideas is
broken and stopped during certain conditions of the
body, still this affords us no proof that such an effect
occurs at death, but is rather an evidence that, when

the control of the organic force is at an end, the
spiritual power will continue with increased energy.
For two opposing forces can only produce rest, while

each of them remains in operation, but destroy or

remove one -- and the other must instantly start
forward on its destined course, with all the energy

that was originally impressed upon it by the Prime

Mover. Even as the bow that, when strained back by
the strong arm of the archer, remains bent so long

as the greater force is upon it ; but immediately the
archer's grip is relaxed, it springs again into its

original state, speeding the winged arrow far into
the skies. Or, look here, boy," added the Parson,

I" press a finger of each hand hard against one
Ianother, and let me use what force will, a state of

mere rest is the consequence; but remove the one

Iwhich controlled the action of the other, and away

that other darts with all the power that had im
THE FIRST AND LAST LAW.  481

possible for the body to impede the action of the
spirit, even so far as to make it appear to be alto
gether dead and inert, still, take away the opposing
force of that body, and then the spirit must in
stantly fly from quickened with all the impulses
that were originally given to by the Great Power

above."
it,
                 it

I

      !
                CHAPTER XX.

                                     CONCLUSION.

Not long after the incidents detailed in the fore
going chapters, Owen Evans took up his abode in
Mr. Blackwater's house, so that his education might

be conducted under the eye of the philosopher, who
had grown, by closer acquaintance with the boy, to
entertain so high an opinion of his genius, and to
have such great hopes of his adding one day to the
circle of knowledge, that, in compliance with the

Captain's last request, Mr. Blackwater deemed it

better that the lad should remain under his roof
until the tutor he engaged for him had fitted him
for the higher course of studies at one of the
Universities.

   Little Peggy, his sister, was removed to the Par
sonage, where Betty and Lucy Wynn watched over
the child with all the tenderness of which their
gentle natures were capable ; whilst Davy Evans,
CONCLUSION.  483

portion to enable to cease work, had gone to live

at a cottage near the Wynns, where he amused
himself with his lathe, making toys for the little ones

round about, and turning needle-cases and tobacco-
stoppers, and rolling-pins, for his friends, and bowls
and skittles for the villagers.

   Nor must John Jarman, the blacksmith's boy, be

forgotten. At the end of his first voyage he returned

to Llanvach with his " pay," and this was just suffi
cient to rescue the forge that was about to be sold

for rent, and to save his mother from being deprived
of her home ; for since the boy's departure the intem

perate habits of his father had grown worse--indeed,

the lad found his parent a mere wreck of a man

from his continual indulgence in drink. The black

smith boy is now master of the village forge,
mending the ploughs and making new tires for the
wheels of the wagons, and shoeing the cart-horses,

for miles round--not forgetting "Jessie," the Parson's
mare, and " old Jack," the donkey, who now share
together, it should be added, the grass and windfalls
from the apple-trees in Parson Wynn's orchard.

   Owen, in his new life, did not fail to remember

his friend the clothier, and his former master,

farmer Powell of the hill; for whenever he could

steal time enough from his studies, he would pay
a visit to the mill and listen, with as much delight
as ever, to Roger Wilkins's stories about inven
484 CONCLUSION.
mountain farm, where there was no more welcome

visitor, and where the simple-minded farmer and
his girls would sit agape with wonder as they made
the lad tell them all he had been doing about the
stars of late. Nor did the old farmer fail to
exclaim as usual, when the boy had taken his

departure, "Her will be a wonderful man some
day--her will."

                                   THE END.

       Savill & Edwards, Printers, Cbandos Street, Covent G-ardeii.
PRESENT BOOKS FOR YOUTH.
               CAPTAIN MAYNE REID'S
    NEW JUVENILE BOOK 07 ADVENTURE.

                     Now ready, price 7s., cloth,

                     The Forest Exiles ;

                            or,

fijl $ frill nf a fraraian /Hrailn, amiu

                                  Skmm.
           a                                                 %iiifc  ttjf

               if a  BY CAPTAIN MAYNE REID,
                                              !
    Author of the "Boy Hunters," "The Young Voyageurs," &c.is

                                                        it"With Twelvi Illustrations.
                                                                  ' it tjjt

                                                                     rf

                                                                                                      it,
                                      ^rinripal Cmttriiis:

--W--TRILOtAHDPVIECEABCLLUUOLNNLAEF--OHRCtUEHRNSOEtStSS----"CIVNTAAHPQEtt.UHUREERIPNOOGFISO"OR--NAESLCtLOAt--RNMEDtAHEOSSRE, ----AGCLEUPONAACCCCAOO--AUSNT,AtHNEAERDNDPOtHUNGMEUAAANC--ACOCLtROHIAFSEFL
SNAKE -- tRACKING tHE tAPIR --tHE MILK tREE-- THE CANNIBAL

FISH --THE PUMA AND tHE ANt BEAR -- AN ARMADILLO HUNt -- A
FAMILY OF JAGUARS-- tHE VAMPIRE -- tHE CROCODILE AND THE CA-
PIVAUOS -- ADVENtURE WItH AN ANACONDA --VULtURES --MONKEY'S
BRIDGE-- tHE MANAtI, EtC.

to   " As    writer  of books for Boys,  commend us above all men living
           Mayne     Beid AVherever      his new book goes this new year
    Capt.

there will be abundant delight for hours of reading, and plenty to talk
of by the evening fire. Toils and adventures, dangers, darings, and
sufferings, are narrated in the most vivid manner -- thoroughly fasci
nating the mind of the reader, and retaining in fixed and eager
attention till crisis of some kind reached. Take our word for
Boy friends, you become Caft. Mayne Ruin's Boy readers' on our
                            will thank us for      with all
recommendation,        you  enthusiastically than  we have   your hearts, and
praise the book      more                                    done." -- Noncon

formist.

           DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
tHE MONKEY'S BKIDGB.
                           the forest ratxe, page 4Z6.
                    CAPTAIN MAYNE REID'S
          BOOKS OF ADVENTURE FOR BOYS.

                            The Boy Hunters ;

                                                      OB,

   States in $tarr!j nf h Wfitt -Biiffain.

With Illustrations ry Harvey. Fourth Edition, 7s., Cloth.

    "Just such a book as we would make a                              Christinas  present  of             to  a
favo"urAitechyaormutinhgfulbforyies'ndb.o"o--k."O--bseWrvaert.chman.

          The Young Yoyageurs ;

                              OB,

             ft -Boi! InniErs                       tljt J2orf(j.
.

                        Ijt

                                                     a

                                                 ' in

                                                                                     a
                                                                                                       '
With Illustrations ry Harvey. Second Edition, 7*., Cloth.

. ""AT.herreEeaml pcbahonaytsibc'ealdlyleitlitgtleoht.bdeourFebcutolmlthmoaeft naddeTvdhe."ent--uYroeCurniatgincd. Vonyaatgueraulrshistowriyll.

command as wide and lasting popularity as its predecessors -- those
predecessors prized, we question not, by many noble hearted boy as
among his chief book-favourites -- ranged by him on the same dear old
shelf with 'The Boy's Own Book' and 'Eobinson Crusoe.'" -- Sun.

                                              iii.

                            The Desert Home
                                                    .
                              OK,                          .

                                                                    ;
                                                                              ,
Storatiirrsis                 $m\ty Inst m tin BilnraresB.
             a

                     nf
                           h
With Illustrations ry Harvey. Fourth Edition, Is. Cloth.

" This    volume in which young gentlemen between the ages of
twelve and twenty will greatly rejoice.                               An interesting story,
                            to introduce the
expressly framed            natural history."  --yoCurtihtifcu.l      reader to   an extensive
                            personally familiar with                  the scenes  he describes,
acqu"aiTnhtaencaeuthwoitrh
is                                   air       of   trraurtehsftulgneensisusw."h--ichC,hainmboetrhs'esr
                       is             by       the
and thus able to give them an
circumstances, can only be attained
Journal.

          DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
BASIL S ESCAPE FROM tHE GRIZZLY BEAR.

                                                            boy hunters, page 369.
             MR. HENRY MAYHEW S
NEW BOOK OF SCIENCE FOR YOUTH.

                  In Foolscap 8vo, price 6«., cloth,

                                      THE STORY

                                                           OF

         The Peasant- Boy Philosopher ;

                                               on, it         &u-stym"

"1 Ctjilu ©atljtriog prbbbs is                       ; a tyt

                                                  founded onis

The Early Life of Ferguson, the Shepherd-Boy Astronomer,

                                                                                     ANXf

Intended to Show how a Poor Lad recame acquainted with
                the Principles of Natural Soience.

                       BY HENRY MAYHEW,

         Author of "London Labour and the London Poor."

NVith Eight Illustrations ry John Gii.rert, and numerous Engrayinge
                                           in the Text.

" This ingenious story, which written in very lively and agree
                                           is
                                                a
able style, being interspersed with considerable amount of lighter

matter,a          calculated to sustain the interest of the young, without
              is
nagging, from the commencement to the close whilst in the mean

time an amount of useful information relating to mechanics, astro

nomy, and other branches of natural philosophy,                 being quietly and

imperceptibly instilled into the expanding mind. We would recom

mend parents to present their boys with this excellent little hook, as

   reward for good conduct            and   we believe      m" i--ghMt oarnlsiongbeCfpireornuisceled.
with profit by many children           of  larger growth.'
                  '
                                   ;

                  DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
CAPTAIN JONES DEMONStRAtES tHE ROtUNDItY OP tHE EARTH.
                                                       peasant-boy philosopher, page. 257.
              MR. JOHN G. EDGAR'S
WORKS ON BIOGRAPHY AND HISTORY.

                      In Foolscap 8vo, 3s. 6d., cloth,

        The Boyhood of Great Men ;

               INTENDED AS AN EXAMPLE FOR YOUTH.

                         BY JOHN G. EDGAR.

               With Illustrations by Bireet Foster.

                        Third Edition.

" It would have been a matter of regret to see such a book badly
executed. That regret we are spared, for this little volume is simply
and well done. The biographies are numerous and brief, but not too
short to be amusing; and as thousands of boys thirst for greatness,
which   ibsooakcqluikireedthbisy."o--nesExaanmdinteenr.s,         will be thousands  glad to
read a                                                     there

                                 Same size and price,

        Footprints of Famous Men.

DESIGNED AS INCITEMENTS TO INTELLECTUAL INDUSTRY.
                  With Illustrations by Bireet Foster.

                        Second Edition.

"A very useful and agreeable volume. It is useful, as biography
is always an important ally to history ; and it is useful, because it
               blow to
gives another  without  Etehveerewalanbinogur.id" e--a,Stthanatdaardn.y  eminence    has  ever
been attained

          In Foolscap 8vo, price 5s., handsomely bound,

             History for Boys ;

top.r, kraals nf tp flrinripl Hates nf 3Hnknt

             'With Eight Illustrations by George Thomas.

              DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
SCOtt S FIRSt VISIT tO tHE BORDERS.

                                              BOYhOOD OF GREAt MEN, page 4.
        MRS. NEWTON CROSLAND'S

BIOGRAPHIES FOR YOUNG LADIES.

                   In Foolscap 8vo, price 6s.,

          Memorable Women :

                 Jtyt gtnnj nf tbrir £inrs.
          BY MRS. NEWTON CROSLAND.

                                        AUTHOR Or

                  "Lydia, a Woman's Book."
        With Eioht Illustrations ry Birkrt Foster.

        (Cnntmta :

MARY        RACHEL WRIOTHESLEY LADY RUSSELL;
                MADAME D'AItBLAY AND MHS. FIOZZI ;

        L. WAKE, MRS. HUTCHINSON AND LADY FANSHAWE ;
             MARGARET FULLER MARCHESA OSSOLI ;
                                    LADY SALE.

" Most pleasant and profitable reading." -- Literary Gazette.
" One of those works about women which a woman only can

write. We cannot imagine a more delightful, strengthening, and ele

vating  exercise for a youthful female,  "t--haMn ortnhiengpeArdusvaelrtiosef rs. uch  a
volume  as this of ' Memorable Women,'

        DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
LADY FANSHAWE VISITING HER HUSBAND IN PRISON.

                                                                memoharle women, page 286.
             BOOKS OF AMUSEMENT.

           The Boy's Own Book;

A complete Encyclopedia of all the Diversions -- Athletic,

      Scientific, and Recreative -- of Boyhood and Youth.

             Hrra Knit gmtthj rnlargrii faita,

        With numerous additional Illustrations, Price 8s. 6d., cloth.

      The Little Boy's Own Book;

                  1 lilrrtiiiu front tljf alinnr,

Containing the Gakks and Spouts sitted for Littlr Boys. Price 3s. firf.

                                    ill,

    Round Games for All Parties.

1 dMlrrta nf tljr grtatwt JtoriEtq nf ^arailij amttsrtutitts

             tjjr

                                                                    &
             fnr fihmfo at -pic-mr.

      games  of memory, games of action, catch games, games
             the exercise of fancy, intelligence, IMAGINATION,
requiring

             DIRECTIONS FOR CRYING FORFEITS, ETC.

With Illustrations. New Edition, Enlarged. Cloth, gilt, 55.

                                                         iV,51in ;

Acting Charades or, Deeds, not Words.a

         Christmas fernt fflnkt £nng Craning Ijjurf.
                  BY THE BROTHERS MAYHEW.

            New Edition. Profusely Illustrated. Price os., cloth.

                                                         v.

A Cracker Bon-bon for Christmas Parties.

    (Dr, Cljriitnias $iraa far tyxiutt Xxyasufitim, tir.

                              BY R. B. BROUGH.
                        Profusely Illustrated. Price 35. 6d.

                  DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
BOOKS FOR BOYS.

             The Life of Nelson.

                         BY ROBERT SOUTHEY.

   With numerous tinted Pj.ates, and Woodcuts Printed in the Text,
                   From Designs by Biuret Foster, Duncan, etc.

                                                Post 8vo, 6s.

                                          II.

                 Parlour Magic ;

A Manual op Amusing Experiments, Transmutations, Sleights
                     and Subtleties, Legerdemain, etc.

   Including the tricks of Houdin, Robin, &c, as recently exhibited
                       in London and Paris, 4s. 6d., cloth.

The Comic Latin Grammar.

S ^atrtinas Sntntnurtiait ta
a                             latin Caagut

                                        tju

                                                                                               ;
With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood, by John Lhtch.

Price 5s.

                                             IV.

            The Playmate.

        pirasaat Caaipniaa far $$m lanrs;

consisting of historical tales, natural history,

                            amusements, etc.

                                    Price 5s.

                                                       v.

       The Pictorial Bible History.

                                                containing
TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHtY-EIGHt PICTURES OF tHE PRINCIPAL

       SCENES IN thE SACRED NARRAtIVE, WITH DESCRIPtIONS.

                                    Price 3s. 6d., cloth.

                DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
BOORS FOR YOUNG PERSONS.

The Young Islanders ;

       % Mt fa Snip.

      BY JEFFERTS TAYLOR.

  Nrw Edition, with Tintxd Plateb, 6*.

              iI.

The Boat and the Caravan :

tar& /amiiij  in (Bgijpt auh lijria.

WiTn Plates, Fifth Edition, 7*.

                                           iIi.

       Harry's Ladder to Learning ;

With Two Hundred and Thirty Engravings. -- For vert Youno Children.
                                3s. 6d. plain -- 6s. coloured.

                                              iT.

       Harry's Book of Poetry :

               §\p:t farnts far tin Unrsrrij.
                        BY ELIZA GROVE.

With numerous Illustrations ry Biuret Foster, Harrison Weir,
                                    K. Hasweli., etc.

                         3s. 6d. plain -- 6s. coloured.

                                                                 V.

                 Robinson Crusoe.

     I. -- An Edition in Laiioe Type, with Illustrations by Stothard,
                                           Cloth, 7s. 6rf.

II.-- In Foolscap 8vo, with Illustrations ry George Cruiesuank & Otuliis

                                                                      3 t. 6rf.

                  DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
BOOKS FOR YOUNG PERSONS.

Comic Story Books.

Price 1*. each, with Coloured Plates.

Alderman Gorrle.             The Weasels of Holmwoob.
The Qcarrelsomb Neighrours.  Lady Chaffinch's Ball.
The Wonderful Hare Hunt.     Heynard the Fox.

Comical Creatures from 'Wurtemberg ·

  §^rnni tir IhrfFtir Animals in tip ml xljihitiira.

                      Square cloth, 3s. Gd. -- coloured, 6*.

Comical People

mt nritlj at                 §mt &$Mim.

From Drawings rt J. J. Grandville.

Small quarto, 3s. Gd. -- coloured, 6s.

   Picture Book for Young People.

Fifty quarto Plates, with Descriptions, cloth, oa. ; coloured, 10*. Gd.

George Cruikshank's Fairy Library.

Edited and Illustrated by George Cruikshank.

1. Hop o' Mr Thumr.          2. Jack and the Bean-stalk.

                     Price Is. each.

History of England,

  By Anne Lydia Bond. Eighty Illustrations, 3s. (id.

Original Poems for my Children.

By Thomas Miller. Profusely Illustrated, 2s. Gd., cloth.

           DAVID EOGUE, FLEET STREET.
         CHILDREN'S BOOKS.

Little Mary's Books for Children.

         Price 6d. each, profusely Illustrated :
Little Mart's Primes.          First Book op Poetry.
                               Second Book of Poetry.
Spelling Book.
Reading  Book.                 Babes in the "Wood.
History  op England.
Scripture Lessons.             LPiictttulereMRairdydlaensd. her Doll.

      Little Mary's Treasury,

Being Eight of the above bound in One Volume, cloth, 5s.

        Little Mary's Lesson Book ;

Containing "Primer," "Spelling," and "Reading," in One Volume.

                                       Cloth, gilt, 2s. 6d.

    Bertie's Indestructible Books.

               Printed on Calico, 6d. each.

1. Horn Book.                  4. Woodside.
2. Word Book.
3. Farm Yard.                  5. Wild Beasts.
                               6. Bird Book.

    Little Harry's       Picture Books.
Harry's Horn Book.
         Picture Book.       Harry's Nursery Tales.
,,       Country Walks.                     Simple Stories.
,,                                          Nursery Tales.

         Price 6d. each, plain ; 1*. coloured.

         Home Lesson Books.                          .10
                                                     .10. 1 0
The Home Primer, nearly 200 cuts, cloth .         .
The Home Book of Natural History, cuts, cloth
The Home Grammar, cuts, cloth
                               ...

    Each may be had with Coloured Plates, 2s. 6d.

         Home Story Books.
.10The Well-bred Doll, cuts, cloth . . .
.10LTHhiigsethotDryifsocoorfnttLheinetttelNedurJasCenhreiyc,k&ebnhyse,trhcelNoAethuwthSo.troorfyt.hBeoo"kB.,ooclkotohf 1
                                                                                                                        0
    10One Syllable," cloth

         Or with Coloured Plates, 2s. 6d.

     LONDON: DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET;

AN» SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS IN TOWN AND COUNtRY.
I
J
t

I

1

i
IIIIIIIIIIIIUNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
    3 9015 06554 9035
m

