MEMOIRS
                                                                 OF THE

LIFE, WRITINGS, AND DISCOVERIES

                                                                                 OF

       SIR IS AA C NEW T 0 N.

                                                                                 BY

                      SIR DAVID BREWSTER, K.H.,

                     A.M., D.C.L., F.R.S., VICE-PRES. R.S., EDINBURGH, AND M.R.I.A.,
  ONE OF THE EIGHT ASSOCIATESOF THE IMPERIAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE-HONORARY OR CORRESPONDING

        MEMBER of THE ACADEMIEs of ST. PETERSBURGH, v1ENNA, BERLIN, coPENHAGEN, STOCKHolm,
                    MUNICH, GöTTINGEN, BRUSSELs, HAERLEM, ERLANGEN, CANToN DE v.AUD, MoDENA,
                          wAsHINGToN, NEw York, Boston, QUEBEC,CAPE Town, ETC., ETC.--
                              CHEWALIER OF THE PRUSSIAN or DER OF MERIT OF FREDERICK
                                 THE GREAT, AND PRINCIPAL of The UNITED COLLEGESOF
                                              ST. SALVATOR AND ST. IEoN ARD's, ST. ANDREWS.

                                               Ergovividavisanimiperviente,t extra
                                               Processiltongeflammantiamoeniamundi;
                                               Atqueomneimmensumperagravimt enteanimoque.

                                                                                           LucRfrius, Lib. i. 1 73.

                                                 W 0 L. I.

      EDINBURGH: THOMAS CONSTABLE AND CO.

                        HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO., LONDON.
                                                      MDCCCLV.

                                  [THE AUTHoR RESERVESTHE RIGHT of TRANSI,ATION.]

EDINBCBOH : T. CONSTABLE,FR1STBB TO HER MAJESTY.

                                     Library

              QHCjalb(of

                             v./

                                                                   TO

                       HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS

    PRINCE ALBERT, K. G.

                 chancellor of the university of cambridge.

        SiR,

  In dedicating this Work to your Royal Highness, I

seek for it the protection of a name indissolubly associated
with the Sciences and the Arts. An account of the Life,
Writings, and Discoveries of Sir Isaac Newton might have
been appropriately inscribed to the Chancellor of the
University of Cambridge, the birth-place of Newton's
genius, and the scene of his intellectual achievements ;
but that illustrious name is more honourably placed be
side that of a Prince who has given such an impulse
to the Arts and Sciences of England, and whose views,
were they seconded by Statesmen willing to extend
Education and advance Science, would raise our country
to a higher rank than it now holds, among the nations of

Europe, in the arts of Peace and of War. It is from the

trenches of Science alone that war can be successfully

                     833775

vi DEDICATION.

waged ; and it is in its patronage and liberal endowment
that nations will find their best and cheapest defence.

    That your Royal Highness may be enabled to realize
those noble and patriotic views respecting the national
encouragement of Science, and the consolidation of our
Scientific Institutions, which you have so much at heart,
and that you may long live to enjoy the reputation which
you have so justly earned, is the ardent wish of,

                         SiR,

              Your Royal Highness's

                            Humble and obedient Servant,
                                                      DAVID BREWSTER.

     ST. LEONARD'S COLLEGE,

           Sr. Andrews", May 12, 1855.

                   PREFACE.

   In consequence of the wide circulation of the Life of

Sir Isaac Newton, which I drew up for the " Family
ILibrary" in 1831, was induced to undertake a larger

work, in order to give a more detailed account of his

Life, Writings, and Discoveries. For this purpose, I

applied in 1837 to the Honourable Newton Fellowes,
one of the trustees of the Earl of Portsmouth, for per
mission to inspect the Manuscripts and Correspondence
of Sir Isaac, which, through his grand-niece, Miss Con-
duitt, afterwards Lady Lymington, had come into the
possession of that noble family. Mr. Fellowes kindly
granted my request, and his amiable and accomplished
son, Mr. Henry Arthur Fellowes, who, had he lived,
would now have been Earl of Portsmouth, met me in
June 1837, at Hurtsbourne Park, to assist me in ex
amining, and making extracts from, the large mass of
papers which Sir Isaac had left behind him.

   In this examination our attention was particularly di

rected to such letters and papers as were calculated to
throw light upon his early and academical life, and,
with the assistance of Mr. Fellowes,. who copied for me

viii PREFACE.

several important documents, I was enabled to collect

many valuable materials unknown to preceding bio

graphers.

   After the death of Sir Isaac, his nephew, Mr. Conduitt,
drew up a memorial, containing a sketch of his life, for
the use of Fontenelle, the Secretary to the Academy of
Sciences in Paris, whose duty it was to write his Eloge,

as one of the eight Associates of the Academy. This

memorial was published by Edmund Turnor, Esq., in his
" Collections for the History of the Town and Soke of

Grantham," and was supposed to contain all the informa

tion that Mr. Conduitt could collect from persons then

alive, and from other sources, respecting Sir Isaac's life.
This, however, was a mistake. After the publication of

Fontenelle's Eloge, Mr. Conduitt resolved to draw up a
Life of his illustrious relative, and, with this view, he

wrote the following letter, requesting the assistance of

Sir  Isaac's  personal  friends  --1

                                 :

                                                                                                 " 6th February, 172g.

  " Sir, -- I have taken the liberty to trouble you with

some short hints of that part of our honoured friend, Sir

I. Newton's life, which I must beg the favour of you to

undertake, there being nobody, without dispute, so well

qualified to do it as yourself. I send you, at the same

time, Fontenelle's Eloge, wherein you will find a very

   1 This letter is docqueted by Conduitt, "Letter sent by me concerning Sir I. N.'s
Inventions."

                             PREFACE.                                                                                                     ix

imperfect attempt of the same kind ; but I fear he had

neither abilities nor inclination to do justice to that great

man, who had eclipsed the glory of their hero, Descartes.

IAs Sir I. Newton was a national man, think every one

ought to contribute to a work intended to do him justice,

particularly those who had so great a share in his esteem

Ias you had, and as pretend to nothing more than to

compileI         shall acquaint the public in the Preface, to
           iIt,
whom they are indebted for each particular part of it.
    " am persuaded, that the hints have sent you are
                                                 I
very imperfect, and that your own genius will suggest toI

you many others much more proper and significant, and

     beg of you to put down every thing that occurs to
aI
your thoughts, and you think fit to be inserted in such
    I
     work.                                            take the liberty
      " conjure you not to put off what

to recommend to you. As on one hand the complying

with my request will be a mark of your gratitude to

your old friend, and an eternal obligation on me, so

your delaying will be the most mortifying disappoint
                 it

ment to,             " Sir,

                             Your most humble Servant,
                                            " John Conduitt."1

     have not succeeded in ascertaining to whom this letter was addressed.                                                                was
it, 1
     1

                 a
                                                            a

                                                    I

                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                   It
probably circular sent to more than one person.  have found letter from John

Craig, and a paper by De Moivre, which have the appearance of being answers to

     but the dates of both are earlier than that of Conduitt's letter. In letter dated

April 16, 1729, Conduitt made similar application to Professor Machin.

X PREFACE.

    Although Mr. Conduitt had at this time resolved to
compile a Life of Sir Isaac, and had obtained much in
formation from Dr. Stukely, Mr. Wickins, and Dr. Humph

rey Newton of Grantham, yet he seems to have so far
relinquished his design, that in June 1 729, nearly eighteen

months after the date of his letter, he intimates to a friend1
that " he has some thoughts of writing the Life of Sir Isaac

Newton himself." That he made the attempt, appears

from an indigested mass of manuscript which he has left

behind him, and which does not lead us to regret much

that he abandoned his design. The materials, however,
which he obtained from Mrs. Conduitt, and from the friends

of Newton then alive, are of great value ; and, in so far as

IMr. H. A. Fellowes and could make an abstract of these

and other manuscripts during a week's visit at Hurts-

Ibourne Park, have availed myself of them in composing

the first volume of this work, which was printed before

the papers themselves came into my hands.

  IBefore began the second volume, which contains the

history of the Fluxionary controversy, and the Life of New

ton subsequent to the publication of the first edition of the

Principia, I had the good fortune to obtain from the Earl

of Portsmouth, through the kindness of Lord Brougham,
the collection of manuscripts and correspondence which
the late Mr. H. A. Fellowes had examined and arranged

   1 In  a letter on   the subject of  a large "    monumental   picture to Newton's  me
mory,"   for Conduitt  himself. This    letter is  docqueted, "  Sent to Westgarth,"  who

seems to have been then in Italy.

PREFACE.  xi

as peculiarly fitted to throw light on the Life and Dis

coveries of Sir Isaac. In these manuscripts I found much

new information respecting the history of the Principia,
which, though it might have been more appropriately

Iplaced in the first volume, have introduced into those

chapters of the second which relate to the period when
the other editions of the Principia were published.

   In the different controversies in which Newton's dis

coveries involved him, his moral character had never been

the subject of suspicion. In Hooke, he found a jealous but

an honest rival, who, though he claimed discoveries which

substantially belonged to Newton, never cast a reproach
upon his name ; and amid all the bitterness of the Flux-
ionary controversy, Leibnitz and Bernoulli, and their

anonymous auxiliaries, never hesitated to acknowledge
the purity of Newton's motives, and the scrupulous cor

rectness of his conduct. It was reserved for two English

astronomers, the one a contemporary and the other a
disciple, to misrepresent and calumniate their illustrious

countryman.

   In 1835 the scientific world was startled by the publi
cation of Baily's Life of Flamsteed, a huge volume, deeply
affecting the character of Newton, and, strange to say,

printed, and circulated throughout the world, at the ex
pense of the Board of Admiralty. The friends of the

great philosopher were thus summoned to a painful con
troversy, which, had it been raised in his lifetime, would

xii PREFACE.

have been summarily extinguished ; but a century and

a quarter had elapsed before the slumbering calumnies

revived, and it was hardly to be expected that the

means of defence would have enjoyed the same vitality.

IUnder these circumstances Mr. Fellowes and anxiously

searched, but in vain, for the letters of Flamsteed to

Newton, and other relative documents which were neces

sary for his defence. In this difficulty, some of the ad

Imirers of Newton, among whom must mention my friend

Mr. Robert Brown, the distinguished President of the

Linnean Society, sent me some important facts ; but

valuable as they were, they were not sufficient to refute
the calumnies of the Astronomer-Royal. From this em

Ibarrassment, however, have been relieved by the receipt

of all Flamsteed's letters and other important papers which
Newton had carefully preserved, and which Mr. Fellowes
had discovered and set aside for my use. With these

I Idocuments trust have been able, though at a greater
Ilength than could have wished, to defend the illustrious

subject of this work against a system of calumny and
misrepresentation unexampled in the history of science.

   When I published my Life of Newton in 1831, 1 had

not seen his correspondence with Mr. Cotes and other
mathematicians in the Library of Trinity College. Mr.
Halliwell, however, who had made copious extracts from

these manuscripts, kindly put them into my hands ; but

the subsequent publication of the correspondence by Mr.

                        PREFACE.                             xiii

Edleston, has enabled me to make a more advantageous

use of these valuable materials.
   Dr. Monk, Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol, had " often

expressed in private a wish and request that some one of

the many accomplished Newtonians who are resident in

that society would favour the world by publishing the

whole collection,"1 and I have no doubt that it was from

this public expression of in his able and interesting Life
    Dr. Bentley, that the Master and Seniors of Trinity
of
                                         it,

College resolved to publish the correspondence.

This valuable work, edited by Mr. Edleston, Fellow of

Trinity,  most important contribution to the History
          is
             a
                    it
of Mathematical and Physical Science. The admirable

synopsis which contains of Newton's life -- the learned
                                              ;
                                                          ;
and able annotations illustrative of his history and the

explanatory notes on the letters themselves, throw much

light on the subjects to which they refer, and have

been of essential service to me in the composition of this

work. But in addition to the obligations which owe to
                        1

                                   of

                                  I

                                                              p.

                                                     I
                                                             aI
Mr. Edleston, in common with every friend of science,

have to acknowledge others of a more personal kind.

During the printing of the second volume, which he has

had the kindness to peruse, have received from him

much new and important information, and availed myself
of his judicious criticisms and useful suggestions.

    To Professor De Morgan, to whom the public owes

                        Life Bentley, 180.

xiv PREFACE.

brief but interesting biographical sketch of Newton, and

who has carefully investigated various points in the Flux-

ionary controversy, I have been indebted for much infor
Imation, and for his kind revision of the sketch had given

of the early history of the Infinitesimal Calculus. On a

few questions in the life of Newton, and the history of his

discoveries, my opinion differs somewhat from his ; but I

have been able to confirm, from the documents in my

possession, many of his views on important points which

he was the first to investigate and to publish.

From my late amiable and distinguished friend Profes

sor Rigaud of Oxford, too early cut off in his scientific

Icareer, I obtained valuable aid whenever        encountered

difficulties or required information.  His " Historical

Essay on the Principia," which he generously offered to

withhold from the public, till I had finished the present

work, is a most important contribution to the history of

Newton's discoveries, and I am glad to be able to complete

the correspondence between Newton and Halley, which
Mr. Rigaud was the first to publish in its genuine state.

The Rev. Jeffry Ekins, Rector of Sampford, whose

family, from their connexion with Newton, have been
long in possession of several of his theological manu
scripts and letters, has obligingly sent me copies of many
of them, and has otherwise favoured me with much use

ful information.

To Lord Brougham, Sir John Lubbock, Mr. Cutts

PREFACE.                        XV

Barton, and other friends, I have to return my best thanks

for the assistance they have given me.

   In concluding this Preface, I can hardly avoid refer

ring to Sir Isaac Newton's religious opinions. In the

chapter which relates to them I have touched lightly,

and unwillingly, on a subject so tender ; and in publish

ing the most interesting of the manuscripts in which

these opinions are recorded, I have done little more

than submit them to the judgment of the reader.

IThough adverse to my own, and believe to the opinions
Iof those to whom his memory is dearest, did not feel
myself justified, had I been so disposed, to conceal from

the public that which they have long suspected, and must

have sooner or later known. What the gifted mind of

Newton believed to be truth, I dare not pronounce to be

error. By the great Teacher alone can truth be taught,

and it is only at his tribunal that a decision will be given

on those questions, often of words, which have kept at

variance the wisest and the best of men.

ST. LEONARD'S COLLEGE,

    St. Andrews, May 12, 1855.


        CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

        CHAPTER 1.                                                             TMTM
                                                                               1-18
Great Discoveries previous to the Birth of Sir Isaac Newton -- Pre eminence

of his Reputation-- The Interest attached to the Study of his Life and
Writings -- His Birth and Parentage -- An only and Posthumous Child--
Notice of his Descent --Inherits the small Property of Woolsthorpe -- His
Mother marries again --Is sent to a Day-school -- His Education at Grant
ham School --His idle Habits there -- His Love of Mechanical Pursuits --
His Windmill, Water-clock, Self-moving Carriage, and Kites -- His At
tachment to Miss Storey --His Love of Drawing and Poetry --His Unfit
ness to be a Farmer -- His Dials, Water-wheels, and Anemometer -- Leaves
Grantham School --His Commonplace Book and College Expenses,
                                                                 .

        CHAPTER II.

Newton enters Trinity College, Cambridge --Origin of his Love of Mathe
   matics -- Studies Descartes' Geometry, and the Writings of Schooten and
   Wallis -- Is driven from Cambridge by the Plague --Observes Lunar Halos
   in 1664 -- Takes his Degree of B.A. in 1665 --Discovers Fluxions in the
   same Year --His first Speculations on Gravity-- Purchases a Prism to study
   Colours -- Revises Barrow's Optical Lectures, but does not correct his

  --erroneous Opinions about Colours -- Is elected a Minor Fellow of Trinity

   in 1667, and a Major Fellow in 1668 -- Takes his Degree of M.A His
   Note-Book, with his Expenses from 1666 to 1669 --Makes a small Reflect
   ing Telescope -- His Letter of Advice to Francis Aston, when going upon
   his Travels -- His Chemical Studies --His Taste for Alchemy-- His Paper

on Fluxions sent to Barrow and Collins in 1669,  .  .            , 19-36

        CHAPTER III.

Newton succeeds Barrow in the Lucasian Chair--Hyperbolic Lenses pro
  posed by Descartes and Others --Opinions of Descartes and Isaac Vossius
  on Colours --Newton discovers the Composition of White Light, and the
  different Refrangibility of the Rays that compose it--Having discovered

   the Cause of the Imperfection of Refracting Telescopes, he attempts the

  Construction of Reflecting Ones-- Constructs a second Reflecting Tele
   scope in 1668, which is examined by the Royal Society, and shewn to the
  King --Discussions respecting the Gregorian, Newtonian, and Cassegrai-
   nian Telescope -- James Gregory the Inventor of the Reflecting Telescope

VOL T.                                                        b

xviii                              CONTENTS.

--Attempts to construct       one --Newton makes a    Speculum of Silvered
                             Short in 1730, and Airy
Glass-- Glass Specula by     Telescopes --Telescopes  in 1822 -- Hadley con
structs two fine Reflecting
                                                      by Bradley, Molyneux,
and Hawksbee --Short's Reflecting Telescopes with Metallic Specula --Mag
nificent Telescope of Sir Wm. Herschel with a four feet Speculum -- Muni
ficence of George III. --Astronomical Discoveries of Sir Wm. Herschel --
J.Telescopes                        and Mr. Ramage --Gigantic Telescope of
                                   feet Speculum -- Progress of Telescopic Dis
the Earl of
             of Sir      Herschel
             Rosse   with a six
covery --Proposal to send a fine Telescope to a Southern Climate,
                                                                   . 37-67

                                   CHAPTER IV.

Newton writes Notes on Kinkhuysen's Algebra -- and on Harmonic and Infi
  nite Series --Delivers Optical Lectures at Cambridge -- Is elected a Fellow
   of the Royal Society -- Communicates to them his Discoveries on the dif
  ferent Refrangibility and Nature of Light --Popular Account of them--
   They involve him in various Controversies -- His Dispute with Pardies --
   With Linus -- With Gascoigne and Lucas -- The Influence of these Dis
   putes on his Mind -- His Controversy with Dr. Hooke and Monsieur Huy-
   gens, arising from their Attachment to the Undulatory Theory of Light --

Harassed with these Discussions he resolves to publish nothing more on

Optics -- Intimates to Oldenburg his Resolution to withdraw from the Royal
Society from his Inability to make the Weekly Payments --The Council

....agree to dispense with these Payments --He is allowed by a Royal Grant

to hold his Fellowship along with the Lucasian Chair without taking
Orders -- Hardship of his Situation in being obliged to plead Poverty to
the Royal Society -- Draws up a Scheme for extending the Royal Society,
by paying certain of its Members --The Scheme was found among his
Papers -- Soundness of his Views relative to the Endowment of Science by
the Nation -- Arguments in support of them,                                     68-108

                                   CHAPTER V.

Mistake of Newton in supposing the length of the Spectra to be the same in
   all Bodies -- And in despairing of the Improvement of Refracting Telescopes
  -- In his Controversy with Lucas he was on the eve of discovering the differ
  ent dispersive Powers of Bodies --Mr. Chester More Hall makes this Dis

covery, and constructs Achromatic Telescopes, but does not publish his
Discovery -- Mr. Dollond rediscovers the Principle of the Achromatic Te

lescope, and takes out a Patent --Principle of the Achromatic Telescope
explained -- Dr. Blair's Aplanatic Telescopes -- Great Improvements on the

.......Achromatic Telescope by the Flint Glass of Guinant, Fraunhofer, and

Bontemps --Mistake of Newton in forming his Spectrum from the Sun's
Disc-- Dark Lines in the Spectrum --Newton's Analysis of the Spectrum
incorrect --New Analysis of the Spectrum by Absorption, &c, defended
against the Objections of Helmholtz, Bernard, and Others --Change in the
Refrangibility of Light maintained by Professor Stokes --Objections to
his Theory,                                                               109-126

                           CONTENTS.                                                                  xix

                           CHAPTER VI.

Newton on the Cause of the Moon's Libration-- is      occupied with   the sub
  ject of Planting Cider Trees -- Sends to Oldenburg  his Discourse   on Light
and Colours, containing his Hypothesis concerning Light -- Views of Des
cartes and Hooke, who
of which produce Light   adopt the   Hypothesis of an  Ether, the      vibrations
                                       by Newton, who   proposes      a Modifica
                        -- Rejected

       is it,
                                    a

                                                                                                   a
tion of but solely as an illustration of his Views, and not as Truth --
Light       neither Ether, nor its vibrating Motion --Corpuscles from the

Sun act upon the Ether -- Hooke claims Newton's Hypothesis as con
tained in his Micrographia -- Discussions on the subject -- Hooke's Letter
to Newton proposing Private Discussion as more suitable -- Newton's
Reply to this Letter, acknowledging the value of Hooke's Discoveries --
Oldenburg the cause of the differences between Hooke and Newton --
Newton's Letter to Boyle on the subject of Ether--His conjecture on the
...Cause of Gravity -- Newton supposed to have abandoned the Emission

Theory -- Dr. Young's supposition incorrect -- Newton's mature judgment
in favour of the Emission Theory,    .      .                                                         127-150
                                                                   .

                           CHAPTER VII.

Newton's    Hypothesis of Refraction and    Reflexion -- Of Transparency and
   Opacity  -- Hypothesis of Colours --The   Spectrum supposed to be divided

like a Musical String -- Incorrectness of this Speculation -- Hooke's Ob

servations on the Colours of Thin Plates explained by the vibrations pro
duced in the Ether by the Luminous Corpuscles --Hooke claims this
Theory as contained in his Micrographia -- Newton's Researches on the
Colours of Thin Plates -- Previous Observations of Boyle -- Hooke's ela
borate Experiments on these Colours -- His Explanation of them -- Dr.
... ....Young's Observations upon them --Newton acknowledges his obligations
to Hooke-- Newton's Analysis of the Colours seen between two Object-
Glasses -- Corrections of  by MM. Provostayes and Desains -- New
                           it
                                                             it

                                                         J
ton's Theory of Fits of easy Reflexion and Transmission -- Singular

Phenomenon in the Fracture of a Quartz Crystal-- Newton's Observations

on the Colours of Thick Plates -- Becent Experiments on the same

subject,                                                                                              151-174

                                  CHAPTER VIII.

Influence of Colour in the Material World -- Newton's Theory of the
  Colours of Natural Bodies --Coloured Bodies reflect only Light of their
   own Colour, absorbing all the other parts of White Light -- The Colours
   of Natural Bodies are those of Thin Plates -- The transparent parts re
  flecting one Colour and transmitting another -- Arrangement of the
   Colours exhibited in Natural Bodies into Seven Classes -- Coloured uices
  and Solutions, Oxidated Films, Metals, &c. &c-- Newton's Theory appli
  cable only to one class of Colours -- Objections to stated-- Mr. Jamin's

   Researches on the Colours of Metals-- Cause of Colours must be in the

                    CONTENTS.

Constitution of Bodies -- Examples of the Effect of Heat upon Rubies and
Nitrous Gas -- Effect of Sudden Cooling --On Phosphorus -- Effect of
Mechanical Action on Iodide of Mercury --Indication of a New Theory --
And of the Cause of the Absorption of Definite Rays --Illustration of

these Views in a remarkable Tourmaline,  . . . 175-192

                                           CHAPTER IX.

Newton's Discoveries on the Inflexion of Light -- Previous Researches of
   Hooke --Newton's Animadversions on them offensive toHooke --Newton's
   Theory of Inflexion as described by Grimaldi, having made no experi
   ments of his own --Discoveries of Grimaldi, which anticipate those of
   Hooke -- Hooke suggests the Doctrine of Interference -- Newton's Experi
   ments on Inflexion -- His Views upon the subject unsettled -- Modern
   Researches --Dr. Young discovers the Law of Interference -- Discoveries
   of Fresnel and Arago -- Fraunhofer's Experiments --Diffraction by
   Grooved Surfaces -- Diffraction by Transparent Lines--Phenomena of
   Negative Diffraction --Experiments and Discoveries of Lord Brougham--
   Explanation of Diffraction by the Undulatory Theory, . . 193-210

                    CHAPTER X.

Miscellaneous Optical Researches of Newton --His Experiments on the
   Absolute Refractive Powers of Bodies -- More Recent Experiments -- His

Conjecture respecting the Inflammability of the Diamond, confirmed by         211-249
more direct Experiments -- His Erroneous Law of Double Refraction --
His Observations on the Polarity of Doubly Refracted Images -- Dis
coveries on Double Refraction in the present Century -- His Experiments

on the Eye of a Sheep -- Results of them --His Three Letters on Briggs's
New Theory of Vision -- His Theory of the Semi-Decussation of the Optic
Nerves -- Partly anticipated by Rohault -- Opinions of later writers on

......Vision, of Reid, Brown, Wollaston, Twining, and Alison, discussed--

The true Laws of Sensation and Vision -- Newton's Observations on the
Impression of Strong Light upon the Retina -- More recent Observations
-- His Reflecting Sextant -- His Reflecting Microscope -- His Reflecting
Prism for Reflecting Telescopes --His Method of varying the Magnifying
Power of Newtonian Telescopes -- Newton's Treatise on Optics -- His
Lectiones Optica?,

                    CHAPTER XI.

Astronomical Discoveries of Newton -- Combined exertion necessary for the
  completion of Great Discoveries -- Sketch of the History of Astronomy
   previous to the time of Newton -- Discoveries of Nicolas Copernicus, born
1473, died 1553 -- He places the Sun in the Centre of the System -- His

IIIWork on the Revolutions of the Heavenly Bodies, printed at the expense
of Cardinal Schonberg, and dedicated to Pope Paul  Tycho Brahe,

bora 1546, died 1601 -- His Observatory of Uraniburg -- Is visited by

                        CONTENTS.                                              xxi

James  VI Is persecuted by the Danish Minister -- Retires to Germany

--His  Discoveries and Instruments -- The Tychonic System -- John Kep

ler, born 1571, died 1631 -- His Speculation on the Six Regular Solids
Discovers the Ellipticity of Mars' Orbit --His Laws of the Planetary Mo
tions -- His Ideas of Gravitation -- His Religious Character -- Galileo, born
1564, died 1642 -- The first to apply a Telescope to the Heavens -- Dis
covers the Four Satellites and Belts of Jupiter -- His Researches in Me
......chanics --Is summoned before the Inquisition for Heresy -- Retracts his

Opinions, but persists in teaching the Doctrine of the Earth's Motion -- Is
again summoned before the Inquisition-- His Sentence to Imprisonment
for Life--Becomes Blind -- His Scientific Character -- Labours of Bouillaud,
and of Borelli -- Suggestions of Dr. Hooke on Gravity --His Circular Pen
dulum -- His Experiments with it-- His Views respecting the Cause of
the Planetary Motions,                                                         250-288

                        CHAPTER XII.

The first Idea of Gravity occurs to Newton in 1665 -- His first Speculations
   upon it-- He abandons the Subject from having employed an erroneous
   measure of the Earth's Radius --He resumes the Subject in consequence

of a discussion with Dr. Hooke, but lays it aside, being occupied with his
Optical Experiments --By adopting Picard's Measure of the Earth, he

discovers the Law of Gravity, and the Cause of the Planetary Motions --

Dr. Halley goes to Cambridge, and urges him to publish his Treatise on
Motion -- Tho Germ of the Principia, which was composed in 1685 and
1686 -- Correspondence with Flamsteed -- Manuscript of Principia sent to
the Royal Society --Halley undertakes to publish it at his own expense --
Dispute with Hooke, who claims the discovery of the Law of Gravity --
The Principia published in 1687 --The new edition of it by Cotes begun
in 1709, and published in 1713 -- Character and Contents of the Work --
General Account of the Discoveries it contains --They meet with opposi
tion from the followers of Descartes --Their reception in foreign countries
--Progress of the Newtonian Philosophy in England and Scotland,
                                                                               289-343

                                  CHAPTER XIII.

The Newtonian Philosophy stationary for half a century, owing to the im
   perfect state of Mechanics, Optics, and Analysis -- Developed and ex
   tended by the French Mathematicians -- Influence of the Academy of
   Sciences --Improvements in the Infinitesimal Calculus -- Christian Mayer
   on the Arithmetic of Sines -- D'Alembert's Calculus of Partial Differences
   -- Lagrange's Calculus of Variations -- The Problem of Three Bodies --
   Importance of the Lunar Theory --Lunar Tables of Clairaut, D'Alembert,
   and Euler-- the Superior Tables of Tobias Mayer gain the Prize offered
   by the English Board of Longitude -- Euler receives part of the English
   Reward, and also a Reward from the French Board -- Laplace discovers
   the cause of the Moon's Acceleration, and completes the Lunar Theory --

   Lagrange's Solution of the Problem of Three Bodies as applied to the

xxii                             CONTENTS.

Planets --Inequalities of Jupiter and Saturn explained by Laplace -- Sta
bility of the Solar System the Proof of Design --Maclaurin,
others, on the Figure of the Earth --Researches of Laplace   Laplace, and
                                                             on the Tides,
                                 --thNeeOwceSaant--elliTtehseooreftiScaalturDniscaonvderNyepotfunNee--p
and the  Stable  Equilibrium of
tune by  Adams    and Leverrier
Extension of Saturn's Ring and its Partial Fluidity --Twenty-seven Aste
roids discovered --Leverrier's theory of them -- Comets with Elliptic Orbits
within our System -- Law of Gravity applied to Double Stars -- Spiral Ne
bulse -- Motion of the Solar System in Space,
                                                 .      .        .                                       344-381

                 APPENDIX TO VOLUME I.
...........No. I.--Letter from Mr. Newton to Francis Aston, Esq., a young Friend
         who was on the eve of setting out upon his Travels,        . 385-389
II. --An Hypothesis explaining the Properties of Light discoursed of

         in my several Papers,                                                                           390-419
III. -- Drawing and Measures of the Eye of a Sheep,           ,
                                                     .              .                                    420-422
IV. --Letter from Newton to Dr. Wm. Briggs,
V--Second Letter of Newton to Dr. Briggs                                                                 423-428

VI Newton's Fifteenth Query,                                                                             429-430

VII. -- Description of the Optic Nerves and their Juncture in the Brain,                                 431

         by Sir Isaac Newton,                                                      432-436
VIII.-- Correspondence between Halley and Newton,                . . 437-456
IX.-- Halley's Verses prefixed to the Principia      .
                                                                                   457-459
X. -- Brief Notice of Professor Cotes                                              460-462
XI. --Newton's Directions to Dr. Bentley for Studying        the Principia,

         and John Craige's list of Authors to be read before Studying

             the Principia,                                                                              463-471
                                                                                                         472-478
XII.-- Continuation of Appendix, No. VIII.

LIST OF ENGRAVINGS AND W00D CUTS,

                                  WOL. I.

PoRTRAIT of SIR ISAAC NEWTON,           - -- -                Frontispiece
                                                              -5
THE House AT WoolsTHORPE, THE BIRTHPLACE of NEWTON, .         - 46
                                                              - 63
SIR ISAAC NEWTON's REFLECTING TELESCOPE, . · -                - 64

FRONT WIEw of LoRD RossE's TELESCOPE,       -    -   -

BACK WIEw of  DO.                 Do.,      ---

                                  VOL. II.

RoUBILLIAC's STATUE of NEwToN IN TRINITY CoIDEGE,    - Frontispiece

THE Rooms oF SIR ISAAC NEWTON IN TRINITY Col.I.EGE,  -        -     87

THE House oF SIR ISAAC NEWTON IN MARTIN STREET,      -·             253

ENGRAVING FROM A CAST of SIRISAAC NEWTON's FACE, TAKEN AFTER

DEATH,             -- -- -- -                                       415

ENGRAVING of A Box BELONGING TO SIR GEORGE HAMILTON SEYMoUR,

G.C.B., whICH was PRESENTED             BY SIR ISAAC NEwToN To THE
                                        - ··- -
EARL of ABERCORN,              ·                                    418


                MEM () IRS

                                                            OF THE

LIFE AND WRITINGS OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

                            CHAPTER I.

GREAT DISCOVERIES PREVIOUS TO THE BIRTH OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON

    PRE-EMINENCE OF HIS REPUTATION-THE INTEREST ATTACHED TO THE
   STUDY OF HIS LIFE AND WRITINGS-HIS BIRTH AND PARENTAGE-AN
    ONLY AND POSTHUMOUS CHILD­NOTICE OF HIS DESCENT-INHERITS

    THE SMALL PROPERTY OF WOOLSTHORPE--HIS MOTHER MARRIES AGAIN

  -IS SENT TO A DAY-SCHOOL-HIS EDUCATION AT GRANTHAM SCHOOL

   HIS IDLE HABITS THERE-HIS LOVE OF MECHANICAL PURSUITS-HIS

   wiNDMILL, wATER-CLoCK, SELF-MoviNG CARRIAGE, AND KITES-HIS
   ATTACHMENT TO MISS STOREY-HIS LOVE OF DRAWING AND POETRY
   --HIS UNFITNESS TO BE A FARMER--HIS DIALs, WATER-WHEELS, AND
    ANEMOMETER-LEAVES GRANTHAM SCHOOL-HIS COMMONPLACE BOOK

    AND COLLEGE EXPENSES.

THE seventeenth century has always been regarded as

the most interesting and eventful period in the history of

positive knowledge. The discoveries and speculations
                                                  for
of a preceding age had prepared the way                      ofsome grand

generalizationof            the phenomena         the material world;
                  by by of         of
                                       to
                                           be of
and sages         lofty intellect heralded the advent            that

Master-mind               which was               accomplished. The
                            of
                               it
establishment Copernicus the true Solar System, and

      inindependence the sidereal universe, led the
of                                                to
    its

vestigation   ofthose general laws with which Kepler laid the
    VOL.                                                                 A
         I.

2       LIFE OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON.                              CHAP. I.

foundations of Physical Astronomy ; while, in combination

with these, the observations of Tycho, the telescopic dis

coveries of Galileo, and the speculations of Hooke and

Borelli, contributed in no slight degree to the establish

ment of the theory of universal gravitation, by which Sir

Isaac Newton has immortalized his name, and perpetuated

the intellectual glory of his country.

   A generalization of such vast extent, enabling us to

determine the position and aspects of the planets during

thousands of years that are past, and for thousands of

years to come, could not but be regarded as an achieve

ment of the highest order ; and the name of Newton,

therefore, has, by universal consent, been placed at the

head of those great men who have been the benefactors

and ornaments of their species. Imposing as are the

attributes with which Time has invested          the sages                               of
                                              and dazzling
antiquity --its poets and its philosophers ;                                             as

are the glories of its heroes and its lawgivers, their repu

tation pales in the presence of his ; and the vanity of no

presumptuous school, and the partiality of no rival nation,

has ventured to question the ascendency of his genius.

The philosopher, indeed, to whom posterity will probably

assign  wthoerk,p--lacTehenePxrtinctoipleNsewotof nN, ahtausraclhaPrhaiclotesroipzehdy,  his
great                                                                                     as

pre-eminent above every other production of human

genius,1 and has thus divested of extravagance the enco

mium of contemporary friendship.

        Nec fas est propius mortali attingere Divos.  Hat,ley.
        So near the gods-- man cannot nearer go.

    But while the history of such discoveries must, to                                   the
intellectual world, be a subject of exciting interest,                                   the

   1 The Marquis La Place.  Sec his Exposition du Sytteme du Monde, Livre 5me,
chap. vi. p. 336.

1642-61.       LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                 3

biography of him who made them, --the details of his

life, his studies and his opinions, cannot fail to arrest

the attention, and influence the judgment of every culti

vated mind. Though the path of such a man may have
lain in the secluded vale of humble life, unmarked by

those dramatic incidents which throw a lustre even round

perishable names, yet the inquiring spirit will linger over

the history of a mind so richly endowed, --will study its

intellectual and moral phases, and will seek the shelter of
its authority on those solemn questions which Reason

has abandoned to Faith and Hope.

  If we look for instruction from the opinions of ordinary

men, and watch their conduct as an exemplar for our

own, how interesting must it be to follow the most exalted

genius through the labyrinth of common life, --to mark
the steps by which he attained his lofty pre-eminence, --

to see how he performs the functions of the         social and
                          --how
the domestic   compact ;   ; -- how  he wields his  powers of
invention and  discovery               he comports  himself in

the arena of intellectual strife ; and in what sentiments,

and with what aspirations, he leaves the world which he

has adorned.

In each and all of these phases, the writings and

the life of Sir Isaac Newton abound with the richest

counsel. Here the philosopher will learn the art of patient
observation by which alone he can acquire an immortal

name ; the moralist will trace the lineaments of a char

acter exhibiting all the symmetry of which our imperfect

nature is susceptible ; and the Christian will contemplate

with delight the High Priest of Science quitting the study

of the material universe --the scene of his intellectual

triumphs, to investigate with humility and reverence the

mysteries of his faith.

4  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. I.

   Isaac Newton was born in the Manor-house of Wools-

thorpe, a hamlet in the parish of Colsterworth, in the
county of Lincoln, close to the village of Colsterworth,
and about six miles south of Grantham, between one

and two o'clock in the morning of the 25th December,
old style, 1642, in the same year in which Galileo died.
His father, Isaac Newton, who was proprietor and farmer
of the manor of Woolsthorpe, died in the thirty-seventh
year of his age, a little more than a year after the death
of his father Robert Newton, and only a few months after
his marriage to Hannah Ayscough, daughter of James
Ayscough of Market Overton, in Rutlandshire. Mrs.
Newton had thus been left in a state of pregnancy, and
appears to have given a premature birth to her only and
posthumous child. The infant thus ushered into the world
was of such a diminutive size, that, as his mother after

wards expressed it to Newton himself, he might have
been put into a quart-mug, and so feeble apparently was
his constitution, that two women who were sent to Lady
Pakenham's at North Witham, to obtain for him some

tonic medicine, did not expect to find him alive on their
return. Providence, however, disappointed their fears,
and that frail tenement which seemed scarcely able to
imprison its immortal mind, was destined to enjoy a
vigorous maturity, and to survive even the average term
of human existence.

    The small Manor of Woolsthorpe is said to have been
more than an hundred years in the possession of the

family, who, according to one account, were descended
from Sir John Newton of Westby, in Lincolnshire, and,
according to another, from a Scotch family in East Lo
thian. The Manor-house is situated in a pleasant little
hollow on the west side of the valley of the river Witham,

1642-61.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                5

                    it,and one spring
which rises near      of                to              which  is                                       the
                                          is                       in
                             is                 an
Manor. From the house there      of so            ofagreeable prospect

to ofthe village Colsterworthof                  the east, and, according
        of
    Dr. Stukely, the air                good, combining the sharp

ness        the midland part            the kingdom with the more

genial temperature        the low parts Lincolnshire, thatof

the country round Woolsthorpe was called the Montpelier

of  England. The Manor-house consists                   of  two stories,

      Manor House, Woolsthorpe; the Birth-place  Sir Isaac Newton, showing the
to
       is          Solar Dials which he made when boy.

                by
                   of

                       or in
                                       he

                                         of as
                                                                                          of
                                                                                                     a

                                                                    to
                                                                       to

                                                                               as
                                                                                  he

                                                                             by
and built stone. Sir Isaac's study before                                                             went

    college, and when         visited his mother from the

University, was the upper flat. The book-shelves are

described      Dr. Stukely              having been made                                                Sir

Isaac himself with pieces               deal-boxes, and        having

contained 200       300 books belonging                 his father-in

law, Dr. Smith, which Sir Isaac presented                   Dr. Newton
of Grantham.

6  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC XEWTOX.                           CHAP. I.

    The Manor of Woolsthorpe, Sir Isaac's paternal estate,
purchased by his grandfather in 1623, from Robert
Underwood, was worth only £30 per annum, but his
mother possessed a small estate at Sewstern, on the
borders of Leicestershire, and about three miles south

east of Woolsthorpe, which was worth about £50 per
annum ; and it is probable that the cultivation of the little
farm, on which she resided, added to the limited rental

upon which she had to support herself and educate
her son.

    Under the guardianship of his uncle, James Ayscough,
and the tender care of his mother, young Newton re
mained at Woolsthorpe acquiring gradually that strength
of constitution which was essential to the development of
his intellectual powers. Before, however, he had reached
his fourth year, he was deprived of his mother's care, in
consequence of her marriage, on the 27th January 1645,
to the Rev. Barnabas Smith, rector of North Witham ; 1

and her duties devolved upon her mother, the wife of
James Ayscough, and a daughter of Mr. Blythe of Strox-

   1 The issue of this marriage was a son and three daughters, --Benjamin, Mary,

and Hannah Smith, from whom were descended the four nephews and nieces who

inherited Sir Isaac's personal estate.

   The following account from Conduit's MSS.  of Mrs.  Xewton's marriage to  Mr.
Smith, was given to Mr. Conduit " by Mrs.     Hutton,  whose maiden name     was
Ayscough :"--
   " Mr. Smith, a neighbouring clergyman, who had a very good estate, had lived a

bachelor till he was pretty old, and one of his parishioners advising him to marry,

he said he did not know where to meet with a good wife. The man answered, the

Iwidow Newton is an extraordinary good woman. But, saith Mr. Smith, how do
Iknow she will have me, and don't care to ask and be denied ; but if you will go
Iand ask her, will pay you for your day's work. He went accordingly. Her

answer was, she would be advised by her brother Ayscough. Upon which Mr. Smith

sent the same person to Mr. Ayscough on the same errand, who, upon consulting
with his sister, treated with Mr. Smith, who gave her son Isaac a parcel of land,
being one of the terms insisted upon by the widow if she married him." This

parcel of land was given by Mrs. Smith, and was probably her property of Sews
tern. -- See the Annual Register 1776, Characters, p. 25.

1642-61.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  7

ton, who, for this purpose, took up her residence at Wools
thorpe. At the usual age Isaac was sent to two little day
schools at Skillington and Stoke, two hamlets about a
mile to the north of Woolsthorpe, and about the same
distance from each other, acquiring the education in

reading, writing, and arithmetic, which such seminaries
afforded.

    When he reached the age of twelve he was sent to the
public school at Grantham, then taught by Mr. Stokes,

who had the character of being a good teacher, and was
boarded at the house of Mr. Clark, an apothecary in the

town, whose grandson, Mr. Clark, exercised the same pro

fession there in 1727, the year of Newton's death. The
house in which our young philosopher lodged, was next
to the George Inn, "northward in the High Street, which
was rebuilt about 1711." According to the confessions
which Sir Isaac himself made to Mr. Conduit, he was

extremely inattentive to his studies, and stood very low
in the school. When he was the last in the lowermost

form but one, the boy next above him, as they were
going to school, gave him a kick on the stomach, which

occasioned a great degree of pain. As soon as the

scholars were dismissed, Newton challenged the boy to

fight, and for this purpose they went into the church
yard. The schoolmaster's son came up to them during
the fight, and, "clapping one on the back and winking to
the other," encouraged them both to continue the encoun
ter. Though Sir Isaac was not so robust as his antagonist,
yet he had much more spirit and resolution, and therefore
succeeded in the combat, beating his opponent till he de
clared he would fight no more. The schoolmaster's son,
who seems to have been an amateur in the art, told Sir

Isaac that he must treat the other as a coward by rubbing

8    LIFE" OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  chap. i.

it,his nose against the wall. The victor accordingly took the
advice, and dragging his victim by the ears, thrust his
face against the wall of the church. The success which

thus attended his first struggle for superiority, induced
him to repeat it in a better cause. Although vanquished
in the churchyard, his antagonist still stood above him in
the school, a victory more honourable than that which
Newton had achieved ; and though the schoolmaster and
his son would have given a different decision on the rela
tive merits of the youthful combatants, yet Newton took
the right view of his own position, and resolved to possess
the moral as well as the physical superiority. He accord
ingly exerted himself in the preparation of his lessons,
and after many a severe struggle in which he and his

adversary were alternately successful, he not only gained
the individual victory, but rose to the highest place in the

school.

   It is very probable that Newton's idleness arose from

the occupation of his mind with subjects in which he felt
a deeper interest. He had not been long at school before
he exhibited a taste for mechanical inventions. With

the aid of little saws, hammers, hatchets, and tools of

all sorts, he was constantly occupied during his play
hours in the construction of models of known machines,

and amusing contrivances. The most important pieces
of mechanism which he thus constructed, were a wind

mill, a water-clock, and a carriage to be moved by the
person who sat in it. When a wind-mill was in the
course of being erected near Grantham, on the way to
Gunnerby, Sir Isaac frequently watched the operations of

the workmen, and acquired such a thorough knowledge
of its mechanism, that he completed a working model of

    which Dr. Stukely says was " as clean and curious a

1642-61.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    9

piece of workmanship as the original." This model was

frequently placed upon the top of the house in which he

lived at Grantham, and was put in motion by the action

of the wind upon its sails. In calm weather, however,

another mechanical agent was required, and for this pur-                  

pose a mouse was put in requisition, which went by the

name of the miller. It does not distinctly appear how

the mouse was compelled to perform a function so foreign

to its ordinary habits, but it was supposed to act upon

something like a tread-wheel when attempting to reach

some corn placed above it ; or, according to another sup
position, it was placed within a wheel, and by pulling a
string tied to its tail, it went forward " by way of resist

ance," as Dr. Stukely observes, and thus turned the mill.

    The water-clock constructed by Sir Isaac was a more

useful piece of mechanism than his wind-mill. It was

made out of a box which he begged from Mrs. Clark's

brother, and, according to Dr. Stukely, to whom it was
                                 " resembled pretty
described by those who had seenit

                       It it

                                               it,
                                                  it

                                                                    a

                                                            it
much our common clocks and clock-cases," but was less in

size, being about four feet in height, and of a proportional

breadth. There was a dial-plate at top with figures of

the hours. The index was turned by piece of wood,
which " either fell or rose by water dropping." The

clock stood in Sir Isaac's bed-room, and was his daily

practice to supply  every morning with the proper

quantity of water.  was frequently resorted to by the

inmates of Mr. Clark's house to ascertain the hour of the

day, and remained there long after Sir Isaac went to

Cambridge. Dr. Stukely informs us, that having had

occasion to talk of clepsydrae, or water-clocks, Newton

remarked, that their chief inconvenience arose from the

furring up of the small hole through which the water

10                              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     CHAP. i.

passed, by the impurities which it contained,-- a cause                           ;
of inequality in its measure of time, the reverse of what
takes place in clocks made with sand, which enlarges the                             it,

hole through which it descends.
    The mechanical carriage which Sir Isaac is said to have

invented, was a four-wheeled vehicle, and was moved with

a handle or winch wrought by the person who sat in it.
We can find no distinct information respecting its con
struction or use, but it must have resembled a Merlin's

chair, which is fitted only to move on the smooth surface
of a floor, and not to overcome the inequalities of a com

mon road.1
    Although Sir Isaac was at this time a " sober, silent,

and thinking lad," who never took part in the games and
amusements of his school-fellows, but employed all his
leisure hours in " knocking and hammering in his lodging
room," yet he was anxious to please them by " inventing
diversions for them above the vulgar kind." In this way
he often succeeded in alluring them from trifling amuse
ments, and teaching them, as Dr. Stukely says, " to play
philosophically ;" or, as Dr. Paris has better expressed
in the title of his charming little work, to make " philo-

1    It curious fact that Leibnitz, the rival of Newton, had laboured at similara
        isinventions. In letter written to Sir Isaac from Hanover, about month aftera
              a
                             aLeibnitz's death, on the 14th November 1716, the writer informs him that Leibnitz

had laboured all his life to invent machines, which had never succeeded, and that
he was particularly desirous of constructing a wind-mill for mines, and carriage
to be moved without horses. Fontenelle, in his Eloge on Leibnitz, mentions these
two inventions in different terms. He had bestowed, says he, much time and labour
upon his wind-mill for draining the water from the deepest mines, but was thwarted

in its execution by certain workmen who had opposite interests. In the matter of

carriages, his object was merely to render them lighter and more commodious but
  doctor, who believed that Leibnitz had prevented him from getting pension from

the King of Hanover, stated in some printed work, that he had contemplated the

invention of carriage which would perform the journey from Hanover to Amster

dam in twenty four hours. -- M6m. Acad. Par. 1718. Hist. p. 115.
a                                                          a
                         a

1642-G1.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  I1

sophy in sport science in earnest." With this view he
introduced the flying of paper-kites, and he is said to
have investigated their best forms and proportions, as
well as the number and position of the points to which
the string should be attached. He constructed also
lanterns of " crimpled paper," in which he placed a
candle, to light him to school in the dark winter morn
ings ; and in dark nights he tied them to the tails of his
kites, in order to terrify the country people, who took
them for comets.

    Hitherto the attention of Sir Isaac had not been di

rected to any of the celestial phenomena, and when he
did study the apparent daily motion of the sun, he was
probably led to it by the imperfect measure of time

which he obtained from his water-clocks. In the yard

of the house where he lived, he was frequently observed
to watch the motion of the sun. He drove wooden

pegs into the walls and roofs of the buildings, as
gnomons to mark by their shadows the hours and half

hours of the day. It does not appear that he knew how

to adjust these lines to the latitude of Grantham ; but
he is said to have succeeded, after some years' obser
vation, in making them so exact, that anybody could
tell what o'clock it was by Isaac's Dial, as it was called.

It was probably at the same time that he carved two

dials on the walls of his own house at Woolsthorpe ; but

though we have seen them there, we were not able to
determine whether they were executed by a tentative
process like those in Mr. Clark's yard, or were more ac
curately projected, from a knowledge of the doctrine of

the sphere.1

    1 One of these dials was taken down in 1844, along with the stone on which it
was cut, by Mr. Tumor of Stoke Bochford, and presented by his uncle, the Rev.

12          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. I.

    But saws and hammers were not the only tools which

our young philosopher employed. He was expert also

with his pencil and his pen, drawing with the one, and

inditing verses with the other. It is not improbable that

he received some instruction in drawing from his writing-
master, called " Old Barley," who lived in the place occu
pied, in Dr. Stukely's time, by " the Millstone Alehouse

in Castle Street." But whether he was instructed or self-

taught, he seems to have made some progress in the art.

His room was furnished with pictures drawn by himself,

some of them being copied from prints, and some from

life. The frames of these pictures were made by himself,
and " coloured over in a workmanlike manner." Among
those portraits Dr. Stukely enumerates " several of the

Kings' heads, Dr. Donne, Mr. Stokes, his teacher at
Grantham, and King Charles I." In addition to these
portraits, there were well-designed drawings of " birds,

beasts, men, ships, and mathematical diagrams, executed

with charcoal on the wall, which remained till the house

was pulled down in 1711."
    Although Sir Isaac told Mr. Conduit that he " excelled

particularly in making verses," yet it is strange that no

authentic specimen of his poetry has been preserved.

Beneath his portrait of Charles  I.,  the following verses

were written --
        A:
            secret art my soul requires to try,

        If prayers can give me what the wars deny.

Charles Tumor, to the Museum of the Royal Society. The dial was traced ona

large stone in the south wall, at the angle of the building, and about six feet fromis
the ground. The name Newton, with the exception of the first two letters, which

have been obliterated, may be seen under the dial in rude and capital letters. The
other dial smaller than this, but not in good preservation. The gnomons of these
dials have unfortunately disappeared. In the woodcut representing the Manor-

house of Woolsthorpe, the birth-place of Sir Isaac, are shown the places on the
wall where the dials were traced. -- See Phil. Trans. 1845, pp. 141, 142.

1642-01.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         13

                               Three crowns distinguished here, in order doisa;
                          is,
                  IPresent their objects to my knowing view.
                             I
                               Earth's crown thus at my feet can disdain,I
                           Which heavy and at the best but vain.
;
                        But now a crown of thorns gladly greet, --;

                                Sharp this crown, but not so sharp as sweetif
                           The crown of glory that yonder see,
                            Is full of bliss and of eternity.a

    Mrs. Vincent, who repeated these lines to Dr. Stukelya
from memory, fancied that they were written by Sir
Isaac but even he had thus early tasted of the Pierian
spring, he must have lost his relish for its sparkling wa
ters, as he often expressed in his later years dislike for

poetry -- " not unlike Plato," as Conduit observes, when

mentioning this fact, " who, though he had addicted him
self to poetry in his younger days, would not, in his serious
years, allow even Homer place in his commonwealth."

    During the seven years which Sir Isaac spent at Grant
ham, there were some female inmates in Mr. Clark's house,

in whose society he took much pleasure, and spent much
of his leisure time. One of these, Miss Storey, sister to
Dr. Storey, physician at Buckminster, near Colsterworth,
and the daughter of Mr. Clark's second wife, was two or
three years younger than Newton, and seems to have
added to great personal attractions more than the usual
allotment of female talent. To the society of his school
fellows he preferred that of the young ladies at home, and
he often made little tables, cupboards, and other utensils
for Miss Storey and her playfellows, to set their dolls and
their trinkets upon. Miss Storey, who after her second
marriage bore the name of Mrs. Vincent, confessed to Dr.
Stukely, when he visited her at Grantham in 1727, when
she had reached the age of 82, that Newton had been
in love with her, but that the smallness of her portion
and the inadequacy of his own income, when the fellow

14  LIFE OF SiR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. I.

of a college, prevented their marriage. Newton's esteem
for her continued unabated during his life. He paid her
a regular visit whenever he went to Woolsthorpe, and he
liberally relieved her from little pecuniary embarrassments
which seem to have occasionally beset her family.

   At the death of the Rev. Mr. Smith in 1656, his widow,
Sir Isaac's mother, left the rectory of North Witham, and,

accompanied with her three children, Mary, Benjamin,
and Hannah Smith, took up her residence at Woolsthorpe,

which Mr. Smith had rebuilt. At this time Newton had

reached his fifteenth year, and had acquired all the learn

ing which a provincial school could supply. It does not

appear that he had thought of following any particular
profession, and it is probable that his mother intended to
bring him up as a farmer and grazier,1 and like his an
cestors to take charge of her little property. He was
therefore recalled from the school at Grantham, and

entered upon the new and not very welcome duties of

tilling the ground and disposing of its produce. He was
thus frequently sent to Grantham on Saturday the market-
day, in order to dispose of grain and other kinds of
agricultural produce, and purchase articles of a domestic
nature which the family required. On these occasions

he was accompanied by an old and trustworthy man
servant, till he acquired sufficient experience to do busi
ness by himself. The inn which they frequented was the
Saracen's Head in Westgate, but no sooner had they put
up their horses than Isaac deserted his commercial duties,
entrusted his marketings to the management of his rural
Mentor, and went in search of knowledge to his former
haunt in Mr. Clark's garret, where a parcel of old books

   1 Mrs. Hutton mentioned to Mr. Conduit that this was the profession to which
Newton was to he brought up.

L1FJ3 OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.  15

afforded au interesting occupation of his time till the hour
arrived when it was necessary to return. When the
luxuries in the garret had lost their novelty, our young
philosopher thought it a waste of time to go so far as
Grantham and do nothing ; he deserted his duties, there
fore, at an earlier stage, and entrenched himself under a
hedge on the wayside between Woolsthorpe and Grant
ham, devouring some favourite author till his companion
roused him on his return. With such tastes and habits,
it was not to be expected that the more urgent affairs of
the farm would prosper under his management. When
his mother ordered him into the fields to look after the

sheep, or to watch the cattle when they were treading
down the crops, he was equally negligent of the obliga
tions which were imposed upon him. The sheep went

astray, and the cattle enjoyed themselves among the
growing corn, while he was perched under a tree with a
book in his hands, or shaping wooden models with his
knife, or luxuriating over the movements of an undershot
water-wheel whirling the glittering spray from its float-
boards, or arresting the passing traveller by its aqueous

pulsations.

   It was about this time, also, that he seems to have paid

some attention to the subject of the resistance of fluids,
to which his experiments with water-wheels would natu
rally lead him. Mr. Conduit,1 apparently on the authority
of Mrs. Vincent, informs us that even when he was occu

pied with his paper-kites, he was endeavouring to find out
the proper form of a body which would experience the
least resistance when moving in a fluid. Sir Isaac him
self told Mr. Conduit that one of the earliest scientific

experiments which he made was in 1658, on the day of

                             1 MSS. of Conduit among t he family papers.

lfi  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. I.

the great storm when Cromwell died, and when he him

self had just entered into his sixteenth year. In order to

determine the force of the gale he jumped first in the
direction in which the wind blew, and then in opposition
to the wind ; and after measuring the length of the leap
in both directions, and comparing it with the length to
which he could jump in a perfectly calm day, he was
enabled to compute the force of the storm. Sir Isaac
added, that when his companions seemed surprised at his

saying that any particular wind was a foot stronger than

any he had known before, he carried them to the place

where he had made the experiment, and shewed them the

measure and marks of his several leaps. This mode of
jumping to a conclusion, or reaching it per saltum, was
not the one which our philosopher afterwards used. Had
he, like Coulomb, employed a shred of paper instead of
his own person, and observed the time that it took to fly

through a given distance, he would have obtained a better
substitute for an anemometer.

    Such were the occupations of Newton when his mother
entrusted to him the management of her farm. Experi
ence soon convinced her that he was not destined to be a

cultivator of the soil ; and as his love of study and dislike
of every other occupation increased with his years, she
resolved to give him all the advantages which education
could bestow. He was accordingly sent back to the
school at Grantham, where he remained for nine months

in active preparation for his academical studies. His
uncle, the Rev. W. Ayscough, who was rector of Burton
Coggles, about three miles east of Woolsthorpe, having
one day discovered Newton under a hedge, occupied in the
solution of a mathematical problem, confirmed Mrs. Smith
in the resolution which she had taken; and as he had

1642-61.             LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                                   17

himself studied at Trinity College, it was arranged that
Newton should follow his example, and proceed to Cam

bridge at the approaching term.
    We have not been able to discover the exact year in

which Newton was sent back to school, or the nature of
the studies by which he was to be prepared for the Uni

versity. It is stated by Conduit that he went to Cam

bridge in 1660 ; but the records of the University place
it beyond a doubt that he was not admitted there till
1661, so that he had a year more than has been supposed
to fit him for college. This period of preparation must
have extended from 1658 to 1661, from the 16th to the

1 9th year of his age, and we accordingly find in one of

his memorandum books, a small volume about 3^ inches
square, and dated March 19, 1659,1 that he was engaged

   1 Mr. Conduit, in his MSS. notes, mentions two of these memorandum books in

Ithe following manner :--" find in a paper book of his to which he has put his name,
Iyaenadr,16"59P,r--oaRoudlieas
           for drawing   and making colours ;" and     in another of the same
          written out."    The first of these books     did not find among the

family papers ; but the second is the one referred to in the text.  The following is

its title :--

                     Quisquis in hunc librum

                         Teneros conjecit ocellos,

                     Nomen subscriptum perle-
                             gat ipse nomen.

                              Isaac Newton,
                             Martii 19, 1659.

On the second page is the title Utilissimum Prosodice Svpplementwm, which

terminates on the 33d page with the date March 26, and is followed by an Appen

dix of three pages.

At the end of the bock there is a list of his expenses, entitled Impensa propria,
                                                            summed up thus :--
          fourteen pages. On the 4th page the expenses are
.... 400occupying
                     Totum            £3 5 6

                     Habui,
                     ....Habeo,
                                      0 14 6

On the 5th page there are fourteen loans of money, extended thus :

                     10Lent Agatha, . . £0 11 1
                     Lent Gooch, . .                0

and he then adds at the bottom of the page, lent out 13 shillings more than £4.

VOL. I.                                                             B

18                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. I

in the study of prosody. This little volume contains
various entries of his expenses during the first year that

he was at college, but nothing, excepting the purchase of
a dial, to indicate that he was engaged in physical or

mathematical studies.

   The day in which he quitted Grantham was one of

much interest not only to himself but to his school-fellows

and his venerable teacher. Mr. Conduit1 has recorded it

as a tradition in Grantham, that on that day the good
old man, with the pride of a father, placed his favourite

pupil in the most conspicuous part of the school, and
having, with tears in his eyes, made a speech in praise of
his character and talents, held him up to the scholars as

a proper object of their love and imitation. We have not
heard that the schoolmaster of Grantham lived long enough
to feel a just pride in the transcendent reputation of his

pupil ; but many of the youth to whom his affectionate

counsel was addressed, may have had frequent opportu

nities of glorying in having been the school-fellows of Sir

Isaac Newton.

    14Among the entries are Chessemen and dial, . £0
                        10Effigies amoris,
                                   .            .   0

                        Do 0 0 10

and on the   last page  are entered seven loans, amounting to    £3, 2s. 6d. There is
likewise an  entry of   " Income from a glasse and other things
                                                                 to my chamber-fellow,

£0 0 9." Another page is entitled

                        OTIOSE ET FRUSTKA EXPEXSA.

             Supersedeas.          Sherbet and reaskes.

             China ale.            Beere.

             Cherries.             Cake.

             Tart.                 Bread.

             Bottled beere.        Milk.

             Marmelot.             Butter.

             Custards.             Cheese.

    ' MSS. of Conduit among the family papers.

1661-09.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                      19

                   CHAPTER II.

NEWTON ENTERS TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE --ORIGIN OF HIS LOVE OF
   MATHEMATICS --STUDIES DESCARTES' GEOMETRY, AND THE WRITINGS
   OF SCHOOTEN AND WALLIS -- IS DRIVEN FROM CAMBRIDGE BY THE
   PLAGUE --OBSERVES LUNAR HALOS IN 1664 -- TAKES HIS DEGREE OF
   B.A. IN 1665 --DISCOVERS FLUXIONS IN THE SAME YEAR HIS FIRST
   SPECULATIONS ON GRAVITY --PURCHASES A PRISM TO STUDY COLOURS
   -- REVISES BARROW'S OPTICAL LECTURES -- BUT DOES NOT CORRECT
   HIS ERRONEOUS OPINIONS ABOUT COLOURS --IS ELECTED A MINOR FEL
   LOW OF TRINITY IN 1667 --AND A MAJOR FELLOW IN 1668 -- TAKES
   HIS DEGREE OF M.A. --HIS NOTE-BOOK, WITH HIS EXPENSES FROM
   1666 TO 1669 --MAKES A SMALL REFLECTING TELESCOPE --HIS LET

    TER OF ADVICE TO FRANCIS ASTON, WHEN GOING UPON HIS TRAVELS

   --HIS CHEMICAL STUDIES --HIS TASTE FOR ALCHEMY --HIS PAPER ON

    FLUXIONS SENT TO BARROW AND COLLINS IN 1669.

To a young mind thirsting for knowledge, and ambi

tious of the distinction which it brings, the transition

from a provincial  school to a university like that      of
                   intellectual solitude to the society  of
Cambridge, --from

men imbued with all the literature and science of the

age, must be an event of the deepest interest. To New

ton it was a source of peculiar excitement. The history

of science affords many examples where the young aspir

ant had been early initiated into her mysteries, and had

even exercised his powers of invention and discovery be

fore he was admitted within the walls of a college ; but he

who was to give Philosophy her laws, did not exhibit such

early talent. No friendly counsel regulated his youthful

studies, and no work of a scientific character guided him in

20              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. II.

his course. In yielding to the impulse of his mechanical
genius, his mind obeyed the laws of its own natural ex

pansion, and following in the line of least resistance, it
was thus drawn aside from the precipitous path which it

was fitted to climb, and the unbarred strongholds which
it was destined to explore.

    When Newton, therefore, entered Trinity College, he

brought with him a more slender portion of science than

at his age falls to the lot of ordinary scholars ; but this
state of his acquirements was perhaps not unfavourable

to the development of his powers. Unexhausted by
premature growth, and invigorated by healthful repose,
his mind was the better fitted to make those vigorous

and rapid shoots which soon covered with foliage and
with fruit the genial soil to which it had been trans

ferred. Cambridge was consequently the real birth-place

of Newton's     ginesntiiutsu.tionHsesrustteaaincehdershisfomsitgehretidesthiseffeoartrsl,ie--st

studies, --her

and within her precincts were all his discoveries made

and perfected. When he was called to higher official

functions, his disciples kept up the pre-eminence of their

master's philosophy, and their successors have maintained
this seat of learning in the fulness of its glory, and ren

dered it the most distinguished among the universities of

Europe.

   With letters of introduction from his uncle, the Rev.

James Ayscough, to his friends in Cambridge, Sir Isaac
left Woolsthorpe in June 1661, and was admitted Sub-

sizar at Trinity College on the 5th of that month, and
matriculated Sizar1 on the 8 th of July. Neither history

   1 "This class of students," says Mr. Edleston, " were required to perform various
menial services, which now seem to be considered degrading to a young man who

is endeavouring, by the force of his intellect, to raise himself to his proper position
in society. The following extract from the Conclusion Book of Trinity College,

1661-69.  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  21

nor tradition has handed down to us any distinct account
of the studies which Newton pursued at Cambridge dur
ing the first three or four years of his residence in that
University. In Conduit's Memoirs of Newton, transmit

ted to Fontenelle,1 we find very little information on this
point, and even that little is by no means correct. Before
Newton left Woolsthorpe, his uncle had given him a copy
of Sanderson's Logic, which he seems to have studied so
thoroughly, that when he afterwards attended the lectures
on that work, he found that he knew more of it than his

tutor. Finding him so far advanced, his tutor intimated
to him that he was about to read Kepler's Optics to some
Gentlemen Commoners, and that he might attend the

Readings if he pleased. Newton immediately studied the

book at home, and when his tutor gave him notice that

his Lectures upon it were to commence, he was surprised

to learn that it had been already mastered by his pupil.
    About the same time probably he bought a book on

Judicial Astrology at Stourbridge fair,2 and in the course
of perusing it he came to a figure of the Heavens, which
he could not understand without a previous knowledge of
trigonometry. He therefore purchased an English Euclid,

while it affords an example of one of their duties, will also serve to illustrate the

rampant buoyancy of the academic youth at the time of the Restoration."
    " Jan. 16, 1660-1. Ordered also that no Bachelor, of what condition soever, nor

any Undergraduate, come into the upper butteries, save only a Sizar that is sent to

see his tutor's quantum, and then to stay no longer than is requisite for that purpose,

under penalty of 6d. for every time ; but if any shall leap over the hatch, or

strike a butler or his servant upon this account of being hindered to come into the
butteries, he shall undergo the censure of the Masters and Seniors." -- Edleston's

Correspondence of Sir Isaac Newton and Professor Cotes, Lond. 1850, p. xli.
   1 Collections for the History of the Town and Soke of Grantham, &c. By

Edmund Turnoh, F.B.S., F.S.A. Lond. 1806, pp. 159, 160. Conduit's MSS. were

written subsequently to the Memoirs above referred to.
    * Demoivre says, that the Book on Astrology was bought at Stourbridge, the

seat of the Cambridge fair, close to the town.

22                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                CIIAF. II.

with an index of all the problems at the end of and                                               it
having turned to two or three which he thought likely to                                            it,
remove his difficulties, he found the truths which they

enunciated so self-evident, that he expressed his astonish

ment that any person should have taken the trouble of

writing a demonstration of them. He therefore threw
aside Euclid " as a trifling book," and set himself to the

study of Descartes' Geometry,1 where problems not so;                                          a
simple seem to have baffled his ingenuity. Even after
reading a few pages, he got beyond his depth, and laidis
aside the work and he said to have resumed again
and again, alternately retreating and advancing till he                              ;
was master of the whole, without having received any as
sistance.2 The neglect which he had shown of the ele
mentary truths of geometry he afterwards regarded as a
mistake in his mathematical studies and on future oc
casion he expressed to Dr. Pemberton his regret that " he
had applied himself to the works of Descartes, and other
algebraic writers, before he had considered the Elements
of Euclid with that attention which so excellent a writer

deserved."3

         The study of Descartes' geometry seems to have in

spired Newton with love of the subject, and to havea

introduced him to the higher mathematics. In small
                                                                                                  Ia
commonplace book, bearing on the 7th page the date of                                                       ;

Jan. 1663-4, there are several articles on angular sections,                                                   it
                                                " crooked lines
and the squaring of curves and                   about musical                                    tnhoatetsm--ay
be squared," several calculations

geometrical propositions from Francis Vieta and Schoo-

It       Newton's copy of Descartes' Geometry have seen among the family papers.
                         is
   1 is 1
                                             I
           marked in many places with his own hand, Error, Error, non est Oeom.

         This statement  different from that of Conduit in his Memoirs, but give

on his own authority, as founded on later inquiries.3                                   Pref.

     Pemberton's View of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophy.

1661-69.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       23

ten ;--annotations out of                 Wallis's Arithmetic of Infinites,

together with observations                 on Refraction, --on the grind
ing of " spherical optic glasses," --on the errors of lenses,

and the method of rectifying them, and on the extrac
tion of all kinds of roots, particularly those " in affected

powers." 1

   This commonplace book is particularly interesting from

its containing the following important entry by Newton

himself, after the lapse of thirty-five years, and when he

had"Jcuolmypl4e,te1d69a9l.l--hisBydisccoonvseurliteinsg. an account of my ex

Ipenses at Cambridge,2 in the years 1663 and 1664,

find that in the year 1664, a little before Christmas, I,

being then Senior Sophister, bought Schooten's Miscella

nies and Cartes' Geometry, (having read this Geometry

and Oughtred's Clavis3 clean over half a year before,) and

borrowed Wallis's works, and by consequence made these

annotations out of Schooten and Wallis, in winter between

Ithe years 1664 and 1665. At such time found the

method of Infinite Series; and in summer 1665, being

Iforced from Cambridge by the plague,4 computed the

1 In this commonplace book we find the date November 1665, so that its contents

were written in 1664 and 1665.
   a In the commonplace book which contains the " annotations out of Schooten and

IWallis," no expenses are entered, so that there must be another note-book which

have not found, in which the purchase of Schooten's Miscellanies and Descartes' Geo

metry is recorded. It is not likely that the second note-book of 1659, mentioned

by Conduit, contained expenses incurred in 1663 and 1664.

    8 Conduit remarks that    in reading  this work  he did not in
especially what " relates to   Quadratic  and Cubic  Equations."
                                                                              A

                                                                                                         it,
                                                                  entirely  understand
                                                                                  translation
                                                                  --MSS.

4of the Clavis was published and recommended by Halley 1694.                It raged dur
      The plague commenced in Westminster about the end of 1664.

ing the hotter months of 1665, and had so far abated before the end of the year, that

the inhabitants returned to their homes in December. The date of Newton's quit

ting Cambridge, viz., 1665, as written under his own hand in his commonplace book,

coincides with these facts, and on this account probably the correct one; butPem-
                              is
                                       is
                                                            by
berton makes the date 1666, which         adopted               Professor Iiigaud, and seems to

24  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        CHAP. II.

area of the Hyperbola at Boothby,1 in Lincolnshire, to
two and fifty figures by the same method.

                                                              " Is. Newton."

   In consequence of the devotion of his mind to these

abstract studies, and his long continued observations upon
a comet in 1664,2 which made him sit up late at night,
Sir Isaac's health was impaired to such a degree, as Mr.
Conduit informs us, that from this illness " he learnt to

go to bed betimes." In the beginning of the same year,

on the 19th February, Sir Isaac's attention was directed
to the subject of circles round the moon, by two coronas
of three and five-and-a-half degrees each, accompanied
by the halo of 22° 35', of which he subsequently gave the

theory in his Treatise on Optics.3 In this year there
were forty-four vacancies in the scholarships of Trinity

College, and Newton was elected to one of them on the

28 th of April. On this occasion he was examined in
Euclid by Dr. Barrow, who formed an indifferent opinion
of his knowledge, and hence he was led not only to read
Euclid with care, but to form a more favourable estimate

of the ancient geometer when he came to the interesting
propositions on the equality of parallelograms on the same

base and between the same parallels.4 In the month of
January 1665, Newton took the degree of Bachelor of
Arts, along with twenty-five other members of Trinity

College, but we are not able to ascertain the academical
rank which he held among the graduates, as the grace for

be given by Newton himself in the Phil. Trans., vol. vi. p. 3080. Rigaud's Hist.

Essay on the first publication of Sir Isaac Newton's Frincipia, p. 1, note.
1 A village in Lincolnshire, near Sleaford, where Newton was probably on a visit.
2 This comet passed its perihelion on the 4th December at midnight.
» Book II., Part IV, Obs. 13.
                               4 Conduit's MSS.

                               1

1661-69.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        25

that year does not contain the order of seniority of the
Bachelors of Arts. The Proctors at this time were John

Slader of Trinity, and Benjamin Pulleyn of Trinity, New
ton's tutor, and the persons appointed in conjunction with
them to examine the Questionists, were John Eachard of
Catherine Hall, the satirical author of the Grounds, dc,

of the Contempt of the Clergy, and Thomas Gipps of
Trinity.1

   In the same year Newton committed to writing his

first discovery of Fluxions. This paper, written by his
own hand, and dated May 20, 1665, represents in pricked
letters the fluxions applied to their fluents, and in another
leaf of the same waste book the method of fluxions is

described without pricked letters, and bears the date of
May 16, 1666. In the same book, with the date of No
vember 13, 1665, there is another paper on Fluxions, with
their application to the drawing of tangents, and " the
finding the radius of curvity of any curve."2 In the
month of October 1666, Newton drew up another small
tract, in which the method of Fluxions is again put down

without pricked letters, and applied to Equations involving

facts or surds.3

   It was doubtless in the same remarkable year 1666, or

perhaps in the autumn of 1665, that Newton's mind was
first directed to the subject of Gravity. He appears to

have left Cambridge some time before the 8th of August
1665, when the College was "dismissed" on account of

1  Edleston's Correspondence,  &c. &c, App. xxi, xlv.    the Macclesfield  MSS.
   Rigaud's Hist. Essay, &c,   App. No. II. p. 20. From
'

Raphson Historia Fluxkmum, Cap. I. p. 1, Cap. xiii. p. 92, and English Edition,

pp. 115, 116.                                                           himself in
    8 These papers in the Macclesfield Collection are quoted by Newton  dated 9th

his Observations on Leibnitz's celebrated Letter to the Abbe Conti,
April 1716. See Raphson's Hist, of Fluxions,^. 103 and 116.

26  LIFE OF SIE ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. II.

the Plague, and it was therefore in the autumn of that
year, and not in that of 1666, that the apple is said to

have fallen from the tree at Woolsthorpe, and suggested

to Newton the idea of gravity. When sitting alone in
the garden, and speculating on the power of gravity, it
occurred to him that as the same power by which the
apple fell to the ground, was not sensibly diminished at
the greatest distance from the centre of the earth to which

we can reach, neither at the summits of the loftiest spires,
nor on the tops of the highest mountains, it might extend
to the moon and retain her in her orbit, in the same

manner as it bends into a curve a stone or a cannon ball,

when projected in a straight line from the surface of the

earth. If the moon was thus kept in her orbit by gravi

tation to the earth, or, in other words, its attraction, it

was equally probable, he thought, that the planets were

kept in their orbits by gravitating towards the sun. Kepler
had discovered the great law of the planetary motions,
that the squares of their periodic times were as the cubes
of their distances from the sun, and hence Newton drew
the important conclusion that the force of gravity or
attraction, by which the planets were retained in their

orbits, varied as the square of their distances from the
sun. Knowing the force of gravity at the earth's surface,

he was, therefore, led to compare it with the force exhi
bited in the actual motion of the moon, in a circular orbit ;

but having assumed that the distance of the moon from
the earth was equal to sixty of the earth's semidiameters,
he found that the force by which the moon was drawn
from its rectilineal path in a second of time was only
13"9 feet, whereas at the surface of the earth it was 16"1

in a second. This great discrepancy between his theory
and what he then considered to be the fact, induced him .

1661-69.  LIFE OF SIE ISAAC NEWTON.                                                            27

to abandon the subject, and pursue other studies with
which he had been previously occupied.1

   It does not appear from any of the documents which I

have seen, at what time Newton made his first optical
discoveries. On the authority of one of his memorandum
books, containing an account of his expenses, it is stated
by Conduit that he purchased a prism, in order to make

some experiments on Descartes' Theory of Colours, and
that he not only detected the errors of the French philo
sopher, but established his own views of the subject ; but

this is contradicted by Newton himself, who distinctly
informs us that it was in the beginning of the year 1666,
that he procured a glass prism " to try therewith the
phenomena of colours."2 There is no evidence, however,
that he used it for this purpose, and there is every reason
to believe that he was not acquainted with the true com

position of light when Dr. Barrow completed his Optical
Lectures, published in 1669. 3 In the preface of this
work, Dr. Barrow acknowledges his obligation to his col
league Mr. Isaac Newton, as a man of a fine disposition

   1 Neither Pemberton nor Whiston, who received from Newton himself the History

of his first Ideas of Gravity, records the story of the falling apple. It was men

tioned, however, to Voltaire by Catherine Barton, Newton's niece, and to Mr. Green

by Martin Folkes, the President of the Royal Society. We saw the apple tree in
1814, and brought away a portion of one of its roots. The tree was so much

decayed that it was taken down in 1820, and the wood of it carefully preserved

by Mr. Turnor of Stoke Rocheford. See Voltaire's Philosophie de. Newton, 3me

part. Chap. III. Green's Philosophy of Expansive and Contractive Forces, p. 972,
and Rigaud's Hist. Essay, p. 2.
   P" hViel.rumTranqus,odvotle.nveil.lfep.
2                                            3075.  factitant,  a me depulsum partum amicorum  haud
3                                           matres

recusantium nutricise curae commisi, prout ipsis visum esset, educandum aut expo-

nendum, quorum unus (ipsos enim honestum duco nominatim agnoscere) D.
Isaacus Newtonus, collega noster (peregregiae vir indolis ac insignis peritiae) ex

emplar revisit, aliqua corrigenda monens, sed et de suo nonulla penu suggerens quse
nostris alicubi cum laude innexa cernes." The other friend was John Collins, whom

   he calls the Mersennus of our nation. Epist. ad Lectorem. The imprimatur of this
" volume is dated March 1668-9.

28 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. II.

and great genius, for having revised the MSS., and cor
rected several oversights, and made some additions of his
own.1 Now, in the twelfth Lecture there are some obser

vations on the nature and origin of colours, which are so
erroneous and unphilosophical, that Newton could not have

permitted his friend to publish them had he been then in

the possession of their true theory. According to Barrow,
who introduces the subject of colours as an unusual
digression, White is that which discharges a copious light,
scattered equally in every direction. Black is that which
emits light not at all, or very sparingly. Red is that
which emits light more condensed than usual, but inter
rupted by shady interstices. Blue is that which discharges
a rarefied fight, or one excited by a weaker force, as in
bodies which consist of white and black particles arranged
alternately, such, for example, as the clear ether in which
there float fewer particles that reflect light, while the rest
take away light, the sea in which the white salt is mixed
with the black water, and the blue shadows seen at the

same time by candle and day light, which are produced
by the whiteness of the paper mixed with the faint light
or blackness of the twilight. Yellow consists of much
white and a little red interspersed, and Purple of much
blue and some red. Green seems to have puzzled Dr.
Barrow. He says that it is somehow allied to Blue ; but

Ihe adds, let wiser men find out the difference, dare not

conjecture. These opinions are so unsound, that they
could not fail to have attracted the attention of Newton,

who had certainly begun to study the subject of colours ;

and if he had discovered at this time that white was a

   1 The addition by Newton is a singularly elegant and expeditious method at the
end of Lect. xiv., of determining geometrically in every case, the image formed by
lenses, and describing the lens which projects the image on a given point.

1061 -69.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      29

mixture of all the colours, and black a privation of them
all, he could not have permitted the absurd speculations
of his friend and master to pass uncorrected. 1

    While Newton was thus occupied with the subjects of
Fluxions and Gravity, he " applied himself also to the
grinding of optic glasses of other figures than spherical."
Descartes, in his Dioptrics, published in 1629, and more
recently James Gregory, in his Optica Promota, published
in 1663, had shewn that parallel and diverging rays could
only be reflected or refracted to a point or focus by mirrors
or lenses, whose surfaces were paraboloidal, ellipsoidal, or
hyperboloidal, or of some other form not spherical. Des
cartes had even invented and described machines by which
lenses of these shapes could be ground and polished, and
it was the universal opinion that the perfection of refract

ing telescopes and microscopes depended on the degree
of accuracy with which lenses of these forms could be

executed.

    While engaged in this work Newton made his first expe
riments with the prism, and he was soon induced to aban
don what he calls his " glass-works," in consequence of
having found " that the perfection of telescopes was limited
not so much for want of glasses truly figured according to
the prescriptions of optick authors, (which all men have
hitherto imagined), as because light itself is a heteroge
neous mixture of differently refrangible rays, so that were
a glass so exactly figured as to collect any one sort of
rays into one point, it could not collect those also into the
same point, which having the same incidence upon the
same medium, are apt to suffer a different refraction."

1 Barrow introduces the subject of colours by the following remarkable sentence :
" Quoniam colorum incidit mentio, quid si de ittis
paumla divinavero t"--LecU xii. adfinem.            {etsi prceter  morem  et ordinem)

30               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        chap. ii.

He was therefore led to " take reflections into considera

tion," but in consequence of the interruption produced by
the Plague, " it was more than two years before he

proceeded."

   After his return to Cambridge,1 on the disappearance
of the Plague, he was, on the 1st of October 1667, elected
Minor Fellow, and an apartment called " The Spiritual

Chamber," assigned to him by the Master, --a locality

which Mr. Edleston conjectures to be the ground room
next the chapel in the north-east corner of the great

court. A few weeks after this he went to Lincolnshire,

and returned on the 12th February 1667-8. On the
16th March 1668, he took his degree of M.A., and was
the twenty-third on the list of 148 signed by the Senior
Proctor. 2

    About this time, and during the period extending from
1666 to 1669, when he succeeded to the Lucasian chair,

his studies were of a very miscellaneous kind, and were
doubtless interrupted not only by the appearance and reap-

   1 The only information which we have relative to the times of Newton's leaving
and returning to Cambridge, in consequence of the Plague, is contained in the
following note by Mr. Edleston :--

   " The College was ' dismissed' June 22d, on the reappearance of the Plague. The

Fellows and Scholars were allowed their commons during their absence. Newton

received on this account 3s. 4d. weekly, for 13 weeks, ending Michaelmas 1666.

                 ,,,,                                   ,,           12 ,,                Dec. 21.
                                                                      5,,
                             ,,,,                       ,,                                 Ladyday 1667."
                                                                  the previous    year, August 8th, on the
    The College  had been also dismissed

breaking out of the plague, but Newton must have left Cambridge before that, as

his name  tdhoeesocncaostioanp. pe"arAuing.  the        list   of those who  received extra commons for 64
weeks on                                      7,                             commons (beginning Aug. 8th)
                                                        1665.  --A month's

allowed to all Fellows and Scholars which now go into the country upon occasion
    "theOnpetshtielenccoen.t"in--ua{nCceoncolufsitohne
of                                                      Booh.)
                                                        scourge,
                                                                  we  find   him  with others receiving  the

allowance for commons for 12 weeks, in the quarter ending Dec. 21, 1665, and for
13 weeks ending Ladyday 1666." -- Edleston's Correspondence, Sc., p. xlii. note 8.

   2 Thomas Burnet, author of the Theoria TeUuris Sacra, and a future friend and

correspondent of Sir Isaac.

1061-69.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              31

                                                                                     »

pearance of the plague, but by the preparations necessary

for taking his degree. In his common note-book,1 which I

found among the family papers, and which, along with a

number of problems in geometry and the Conic Sections,

contains an account of his expenses from 1665 to 1669,

there are many entries which throw some light upon his

social character as well as upon his studies. During his

absence from College in 1665 and 1666, we find him

purchasing Philosophical Intelligences, the History of the

Royal Society, Gunter's Book and Sector from Dr. Fox,

together with magnets, compasses, glass-bubbles, drills,

mandrels, gravers, hones, and hammers. In 1667, he pur

chases Bacon's Miscellany, three prisms, and four ounces

of putty.2 He records his jovial expenses, not only on
the occasion of his taking his two degrees, but " at the

tavern several other times."   He acknowledges his                                      having
" lost at cards twice ; " but  this is compensated                                      by his
liberality to his " cousin Ayscough," on whom, and " on
other acquaintance," he " spends" considerable sums,--

by his generosity to his sister, for whom he buys oranges,

--and his kindness to Dr. Wickins, to whom he lends con

siderable sums of money. It appears, too, from this note

book, that Newton went to London on Wednesday the 5th

August 1668, and returned to Cambridge on Monday the

28 th September, after an absence of nearly two months ;

but the object of his journey is nowhere mentioned. It is

not  improbable    that he went there to                                                puerxcphearsime enletsn,se--s,
and  apparatus   and materials for chemical

1 This note-book, of which three-fourths is white paper, begins at one end with
....three pages of short-hand, which is followed by his expenses. At the other end of
the book there is a Nova Cubi  Tabella, and a number of problems in geo

metry and the Conic Sections.
   * Flowers of Putty, an oxide of zinc used in polishing lenses and metallic

specula.

32                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     CHAP. II.

a new branch of science which seems at this time to have

occupied his attention, and which he continued to prose
cute with much zeal during the most active period of his
life. In April 166.9, he records the purchase of lenses
in London, and there follows a long list of chemical sub
stances, headed by mercury, together with a furnace, and

an air-furnace.1

   1 As this list of expenses is very interesting, and as the book which contains them
has obviously been preserved by Newton himself as evidence of the priority of some
of his researches, the following abstract of it is presented to the reader :--

                  .£500I 1665.

Received, May 23d, whereof gave my tutor 5s., . . .
Remaining in my hands since last quarter,                       . . 384
                                                 ..

    In all,                                                           £8 8 4

This account of expenses extends only to six and a half pages, and records many
    loans. The following are among the entries :--
.£050Drills, gravers, a hone, a hammer, and a mandril,
                                                    .     .     .     0160

A magnet
036Compasses,
My Bachelor's account

.... ... 100At the tavern several other times,
040Glass hubbies,

                                                                      0 17 6

....... .096Philosophical Intelligences,
Spent on my cousin Ayscough,            . . . . . . . 0 12 6

On other acquaintance,  .       .       .  .  .  .     .     .     .  0 10 0

Cloth, 2 yards, and buckles for a vest,                               200

The Hist, of the Royal Society                                        070

Gunter's Book and Sector to Dr. Fox,                                  050

Lost at cards twice,    036. . . . . . . . . 0 15 0
At the tavern twice,
I went into the country, Dec. 4, 1667.
I returned to Cambridge, Feb. 12, 1667.

Received of my mother,                                                07630 0 0
My journey,

For my degree to the College,                                         5 10 0
200To the proctor,
300To three prisms,
014Four ounces of putty,
176Lent to Dr. Wickins,
016Bacon's Miscellanies,
                        ..,.. .. ..                                   0013500

Expenses caused by my degree,

A Bible binding,

1GG1-G9.                  LIFE OF SIU ISAAC NEWTON.                                 33

    Towards the end of 1668, Newton carried into effect,
on a small scale, his resolution to " take reflections into
consideration." Thinking " it best to proceed by degrees,"
he first " made a small perspective to try whether his
conjecture would hold good or not."1 The telescope was
six inches long. The aperture of the large speculum was
something more than an inch, and, as the eye-glass was a
plano-convex lens, with a focal length of one-sixth or one-
seventh of an inch, " it magnified about forty times in
diameter," which he believed was more than any six feet
refracting telescope could do with distinctness. Owing
to the badness of the materials which he used, and the

want of a good polish, it did not represent objects so
distinctly as a six-feet refractor, yet Sir Isaac was of
opinion that it would discover as much as any three or

four feet refractor, especially if the objects are luminous.

He saw with it Jupiter distinctly round, with his four satel
lites, and also the horns or " moonlike phase of Venus,"

though this last phenomenon required a nice adjustment

For oranges for my Bister,                                            £0 4          2
                                                                                    0
Spent on my journey to London, and 4s. or 5s. more which my mother gave
                                                                                    0
I me in the country,                                                          5 10

went to London, Wednesday, August 5th, and returned to Cambridge on

            Monday, September 28, 1668.                                       0 11
Lent Dr. Wickins

                                    April 1669.

For glasses in Cambridge.
For glasses in London.

For aquafortis, sublimate, oyle pink, fine silver, antimony, vinegar, spirit

          of wine, white  lead,  salt of tartar,  0,                          200
                                                                              08 0
A furnace,                                                                    070
Air furnace,

Theatrum chemicum,               .                                            180

Lent Wardwell 3s., and his wife 2s.,                                          050

1 Seo Letter to Oldenburgh, Feb. 1671-2, in Newtoni Opera, by Horsley, torn,

iv. p. 295 ; and Letter to a Friend, Feb. 23, 1668-9, in Gregory's Catoptrics, edit.

3d, p. 259 ; or in the Macclesfield Collections, vol. ii. p. 289.

VOL. I.                                                            C

34  LiPE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. II.

of the instrument. He therefore considered this small
telescope as " an epitome" of what may be done by re
flections ; and he did not doubt that, in time, a six feet

reflector might be made which would perform as much as

any sixty or hundred feet refractor. In consequence of
interruptions, Sir Isaac did not proceed any farther in
the construction of reflectors till the autumn of 1671.

   It was during this period of his history, on the 1 8 th of

May 1669, that Sir Isaac wrote the celebrated letter of
advice to his young friend, Mr. Aston, who, at the age
of twenty-seven, was about to make a tour on the Con
tinent. This " letter" is a very interesting production.1

It does not evince much acquaintance with the ways of

the world, but it shows some knowledge of the human

heart, and throws a strong light on the character and

opinions of its author. In his chemical studies, which, as

we have just seen, he had recently commenced, his mind
was impressed with some belief in the doctrines of alche

my, and he certainly pursued his experiments to a late
period of his life, with the hope of effecting some valuable

transmutations. Among the subjects, therefore, to which

he requests Mr. Aston to pay attention, there are several
which indicate this tendency of his mind. He desires
him to observe the products of nature, especially in mines,
with the circumstances of mining, and of extracting metals
or minerals out of their ores, and refining them ; and, what
he considered as far more important than this, he wishes

him to observe if there were any transmutations out of one

species into another, as, for example, out of iron into copper,
out of one salt into another, or into an insipid body, &c.
Such transmutations, he adds, are above all others worth

his noting, being the most luciferous, and many times lucri-

                                            1 See Appendix, No. I.

It>61-ti9.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON,  35

ferous experiments too, in philosophy ! Among the parti
cular observations to which he calls the attention of his

friend, is that of a certain vitriol, which changes iron into
copper, and which is said to be kept a secret for the
lucrative purpose of effecting that transmutation. He is
to inquire also whether in Hungary, or in the mountains
of Bohemia, there are rivers whose waters are impregna
ted with gold, dissolved by some corrosive fluids like
aqua regis ; and whether the practice of laying mercury in
the rivers till it be tinged with gold, and then separating

the gold by straining the mercury through leather, be
still a secret or openly practised. There was at this time
in Holland a notorious alchemist of the name of Bory,
who, as Sir Isaac says, was some years since imprisoned
by the Pope, in order to extort from him secrets of
great worth, both " as to medicine and profit," and who
made his escape into Holland, where they granted him a

Iguard. " think," adds Sir Isaac, " he usually goes

clothed in green : Pray, inquire what you can of him,
and whether his ingenuity be any profit to the Dutch !"
We have not been able to discover the results of Mr.

Aston's inquiries, but whatever they were they did not
damp the ardour of Newton in his chemical researches,
nor extinguish the hope which he seems to have cherish
ed, of making " philosophy lucriferous," by transmuting
the baser metals into gold.

    But however fascinating these studies were to our
young philosopher, he did not permit them to interfere

with his nobler pursuits. At the very time when writing

to Mr. Aston, we find him occupied with his fluxionary
calculus, and transmitting to Dr. Barrow his celebrated

paper On Analysis by Equations with an infinite number
of terms, with permission to communicate it to their

36  LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. II.

mutual friend, Mr. Collins. In announcing this commu
nication on the 20th June 1669, and promising to send it
by the next opportunity, Dr. Barrow keeps the name of

its author a secret, and merely tells Mr. Collins that he is

a friend staying at Cambridge, who has a powerful genius

for such matters. In his next letter of the 31st July, ac
companying the paper, he expresses the hope that it will
not a little delight him ; and, in a third letter to Collins of

the 20th August, he mentions how much he is pleased with

the favourable opinion which his correspondent has of
and adds, that " the name of the author Newton, Fel

low of our College, and a young man, who only in his

second year since he took the degree of Master of Arts,

and who, with an unparalleled genius, has made very
great progress in this branch of mathematics."
    is
         is

                      a
                           it,

1669-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  37

                   CHAPTER III.

NEWTON SUCCEEDS BARROW IN THE LUCASIAN CHAIR --HYPERBOLIC LENSES
   PROPOSED BY DESCARTES AND OTHERS--OPINIONS OF DESCARTES AND
   ISAAC VOSSIUS ON COLOURS -- NEWTON DISCOVERS THE COMPOSITION OF

    WHITE LIGHT, AND THE DIFFERENT REFRANGIBILITY OF THE RAYS THAT

   COMPOSE IT--HAVING DISCOVERED THE CAUSE OF THE IMPERFECTION

    OF REFRACTING TELESCOPES, HE ATTEMPTS THE CONSTRUCTION OF

   REFLECTING ONES --CONSTRUCTS A SECOND REFLECTING TELESCOPE IN

    1668, WHICH IS EXAMINED BY THE ROYAL SOCIETY, AND SHEWN TO
   THE KING -- DISCUSSIONS RESPECTING THE GREGORIAN, NEWTONIAN, AND
   CASSEGRAINIAN TELESCOPE -- JAMES GREGORY THE INVENTOR OF THE RE
   FLECTING TELESCOPE -- ATTEMPTS TO CONSTRUCT ONE -- NEWTON MAKES
   A SPECULUM OF SILVERED GLASS -- GLASS SPECULA BY SHORT IN 1730,

   AND AIRY IN 1822 --HADLEY CONSTRUCTS TWO FINE REFLECTING TELE
   SCOPES -- TELESCOPES BY BRADLEY, MOLYNEUX, AND HAWKSBEE --
   SHORT'S REFLECTING TELESCOPES WITH METALLIC SPECULA -- MAGNIFI

    CENT TELESCOPE OF SIR WM. HERSCHEL WITH A FOUR FEET SPECULUM

   --MUNIFICENCE OF GEORGE III. -- ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES OF SIR
   WM. HERSCHEL --TELESCOPES OF SIR J. HERSCHEL AND MR. RAMAGE
   --GIGANTIC TELESCOPE OF THE EARL OF ROSSE WITH A SIX FEET SPE
   CULUM--PROGRESS OF TELESCOPIC DISCOVERY -- PROPOSAL TO SEND A

    FINE TELESCOPE TO A SOUTHERN CLIMATE.

   In 1669, when Dr. Barrow had resolved to devote him

self to the studies and duties of his profession, he resigned
the Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics, in favour of
Newton. His appointment took place on the 29th Octo
ber, and we may now consider him as having entered on
that brilliant career of discovery, the history of which will

form the subject of some of the following chapters. It

had been long known to every writer on optics, and to
every practical optician, that lenses with spherical surfaces,

38  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. III.

such as those now in common use, did not give distinct
images of objects. This indistinctness was believed to
arise solely from their spherical figure, in consequence of
which the rays which passed through the marginal or
outer parts of the lens were refracted to a focus nearer
the lens than those which passed through its central parts.
The distance between these foci was called the spherical
aberration of the lens, and various methods were suggested
for diminishing or removing this source of imperfection.
Descartes1 had shewn that hyperbolic lenses refracted the
rays of light to a single focus, and we accordingly find the
early volumes of the Philosophical Transactions filled with
schemes for grinding and polishing lenses of this form.
Newton had made the same attempt, but finding that a
change of form produced a very little change in the indis
tinctness of the image, he thought that the defect of
lenses, and the consequent imperfection of telescopes, might
arise from some other cause than the imperfect conver-

gency of the incident rays to a single point. This happy
conjecture was speedily confirmed by the brilliant disco

very of the different refrangibility of the rays of light,--

a discovery which has had the most extensive applications
to every branch of science, and (what is very rare in the
history of inventions) one to which no other person has
made the slightest claim.

    No plausible conjecture, even, had been formed by the
predecessors of Newton respecting the nature and origin
of colours. Descartes believed them to be a modification

of light depending on the direct or rotatory motion of its
particles. Grimaldi, Dechales, and others regarded them

as arising from different degrees of rarefraction and con
densation of light. Gregory defines colour to be the hue

                                          1 Dioptrice, cap. viii. ix., 1629.

1669-73.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                39

(tinctura) of igneous corpuscles emerging from radiant

matter," and we have already seen that the views of Barrow

on this subject were equally absurd. In recounting the

                    is
                         is

                              of
                                                to

                                                         be
                                                             as

                                                                in
                                                                         or

                                                                           all
                                                                                of
opinions of preceding writers, Newton alleges that in

them the colour supposed not                                  innate light, but
              by
produced the action the bodies which reflect refract

in it.This, however,                   not strictly true,             Isaac Vossius
    a
        dissertation which Newton probably never saw, dis
                            of
tinctly maintains that            all  the colours exist             all in   light itself,

its or  use another                    his expressions, that                light carries
    to
      colours along with it." This, however, was mere
                                                                                    a

                                       be                             any way anti
                                           of
conjecture, which cannot regarded                             as
                                                                  in

cipating the great discovery                      Newton, "that the modi

fication  in of  light from which colours take their origin,                               is

innate light itself, and arises neither from reflection,

nor refraction, nor from the qualities                      it       any other condi

                                                                 or
tions bodies whatever, and that cannot destroyed                            be
or
    in                      he
                                      by
        of
        any way changed                   them."

      After our author had purchased his glass prism                                       at

Stourbridge Fair, made use                        of          the following man
                                                    it
                                                         in

      Optica Promota: Definitiones,    Lond. 1663.
      Isaaci Vossii De Lucis Natura    Proprietate, Amstel. 1662.
of *                                   to 3.                                  As the opinions
                                          by et
                                                        of
    Wossius have not been referred            any our historians     of     science, the follow-
ing passages may interesting.                                             si
              ut
                     be

                                ut si
"Primus itaque color, tamen color dicendus sit, est albus, pelluciditatem
                                                              is

proxime hic accedit. Insunt itaque luminiomnes colores, licet non semper visibi
liter; nempe                           et et
                 flamma intensa alba unicolor apparet, eadem                  per nebula aut
aliud densius corpus spectetur, varios induit colores. Pari quoque ratione, Lux,

licet invisibilis aut alba             sic dicam, per prisma vitreum, aut aerem roridum
                                              si

transeat, similiter varios colores induit."--P.   6.          colligipotest quod siper lentem
   "Omnem tamen lucem secum colores deferreet             eo

vitream, aut etiam per foramen, lumen obscurum admittatur cubiculum
                                          in                                           in  muro

aut linteo remotiore manifeste omnes videantur colores, cum tamen               in  punctis de

cussationis radiorum locis minimum lenti vicinis, nullus colorsed purum tantum
                  et

                       ii
compareat lumen."--P. 64.

    "Quapropter non recte              sentiunt qui colorem vocant Lumen modificatum."--
P. 59.

40  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. III.

ner. Having made a hole h in his window-shutter sht,
and darkened the room, he admitted a ray of the sun's

                                                                                          ow

light rR, which after refraction at the two surfaces ac,
bc of the prism abc, exhibited on the opposite wall mn
what is called the Solar or Prismatic Spectrum. This
spectrum was an elongated image of the sun about five
times as long as it was broad, and consisted of seven dif
ferent colours, Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Indigo,

and Violet. " It was at first," says Newton, " a very

pleasing divertisement to view the vivid and intense
colours produced thereby ;" but this pleasure was imme
diately succeeded by surprise at various phenomena which
were inconsistent with the received laws of refraction.
The " extravagant disproportion between the length of
the spectrum and its breadth," excited him to a more
than ordinary curiosity of examining from whence it
might proceed. He could scarcely think that the various
thickness of the glass, or the termination with shadow or
darkness could have any influence on light to produce
such an effect ; yet he thought it not amiss first to exa-
amine these circumstances, and he therefore tried what
would happen by transmitting light through parts of the
glass of different thickness, or through holes in the win
dow of different sizes, or by setting the prism without,
 (on the left hand of st,) so that the light might pass

1669-73.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOK.                                                                                                         41

through it and be refracted before it was terminated by
the hole ; but he found none of these circumstances ma

terial. The fashion of the colours was in all these cases

the same.

    Newton then suspected that by some unevenness of

the glass, or other accidental irregularity, the colours

might be thus dilated. In order to try this he took
another prism BCD, and placed it in such a manner that

the light passing through them both might be refracted

contrariwise, and thus returned by BCD into the path
brw, from which the first prism abc had diverted
for by this means he thought that the regular effects of
the prism abc would be destroyed by the second prism
BCD, and the irregular ones more augmented by the mul
tiplicity of refractions. The result was, that the light
which by the first prism was diffused into an oblong form
lor, was reduced by the second prism into a circular one
w with as much regularity as when did not pass through
them, so that whatever was the cause of the length of
the image mn, did not arise from any irregularity in
           it
                                         it
                                                                         it,

the prism.

    Sir Isaac next proceeded to examine more critically
the effect that might be produced by the difference in
the angles of incidence, at which rays from different parts
of the sun's disc fell upon the face Ac of his prism, and
for this purpose he measured the lines and angles be

longing to the spectrum mn, and obtained the following
results
          :
                                 R

                                     r',

                                                         ,
                                                                    ,
                                                                                         .
                                                                                                   .

                                                                                                                            12
Distance of mn from the hole H,                                                                                               22 feet.
Length of mn,                                                                                                                 13$ inches.
Breadth of mn,
Diameter of the hole ii,                                                                                                                 ,,
                                                                                                                                         ,,
..........Angle of wk with the middle of mn,                                                                                  44° 56'.
                                                                                                                              63° 12'.
Angle Anc of the prism,
                                                                                                                              54° 4'.
Refractions at and

42  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CUAP. III.

" Now, subducting the diameter of the hole from the
length and breadth of the image, there remains 13 inches
in the length and 2§ inches in the breadth comprehended
by those rays which passed through the centre of the hole,
and consequently the angle of the hole which that breadth

subtended was about 31', answerable to the sun's diame

ter ; but the angle which its length subtended was more

than five such diameters, namely, 2° 49'."

    With the refractive power of the prism, which he found
to be T55, he found the refractions of two rays proceed
ing from opposite parts of the sun's disc, so as to differ
3 1 minutes in their obliquity, to be such as to comprehend
an angle of 31 or 32 minutes.

    Although Newton could not doubt the correctness of
the law of the Sines on which these calculations were
founded, yet " his curiosity caused him again to take his
prism, and satisfy himself by direct experiment that even
a motion of the prism about its axis of four or five degrees,
did not sensibly change the position of the spectrum mn
on the wall, so that " there still remained some other cause

to be found out," from which the spectrum could subtend
an angle of 2° 49'.

    Having set aside all these explanations of the length
of his spectrum, Newton hazarded the strange suspicion
that the rays after passing through the prism " might
move in curve lines, and according to their more or less
curvity lead to different parts of the wall," and " it in
creased his suspicion," he adds, " when he remembered
that he had often seen a tennis-ball struck with an oblique

racket describe such a curve line. In this case a circular

and a progressive motion being communicated to it by
that stroke, its parts on that side where the motions
conspire, must press and beat the contiguous air more

1069-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      43

violently than on the other, and there excite a reluctancy

and reaction of the air proportionally greater. And for
the same reason, if the rays of light should possibly be

(composed of) globular bodies, and by their oblique pas
sage out of one medium into another acquire a circulating

motion, they ought to feel the greater resistance from the

ambient ether on that side where the motions conspire,

and thence be continually bowed to the other. But not

Iwithstanding this plausible ground of suspicion, when

I                            could observe no such curvity in
                       iIt,
came to examine

them. And besides (which was enough for my purpose)
observed that the difference betwixt the length of the

image, and the diameter of the hole through which the

light was transmitted, was proportional to their distance."

Having thus gradually removed these different hypo

theses, or suspicions, as Newton calls them, he was led to

the experimentum cruris for determining the true cause of

the elongation of the spectrum mn. He placed a board

with hole in behind the face bc of the prism, and close
it, a
                c, it
                                                 a
                                                                    it,
to so that he could transmit through the hole any one

of the colours in mn, and keep back the rest. When the

hole was near for example, no other rays but the red

fell on the wall at N. He then placed behind the red

space at N another board with hole in                                    and behind

this board he placed another prism, so as to receive the

red light at N, which passed through the hole in the

board. He then turned round the first prism ABC, so as

to make all the colours pass successively through the two

holes, and he marked their places on the wall. From the

variation of these places he saw that the red rays at N

were less refracted by the second prism than the orange

rays, the orange less than the yellow, and so on, the violet

being more refracted than all the rest. Hence he arrived

44  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. III.

at the grand conclusion, that light was not homogeneous,

but consisted of rays of different refrangibility.
   We have given this full account of Newton's mode of

investigation, in order to shew the cautious manner in

which he proceeded ; and were it not for the inconceivable

stupidity of the men who called in question his results,

we should have considered all his suspicions and precau

tions unnecessary, and adopted the opinion of Arago, that

the compound nature of white light was clearly involved
in the very phenomenon of the prismatic spectrum, and

that the words in which Newton stated it as a conclu
sion, were " nothing else than a literal description or

translation of that familiar experiment."1

    Having established this important truth, Newton im

mediately perceived that the different refrangibility of

If llthe rays of light was the real cause of the imperfection
of refracting telescopes.  is a convex lens receiving
rays sl, sl, the violet rays in the white ray sl will be

                                                                 Fio. 3.

refracted in the line lv to v, the yellow rays to Y, and

the red rays to r, forming a violet image of the sun, or
any other object from which the white light proceeds at
the point v, a yellow image at Y, and a red one at R,
images of intermediate colours being formed at interme-

                     1 Phil Trans., vol. vii., No. 80. Feb. 19, 1672.

1669-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  45

Ifdiate points between v and E.    this image is received

on a sheet of white paper at v, or Y, or R, it will be ex

ceedingly indistinct, and tinged with these different colours.

Newton found that the space VR, which is called the chro

llmatic aberration, or the aberration of colour, was in glass
the fiftieth part of the diameter  of the lens, so that

in lenses about six inches in diameter, such as those used

in the telescopes about 150 feet long, of Campani, Divini,

lland Huygens, the space VR would be about -17 of an
inch. Hence if  be the object glass of a telescope

directed to any luminous body, and mm an eye-glass

through which the eye sees magnified the image or pic

ture of the body between v and R, it cannot see dis

tinctly all the different images of the body formed there.

If it is adjusted to see distinctly the yellow image at Y as

it is in the figure, it will not see distinctly either the red

or the violet images, nor indeed any but the yellow, and

that very imperfectly, as it is mixed up with hazy images

of all the other colours, producing great confusion and

indistinctness of vision.

   As soon as Sir Isaac saw this result of his discovery,
he left off his " glass-works," as he called his attempts to

improve the refracting telescope, and, in the autumn of

1668, constructed the little reflecting telescope which we

have already described. The success of this experiment,

small as it was, inspired Newton with fresh zeal, and,

though his mind was now occupied with his optical disco

veries, with the elements of his method of fluxions, and

with his speculations on gravity, yet, with all the ardour

of youth, he set himself to the task of executing another

reflecting telescope with his own hands. This telescope,

of which we have given a drawing in the annexed figure,

was a better one than the first ; and, we presume from

4G  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. III.

its not being much superior either to the first, or to the
one executed by his colleague, he allowed it to lie by him

                                                                        Fig. 4.

for several years. The existence of these telescopes having
become known to some of the members of the Royal
Society, Newton was requested to send bis instrument to
that learned body. This telescope consisted of a concave

1669-73.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                     47

metallic speculum, the radius of curvature of which was
12§ or 13 inches, so that " it collected the sun's rays at

the distance of 6j inches." The rays reflected by the

speculum were received upon a plane metallic speculum

inclined 45° to the axis of the tube, so as to reflect them

to the side of the tube in which there was an aperture to

receive a small tube with a plano-convex eye-glass, whose

radius was one-twelfth of an inch, by means of which the

image formed by the speculum was magnified 38 times.

Newton did not hesitate to obey the request of the

Royal Society, and it was accordingly sent, and we be

lieve presented to that distinguished body near the end

of 1671. It was also shown to the King, and a descrip

tion of it published in the Philosophical Transactions.1

The instrument itself     iws ictharethfuelliynspcrreipsteiorvne,d--in  the  Library
of the Royal Society,

" THE FIRST REFLECTING TELESCOPE INVENTED BY SIR ISAAC NEWTON,
                             AND MADE WITH HIS OWN HANDS."

Previous to March 16, 1672, a Fellow of Trinity Col

lege had made a similar telescope of nearly the same size,
which Newton found to " magnify more, and also more

distinctly," than a six feet refractor, and which he consi

dered better than his own. A description of Newton's

instrument in Latin was drawn up and corrected by
Newton, and when signed by Lord Brouncker, Wren, and

Hooke, was sent to Huygens, who expressed his approba

tion of and suggested the propriety of giving the con
          it,
                       a  parabolic form. Various observations
cave speculum

were made upon the instrument, particularly by Monsieur

Auzout and Monsieur Denys and Monsieur Berce claim
                          ;

ed for M. Cassegrain the invention of a telescope which

          1  Phil. Trans., vol. vii., No. 81, p. 4004. March 25, 1672.

48  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. III.

he considered " almost like Newton's," and " more in
genious."1 Newton replied to this communication, and
acknowledging that he had been acquainted with the
telescope proposed by Gregory before he had contrived
his own, he points out the superiority of the Gregorian to
the Cassegrainian form, and of his own to both. This
letter led to a little amiable controversy between Gregory
and Newton on the merits of their reflecting telescopes, in
which neither of them gained the victory.2

    Newton's occupations were at this period too numer
ous, and his time too valuable to be spent in mechanical

labour ; and he therefore never resumed the construction

of reflecting telescopes. The Royal Society, however,
employed a London optician of the name of Cox to exe
cute a Newtonian reflector, with a speculum whose focal

length was no less than four feet, but he failed in polish
ing the speculum, and though Sir Isaac himself contem
plated the construction of another instrument, he seems

to have wholly abandoned the attempt, and to have be-

1 See Journal des Savans, 1672, pp. 80 and 121 ; and Phil. Trans., No. 83,

p. 4056, May 20, 1672.
   2 Gregory's Catoptrics, App. 261. In this controversy, Newton never claimed

any credit for the invention of a new form of the reflecting telescope, and was

certainly surprised at the notice it excited among persons that either were, or

                 with   the previous invention of Gregory. In  his
                in the  kindest manner of Gregory. " doubt     not
Iought to have been,

letter to Mr. Collins,
    acquainted
    he speaks

that when Mr. Gregory wrote his Optica Promota, he could have described more

fashions than one of these telescopes, and perhaps have run through all the possible

cases of them, if he had thought it worth his pains. Because Mr. Cassegrain pro
pounded his supposed invention pompously, as if the main business was the contriv

Iance of these instruments, thought fit to signify that that was none of his con
Itrivance, nor so advantageous as he imagined. And have now sent you these
Ifarther considerations on Mr. Gregory's answer, only to let you see that chose the

most easy and practicable way to make the first trials. Others may try other ways,

Inor do think it material which way these instruments are perfected, so they be

perfected.-- Dec. 10, 1672." See the Macclesfield Collections, vol. ii. pp. 346, 347,

or Newtoni Opera by Horsley, vol. iv. p. 288.

1669-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                         49

queathed to another age the honour of making his tele

scope an instrument of discovery. The want of a good

material for the specula seems to have been the difficulty

which perplexed the optician ; and it would appear from

the following observations of Newton himself, that the

specula for the instrument, ordered by the Royal Society,
were to be made of a new material. " You will gratify
me much," says he in a letter to Oldenburg, " by ac

quainting me with the particular dimensions, fashion, and

Isuccess of the four feet tube, which, presume, Mr. Cox

by this time hath finished. And to inform myself of the

advantages of the steely matter which is made use of, you

will much oblige me if you can procure me a fragment of

Iit. suppose it is made by melting steel with a little

antimony, perhaps without separating the sulphureous
from the metalline part of that mixture. And so though

Iit may be very hard, and capable of a good polish, yet

suspect whether it be so strongly reflective as a mixture

of other metals. I make this inquiry, because if I should
attempt any thing farther in the fabric of the telescope, I

would first inform myself of the most advantageous mate

rials. On which account, also, you would farther oblige me

if you can inquire whether Mr. Cox, or any other artificer,

will undertake to prepare the metals, glass, tube, and

frame of a four feet telescope, and at what rates he will

do so that there may remain nothing for me to do but
; it,
     I. 1 is

              I

                      A

                      iIf
                                                   a

                                                                                                                        p.

                                                                                                D
to polish the metals.      gross account of this will at pre

sent suffice, until send you particular design of the

fabric of the instrument,  resolve upon it."1

Such a brief account of the first reflecting telescope

that was successfully constructed and applied to the hea
vens but though we make this admission in its favour,

          July 13, 1672, in the Macclesfield Collections, vol. ii.  333.

VOL.                                                             .

50  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        CHAP. III.

we must also acknowledge that it was a small and ill

made instrument, incapable of showing the beautiful

celestial phenomena which had been long seen by the

refracting telescopes of Hevelius and Huygens. No dis

covery was made by any of the three instruments to

which we have referred, and more than fifty years elapsed

before telescopes of the Newtonian form became use

ful in astronomy. A similar fate befell the reflecting

telescope of James Gregory, who was the undoubted in

ventor of that noble instrument, and whose merits were

thrown into the shade by the display which accompanied

the invention of his friend. In his Optica Promota, pub

lished in 1663, Gregory describes a reflecting telescope,

with the view of making telescopes shorter and more

manageable. When compared with other telescopes, he
gives it the character of a golden one, as " it has no

inconveniences, and may have all the properties of the

other telescopes, whether dioptric or catoptric." He then
goes on to describe " a telescope of this most perfect

kind." It consists of a parabolic concave speculum, with

a hole in its centre, having near its focus a small elliptic

concave speculum. The image formed by the large para

bolic speculum is received by the small elliptical one, and

reflected through the aperture in the former upon a lens

which magnifies it. In the reflecting telescope proposed

by Cassegrain, the image formed by the larger speculum

is received by a small convex speculum, the effect of

which is to shorten the telescope, and prevent the cross
ing, or " decussation of the rays," as Newton calls
1                                                                                            in
                                                                    by

                                                                                        it,
the focus of the larger speculum.1 Gregory never at-

    Sir Isaac seems to have been the first person who suggested the idea that

vision might be rendered indistinct  the collision of the rays when they cross one

another at the focus of mirrors or lenses. In speaking of the use of more than one

1069-73.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             51

tempted to construct this instrument with his own hands,I

but he employed Messrs. Reeves and Cox, celebratedit,

glass-grinders, to execute a concave speculum three feet            I
in focal length, together with a little concave and a little
convex speculum ; but as Mr. Reeves " could not polishit
the large concave on the tool, but merely with cloth and
putty," 1 and as Gregory was on the eve " of going abroad,
he thought it not worth the pains to trouble himself any

farther with so that the tube was never made. Yet,"
he adds, " made some trials with a little concave and

convex speculum, which were but rude, seeing had but
transient views of the object."2

    Although Newton did receive through Oldenburg the
information he requested from Mr. Cox,3 yet he never
availed himself of in proceeding any farther with me

tallic reflectors. In consequence, however, of Gregory

having suggested to him the use of glass specula silvered
on the back for burning glasses, and shown how to make

eye-glass in the Gregorian telescope, he states, that "      is     the iterated decussation*
                                                                by
of the   rays, objects will be rendered less  distinct,  as manifest in dioptric tele
         where two or three eye-glasses are   applied    to erect the object." -- Letter to
scopes,

Collins, Dec. 10, 1672 Macclesfield Collections, vol.    ii.  p. 344 In the course of
                    it
some experiments on this subject, found that the sections of the cone of rays are
                             ;  &

                                     I
never so distinct and well-defined after the rays have crossed as before. -- Treatise
                                                                       (

on New Phil. Inst., pp. 44 193). And Captain Kater, in comparing two equal

telescopes, the one Gregorian and the other Cassegrainian, found that the intensity of

the light within the focus was nearly double of what was without the focus. Init
other experiments, he found the ratio as 1000 to 788. -- Phil. Trans., pp. 13, 14.

Mr. Tulley, however, in making similar experiments, did not confirm the results

obtained by Captain Kater.      I   have found, in confirmation of these facts, that the

8a 1negative diffractive fringes produced by rays which do not cross one another be
fore they enter the eye, are more distinct than the positive ones which do cross.--
Treatise on Optics, Edit, of 1853, p. .117.

      Dr. Hook made several experiments with the speculum executed by Mr. Reeves,

and did not find    so bad as Gregory thought. See Newton's Letter to Collins

above referred to.

      Letter from Gregory to Collins and Newton, Sept. 26, 1672.

      Biog. Brit, Art. Newton, p. 3217.

52  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. III.

the foci of each surface coincident, Newton proposed, we

believe in 1678, to substitute these specula instead of
metallic ones in the reflecting telescope. In this man

ner he attempted to make a telescope four feet long,
and with a magnifying power of 150 ; but though the
glass was wrought by a London artist, and seemed well-
finished, yet, when it was quicksilvered on its convex side,
it exhibited all over the glass innumerable inequalities,
which rendered every object indistinct. He expresses,
however, his conviction, that nothing but good workman

ship is wanting to perfect such telescopes, and he recom
mends their consideration " to the curious in figuring
glasses." This recommendation remained unnoticed for

upwards of fifty years. At last Mr. James Short, a Scotch

artist of consummate skill, executed, about the year 1 730,
no fewer than six reflecting telescopes, with glass specula,
three of which were fifteen inches, and three nine inches

in focal length ; but some of them turned out useless
from the veins in the glass. Maclaurin,1 who, with one

of nine inches, could read the Philosophical Transactions
very easily at the distance of 130 feet, informs us that they
were excellent instruments. Short, however, found that

their light was fainter than he expected, and from this
cause, combined with the difficulty of finishing them, he
afterwards limited himself to the use of metallic specula.2

    The subject of glass specula was resumed in 1 822 by
Mr. Airy, one of the distinguished successors of Newton
in the Lucasian chair. Having demonstrated that the
aberration both in figure and colour might be corrected

   1 Smith's Optics, vol. ii. Remarks, p. 80.
    8 Caleb Smith proposed to correct the colour produced by the two refractions, by
a concave lens placed between the speculum and the small receiver, or by making
the surface of a rectangular glass prism concave. --Phil. Trans. 1739, p. 326.

1669-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  53

in these instruments, he executed more than one ; but

though the result of the experiment was such as to excite
hopes of ultimate success, the construction of such an in
strument is still a desideratum in practical science.

    Notwithstanding these failures, we would not discourage
the young artists of the present day from endeavouring to
surmount the difficulties experienced by their predecessors.
Discs of glass can now be obtained entirely free of veins,
and, what is of great importance, instead of coating the
convex surface with a plate of mercury and tin, which re
flects even less light than speculum metal, we can now, by
the electrotype, deposit pure silver on the glass, and give it
a reflective power far surpassing that of any other metal.

    Such is a brief history of the attempts which were
made by Newton and Gregory to construct reflecting tele
scopes. They were certainly far from being successful ;
nor were their contemporaries more fortunate, though
guided by the light of their experience.

    After the lapse of fifty years, however, and several
years before his death, Sir Isaac had the satisfaction of
seeing a Newtonian telescope, six feet long, mounted
upon a commodious stand, and capable of exhibiting some

of the most interesting phenomena in the heavens. A

Gregorian telescope, of an inferior size, was executed
with similar success, and from that time the art of making
telescopes with metallic reflectors was gradually brought
to perfection. The history of these improvements, and
of the grand discoveries in astronomy to which they led,
would of itself form an interesting volume. We shall
endeavour, in a few pages, to present it to our readers.

    The person to whom we owe the first step in the im
provement of the reflecting telescope, was John Hadley,
the inventor of the Reflecting Quadrant, which bears his

54  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. III.

name.1 This gentleman, who was a Fellow of the Royal
Society, and possessed of considerable scientific attain
ments, began his experiments in 1719, and probably after
many failures, completed a telescope toward the end of

1 720. It was shewn and presented to the Royal Society, in

whose Journals for January 12, 1721, the following notice
of it occurs. " Mr. Hadley was pleased to shew the Royal
Society his reflecting telescope, made according to our
President's (Sir Isaac Newton) directions in his Optics,
but curiously executed by his own hand, the force of
which was such as to enlarge an object near two hundred
times, though the length thereof scarce exceeds six feet ;
and having shewn it he made a present thereof to the
Society, who ordered their hearty thanks to be recorded
for so valuable a gift." The instrument consisted of a
metallic speculum, about six inches in diameter, and its
focal length was five feet two inches and a half. Its plane
speculum was made of the same metal, about the 15th of
an inch thick, and it had six eye-pieces, three convex
lenses l-3d, 3-10ths, and ll-40ths of an inch, magnifying
190, 208, and 230 times, two concave lenses magnify
ing 200 and 220 times, and an erecting eye-piece of

three convex lenses, magnifying about 125 times. It had

also a small refracting telescope as a finder, which, we
believe, was first suggested by Descartes, and the whole
was mounted upon a stand, ingeniously and elegantly
constructed.2 The celebrated Dr. Bradley, and the Rev.
Mr. Pound of Wanstead, compared it with the great Huy-
genian refractor 123 feet long, and though less brightly,
they saw with the reflector " whatever they had hitherto
discovered with the Huygenian, particularly the transits

   1 See Prof. Rigaud's Biographical Account of John Hadley, Esq., pp. 7-11.
    9 Phil. Trans., vol. xxxii. No. 376, March and April, 1723, p. 303.

16(59-73.  LIFE OF SIE ISAAC NEWTON.                             55

of Jupiter's satellites, and their shadows over the disc of

Jupiter, the black list in Saturn's ring, and the edge of
the shadow of Saturn cast on his ring. They also saw
with it several times the five satellites of Saturn."1 Mr.

Hadley himself and others likewise saw the preceding
phenomena together with the belts of Saturn, and the

first and second satellites of Jupiter, as bright spots on
the body of the planet.2

   After executing another Newtonian telescope of the
same size, Mr. Hadley directed his attention to those of
the Gregorian form, upon which he made great improve
ments. In 1726 he communicated to Dr. Desaguliers an

account of the instrument as perfected by himself, with

tables shewing the relative proportions of its different
parts ; and in 1 73 4 he made an additional communication

to the same writer, in reference to the use of a double
eye-glass, for " preventing the objects being coloured near
the edges of the field."3 Not content with the labours of
his own hands, Mr. Hadley, who was now Vice-President
of the Royal Society, was desirous of enabling astronomers

and opticians to manufacture these valuable instruments,
the former for use in their observatories, and the latter

for public sale. He accordingly inspired Dr. Bradley with
the desire of constructing these instruments, and with his
directions " he succeeded pretty well, and would proba
bly have perfected one of them, had he not been obliged
suddenly to remove from the place where he then dwelt,
and been since diverted from it by other avocations."
Soon afterwards, however, Dr. Bradley with Mr. Samuel
Molyneux, renewed the attempt at Kew, by making an
instrument about 26 inches long ; but notwithstanding

1 Phil. Trans., July and August 1723, p. 382.  ' Ibid., p. 385.

s Gregory's Catoptrics, pp. 250, 285.

56  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                CHAP. III.

Dr. Bradley's experience and Mr. Hadley's frequent in
structions, a long time elapsed before they could " toler

ably succeed." At last, however, they completed to their

satisfaction a telescope of the Newtonian form of the

above focal length. They afterwards made a pretty good
one of seven inches, and one of eight feet, the largest that
had yet been made.1 The first of these instruments was

elegantly fitted up on a highly ornamented stand, and
presented by Mr. Molyneux to his Majesty John V. of

Portugal.2
    Hitherto no optician but Mr. HawTksbee had ventured

to construct these instruments for sale. He executed a

\good one of about 3 feet in focal length,3 and other two

of six feet and twelve feet, and he was the first person, as
Molyneux informs us, " who had attempted it without the
assistance of a fortune, which could well bear the disap

pointment."

    Having acquired by his own experience and Mr. Had
ley's instructions, a sufficient knowledge of the art, Mr.
Molyneux communicated the whole process4 to Mr. Edward
Scarlet, his Majesty's optician, and to Mr. Hearne, a ma
thematical instrument maker, and both these artists at

tained to such perfection in constructing them, that they

manufactured them for public sale. In this way the Re

flecting Telescope came into general use, and, principally
in the Gregorian form, it has been an article of trade with

every regular optician.

   1 The. Hon. Samuel Molyneux and Hadley in Smith's Optics, vol. ii. p. 302, § 782.
   2 Ibid., p. 363, § 913.
   3 This telescope, according to Dr. Smith, was so excellent that it was scarcely

inferior to Hadley's of 5 feet 2^ inches in length. It hore a power of 226, as deter
mined by Mr. Hawksbee, Mr. Folkes, and Dr. Jurin. See Smith's Optics; Re

marks, p. 79.                                    and partly  by Hadley, is printed
   4 This process, drawn up partly by Molyneux,

in Dr. Smith's Optics, vol. ii. p. 301.

1669-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  57

    While the English opticians, with the aid of Molyneux
and Hadley, were thus practising the new art of grind
ing and polishing specula, Mr. James Short of Edinburgh,
without any such aid, was devoting to the subject all the

energies of his youthful mind. In the year 1 732, and in

the 22d year of his age, he began his labours ; and to such
perfection did he carry the art of grinding and polishing
metallic specula, and of giving them the true parabolic
figure, that with a telescope of 15 inches in focal length,
he and Mr. Bayne, Professor of Law in the University of

Edinburgh, read the Philosophical Transactions at the dis

tance of 500 feet, and several times, particularly on the
24th of November and the 7th of December, 1734, they
saw the five satellites of Saturn together, an achievement
beyond the reach of Hadley's six feet telescope. Mr. Short

had constructed several instruments, 9, 6, 4, and 2^ inches

in focal length. With those four inches long he saw the
satellites of Jupiter very well, and read in the Philosophical
Transactions at the distance of 125 feet. With the six inch

ones he read at the distance of 160 feet, and with the nine

inch ones at the distance of 1 60 feet. The celebrated Colin

Maclaurin compared one of the six inch ones with one of
the best London ones of 9^% inches, and found that it ex
ceeded it in brightness, distinctness, and magnifying power.

It surpassed also another London one, 11^ inches in focal

length.1 After Short had established himself in London
in 1742, he received £630 for a twelve feet reflector from
Lord Thomas Spencer. In 1 752 he executed one for the
King of Spain for £1200 ; and a short time before his
death, which took place in 1768, he finished the specula
of the magnificent telescope which was mounted equato-
 rially for the Observatory of Edinburgh, by his brother

                            1 Maclaurin in Smith's Optics, vol. ii., Remarks, p. 81.

5"8  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. III.

 Thomas Short. The King of Denmark offered twelve
 hundred guineas for this instrument, through which we
 have often seen the leading celestial phenomena, but not
 till the large speculum had been greatly injured in conse
 quence of having been repolished by an inferior artist.1

    Notwithstanding these great improvements on the Re
flecting Telescope, no discovery of importance had yet
been achieved by them. The ordinary refractors of
 Huygens, and those of Campani in the hands of Cassini,
though they laboured under all the imperfections of colour
ed light, had made the latest discoveries in the heavens ;
and nearly three quarters of a century had elapsed without
any extension of our knowledge of the Solar and Sidereal
Systems. This, however, was only one of those stationary
intervals during which human genius holds its breath, in
order to take a new and a loftier flight. The power
of the Refracting Telescope, extended to the unmanage

able length of above two hundred feet, had been strained

to the very utmost, and the Reflectors, vigorous and pro
mising in their infancy, were about to attain an efficiency
and magnitude which the most sanguine astronomer had

never ventured to anticipate. It was reserved for Sir

William Herschel and the Earl of Rosse to accomplish
this great work, and by the construction of telescopes of
gigantic size to extend the boundaries of the Solar System

--to lay open the hitherto unexplored recesses of the

sidereal world, and to bring within the grasp of reason

those nebular regions to which imagination had not ven

tured to soar.

    Anxious to observe with his own eyes the wonders of

   1 This telescope was removed from the Observatory upon the establishment of theis,
Astronomical Institution, and we believe, now lying dismantled in some garret

of the city.

1669-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  59

the planetary system, and, fortunately for science, unable
to purchase a telescope for himself, Sir William Herschel
resolved, in 1774, to construct one with his own hands.
With this instrument, which was a Newtonian reflector of

five feet, he saw distinctly the ring of Saturn and the
satellites of Jupiter. Dissatisfied with its performance,
he afterwards executed two hundred specula of seven feet
focal length, one hundred and fifty of ten feet, and above

eighty of twenty feet! In 1781 he began a thirty feet

aerial reflector, with a speculum three feet in diameter,
but as it was cracked in the operation of annealing, and
as another of the same size was lost in the fire from a

failure in the furnace, his hopes were disappointed. In

minds like his, however, disappointment is often a stimulus
to higher achievements, and the double accident which
befell his specula suggested, no doubt, the idea of making
a still larger instrument, and of obtaining pecuniary aid
for its accomplishment. He accordingly conveyed, through
Sir Joseph Banks, to the King his intention to execute
such a telescope, and his Majesty, with the munificent
spirit of a great sovereign, instantly offered to defray the
whole expense of its construction. Encouraged by this
noble act of liberality, Sir William Herschel began in 1 785,
and completed in 1789, his gigantic telescope, forty feet
in focal length, with a speculum forty-seven and a half
inches in diameter ! Its tube, about forty feet long and five
wide, was made of iron, and the observer, suspended in a
moveable seat at the mouth of examined, with what

    called the front view, the celestial objects to which
was directed. This noble instrument, now dismantled,

stood in the lawn of Sir William Herschel's house, and

some of our readers may remember, like ourselves, its

extraordinary aspect when visiting the great astronomer
is
                                                          it,

                                                                                       it

60    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                        CHAP. in.

himself, or resting in the Crown Hotel at Slough, or

journeying on their way to Windsor.

   It is due to the memory of George III., that the friends

of science should cherish it with respect and gratitude.

By enabling Sir William Herschel to construct his colossal

tube, and to spend the whole of his time in applying it to

the heavens, he was entitled to share in the glory of his

discoveries ; and we owe it to historical truth to say, that

none of the sovereigns who either preceded or followed

him have an equal claim on the homage of astronomers.

a if If,

                     a
                                                        a

                                                                                                                                                  ;
    in his imperial rule, he sometimes transcended the limits

of constitutional government, let us remember that he left

Ifthe throne more secure and glorious than he found it.

he ventured, on some occasions, to thwart the counsellors

of his choice, we may find some apology for the exercise

of a  high prerogative in  the factious  ocfhahrisacatdevr iseorfsth--e aagned,
and   in the acknowledged    incapacity

    he lost transatlantic empire by persisting to levy

tribute from its people, he followed the advice of distin

guished counsellors, and was but the instrument of a

higher power in establishing mighty nation veined with

gSiavhxeoomnleesbslootnoosds,ocfaiencnidvcielinseaurtnviopendatrtwoonittihzheeBdrE--iatissttoherrnsepliiWgriitoo, rn--ld id--nestptoeinraesfdefocurtdo

tion, and to patriotism in exile.

    Stimulated by such patronage, the genius and perseve

rance which created instruments so transcendent in mag

nitude, were not likely to be baffled in their practical

application. In the examination of the starry heavens,

the ultimate object of his labours, Sir William Herschel

exhibited the same exalted qualifications and in a few
      a

                                                                                                    ;
years he rose from the level of humble life to the enjoy

ment of name more glorious than that of the sages and

1669-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  61

warriors of antiquity, and as enduring as the objects with
which it will be for ever associated. Nor was it in the
ardour of the spring of life that these triumphs were
achieved. He had reached the middle of his appointed
course before his career of discovery began, and it was
in the autumn and winter of his days that he reaped the
full harvest of his glory. The discovery of a new planet
at the verge of the Solar System, was the first trophy of

his skill, and new double and multiple stars, and new
nebulae and groups of celestial bodies, were added in hun
dreds to the system of the universe. The spring tide of
knowledge, which was thus let in upon the human mind,
continued for a while to spread its waves over Europe, but
when it sank to its ebb in England, there was no other
bark left upon the strand but that of the Deucalion of
science, whose home had been so long upon its waters.1

    When Sir William Herschel's great telescope was taken
down in 1822, a telescope of 20 feet in focal length, and
with an aperture of 18£ inches, was erected in its place
by his son, Sir John Herschel. This instrument, with
three mirrors of the same size, was carried to the Cape
of Good Hope, and it was with it that Sir John made
those valuable observations which have added so greatly
to our knowledge of Sidereal Astronomy.

    About the same time, the late Mr. John Ramage, a
merchant in Aberdeen, devoted much of his attention to

the construction of large Newtonian reflectors. He ground

and polished specula of 13 J, 15, and 21 inches in dia

meter. One of these was erected at the Royal Observa-

    1 For an account of the Decline of Science in England, here alluded to, we refer
the reader to Sir John Herschel's Treatise on Sound, to Mr. Airy's Report on Astro
nomy, in the Report of the British Association for 1833, and to Mr. Babbage's inter
esting volume, On the Decline of Science. See also Quarterly Review, October 1830,
and North British Review, vol. xiv. p. 23.r>.

62         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                       CHAP. III.

tory       of Greenwich in 1820,1 with a focal                                             length of 25
           and a speculum 1 5 inches in diameter
feet,                                                                                      ;--another of

the same size at Sir John Ross's Observatory, near Stran
raer ; --and the large speculum of 21 inches,
           :                                                                                                           we be
                                                      :

                                            a

                                                                                                                    ;

                                                                            is,
lieve, in the Observatory of Glasgow.2

         The long interval of half century seems to be the

period of hybernation during which the telescopic mind

rests from its labours, in order to acquire strength for

some great achievement Fifty years elapsed between

the dwarf telescope of Newton and the large instruments

of Hadley Other fifty years rolled on before Sir William

Herschel constructed his magnificent telescope and fifty

years more passed away before the Earl of Rosse produ

ced that colossal instrument which has already achieved

such brilliant discoveries.

    This distinguished nobleman began his experiments so

early as 1828, and he ground and polished specula fifteen

inches, two feet and three feet in diameter, before he

commenced the Herculean attempt of executing specu
                                                      'a
                                                                             a
lum six feet in diameter, and with focal length of fifty
feet. The speculum was cast on the 13th April 1842,

ground in 1843, polished in 1844, and, in February 1845,

the telescope was ready to be tried. The focal length of

the speculum fifty-four feet. It weighs four tons, and,
           is
with its supports,itseven times as heavy as the four
                       is
                                  is a

                                                                  by
                                                                                       p.
feet speculum of Sir William Herschel. The speculum
                                                                                           s,

                                                                                                      6, is
placed in one of the sides of cubical wooden-box Fig.

about eight feet wide, and to the opposite end of this box

    fastened the tube, which about fifty feet long, eight
3 1 is
         See Transactions of the Astronomical Society, vol. ii. 413.                                                   a  focal
       itA fine reflecting telescope, with a speculum two feet in diameter, and

length of twenty feet, has been recently constructed  Mr. Lassels, who has made

with several important discoveries within the limits of our own system.

1609-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  63

feet in diameter in the middle, but tapering to seven at

the extremities, and furnished with diaphragms 6^ feet in
aperture. The tube is made of deal-staves an inch thick,
hooped with strong iron clamp rings, and it carries at its
upper end, and in the axis of the tube, the small oval

speculum A, six inches in its lesser diameter.

    The telescope, as shewn in the annexed figure, is esta-

                                 Fio. 5.-- Lord Rouse's Telescope from the South-Eiist.

Wished between two lofty castellated piers sixty feet high,
and is raised to different altitudes by a strong chain cable
B attached to the top of the tube. This cable passes over
a pulley T on the frame F down to a windlass shewn at
u in Fig. 6, on the ground, which is wrought by two
assistants. To the frame F are attached, at x, x, chain
guys fastened to the counterweights e, e. The telescope
is balanced by these counterweights suspended by chains
D, d, which are fixed to the sides of the tube, and pass
over large iron pulleys c, c.

    To the eastern pier is fixed a strong semicircle of cast

G4  LIFE OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON.  chap, ii i.

iron vv, about eighty-five feet in diameter. The telescope
is connected with this circle by a strong racked bar w, with
friction-rollers attached to the tube by wheel- work, so that
by means of a handle near the eye-piece, the observer can
move the telescope along the bar on either side of the

meridian to the distance of an hour for an equatorial star.

                               FlQ. 6.-- Lord Rosse's Telescope from the North- West.

    On the western pier are erected the stairs and galleries
for the observers. The first gallery, shewn at H, H below

the tube, Fig. 5, commands an altitude of 42°. It is a light

but strong framing of wood, which slides between two lad

ders I, i, fixed to the southern face of the piers. It is coun

terpoised by a weight, and raised to the height required
by a windlass k. Upon its upper plane is a railway upon

1069-73.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            65

which the observing gallery L can be moved about 24

feet east and west by means of two wheels turned by a
winch m near the observer. Other three galleries, N, o, P,
command all altitudes above 42°, and within 5° of the

zenith. They are each carried by two beams Q, Q, which
run between pairs of grooved wheels R, R, and these
beams, with their respective galleries, are drawn forward
when the wheels are turned by a very ingenious piece of

mechanism. These galleries hold twelve persons, and
strangers are not a little startled when they find them

selves suspended, midway between the piers, over a chasm
60 feet deep.1

    We have enjoyed the great privilege of seeing and using
this noble instrument, one of the most wonderful combi

nations of art and science which the world has yet seen.
We have, in the morning, walked again and again, and ever
with new delight, along its mystic tube, and, at mid

bmneigalthrsvt,e, lalwonuidtshrinistgisgshdtisostfiwnSghauitciushrhne,idt--datisrhccehloitsoeelcdst,,--anptdohnendeeswraetderilnligtoe,vse,wr hatinchdhe

is advancing with its crest of waters to the body of the

planet, -- the rocks, and mountains, and valleys, and ex
tinct volcanoes of the moon, -- the crescent of Venus, with
its mountainous outline, -- the systems of double and triple
stars, --the nebulae and starry clusters of every variety of
shape,--and those spiral nebular formations which baffle

human comprehension, and constitute the greatest achieve
ment in modern discovery.

    Such is a brief description of the gigantic telescope

completed by the Earl of Rosse. In order to form a

correct idea of its effective magnitude, we must compare
it with other instruments, as in the following table, in

          1 A box containing a second speculum is shewn at y.

VOL. I.

66           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          CHAP. ill.

which the specula are supposed to be square in place of
round :--

    Names of Makers.     Diameter of Speculum.  Area of Surface.
          Newton,
                                     1 inch,    1 square inch.
                                                56 ,,
                                    2 37 ,,
    Hadley,                 , 4-5 ,,            20 ,,
                                                25 ,,
                                     5,,
    Hawksbee,         .     . 9,,                           81  ,,
                      .                         , 441           ,,
    Ramage,                          21 ,,
    Lassels,                           2 feet,  . 576           ,,
    Lord Rosse,                                 . 576           ,,
                                     2,,
                            , 3,,               . 1296

    Herschel,                        4,,        . 2304
    Lord Rosse,                      6,,
                                                . 5184

    In looking back on what the telescope has accomplished

since the time of Newton, and in reflecting on the vast

depths of ether which have been sounded ; -- on the num

ber of planetary bodies which have been added to our

system, and on the extensive fields of sidereal space

which have been explored, can we hesitate to believe it

to be the Divine plan that man shall yet discover the
whole scheme of the visible universe, and that it is his

individual duty, as well as his high prerogative, to ex

pound its mysteries and to develop its laws 1 Over the
invisible world he has received no commission to reign,

and into its secrets he has no authority to pry. It is

over the material and the visible    that he has to sway the
                                     the structures of organic
intellectual sceptre, --it is among

and inorganic being that his functions of combination and

analysis are to be chiefly exercised. However great have
been the achievements of the past, and however magnifi
cent the instruments to which we owe them, the limits of

telescopic vision have not been reached, and space has

yet marvellous secrets to surrender. A ten feet reflector

will be due to science before the close of the century,

1669-73.                                                                       -  67

          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

and a disc of flint-glass,1 29 inches in diameter, awaits
the command of some liberal government, or some muni
ficent individual, to be converted into an achromatic tele

scope of extraordinary power.
   In cherishing these sanguine expectations, we have not

forgotten that the state of our northern atmosphere must
set some limit to the magnifying power of our telescopes.

In a variable climate, indeed, the vapours and local changes

of temperature, and consequent inequalities of refraction,

offer various obstructions to astronomical research. But

we must meet the difficulty in the only way in which it

can be met. The astronomer cannot summon the zephyrs

to give him a cloudless sky, nor command a thunder

storm to clear it. He must transport his telescope to the

purer air of Egypt or India, or climb the flanks of the

Himalaya or the Andes, to erect his watch-tower above

the grosser regions of the atmosphere. In some of those

brief yet lucid intervals, when distant objects present

themselves in sharp outline and minute detail, discoveries

of the highest value might  be        grasped    --byththeebilsyencxti-oenyeodf
astronomer. The resolution  of        a nebula,

a double star, -- the detection of the smaller planetary frag
ments; --the details                  ring, -- the evanescent mark
                      of a  planet's  changes on its surface, and
ings on its disc,--   the   physical

perchance the display of some of the dark worlds of Bessel,

might be the revelations of a moment, and would amply re

pay in national glory the transportation of a huge telescope

to the shoulder or to the summit of a lofty mountain.2

    1 This disc of flint-glass was executed by Messrs. Chance, Brothers, and Com
pany, of the Smethwick Glass-works, and was rewarded with a council medal of the
Great Exhibition. --See Reports of the Juries, p. 529.

   ! This proposal, which was first made by the author in September 1844, is likely
to be now carried into effect. A committee of the British Association, and of the
Royal Society, have, after a careful consideration of the subject, applied to Govern
ment for the necessary funds.

68  UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

                           CHAPTER IV.

NEWTON WRITES NOTES ON KINKHUYSEn's ALGEBRA -- AND ON HARMONIC
   AND INFINITE SERIES -- DELIVERS OPTICAL LECTURES AT CAMBRIDGE-- IS
   ELECTED A FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY -- COMMUNICATES TO THEM

    HIS DISCOVERIES ON THE DIFFERENT REFRANGIBILITY AND NATURE OF
   LIGHT -- POPULAR ACCOUNT OF THEM -- THEY INVOLVE HIM IN VARIOUS
   CONTROVERSIES -- HIS DISPUTE WITH PARDIES -- WITH LINUS -- WITH
   GASCOIGNE AND LUCAS -- THE INFLUENCE OF THESE DISPUTES ON HIS
   MIND -- HIS CONTROVERSY WITH DR. HOOKE AND MONSIEUR HUYGENS,

    ARISING FROM THEIR ATTACHMENT TO THE UNDULATING THEORY OF
   LIGHT -- HARASSED WITH THESE DISCUSSIONS HE RESOLVES TO PUB
   LISH NOTHING MORE ON OPTICS -- INTIMATES TO OLDENBURG HIS RESO

   LUTION TO WITHDRAW FROM THE ROYAL SOCIETY FROM HIS INABILITY
   TO MAKE THE WEEKLY PAYMENTS -- THE COUNCIL AGREE TO DISPENSE
   WITH THESE PAYMENTS -- HE IS ALLOWED BY A ROYAL GRANT TO HOLD

   HIS FELLOWSHIP ALONG WITH THE LUCASIAN CHAIR WITHOUT TAKING
   ORDERS -- HARDSHIP OF HIS SITUATION IN BEING OBLIGED TO PLEAD
   POVERTY TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY -- DRAWS UP A SCHEME FOR EX

    TENDING THE ROYAL SOCIETY, BY PAYING CERTAIN OF ITS MEMBERS--
   THE SCHEME WAS FOUND AMONG HIS PAPERS -- SOUNDNESS OF HIS

    VIEWS RELATIVE TO THE ENDOWMENT OF SCIENCE BY THE NATION--

   ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF THEM.

   While Newton was constructing his Reflecting Tele

scope, and discussing with Gregory and others the ques
tion of its superiority to instruments of the Gregorian and
Cassegrainian form, his mind was directed to a variety
of other subjects. Dr. Barrow had requested him, through
Collins, to write some notes to be appended to a Latin
translation from the Dutch, of Kinkhuysen's Algebra, a
task which he readily undertook, and which occupied
some considerable portion of his time during the years

1670-7G.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  69

1669 and 1670. He at first did not think the work
" worth the pains of a formal comment," and returned
the book with his notes, " intermixed with the author's

discourse," requesting Collins not to mention his name,
but merely to say that " it was enriched by another

author." In thanking him for his valuable additions,

Collins intimated that the part on surd numbers had been
" too lightly handled," and requested Newton to point out
in several books on surds which he sent to him, such pas

sages as might be added to Kinkhuysen, to supply the
defect. Newton kindly offered to make the necessary
additions, and having learned from his correspondent that
his " pains" in this matter " would be acceptable to some
very eminent grandees of the Royal Society, who must be
made acquainted therewith," he got back his MSS., and

added only two or three examples more, as upon revising
the papers he " judged it (the part on surds) not so im
perfect as he thought it had been."1

    His attention had also been directed by Collins to pro
blems on the summation of harmonic series, and in the
determination of the rate per cent, in annuity problems,

when all the other quantities were given. In sending the

solution of the problems, he gives Collins permission " to
insert it in the Philosophical Transactions, so it be with

Iout his name to it." " For see not," he adds, " what
Ithere is desirable in public esteem were able to acquire

and maintain it. It would perhaps increase my acquaint
ance, the thing which I chiefly study to decline."

    In the month of July 1670, he had intended, during

the Duke of Buckingham's installation as Chancellor of
the University of Cambridge, to pay a visit to his friends

   1 Letters to Collins from 1669 to September 27, 1670. -- Macclesfield Correspond
ence, vol.
          ii.

70  LIFE OF SJK ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

in London, and to give Mr. Collins " a verbal acknowledg

ment of his undeserved favours ;" but he was prevented
" by the sudden surprisal of a fit of sickness, which not

Ilong after (God be thanked) again recovered of."

    During the winter of this year, Newton had begun to
" methodize his Discourse of Infinite Series,1 designing to
illustrate it with problems," but he was " suddenly diverted
from it by some business in the country," and was not
able to resume the subject till towards the end of the
year, when he was prevented by other avocations from
preparing it for the press.

    Although our author had read a course of lectures on
Optics, in the University of Cambridge, in the years

1669, 1670, and 1671, containing his principal discove
ries regarding the different refrangibility of light, and
towards the end of 1671 was preparing a series of twenty
of them for the press, yet it is a singular fact that these
discoveries should not have become public through the

conversation or correspondence of his pupils. The mem

bers of the Royal Society even had acquired no knowledge
of them till the beginning of February 1672, and it was
chiefly on his Reflecting Telescope that his reputation in
that body was founded. So great indeed was the interest
which it excited, that Dr. Seth Ward, Bishop of Salisbury,
who had written some able works on Astronomy, and
filled the Savilian Chair of Astronomy at Oxford, pro
posed Mr. Newton as a Fellow of the Royal Society on
the 23d December 1671. In a letter to its secretary,
Mr. Oldenburg, of the 6th January, he expressed his

Isatisfaction with this event in the following words :--"

  1 This work was never finished. It was published by Horsley, under the title of

Geometria Analytica, from three different MSS. -- See Newtoni Opera, torn. i.
pp. 391-518. A translation of it had been published by Colson in 1736.

1G70-70.         LIFE OF SiK ISAAC NEWTON.  71

am very sensible of the honour done me by the Bishop of

ISarum in proposing me a candidate, and which hope

will be further conferred upon me by my election into the

ISociet}' ; and if so, shall endeavour to testify my grati

tude by communicating what my poor and solitary endea

vours can effect towards the promoting your philosophical

designs." He was accordingly elected on the 11th Janu

ary, on which day the Society, with the view of secur

ing his invention of the telescope from foreign piracy,

agreed to transmit a drawing and account of it to Huy-

gens at Paris. The notice of his election, and the thanks

of the Society for the communication of his telescope, were

contained in the same letter, with an assurance that the
Society " would take care that all right should be done him

in the matter of this invention." In replying to this

Iletter, Newton   very  justly expressed his surprise to see
                 taken  about securing an invention of which
" so much care
have hitherto had so little value, and therefore since the

IRoyal Society is pleased to think it worth the patronizing,

  must acknowledge it deserves much more of them for

that, than of me, who, had not the communication of it

been desired, might have let it still remain m private, as

it hath already done some years."

    Thus encouraged by the Royal Society, Newton lost no
time in making other communications to them. In his

very next letter to their secretary, dated 1 8th January

1672, he announces his optical discoveries in the following

manner :--" I desire that in your next letter you would

inform me for what time the Society continue their weekly

meetings ; because, if they continue them for any time,

I am purposing them to be considered of and examined

on account of a philosophical discovery, which induced me

to the making of the said telescope, and which I doubt

    72  LIFE OF SIU ISAAC NEWTON*.  CHAP. IV.

    not but will prove much more grateful than the commuit,
    nication of that instrument, being in my judgment the
                                                 :
    oddest if not the most considerable detection which hath
                                                  a
    hitherto been made in the operations of nature."      it
        This " oddest and most considerable detection" was the
a it
    discovery of the different refrangibility of the rays of
    light, which it was necessary to explain in a previous
    chapter, as having been made before the construction of

    his telescope. It was communicated in a letter to Olden

    burg on the 6th of February 1672, and excited great
    interest when read on the 8th February to " that illustri
    ous company." The " solemn thanks of the meeting were
    voted to its author for his very ingenious discourse ;" and
    it was immediately printed in the 80th Number of their
    Transactions, namely, on the 1 9th February, both for the
    purpose of having it well considered by philosophers, and
    for " securing the considerable notices thereof to the

    author against the arrogations of others." At the same
    time a committee, consisting of Dr. Seth Ward, Bishop of

    Salisbury, Mr. Boyle, and Dr. Hooke, was appointed to
    peruse and consider and to give in a report upon to

    the Society.
        The kindness of this distinguished body, and the anxiety

    which they had already shewn for Newton's reputation in
    the affair of his telescope, excited on his part reciprocal
    feeling, and he accepted of their proposal to print his dis

    course in the following humble terms --"'Twas an esteem,"

    he says, " of the Royal Society, for candid and able judges
    in philosophical matters, which encouraged me to present
    them with that discourse of light and colours, which since

       has been so favourably accepted of, do earnestly desire
    you to return them my cordial thanks. before thought

      great favour to ha ve been made member of that honour
        a

            II

                                            it

10"0-7fi.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  73

able body ; but I am now more sensible of the advantage.
IFor believe me, Sir, do not only esteem it a duty to

concur with them in the promotion of real knowledge, but

a great privilege, that instead of exposing discourses to a

prejudiced and censorious multitude, (by which means

Imany truths have been baffled and lost,) may with

freedom apply myself to so judicious and impartial an
assembly. As to the printing of that letter, I am satisfied
in their judgment, or else I should have thought it too
Istrait and narrow for public view.
                                     designed it only to

those that know how to improve upon hints of things, and

therefore to shun tediousness, omitted many such remarks

and experiments as might be collected by considering the

Iassigned laws of refraction, some of which believe, with

the generality of men, would yet be almost as taking as

any of those I described. But yet since the Royal Society
Ihave thought it fit to appear publicly, leave it to their
pleasure : and, perhaps, to supply the aforesaid defects, I

may send you some more of the experiments, to record it

   be so thought fit) in the ensuing Transactions."
Having in the preceding chapter given an account of
is (if
    it

                            is
                                                                                  is
the leading doctrine of the different refrangibility of the

rays of light, and of the attempts to improve the reflect

ing telescope which that discovery suggested, we shall

now endeavour to make the reader acquainted with the

other discoveries respecting colours, which he at this time

communicated to the Royal Society.

We have already seen that a beam of white light

emitted from the sun, and refracted by a prism, decom

posed by its action into seven different colours, which
compose what called the Prismatic Spectrum, and which

   nothing more than an elongated image of the sun, its

length being five times its breadth, and the coloured

7i  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC >TEWTOX.                C1IAP. IV.

spaces having the proportions shewn in the annexed

figure.
    When this spectrum is distinctly formed

by a good prism, so that the different co
lours are clearly separated, Newton found
that any particular colour, such as red, was
not susceptible of any change either by
refraction through prisms, or reflection
from mirrors, or from natural bodies, nor

by any other cause that he could observe,     IIBB1 viok>t
notwithstanding his utmost endeavours to

change it. It might become fainter or

brighter, but its colour never changed. Its

refrangibility, too, was equally unchange-
able, and hence he drew the conclusion that

the same degree of refrangibility always belonged to the
same colour, and the same colour to the same degree of

refrangibility.
   But while the colours in the spectrum are original and

simple, such as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and
violet, other colours may be compounded of these, " for a

mixture of yellow and blue makes green, and red and yellow

makes orange, and orange and yellowish green makes yel

low." These compound colours, however, may be sepa
rated by the prism into their simple colours, and hence
we are enabled by the prism to decompose all such colours,
and however similar they may be to the primitive ones,

their difference may always be discovered by the different
refrangibility of their elements.

    But, as Newton remarks, " the most surprising and won
derful composition is that of whiteness. No one sort of

rays is alone capable of exhibiting it. It is ever com

pounded, and for its composition all the primary colours

1070-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         75

in their due proportion are required." In order to prove
this doctrine, which is called the Recomposition of white

light, he employed three different methods. When the
beam of white light RR, Fig. 8, was separated into its

component colours, as in the spectrum MN, he received
the refracted pencil r' on a second prism BCD, held

          tc        \

                                              :o w

                       Fig. 8.

either close to the first, or a little behind     it,and by the
                                                        is
opposite refraction of this prism they were all refracted

back into a beam of perfectly white light bw, which pro

jected a white circular spot on the wall at w, exactly

similar in form and in colour to the spot formed there by

the beam RR, before the prism intercepted it.

    Another mode of recomposing white light, which New
ton tells us he " often beheld with admiration," to cause

the spectrum to fall upon large lens at some distance
          ; is
from the prism, and then to converge all the colours intois
                                     a

                                           a
a spot, and mix them again as they were in the light

before its incidence on the prism. The light thus repro
duced " entirely and perfectly white," and does not " at

all sensibly differ from the direct light of the sun, unless

when the glasses used were not sufficiently clear." Hence
our author concludes, " that whiteness the usual colour
                                              is

of light for light     confused aggregate of rays endued

with all sorts of colours, as they are promiscuously darted

76                 LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                                       CHAP. IV.

from the various parts of luminous bodies." When there
is a due proportion of the ingredients, that of all the
                         a
                            is                                                     any one

                                                  if is,
simple colours, whiteness  generated, but

colour predominate, the light will incline to that colour,

as in the yellow flame of candle, the blue flame of brim

stone, and the various colours of the fixed stars.

    From consideration of these facts, our author regards
it

                a
   as very evident how colours are produced by the prism.
Since such of the rays constituting white light as differ in

colour, differ proportionally in refrangibility, they must in

virtue of their unequal refraction be severed and dispersed

into an oblong form, as in Fig. in regular succession
                           it

                                    7,
                                         a
from the least refracted red to the most refracted violet.
" And for the same reason  is," says Newton, " that

objects, when looked upon through prism, appear co
loured. For the difform rays, by their unequal refraction,

are made to diverge towards several parts of the retina,

and there express the images of things coloured, as in the

former case they did the sun's image upon wall."
                                              a

    Having established these principles, Newton applies

them to the explanation of several interesting phenomena.

He shews that the colours of the primary and secondary

rainbow are prismatic spectra, produced by the refraction

of the drops of water. He explains the odd phenomena

of lignum nephriticum, leaf gold, fragments                                        coloured
                   a

                                                                                ;

                                                               a

                                                                    of
glass, and other bodies, which appear in one position of
one colour, and of another in another, in consequence of

their disposition to reflect one sort of light and transmit
another. He assigns the reason of Hooke's beautiful

experiment, with two wedge-like transparent vessels, the

one filled with red, the other with blue liquor. Al

though they are each very transparent, yet when the two

are put together they are opaque for since the one

1070-70.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   77

transmits only red, and the other only blue, no rays what

ever can pass through both of them. And without giving

more instances, he concludes with this general one, --

" That the colours of all natural bodies have no other

origin than this ; that they are variously qualified to

reflect one sort of light in greater plenty than another."

For if we illuminate these bodies with uncompounded

light of different colours, they always appear of the colour

of the light cast upon them, the colour being most vivid

in the light of their own daylight colour. Minium, for

example, though red, appears indifferently of any colour,

though most luminous in red, and bise, though blue, appears

indifferently of any colour cast upon though most lumi
                it

                   is,
                                                       it,
nous in blue. Hence, since minium reflects most copiously

the red rays, must appear red when illuminated with

daylight, that      with all sorts of rays promiscuously

blended, and for the same reason bise appears blue.

No sooner were these important discoveries given to

the world, than they were criticised and assailed with a

degree of virulence and ignorance which have not often

been combined in scientific controversy. The Royal So

ciety unfortunately contained few individuals of pre-emi
nent talent capable of appreciating the value of his dis

coveries, and of entering the lists against his envious

and ignorant assailants. While they held his labours in

the highest esteem, they regarded his discoveries as fair

subjects of discussion, and their secretary regularly com

municated to him, and even published in their Transac

tions, almost all the papers which were written in opposi

tion to his views.

The first communication on this subject was the sug

gestion of four experiments with the prism, which seems
to have been made by some friend at Cambridge, as

78                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       CHAP. IV.

Newton communicated them to the editor of the Philoso

phical Transactions, with his own observations.1 This
letter was followed by a communication from a Jesuit,
Ignatius Pardies, Professor of Mathematics in the Parisian
College of Clermont, containing animadversions upon the
new Theory of Colours. Although Newton in his original
discourse had demonstrated the reverse, yet the French
professor pretended that the elongation of the sun's image
arose from the unequal incidence of the different rays on
the first face of the prism ; that the mixture of differently
coloured powders was not white, but dun and gray ; and
that opacity was not produced when the two coloured
liquors were mixed in the same vessel. Newton answered
these shallow objections in the most satisfactory manner,2
but this disciple of Descartes, unwilling to be vanquished,
took up a new position, and maintained that the elonga
tion of the sun's image by the prism, might be explained
by the diffraction of light on the hypothesis of Grimaldi,
or by the diffusion of undulations on the hypothesis of
Hooke.3 Newton replied to these silly speculations on
the 11th of June ; but he contented himself with reiter

ating his original experiments, and confirming them by
more popular arguments.4 Pardies replied on the 9th
July, in terms highly complimentary to Newton.5 He
expressed himself satisfied with Newton's explanations,
acknowledged that his only difficulty had been wholly
removed, and that he cherished the warmest gratitude for
the kindness with which his annotations had been exa

mined and answered.

1 The communication is dated 13th April 1672,    and is published  in the  Transac

tions, No. 82, p. 4059, April 22, 1672.
* Phil. Trans., No. 84, p. 4091, June 17, 1672.
3 Phil Trans., No. 85, p. 5012, July 15, 1672.
                   5 Ibid., p. 5018.
* Ibid., p. 5014.

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 79

    About this time Newton seems to have been peculiarly
sensitive about the reception of his Doctrine of Colours.

On the 8th of July, a month after he had written his
second Reply to Pardies, he published in the Philosophical

Transactions, with his name, " A Series of Queries, pro

pounded by Mr. Isaac Newton, to be determined by

experiment, positively and directly concluding his new
Theory of Light and Colours, and here recommended to
the industry of the lovers of Experimental Philosophy, as
they were generously imparted to the Publisher in a
letter of the said Mr. Newton."1 This paper consists of

eight queries, which are merely the different propositions

he had established put into that form as if they were still

matters of doubt, and it concludes with expressing the
wish of the author, " that all objections be suspended
taken from Hypotheses, or any other heads than these
two ; of shewing the insufficiency of experiments to deter

mine these Queries, or prove any other parts of my theory
by assigning the flaws and defects in my conclusions
drawn from them ; or of producing other experiments

which directly contradict me, if any such may seem to
occur." In order to " invite and gratify foreigners " to con

sider and put to trial these Queries, the publisher " delivers
Mr. Newton's letter in the language also of the learned."

    This challenge to foreigners on the part of Oldenburg,
summoned into the field a new combatant, in the person
of Francis Linus, a physician in Liege, who, on the 6th
October 1674, addressed a letter to a friend in London,
entitled, " Animadversions on Newton's Theory of Light
and Colours."2 He asserts that he has often observed

   1 Phil. Tram., No. 84, p. 4080, June 17,  1672.    This paper is part of a letter  to
Oldenburg, dated July 6, 1672, from Stoake   Park,  Northamptonshire.

   2 Phil. Tramt., No. 110, p. 217.

HO  LIPE OF SIH ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. TV.

 the same difference between the length and breadth of

 the spectrum ; but that he never found it so when the

 sky was clear and free of clouds near the sun. The dif

 ference only appeared when the sun either shone through

 a white cloud, or enlightened some such clouds near him.
 The elongation of the spectrum was therefore not affected

 by the true sunbeams, " and consequently the theory of
 light grounded on the experiment cannot subsist." In

 support of these gratuitous assertions, Linus appeals to

 frequently repeated experiments on the refractions and
 reflections of light which he had exhibited nearly thirty
 years ago, " together with divers other experiments on

light, to that worthy promoter of experimental philosophy,
 Sir Kenelm Digby, who coming into these parts to take

the Spa waters, resorted oftentimes to my darkened
chamber, and took notes upon them ;" and he adds, that

if Newton had used the same industry as he did, " he

would never have taken so impossible a task in hand," as
" to endeavour to explicate the aforesaid difference be
tween the length and breadth of this coloured spectrum,
by the received laws of refraction." When this letter was
shewn to Newton he refused to answer it ; but Linus was

referred to his answer to Pardies, and assured that the

experiments on which he animadverted were made in
clear days, when there was no bright cloud in the heavens.
The Dutch philosopher, however, was not satisfied with
this reply. He confesses in a second letter to his friend,

that " if the assertions be admitted, they do indeed directly

cut off what he had said of Mr. Newton's being deceived

by a bright cloud ;" but he endeavours to prove that
Newton did not make the experiment in a clear day,
because Newton describes the ends of the spectrum as
semicircular, " and these semicircular ends are never seen

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           81

in a clear day !" The rest of the letter abounds with the

most erroneous statements, indicating the grossest ignor
ance, and calculated to irritate even the patient mind of
Newton.

    Oldenburg again attempted to prevail upon Newton
to answer these observations, but he once more declined,

on the ground that the dispute referred merely to simple
matters of fact, which could only be decided before com
petent witnesses. The entreaties of Oldenburg, however,
prevailed, and " lest Mr. Linus should make the more
stir," this great man condescended to write a grave reply

to reasonings utterly contemptible, and to assertions wholly

unfounded. In this answer, dated November 13, 1675,
and which Linus, who died on the 15th November, pro

bably never saw, Newton gives the most minute and
simple instructions for producing the prismatic spectrum.
He mentions the size of the hole, " about the bigness of

a pease," the position of the prism close to the hole, the
mode of turning the prism round till the spectrum is
placed in its stationary position, when the rays are equally
refracted on both sides of the prism, and the nature and
order of the colours. He tells him also that the experi

ment will not succeed well if the day is not clear, and he

begs that " when Mr. Line has tried this he will proceed
to try the experimentum cruris, which," he adds, " may be
done, though not so perfectly, even without darkening a
room, or the expense of any more time than half a quar
ter of an hour." 1

   After the death of Linus, his pupil, Mr. Gascoigne, en
tered the field, and declared that Linus had shown to
various persons in Liege his experiment, proving the
spectrum to be circular, and that Mr. Newton could not

          1 Phil. Tram., No. 121, p. 503.

VOL. I.                                    v

82                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          CHAP. IV.

be more confident on his side than they were on the
other, being fully " persuaded, that unless the diversity
of placing the prism, or the bigness of the hole, or some
other such circumstance, be the cause of the difference

between them, Mr. Newton's experiment will hardly
stand."1 Pleased with " the handsome genius" of Mr. Gas-
coigne's letter, Newton replied again,2 exerting himself to
discover the reason why the elongated spectrum was not
as visible to others as it was to himself. With this view,

he describes the three different kinds of images that may
be seen upon the wall when a prism refracting the sun's
rays is turned round its axis. The first of these is the
regular elongated coloured spectrum ; the second a round

white image formed by reflection from one of the faces of

the prism ; and the third, an image formed by two re
fractions and one reflection, which, with a good equi-angu-

lar prism, would be a round white image of the aperture,

but more or less elongated and coloured, if the two re

fracting angles were more or less inequal. From this it
becomes very probable that Linus never saw the real

prismatic spectrum.3
   As Mr. Gascoigne had not the means of making the

experiment thus pointed out, he requested Mr. Anthony
Lucas of Liege to make it for him. This ingenious
individual, who succeeded Linus in the mathematical
chair at Liege, confirmed the leading results of New-

1 Phil. Trans., No. 121, p. 503  2 Ibid., No. 123, p. 550.
3 A short time before the commencement of this controversy, Linus communicated

to the Koyal Society a paper entitled Optical Assertions concerning the Rainbow,
which appeared in their Transactions, No. 117, p. 386. How such a paper could
have been published by so learned a body seems very incomprehensible. Linus

was celebrated as a dial-maker. Mr. Charles Ellis mentions one of his dials at

Liege, in which the hours were distinguished by touch, and says that they were
" the originals of those formerly in our Privy Gardens." -- Phil. Trans., No. 283,

1703, vol. xv. p. 1418.

1070-70.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      83

ton, in so far as the prismatic spectrum was concerned ;

but he refused to acknowledge the truth of his theory,
and made a number of experiments with coloured silks

and coloured fluids, which he considered to be subversive

of it. His experiments on the length of the spectrum,
however, possess a peculiar interest. With a prism hav
ing an angle of 60°, and a refractive power of T500, he
formed the spectrum at the distance of 18 feet from the

window. The hole in the shutter was sometimes one-

fifth and sometimes one-tenth of an inch, the distance of

the prism from the hole about two inches, and the dark

ness of the room equal to that of the darkest night when

the hole was shut. Under these circumstances, he never

could find the spectrum longer than thrice the diameter of

its breadth, or, at most, three and a half times that dia
meter when the refractions on both sides of the prism

were equal ; whereas Newton found it to be five times
that diameter, with a prism whose refracting angle was

63° 12'.

In taking into consideration this new difficulty, Newton

acknowledges that a difference of 3° 12' in the refract
ing angle of the prism, is too little to reconcile the two
results, and he conjectures that Mr. Lucas may have
set down the round number of 60° as the angle of his
prism, in the same manner as he set down its refractive

p"oTwheer,n,o"r  the ratio  of the   sines, as  two to three, or T500.
                 he adds,            be two     or three degrees less
                            " if it

than 60°, if not still less, all this would take away the

greatest part of the difference between us." In order

however, to determine the point experimentally, he mea
sured the length of the spectrum with prisms of differ

ent angles, and obtained the following results :-- In the

first column of the following table, he gives the six angles

84                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        CHAP. IV.

of two prisms which he used, and "which were measured

as exactly as he could by applying them to the angle of a

sector." In the second he gives in inches the length of

the image made by each of these angles, breadth being           to in its
                its
                           of                                                   a
two inches,        distance from the prism eighteen feet and
                                                                     the window
four inches, and the breadth                 of of  the hole
                                             an inch. We have added third
shutter one-fourth

column, showing the ratio                         the length         the breadth
    the spectrum.
of

                   Angles the Prism.         Length Image.9% 7# Ratio its Lengthhe
                          56° 10'                      inches.      to its Breadth.of
                                  24                  , , of                  to to to to to to
                           63 26               10#                     33           1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1.
-               {: :                                                   4#
                                      of                               5#
The first Prism,                         0'

The second Prism,  54°                             7#  ,, , ,                 33
                           12                    10#                          51's
                                                 10#                          53
                   63 48

    On clearer day, with the second prism,                                      found the
of

     an
          a

            of

            63#

                                                4812 0°

                                         to
                                                   be
                                                   as

                                            ,
lengths the spectrum                                follows, about one-fourth
         inch greater than before --

                   54°                            7# inches.                  3#5%
                                                                              5+    to to to
The second Prism,                                10'                                      1. 1. 1.
                                                 11 **

                                                               in of

                                                                   a
                                                                          at
of       noticing the other experiments Lucas with differ
   a In
ently coloured silks, which                  he  placed         line, and view

ing both through prism and when placed the bottom
                   a

                     of
       square vessel water, Newton found that "uncon

cerned persons" always saw them line they had
                                                       in

                                                           a
                                                                        as

                                                                     if

all suffered the same refraction. He does not, however,

point out their insufficiency prove equality refrac     so an
                   so                                      as                     of
                          as an so                               he                   in
                                to

                                         to
tion, but thanks Mr. Lucas for taking much pains exa

mining them, "and much the more,                                     was the first

that had sent him        experimental examination                                 of  them."

He even goes far                             say that,  in      little Treatise on
                                                           a

1670-76.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  85

the subject, written before his first communication to the

Royal Society, he had actually written down the princi
pal of the experiments which Mr. Lucas had now sent

him.

    We have been thus minute in describing the experiments
of Lucas and Newton on the length of the spectrum, be

cause they have a close connexion with the determination

of the different dispersive powers of bodies, which was one
of the greatest discoveries of the following century, and

led to the invention of the achromatic telescope. There

are only two ways in which we can account for the short
ness of the spectrum observed by Lucas. His eyes may

have been to some extent insensible to violet and blue

light, and therefore the spectrum would appear to him
Ifmuch shorter than it really was.
                                    we cut off from New

ton's spectrum one and a half inches, to reduce it to Lucas's,

we cut off the whole of the indigo and violet spaces ; and,

unless from an imperfection of vision, Lucas could not

have failed to see* these colours in an apartment so very
Ifdark as his.
                he had no such imperfection, it becomes

highly probable that his prism was made of glass of a low

dispersive power. Newton's prisms may have been of
flint-glass, and Lucas's of crown-glass ; and it is a remark

able circumstance, that in all these controversies the na

ture of the glass is never once mentioned. Had Newton

been less confident than he was, that all other prisms

must give a spectrum of the same length as his, in rela
tion to its refracting angle and index of refraction, the

invention of the achromatic telescope would have been
the necessary result. The objections of Lucas drove

Newton to make experiments which he never contempla
ted, namely, to measure accurately the lengths of spectra

formed with prisms of different angles and different re-

86  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. IV.

fractive powers ; and had the Dutch Professor maintained
his opinions with more obstinacy and perseverance, he

would have conferred a distinguished favour upon science,

and rewarded Newton for all the vexation which had

arisen from the minute discussion of his optical dis

coveries.

   Thus terminated the disputes with Pardies, Linus,

Gascoigne, and Lucas, and we think it can scarcely be
doubted that Newton found it a more difficult task to

detect the origin of his adversaries' blunders, and to

expose their fallacy, than to establish the great truths

which they had attempted to overturn.

    Harassing as such a controversy was to a philosopher
like Newton, yet it did not touch those deep-seated feel

ings which characterize the noble and generous mind.

It was with ignorance and incapacity only    that he had to
strive. No personal invective ruffled his                --
                                             equanimity
no vulgar jealousy roused his indignation ;              ;
                                             --no charge of

plagiarism called in question his veracity or his honour.

These aggravations of scientific controversy, however, he

was destined to endure, and in the disputes which he was

called to maintain against Hooke, Huygens, and Leibnitz,
the agreeable consciousness of grappling with minds of

kindred power was painfully imbittered by the personal

feelings which were thrown into the contest.

    Dr. Robert Hooke, born in 1635, was about seven years

older than Newton, and was one of the ninety-eight ori

ginal or unelected Fellows of the Royal Society. He

possessed great versatility of talent ; yet though his genius

was of the most original cast, and his acquirements exten
sive, he had not devoted himself with fixed purpose to
any particular branch of knowledge. His numerous and

ingenious inventions, of which we cannot speak too highly.

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  87''

gave to his studies a practical character, unfitting him
for that continuous labour which physical researches so
imperiously demand. The subjects of light and colours,

however, seem to have deeply occupied his thoughts before
Newton descended into the same arena, and there can be

no doubt that he had made considerable progress in their
study. With a mind less divergent in its pursuits, and
more fixed in its purpose, he might have unveiled the
mystery in which both these subjects were enveloped,
and pre-occupied the intellectual throne which was des
tined for his rival ; but the infirm state of his health, the

peevishness of temper to which it gave rise, the number
of unfinished inventions from which he looked both for

fortune and fame, and above all, his inordinate love

of reputation, distracted and broke down the energies of

his powerful intellect. In the more matured inquiries of

his rivals he recognised, and often truly, his own incom

pleted speculations ; and when he saw others reaping the
harvest for which he had prepared the ground, and of
which he had sown the seed, it was not easy to conceal
the mortification which their success inspired. In the
arbitraments of science it has always been a difficult task
to adjust the rival claims of competitors, when the one
was allowed to have completed what the other was ac
knowledged to have begun. He who commences an
inquiry, and publishes its results, often goes much far
ther than he has announced to the world, and pushing
his speculations into the very heart of the subject, fre
quently submits them to the ear of friendship. From the
pedestal of his published labours his rival begins his
researches, and brings them to a successful issue, while
he has in reality done nothing more than complete the

unfinished labours, and demonstrate the imperfect specu

88         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.    CHAP. IV.

lations of his rival or his predecessor. To the world and

to himself he is no doubt in the position of the principal
discoverer, but there is still some apology for his rival,
when he brings forward his unpublished labours, and

some excuse for the exercise of personal feeling, when he
measures the speed of his rival by his own proximity to

the goal.

    The conduct of Dr. Hooke would have been viewed

with some such feeling, had not his arrogance on other

occasions checked the natural current of our sympathy.

When Newton presented his Reflecting Telescope to the

Royal Society, Dr. Hooke not only criticised the instru

ment with undue severity, but announced, what was never

realized, that he possessed an infallible method of perfect
ing all kinds of optical instruments, so that " whatever

almost hath been in notion and imagination, or desired

in optics, may be performed with great facility and

truth."

Descartes had long ago maintained that an ethereal
                                        b;--oditehsat;--thtehaetthleigr hist
medium     pervaded all transparent
consists  in the action of this medium
less implicated in the parts of solid bodies ;--that it

moves more freely in them, and transmits light more

readily through them, so as to accelerate the rays in a

certain proportion ; --that refraction arises from this ac

celeration, and has the sines of incidence and refraction

proportional ; --that light is at first uniform ; --that its

colours are some disturbance or new modification of its rays

by refraction or reflexion ;--that the colours of a prism

are made by means of the quiescent medium accelerating

some motion of the rays on one side where red appears,

and retarding it on the other side where blue appears, and

that there are but these two original colours, or colour

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  69

making modifications of light, which, by their various
degrees or dilutings, as Hooke calls them, produce all
intermediate ones.

    These views were adopted by Dr. Hooke, who " changed
Descartes' pressing or progressive motion of the medium

to a vibrating one ; --the rotation of the globuli to the

obliquation of pulses, and the accelerating their rotation
on the one hand, and retarding it on the other, by the
quiescent medium to produce colours, to the like action
of the medium on the two ends of his pulses for the same

end."1

    Such were Hooke's opinions of the nature of light when
Newton published his Theory of Colours, and it was
through this theoretical medium that he viewed Newton's
discoveries, when he sent his observations upon them to

the Royal Society, on the 15th February 1672. Dr.
Hooke was thanked " for the pains he had taken in
bringing in such ingenious reflections ;" but it was not
" thought fit to print the two papers together, lest Mr.
Newton should look upon it as a disrespect in printing so
sudden a refutation of a discourse of his which had met

with so much applause at the Society but a few days
before."

   It is not easy to follow the train of thought which runs

through the observations of Dr. Hooke. While he praises
" the niceness and curiosity" of Newton's experiments, and
expresses an entire agreement with him as to the truth
of those which he brought forward, founded on hundreds
of trials made by himself, yet he " cannot see in his hypo
thesis of solving the phenomena of colours thereby, any

   1 This view of Descartes' theory and of Hooke's opinions, is given by Newton in
his letter to Oldenburg, dated 21st December 1675. General Diet. vol. vii. p. 783,
or Macclesfield Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 378.

90  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

undeniable argument to convince him of its certainty."
He considers them as proving his own hypothesis, which
he endeavours, without much success, to explain and
establish. This, indeed, seems to be the principal object

of his paper, but even if he had succeeded, the truth of

his theory would not have invalidated in the slightest

degree the doctrines of Newton. " I most readily agree,"

says he, " with them (Newton's experiments) in every

Ipart thereof, and esteem it (his hypothesis) very subtle

and ingenious, but cannot think it to be the only hypo
thesis, nor so certain as mathematical demonstration."
In remonstrating with Newton " on his wholly laying
aside the thought of improving telescopes and microscopes
by refractions," he is more successful ; but though his
assertion, that the difficulties of removing the effects of

colour are not insuperable, has received ample confirma
tion, yet the result was not obtained by any of the con
trivances which he pretended to possess.

    Newton lost no time in replying to Hooke's communi

cation, and he expressed to Oldenburg the gratification
which he felt, " that so acute an objector as Hooke had
said nothing that could enervate any part of his theory."

On the 11th July 1672, he transmitted to Oldenburg

an elaborate answer to Hooke,1 expressing his convic
tion that both of them " had a sincere endeavour after

knowledge, without valuing uncertain speculations for
their subtleties, or despising certainties for their plain
ness." After admitting that he had deduced the " cor
poreity of light" from his theory of colours, he asserts
that the properties of light were in some measure capable
of being explained, not only by that theory, but by many
other mechanical hypotheses, and that " he had therefore

                                      1 Newtoni Opera, torn. iv. pp. 322-342.

1070-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  91

declined them all, and spoken of light in general terms,
considering it abstractedly as something or other propa
gated every way in straight lines from luminous bodies,
without determining what that thing is." Conscious of
the ingenuity and mental power of his opponent, Newton
left him no loop-hole for escape, but replied to every objec
tion with a precision and force of argument which Hooke
found to be unanswerable. In this remarkable discussion

Newton pointed out the true character of experimental
philosophy, and the duties of those who cultivate it when
rival theories court their attention. He has shewn that the

properties of light may be investigated, and its physical
laws determined without any other principle than that it
is " something propagated every way in straight lines,"
and that discoveries are not to be valued from their coin

cidence with the theoretical views of him who made them,

or their repugnance to those of his opponents. The dis
covery of an important fact or a new law, may confirm
one theory and shake another, but he is not a friend to
truth who would over-estimate it in the one case, or de
preciate it in the other. The true philosopher who for
gets his own reputation amid the triumphs of advancing
 science, and who confides in a theory as a branch of
 eternal truth, will be the last to spurn from him even
 experimental results, that may put his own views to the

torture. It is the self-seeking sciolist alone who pilfers a

 laurel at the expense of truth, or the intellectual coward
 who dreads the ordeal, and questions the decision of ex
 periment and observation. Should the eye of youthful
 genius rest upon these pages, we would counsel him to
 ponder over the reply to Hooke, and to remember in the
 ardour of his pursuit, that Science has a court of appeal
 in which posterity is the arbiter.

92  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            CHAP. IV.

   It would have been well for the progress of science
and the tranquillity of its friends, if experiment and ob

servation had been, more than they have, our guides in
philosophical inquiry. Even in the present day the dis
ciples of Hooke, who "split pulses" with more success
than he did, and whose theory of light has attained a
lofty pre-eminence, have not scrupled to imitate their
master in measuring optical truths by the undulatory
standard, and in questioning and depreciating labours, that
it cannot explain, or that run counter to its deductions.
There is fortunately, however, a small remnant in the
Temple of Science, who, while they give to theory its due

honours and its proper place, are desirous, as experimental
philosophers, to follow in the steps of their great Master.

   After silencing the most powerful of his adversaries,
Newton was unexpectedly summoned to defend himself
against a new enemy. The celebrated Christian Huygens,
an eminent mathematician and natural philosopher, who,
like Hooke, had maintained the undulatory theory of
light, transmitted to Oldenburg on the 14th January
1673, a letter from Paris, containing some considerations
on Newton's Theory of Light ; but though his knowledge
of optics was of the most extensive kind, his objections

were as groundless, and his speculations as erroneous as
those of his less enlightened countrymen. Attached to
the undulatory hypothesis, he seems, like Dr. Hooke, to
have viewed the theory of Newton as calculated to over
turn and he therefore objects to its two leading doc
trines, namely, the composition of white light by the
union of all the colours, and the generality of the doctrine
of their different refrangibilities. The objection which he
urges against the theory of whiteness that may be
produced equally well by yellow and blue, and " he does
    it,
                                                                    is,
                                                                     it

1C70-7G.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                93

not see why Mr. Newton doth not content himself with
these two colours, as it will be much more easy to find a

hypothesis by motion that will explicate these two differ

ences, than for so many diversities as there are of other
colours, and till he hath found this hypothesis, he has not
taught us what it is wherein consists the nature and dif

ference of colours, but only this accident (which certainly
is very considerable) of their different refrangibility."
He then proposes that the experiment should be tried of

stopping all the colours but yellow and blue and green, and

then mixing them on paper to see if they make the paper

white, " as well as when they all give light." Nay, he adds

the following extraordinary opinion, as if it were a new

and happy thought. " I even doubt," says he, " whether

the lightest place of the  yellow  colour  may    not              all alone
produce that effect, and                   it at  the              first con-
                           I mean  to try

veniency ; for this thought never came into my mind but
just now. Meantime you may see that if these experi

ments do succeed it can no more be said that all the

colours are necessary to compound white ; and that 'tis

very probable that all the rest are nothing but degrees of

yellow and blue more or less changed."

On the subject of the difference of refrangibility, he is

equally wrong, though with more reason for his error.
He remarks, that the picture formed in a dark room by

an object-glass of twelve feet, is too distinct and too well-
defined to be " produced by rays that would stray the

Ififtieth part of the aperture ; so that (as believe I have

told you heretofore) the difference of the refrangibility
doth not, it may be, always follow the same proportion in

the great and small inclinations of the rays upon the

surface of the glass." 1

          1 Phil. Trans., vol. viii. No. 96, p. 6086, July 1G9I!.

94           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. IV.

    To these extraordinary objections, Newton replied on

the 3d April 1 6 73,1 and also in another paper which im
mediately follows the observations of Huygens, the first

of these answers having been, as we are informed by the

editor, mislaid, otherwise it should have also immediately

followed the letter of Huygens. In these answers, New

ton shows that the yellows and blues which could produce

white, are not simple but compound ; and he explains

more minutely how the existence of an aberration equal

to the fiftieth of the aperture, is compatible with the dis

tinctness of a picture formed by a twelve feet object-

glass. Huygens, still dissatisfied with the explanations so

patiently given to him, informs Oldenburg that he has
still " matter to answer them, but seeing that Newton
maintains his opinion with so much concern, he list not

to dispute." Newton was not pleased with this criticism

upon    his  explanations, and says in his letter         to Olden
burg,
       --"   As for Mr. Huygens' expression, I            confess it

was a little ungrateful to me to meet with objections

which had been answered before, without having the

least reason given me why those answers were insuffi

cient."2

    But though Huygens appears in this controversy as a

rash and unreasonable objector to the Newtonian doctrine

of colours, it was afterwards the destiny of Newton to

play a similar part against the Dutch philosopher. When

Huygens published his beautiful law of double refraction,

founded on the finest experimental analysis of the pheno

mena, though presented as a result of the undulatory

       "1
                                                                     a

                                                    it,

                                                                                                in

                                                                         it
theory, Newton not only rejected but substituted for

another law entirely incompatible with the experiments

          Phil. Trans., No. 97, p. 6108.                  April 1673.
          Letter to Oldenburg without date, but probably

1670-70.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                 95

of Huygens, which Newton himself had praised, but with
those of all succeeding philosophers.1

    Although Hooke and Huygens were now driven from
the field, and the views of Newton established upon an

impregnable basis, yet these prolonged and exciting con
troversies ruffled his temper, and disturbed his tranquil
lity. Even the satisfaction of humbling all his antagonists
he did not regard as a compensation for the time he had
wasted, and the intellectual labour which he had thrown

Iaway. " intend," says he to Oldenburg, " to be no

farther solicitous about matters of philosophy ; and there

fore I hope you will not take it ill if you never find me

doing any thing more in that kind ; or rather that you
will favour me in my determination, by preventing, so far

1 It is curious to observe how little accurate knowledge of the great optical dis
                                                                  In
coveries of the age                                  Leibnitz.        a letter  addressed to Huygens,
                                                     " hear     from  Mr. de    Mariotte that you are
Idated 8th September
            was possessed by

             1679, he says, --
Iabout to give us your Dioptrics, so long wished for.
                                                                      have a great desire to know
Ibeforehand if you are satisfied with the ratio of refraction proposed by Descartes.
Iconfess that am neither wholly satisfied with
                                                                nor with the explanation of Mr.
                                                                it,
                                                                          "

                                                                                                  if
Fermat, given in the third volume (Lett. 51) of Descartes' Letters."--Ch. Hugenii,
                               8; lett. iv., Hag. Com. 1833. Huygens made no
Exercit. Math., torn. pp.
            by a
reply to this question, though he answered Leibnitz's letter on the 22d November.i.

In replying to this letter, Leibnitz repeats the same question, confessing that he: 7,

was neither satisfied with the ratio of Descartes, nor that of Fermat deduced from anI
opposite supposition. To this question he adds,- -- lavish to know also you
believe that the irregularity of refraction, --for example, that which Mr. Newton has
remarked, -- ought to hurt telescopes considerably?" -- Ibid., lett. vi. p. 17. An

answer to this question was given by Huygens in a subsequent letter, for we find

Leibnitz, in letter dated 26th June 1680, expressing his satisfaction that Huygens
had formed the same opinion of the " pretended demonstration of the laws of refrac
            Descartes." --Ibid., lett. viii. p. 20. No reply made to the question
tion given                                                                      is
                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                                          ;
about Newton's doctrine of the cause of the imperfection of refracting telescopes

but ten years afterwards, when Leibnitz had received from Huygens               copy of bis

Traite de la Lumiere, we find  the                 following curious passage in his letter to Leib
nitz, dated 24th August 1690                         have said nothing respecting colours in my
                               --"

Traite de la Lumilre, finding this subject very difficult, and particularly from the

great number of different ways in which colours are produced. Mr. Newton pro

mised something on the subject, and communicated to me some very fine experi

ments which he had collected. It seems that you have also thought on the subject,

and apparently to some purpose." -- Ibid., lett. xi. pp. 27, 28.

96            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

as you can conveniently, any objections or other philoso

phical letters that may concern me." In a subsequent

Iletter in 1 6 75, he says,--" had some thoughts of writing

a farther discourse about colours, to be read at one of

your assemblies, but find it yet against the grain to put

                                         and in a letter

                                         observes, --"
Ipen to paper any more on that subject;"
              he
to Leibnitz, of the 9th December 1675,

was so persecuted with discussions arising out of my

Itheory of light, that blamed my own imprudence for

parting with so substantial a blessing as my quiet to run
after a shadow." Nor was this a temporary resolution

arising from some disagreeable expressions of a personal

nature, which often imbitter controversy even in its most

temperate form. Nearly a year after his complaint to
Leibnitz, he uses the following remarkable expressions in

I Ia communication to Oldenburg :-- " see have made
myself a slave to philosophy ; but if I get free of Mr.
Linus's business, I will resolutely bid adieu to it eternally,
Iexcepting what do for my private satisfaction, or leave
Ito come out after me ; for see a man must either re

solve to put out nothing new, or to become a slave to

defend it."1

    In this state of mind, perplexed, as we shall presently

see, with some pecuniary difficulties, and feeling, as he
expressed it to Collins in 1674, " that mathematical spe

culations were at least dry, if not somewhat barren," there

is reason to believe that Newton, " who, in the usual

course of things, would vacate his Fellowship in a few

months, had seriously thought of directing his mind to
the study of law." In an obituary notice of the Rev.

   1 This letter is dated November 18, 1676, and was written after receiving
an account of the experiments of Lucas. -- Macclesfield Correspondence, vol. ii.
p. 405.

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    97

Robert Uvedale, Rector of Langton, in Lincolnshire,1 it is
stated that his grandfather, Mr. Uvedale, when one of the
Divinity Fellows of Trinity College, Cambridge, had be
come candidate for the Law Fellowship in that College

when made vacant, on the 14th February 1673, by the

death of Dr. Crane ; --that Mr. Newton was his competi
tor ;--that Dr. Barrow, as Master of Trinity, decided it in

favour of Mr. Uvedale ; and that the ground of his deci
sion was, that though Mr. Uvedale and Mr. Newton were
at that time equal in literary attainments, yet he must
give the Fellowship to Mr. Uvedale as the senior. Mr.
Edleston2 is disposed to consider this story as mythical,
and he thinks that the real facts of the case were, that
Uvedale was appointed to a Law Fellowship, and that
Newton would have been glad to have had one. This
opinion he rests on the ground that the tenure of the Law
Fellowship could scarcely be considered compatible with
the duties of the Lucasian chair, and " he believes that it

would argue much misconception of the characters of the
two great men concerned, to suppose them capable of
being parties to a lax interpretation of the statute which
they had sworn to obey." We can hardly admit the force
of this argument in opposition to the precise statements,

even if traditionary, of the Uvedale family. The neces

sities of Newton, and the ardent friendship of Barrow,
might have induced the one to adopt a lax interpretation
of the Lucasian statutes, and the other to accept the Fel
lowship, had it been in his power, without any great loss
of character ; and we are the more inclined to adopt this
opinion, when we know that in modern times the same

statutes have been imperfectly observed.

          1 Gentleman's Magazine, 1799, Supplement, pp. 1186 and 999.
          8 Correspondence, &c, pp. xlviii. xlix. note, 38.

VOL. I.                              G

98         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. IT.

    While Newton was harassed with these discussions, and

chagrined, it may be, with the loss of the Law Fellow

ship, he came to the resolution of resigning his place in

the Royal Society. On the 8th of March 1673, he writes

in the following terms to Oldenburg :-- " SiR, -- I desire
Ithat you will procure that may be put out from being
Iany longer a member of the Royal Society ; for though
honour that body, yet, since I see I shall neither profit

Ithem, nor (by reason of this distance) can partake of the
advantage  of their assemblies,     desire to withdraw."
Oldenburg  expressed his surprise1  " at his resigning for

no other cause than his distance, which he knew as well

at the time of his election ;" and he probably then inti

mated to him, that he would apply to the Society to

excuse him his weekly payments. That such an intima

tion   was made,    appears from    Newton's letter   to Olden
burg,                23, 1673, in                     For your
        dated June                 which he says,--"
proffer about my quarterly payments, I thank you, but
I would not have you trouble yourself to get them ex

cused, if you have not done it already." Nothing far

ther seems to have been said on the subject till the

28th January 1675, when Mr. Oldenburg mentioned
" to the Society, that Mr. Newton was now in such

circumstances that he desired to be excused from the
weekly payments."2 Upon which " it was agreed to

by the council that he should be dispensed with, as

several others were." It does not appear, from any do

cuments we have seen, what the change of circumstances

was to which Oldenburg alludes, but Mr. Edleston thinks

it probable that it refers to the expected vacating of

   1 This appears from a memorandum on the back of Newton's letter to him.  one
   * The admission-money to the Royal Society was £2, and the payments

shilling a week.

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  99

his Fellowship, from his being appointed to the Lucasian
chair, which, in the usual course of things, would expire
in the following autumn. This anticipated event, how
ever, did not take place, for, on the 27th April 1675, he
obtained a patent from the Crown, permitting the Luca
sian Professor to hold a Fellowship, without being obliged
to go into orders.

    This permission seems to have been obtained on the
application of Newton ; and Mr. Edleston is of opinion,
that the draught of it in Newton's own hand, among the
Lucasian papers, was composed by himself, and that his
visit to London in February may have been connected with
this application to the Crown. When the grant was sub
mitted to the King, the following memorandum, found
also in Newton's handwriting, was recorded at Whitehall

on the 2d March 1674 :-- " His Majesty, being willing to

give all just encouragement to learned men who are and
shall be elected into the said Professorship, is graciously
pleased to refer this draught of a patent unto Mr. Attur-

ney-Generall to consider the same, and to report his
opinion what his Majesty may lawfully do in favour of

the said Professors, as to the indulgence and dispen
sation proposed and desired." The original draught,
which has been published by Mr. Edleston, was adopted,
excepting in two unimportant particulars, and there is

a copy of it in the archives of Trinity College, with
the heading, -- Indulgentia Regia Professori Mathema-
tico concessa, dignissimo viro Magistro Isaaco New-
tono, hujus Collegii Socio, istud munus tunc temporis

obeunte.

   It is obvious, we think, from these proceedings, that

the change in Newton's circumstances must have been of

a distressing nature, otherwise he would hardly have per

100                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  CHAP. iv.

mitted Oldenburg to apply to the Royal Society for a

remission of his weekly payments. At no period of his

life had he any regard for money, and, as he was always
punctual and accurate in his pecuniary concerns, it is

very probable, that when the income of his Fellowship1

and the Lucasian chair were united, he may have resumed
Ifhis payments to the Royal Society.2
                                                                                  he did not do

this, it could not have been from poverty, as we find him

in 1676 subscribing forty pounds to the new Library of

Trinity College.
   But however this may be, it cannot fail to be remarked,

especially by foreigners, as a singular example of the

illiberality of England to her scientific institutions, that a

Society, founded by the sovereign, and bearing the name

of Royal, should have been established without any pro

vision for the support of its members, for carrying on

scientific inquiries, or for the publication of its Transac
tions. Nor is it less remarkable, that an Institution so

useful to the country, so bright with immortal names, and

so fitted to promote the intellectual glory of the nation,

should have been continued under royal patronage for

nearly two hundred years without any attempt being

made to extend its usefulness, by placing it in the same
advantageous position as the Academy of Sciences in

    1 In reference to an application from Francis Aston for a dispensation similar to

thatsaryesc, e--ive"dInbdyeeNdewtonFe, lloDwrs. hBiparrowwi,ththuesn  Master  of Trinity, in  declining  to grant
s it,               1.                                                   now  so poor, that      cannot  think
          is, a  a            a                                                             I            i. it

                                          is
worth holding by an ingenuous person upon terms liable to so much scruple." --

Edleston's Correspondence, p.

     In volume of MSS. in the British Museum relating to the Royal Society,

there            as Mr. Weld informs us, sheet containing the names of Fellows who

will probably pay, and give yearly one entertainment to the Society. Opposite the
names of Dr. Grew, Hooke, and Newton, are the words, "No pay, but will contribute

experiments." The date of this list,  if     has any, not mentioned. See Baily's
                                         it                                   is

Life of Flamsteed, p. 90, note, and Weld's Hist, of the Royal Society, vol.

p.  250, note.

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  101

Paris, and other similar institutions in the metropolitan
cities of Europe.

  If Newton did not feel it a hardship to pay a weekly

pittance into the treasury of the Royal Society, he must
have felt it a degradation to plead poverty for its remis
sion. His colleagues in the Society, and men of science
in a succeeding age, on whom the wealth of this world is

never abundantly bestowed, must have often smarted
under the injustice of paying for the publication of dis
coveries which it cost them much time, and frequently
much money, to complete. Of all the taxes upon know
ledge this is the most oppressive, and not the less oppres
sive that it is exacted from the feelings and patriotism of
its victims.

    There is reason to believe that Newton took this view

of his own position, and of the inefficiency of any scientific
body constituted upon the voluntary principle ; and it is
not improbable, that he committed to writing his opinions
on this subject at the time when he had resolved to with
draw from the Society. In support of this opinion, we have
great pleasure in submitting to the reader a very remark
able document in Newton's handwriting, which we found
among the family papers at Hurtsbourne Park, entitled

" A Scheme for Establishing the Royal Society." We give

it without abridgment or change, as the opinions of so
competent a judge on the subjects which ought to occupy
the attention of a national institute, and on the best me

thod of making it efficient in promoting the advancement
of profound science and of useful knowledge, cannot fail
to be appreciated by every class of readers.1

    1 We found two copies of this scheme, one of which is more complete than the
other. The first paragraph of the copy given in the text is wanting in the less
perfect copy, but in other respects they are nearly the same. There is no date
upon either of the copies.

102    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

      " SCHEME FOR ESTABLISHING THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

    " Natural Philosophy consists in discovering the frame
and operations of Nature, and reducing them, as far as

may be, to general Rules or Laws, --establishing these

rules by observations and experiments, and thence dedu
cing the causes and effects of things ; and for this end it

may be convenient, that one or two (and at length per
haps three or four) Fellows of the Royal Society, well
skilled in any one of the following branches of Philosophy,

and as many in each of the rest be obliged by pensions

and   forfeitures, (as   soon   aRs oiyt acl aSnocbieetyc.o--mpTahsseedB,r)antochaets
tend   the meetings     of the
are--
" 1. Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry, and Mechanics,

with relation to the figures, surfaces, magnitudes, forces,
motions, resistances, weights, densities, centres of gravity,

and other mathematical affections of solids and fluids ;--
rbtehofedleiexcsioomn;--spotshoitefionsmooliotdifosnf;o--rocfethspeeancndedunlutmrmiofsut,igonapsl rfo;o--jreccetthseedosfahnordeckvfsoallvlaiinnnggd
bodies ; --the mensuration of time and distance ; --the
efficacy of the five powers, the running of rivers ;--the

propagation of light and sound, and the harmony and
discord of tunes and colours.

aGned"og2t.hraePphhsiulyor,fs--aocpeNhayovfirgethalaetitoinEnga, rtatohn,dthveMizeH. teeOaopvrteoicnlsos,,g--yth;eAsAatntrmodnowosmhpahyte, rr--ee,

lates to the magnitudes, distances, motions, and centri

fugal forces of the heavenly bodies ; and to the weight,
height, form, and motions of the Atmosphere, and of the
things therein, and to instruments for observing the same ;
and to the figure and motions of the Earth and Sea.

1670-76.                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  103

" 3. Philosophy relating to animals, --viz. their species,
-- qualities, --passions, --anatomy,
                                      diseases,                     &c., and the
knowledge of the frame and use         of their
                                                                    Stomachs, --

entrails, blood-vessels, heart, lungs, liver, spleen, glands,

juices, and organs of sensation, motion, and generation.
    " 4. Philosophy relating to vegetables, and particularly

the knowledge of their species, parts, leaves, flowers,

seeds, fruits, juices, virtues, and properties, and the man

ner of their generation, nutrition, and vegetation.
    " 5. Mineralogy1 and Chemistry, and the knowledge of

the nature of Earths, Stones, Corals, Spars, Metals, semi-

metals, Marchasites, Arseniates, Bitumens, Sulphurs, Salts,
Vitriols, Rain-Water, Springs, Oils, Tinctures, Spirits, Va
pours, Fumes, Air, Fire, Flames and their parts, Tastes,

Smells, Colours, Gravity, Density, Fixity, Dissolutions,

Fermentations, Coalitions, Separations, Congelations, Li

quefactions, Volatility, Distillation, Sublimation, Precipi

tation, Corrosiveness, Electricity, Magnetism, and other

qualities ;--and the causes of subterraneous Caves, Rocks,

Shells, Waters, Petrifactions, Exhalations, Damps, Heats,

Fires, and Earthquakes, and the rising or falling of Moun

tains and Islands.

   " To any one or more of these Fellows, such Books, Let

                             may be referred by the
ters, and things as deserveif

Royal Society at their meetings from time to time andit,
                                        a                           it
                                                                                ;
as often as any such Fellowship becomes void, may be

filled up by the Royal Society with a person who hath

already invented something new, or made some consider

able improvement in that branch of philosophy, or
                                                                    it
                                                                        is

                                                                                         ; is
eminent for skill therein, such person can be found.

For the reward will be an encouragement to Inventors

and will be an advantage to the Royal Society to have
1

  it

                    by
Written                 mistake Meteorology; but in the other copy  Mineralogy.

104        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

such men at their meetings, and tend to make their meet
ings numerous and useful, and their body famous and
lasting."

   It is very evident, from this interesting document, that

Newton was desirous of converting the Royal Society into

an institution like that of the Academy of Sciences in

Paris ; but we have not been able to learn that he ever

communicated this plan either to the Society itself, or to

any of its members. During the last twenty years, and

long before we could have known the views of so competent

a judge, we have cherished the same desire, and embraced

every opportunity of pressing it upon the notice of the
public.1 Several years ago we communicated Sir Isaac

Newton's scheme to Sir Robert Peel, and it was so far

carried into effect by the establishment of the Museum of
Practical Geology, which is neither more nor less than an

enlargement of the Mineralogical, Geological, and Chemi

cal sections of an Academy of Sciences, or a National

Institute. The services of all the members of this im

portant body are of course at the entire disposal of the

state, though its members are frequently employed in

other duties than those which strictly belong to their
Ifoffice.
           mineralogy, geology, and chemistry, therefore,

have obtained a national establishment for their im

provement and extension,-- astronomy, mechanics, na

tural history, medicine, and literature, and the arts, are
Ifentitled to the same protection.
                                    any real objections

exist to such an establishment, they can be founded only

   1 See especially the Quarterly Review, October 1830, vol. xliii. pp. 305-342 ;
Edinburgh Review, January 1835, vol. Ix. p 363; Edinburgh Journal of Science,
passim; North British Review, vol. iv. pp. 410-412 ; vol. vi. p. 506; vol. xiv. pp.
281-288; from the last of which articles some of the paragraphs in the text are

transferred.

1670-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  105

upon two causes ;--on the unwillingness of existing volun

tary societies to be merged in a general institution, and
on the apprehension that the expense would be a burden
to the state. Men will always be found who oppose every
change, however salutary, and who regard the reform of
existing institutions as dangerous innovations. In politi
cal and educational questions, the rights and interests of
individuals often obstruct the march of civilisation, but in

matters of science and literature, such rights have neither
been conferred nor claimed. Were the Royal, the Astro

nomical, the Geological, the Linnaean, the Zoological, and
the Geographical Societies, together with the Society of

Civil Engineers, and the Museum of Practical Geology,
all united into an Academy of Sciences, and divided into
distinct sections as in France, the really working members
would occupy a more distinguished position, while the
nobility and gentry would preserve all their rights and
privileges as honorary members.1 The Royal Society of
Literature, and the Antiquarian Society, would readily
coalesce into the Academy of Belles Lettres, and the ex
isting Royal Academy would form the Academy of the
Fine Arts, divided, as in France, into the three sections
of Painting, Sculpture, and Engraving. In the magnificent
grove acquired by Prince Albert and the Royal Commis
sioners at Kensington Gore, a Palace of Arts would be
 reared for the Institute, and there would be one library,
 one museum, and one record of their weekly proceedings.
 Each member of the now insulated societies would listen

 to the memoirs and discussions of the assembled Academy,
 and science and literature would thus receive a new im

 pulse from the number and variety of their worshippers.

   1 Corresponding to the Academiciens Libres of the Academy of Sciences in
Paris.

106          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC UEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

    The second difficulty to which we have referred, namely,
the expense of endowment, scarcely merits our consider

ation. A very large sum is annually expended by the

State in support of the existing societies, and a consider

able number of those who would be members of the

General Institute, already enjoy the liberality of Govern

ment. But, independently of these considerations, the

organization of a National Institute would be a measure

of real and direct economy. The inquiries connected

with the arts, whether useful or ornamental, which are

required by the Government, have hitherto been carried

on by Committees of Parliament ; and had we a return of
all the sums annually spent in scientific inquiries, and for
scientific purposes, the amount would be found to exceed

greatly that of the annual expense, however liberal, of a

National Institution. Every question connected with

ship-building, with our steam navy, our light-houses, our
harbours, our railways, our mines, our fisheries, our sana

tory establishments, our agriculture, our statistics, our

fine and useful arts, would be investigated and reported

upon by a Committee of Academicians ; and while the

money of the State would thus be saved, the national
resources would be augmented, and all the material inter

ests of the country, under the combined energies of her

Art and her Science, would advance with a firm and

accelerated step.

But there are grounds higher than utilitarian, on which

we would plead the national endowment of science and

literature.  In ancient times, when knowledge had a

limited range, and was but slightly connected with the

wants of life, the sage stood even on a higher level than
the hero and the lawgiver, and History has preserved his
name in her imperishable record, when theirs has disap

1670-76.    LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  107

peared from its page. Archimedes lives in the memory
of thousands who have forgotten the tyrants of Syracuse,

and the Roman consul who subdued it. The halo which

encircled Galileo under the tortures of the Inquisition,

extinguishes in its blaze even the names of his tormentors ;

and Newton's glory will throw a lustre over the name of

England, when time has paled the light reflected from

her warriors. The renown of military achievements

appeals but to the country which they benefit and adorn :

It lives but in the obelisk of granite : It illuminates but

the vernacular page. Subjugated nations turn from the

proud monument that degrades them, and the vanquished
warrior spurns the record of his humiliation or his shame.

Even the patriot traveller makes a deduction from mili

tary glory, when he surveys the red track of desolation
and of war, and the tears which the widow and the

orphan shed corrode the inscription that is written in

blood. How different are our associations with the tablet

of marble, or the monument of bronze, which emblazon

the deeds of the sage and the philanthropist ! Their paler
lustre irradiates a wider sphere, and excites a warmer sym

pathy. No trophies of war are hung in the temple which

they adorn, and no assailing foe desecrates its shrine.

In the anthem from its choir the cry of human suffering

never mingles, and in the procession of the intellectual

victor, ignorance and crime are alone bound to his car.

The achievements of genius, could the wings of light

convey    them, would be prized   in  the other worlds of our
system,                           of
          --in the other systems      tthcoeivhiuliinssiavtreiarocsnee--,.--aatThgleaifsytt  are
                                                                                              to
the bequests which man offers                                                                 to

universal humanity -- at first to

barbarism.

Views like these must have influenced the mind of

108  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IV.

Newton, when, in an elaborate document which he left

in duplicate behind him, he recommended the systematic
endowment of Science. Were the British Parliament to

try this question at its bar, and summon as witnesses the
wisest of their race, what name, or what constellation of

names, could countervail against the High Priest of
Science, when he proposes to rebuild its Temple upon a
broader basis, and give its arches a wider span, and its
domes a loftier elevation !

1676.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  109

                       CHAPTER V.

MISTAKE OF NEWTON IN SUPPOSING THE LENGTH OF THE SPECTRA TO
   BE THE SAME IN ALL BODIES -- AND IN DESPAIRING OF THE IMPROVE
    MENT OF REFRACTING TELESCOPES -- IN HIS CONTROVERSY WITH LUCAS
    HE WAS ON THE EVE OF DISCOVERING THE DIFFERENT DISPERSIVE
   POWERS OF BODIES--MR. CHESTER MORE HALL MAKES THIS DISCO
    VERY, AND CONSTRUCTS ACHROMATIC TELESCOPES, BUT DOES NOT
    PUBLISH HIS DISCOVERY MR. DOLLOND REDISCOVERS THE PRINCIPLE
    OF THE ACHROMATIC TELESCOPE, AND TAKES OUT A PATENT -- PRINCI
    PLE OF THE ACHROMATIC TELESCOPE EXPLAINED -- DR. BLAIR'S APLA-
    NATIC TELESCOPE -- GREAT IMPROVEMENT ON THE ACHROMATIC TELE
    SCOPE BY THE FLINT GLASS OF GUINANT, FRAUNIIOFER, AND BONTEMPS
   -- MISTAKE OF NEWTON IN FORMING HIS SPECTRUM FROM THE SUN's
    DISC --DARK LINES IN THE SPECTRUM --NEWTON'S ANALYSIS OF THE
    SPECTRUM INCORRECT -- NEW ANALYSIS OF THE SPECTRUM BY ABSORP
     TION, ETC., DEFENDED AGAINST THE OBJECTIONS OF HELMHOLTZ,
    BERNARD, AND OTHERS CHANGE IN THE REFRANGIBILITY OF LIGHT
     MAINTAINED BY PROFESSOR STOKER OBJECTIONS TO HIS THEORY.

    The two great doctrines of the different refrangibility
of the rays of light, and of the composition of white light,
by mixing all the rays of the spectrum, having been
established by Newton on an impregnable basis, we come
now to describe some of the other results which he ob
tained regarding the prismatic spectrum and its colours,
to point out the errors which he committed, to shew the
influence which they had on the progress of optics, and
to give an account of the remarkable discoveries which
have been made in this branch of science during the last
and the present century.

    There are few facts in the history of optics more sin

110             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. v.

gular than that Newton should have believed that all

bodies when shaped into prisms produced prismatic

spectra of equal length, or separated, or dispersed the

red and violet rays to equal distances, when the mean

refraction, or the refraction of the middle ray of the

spectrum was the same. This opinion, which he de

duced from no direct experiments, and into which no

theoretical views could have led him, seems to have

been impressed on his mind with all the force of an

axiom. In one of his experiments he had occasion to

counteract the refraction of a prism of glass by a prism

of water ; and had he completed the experiment, and
studied the result of it when the mean refraction of the

two prisms was the same, he could not have failed to

observe that the prism of water did not correct the colour

of  the  prism  of glass, and would  have thus been     led to one
of  the   most  important truths                         different
                                     in optics, --that

bodies have different dispersive powers, or produce pris

matic spectra of different lengths, when their mean

refraction is the same. It is curious to observe, as hap

pened in this experiment, what trifling circumstances

often arrest the philosopher when on the very verge of a

discovery. Newton had mixed with the water which he

used in his prism a little sugar of lead, in order to in
crease the refractive power of the water ; but the sugar

of lead having a higher dispersive power than water,

made the dispersive power of the water prism equal to

that of the prism of glass ; so that if Newton had com

pleted the experiment, the use of the sugar of lead would

have prevented him from making an important discovery,

which was almost in his possession. Had he, on the

contrary, increased the angle of his water prism till it
produced the same deviation of the mean ray of the

1676.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  Ill

spectrum, he would have found that the one prism did
not correct the colour of the other, and that the glass had

a greater dispersive power than the water, and gave a

longer spectrum.
    Nor is it less extraordinary that the same discovery

escaped from his grasp during his controversy with Lucas.
When the Dutch philosopher and his numerous friends
who saw his experiments, pronounced his spectrum to be
only 3 1 times its breadth, Newton found it to be at least
five times its breadth : it is strange neither party ever
thought that this might arise from using different kinds
of glass, and never made the least inquiry regarding the

material of which their prism was made. It is highly

probable that Lucas's prism had a very low dispersive
power, which would account for the great difference be
tween his spectra and those of Newton, but whether this
was the case or not, Newton, under the blind conviction

that all spectra must, coeteris paribus, be of equal length,
pronounced " the improvement of telescopes by refrac
tions to be desperate," 1 and thus checked for a long time
the progress of this branch of science.

    About two years after the death of Sir Isaac, an indi
vidual unknown to fame, broke the spell in which the
subject of the spectrum had so long been bound. In the

   1 Optics, Prop, vii., Book ii., p. 91. In his reply to Hooke, who justly " repre
hended him for laying aside the thoughts of improving optics by refractions," he seems
to modify his opinion by saying that he tried what might be done " by two or more
glasses or crystals, with water or some other fluid between them." " But what the

results by theory or by trials have been, he might possibly find a more proper occa
sion to declare." This was written in 1672, and we can therefore say with cer
tainty that he failed in this attempt, as it was in 1684 that he pronounced the case

to be desperate. It is a curious circumstance that David Gregory, in his Lectures

delivered in Edinburgh in 1684, suggests that, in imitation of the human eye, the
object glasses of telescopes might be composed of media of different density. In
Brown's translation of Gregory, the sense of the passage is not brought out. See
Gregory's Catoptrics, Prop, xxiv., Schol., pp. 110, 111.

112  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. V.

year 1 729, Mr. Chester More Hall, of More Hall in Essex,
while studying the mechanism of the human eye, was led
to suppose that telescopes might be improved by forming
their object-glass with two lenses of different refractive
powers. He published no memoir on the subject, and
has not even left behind him any record of the steps by

which he arrived at such a conclusion. It is probable

that he may have adopted David Gregory's idea of com
bining lenses of different density, and as crown and flint
glass differed most in this respect, that in combining them
he discovered the great difference in their dispersive
powers, and was thus led to the invention of the achro
matic telescope. Mr. Hall employed working opticians to
grind his lenses, and furnished them with the proper radii
of their surfaces for correcting the colour arising from the

difference of refrangibility in the rays, and the aberration
occasioned by the spherical figure of the lenses. Mr.
Bass, a well-known working optician, was one of his
assistants, and it was probably through him that the
knowledge of Mr. Hall's invention has been preserved.
About the year 1733 he had completed several achroma
tic object-glasses, which bore an aperture of more than
2% inches, though their focal length did not exceed twenty
inches. One of these telescopes, which in 1798 was in

the possession of the Rev. Mr. Smith of Charlotte Street,
Rathbone Place, was examined by several gentlemen of

scientific eminence, and found to be a genuine achromatic

telescope.

    Many years after the death of Mr. More Hall, Mr. John
Dollond and others had turned their attention to the im

provement of telescopes. Euler, believing the eye to be
achromatic, had endeavoured, but in vain, to discover a

combination of media, by which the object-glasses of

CHAP. V.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 113

telescopes could give colourless images. Klingenstierna
had endeavoured to shew that refraction without colour

might be produced according to the laws of refraction laid

down by Newton himself ; but none of these philosophers

made a single step towards the great discovery which was
made by Mr. Dollond, when the previous labours of Hall

were unpublished. In 1 758, he communicated to the Royal

Society an account of his experiments on the different

refrangibility of light. In this valuable paper, he proved

that glass had a greater dispersive power than water, and

attempted to make achromatic object-glasses by inclosing
water between two lenses of glass. In this attempt he

found the spherical aberration difficult to correct, and he

was therefore led to try crown and flint glass, which he

found to have such different dispersive powers, that he

was at once able to make achromatic object-glasses. In

order to secure his right to this invention, Dollond took out
a patent ; but in consequence of its having been discovered
that the same invention had been made before, some of

the London opticians tried the question at law, and pro

duced in court the telescope of Mr. Hall. It was in vain

to deny the prior claims of Mr. Hall ; but as it was certain

that Dollond was unacquainted with his labours, and as

no achromatic telescope had ever been exposed to sale,

Lord Mansfield justly decided the case in favour of

Dollond.1

It is not easy to explain to the general reader the

principle of the Achromatic Telescope ; but we think it

may be apprehended from an inspection of the annexed

diagram. In crown glass the index of refraction is T526
Iffor red rays, and 1'547 for violet rays.
                                            L L then be a

convex lens of crown glass, it will refract the violet rays

1 See Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine, Nov. 1798, vol. ii. p. 177.

VOL. I.                                     H

114  LIFE OF S1U ISAAC NEWTON.                   CHAP. V.

more than the red, the former in the direction L R, and

the latter in the direction L v, so that R will be the focus
Ifof red, and v that of the violet rays.
                                          we now place

behind it a concave lens c c of the same kind of glass and

the same curvature, it will by its opposite and equal
lr, lrefractions unite again the rays
                                       v, in the direction
l I, so as to form a white ray ; but in this case the com

pound lens acts like a piece of plane glass, or rather like

     I. c

           Fir. .9.

a watch glass which has no focus. But if we make the

concave lens c c of flint glass with less curvature than

L L, then since it has a greater refractive and dispersive

lr, lpower than the lens L L of crown glass, it will, notwith
standing its inferior curvature, unite the rays  v, and

leave such a balance of refraction in favour of the lens

llccL L, that the rays will be united, and a colourless image
formed, at o, so that the double object-glass           will

be an achromatic one.

  If the prismatic spectrum formed by crown and flint

glass had been exactly the same, that
           is                                    the coloured
                                   ; is,

                            if

                                                    is
spaces in each were of the same length, telescopes con

structed upon the preceding principle would have been

perfect, in so far as colour concerned but this         not

the case, and consequently in the very best achromatic

CHAP. V.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  115

  telescopes, there is left what has heen called a secondary
 spectrum, consisting of green and purple colours, which
 appear on the border of the images of all luminous

 objects.

     This secondary or residual spectrum, arising from what
 has been called the irrationality of the coloured spaces in
 the two equal spectra of crown and flint glass, may be
 corrected by an ingenious contrivance discovered by Dr.
 Blair. He found that muriatic acid produced a prismatic
 spectrum, in which the coloured spaces were nearly the
 same as in crown glass, and that he could increase its
 low refractive and dispersive power, by mixing it with
 metallic solutions, so as to fit it for being used like flint
 glass for correcting the colour of the crown glass without
 balancing its refraction. This increase in its refractive
 and dispersive powers, did not alter the proportion of the
 coloured spaces in its spectrum, so that it was capable of

 giving a perfectly colourless image, when placed as a con
 cave lens between two convex ones of crown glass. The
metallic solution used by Dr. Blair was muriate of anti
 mony, and in the lens which he constructed, the rays of
different colours were bent from their rectilineal course

with the same equality and regularity as in reflexion.
To this telescope he gave the name of Aplanatic. Ac
cording to the testimony of Professor Robison, those which

he examined surpassed greatly the best ordinary achro
matic telescopes ; but they have been found difficult to
construct, and in so far as we know, there is not in exist

ence a single aplanatic telescope.
    The Achromatic Telescope, on the contrary, even with

the imperfection of its secondary spectrum, has undergone
great improvements, and promises to rival Reflectors in
excellence and power. By the labours of Guinand, Fraun

116  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  chap. v.

hofer, and M. Bontemps, discs of flint glass of 12, 15, 24,
and even 29 inches in diameter, have been made, and we
hope soon to see the largest of them converted into a
magnificent telescope. The disc of 24 inches has been
converted into a telescope by the Rev. Mr. Craig of

Leamington.1
    But while Newton overlooked the remarkable property

of the prismatic spectrum, on which the improvement of
Refracting Telescopes depends, he committed other con
siderable mistakes in his examination of the spectrum.

It does not seem to have occurred to him that the Solar

Spectrum was not the spectrum from which the properties
of the sun's rays ought to be deduced, and that the
relations of the coloured spaces must depend on the angu
lar magnitude of the luminous body, or of the aperture
from which the spectrum is obtained. Misled by an
apparent analogy between the length of the coloured
spaces and the divisions of a musical chord,2 which he
ascertained " by an assistant whose eyes were more critical
than his own," he adopted that division as representing
the proportion of the coloured spaces in every dispersed
beam of light. Had he studied the prismatic spectrum
in Mercury and Jupiter by the same instruments, he

would have obtained quite different results. In Mercury,

where the sun's apparent magnitude is very large, he
would have seen a spectrum without any green, and
having red, orange, and yellow at one end, white in the

middle, and blue and violet at the other end. In Jupiter,

on the contrary, he would have obtained a spectrum in
which the coloured spaces were much more condensed,
and the pure colours more separated. The Solar spectrum

                              1 See my Treatise on Optics, new edit., p. 506.
                           * Optics, Part ii., Trop. iii., p. 110.

CHAP. V.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  117

described by Newton, has an intermediate character be
tween these two extremes, and had he examined it under

the same circumstances in winter and in summer, he

would have found the analysis of the beams more perfect
in summer, on account of the sun's diameter being less.
We are entitled, therefore, to assert, that neither the

number nor the extent, nor the limits of the coloured
spaces, as given by Newton, are those which belong to
the true prismatic spectrum.

    Had Newton received upon his prism a beam of light
transmitted through a very narrow aperture, he would
have anticipated Wollaston and Fraunhofer in their fine
discovery of the lines in the prismatic spectrum. In
 1802 Dr. Wollaston, by transmitting the light of the sky
through an aperture the twentieth of an inch wide, disco
vered six fixed dark lines in the spectrum, one in the red,
one in the orange, one in the blue, and one in the violet
spaces. Without knowing of Wollaston's observations,
the late celebrated M. Fraunhofer of Munich, discovered
in sun light, nearly 600 lines, the largest of which sub
tended an angle of from 5" to 10". We have found this

angle to increase enormously by atmospherical absorption,
as the sun passes from the meridian to the horizon, and
in a long series of observations we have observed upwards
of two thousand lines in the prismatic spectrum formed
from the sun's rays.

    From his analysis of the Solar spectrum, by examining
with the prism its separate colours, Newton concluded, that

to the same degree of refrangibility ever belonged the same
colour, and to the same colour ever belonged the same re
frangibility, and hence he inferred that red, orange, yellow,
green, blue, indigo, and violet, were primary and simple
colours. This proposition is true in so far as the analysis

118   LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. V.

of the spectrum by the prism is concerned ; but we have
found another species of analysis, by which the colours of

the spectrum may be decomposed. Though we cannot

separate the green rays in the spectrum into yellow and

blue by the refraction of prisms, yet if we possessed any

solid or fluid which had a specific attraction for blue rays,

      which absorbed them during the passage of the
that  is,
          a

                                              if

                                                                    aa
                                                                   a
                                                                                      is
                                                                                           is
green light through the medium, and allowed the yellow

rays to pass, we should then analyze the green into its

component elements as effectually as we separated them

by the prism. We have in this way subjected the colours

in the spectrum to the analysis of a great variety of solid

and fluid bodies of different colours, and we have found

that in every part of the spectrum, the colours are more
or less changed or decomposed by absorption.

The simplest way of observing these changes          to

receive the spectrum in the eye by looking through the
Ifprism at narrow line of light from the sky.
                                               we now

interpose between the eye and the prism plate of purplish

blue glass, about the twentieth of an inch thick, we shall

see the prismatic spectrum with its bright colours com

pletely metamorphosed. The red part of the spectrum

divided into two red spaces, separated by dark interval.
Next to the inner red space comes space of bright

yellow, separated from the red by a visible interval.
After the yellow comes the green, with an obscure space

between them, then follow the blue and the violet, the last

of which has suffered little or no diminution. Now, in

this experiment, the blue glass has absorbed the red rays

which, when mixed with the yellow, on one side consti

tuted orange, and the blue rays which, when mixed with

the yellow on the other side, constituted green, so that the

insulation of the yellow rays thus effected, and the disap

CHAP. V.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON".  119

pearance of the orange and of the greater part of the

green light, places it beyond a doubt that the orange and
green colours in this spectrum are component colours, the
former consisting of red and yellow, and the latter of

yellow and blue rays of the very same refrangibility. If

we compare the two red spaces seen through the blue
glass, with the red spaces seen without the blue glass, it
will appear that the red has experienced such an altera
tion in its tint by the action of the blue glass, as would
be effected by the absorption of a small portion of yellow
light ; and hence we conclude that the red of this spec
trum contains a slight tinge of yellow, and that the yellow
space extends over more than one half of the spectrum,

including the red, orange, yellow, green, and blue spaces.

  IBy varying the absorptive media, have found that

red light exists in the yellow space, and we have ocular

evidence, that in the violet space red light is combined
with the blue rays. From these and other facts, which it

Iwould be out of place here to enumerate, have been led

to the conclusion that the prismatic spectrum consists of
three different spectra, viz., red, yellow, and blue, all having
the same length, all superposed, and each having its maxi
mum intensity at the point where it predominates in the

combined spectrum. Hence it follows :--

    1 . That red, yellow, and blue rays of the same refrangi
bility exist at every point of the spectrum of intensities,
represented by the ordinates of the curve of intensity in

each separate spectrum.

    2. That the colour of the spectrum at any one point
will be that of the predominant ray modified by the

smaller quantities of the other two rays ; and,

   3. That if we could absorb the two predominant rays
at any one point of the spectrum, in such quantities as

120  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. V.

when mixed with the remaining or unabsorbed ray, would

make white light, we should be able to insulate white light

indecomposable by the prism.
    This view of the structure of the spectrum will be

understood from the annexed diagrams, where Figs. 10,
11, and 12, represent the three separate spectra, which

are shewn in their combined state in Fig. 13. In all these

figures, the point M is the red or least refrangible extre
mity of the spectrum, and N the violet or most refran
gible extremity. The maximum intensity of each spec
trum is opposite R, Y, and B, the intensity diminishing
to nothing at the extremities M and N. When these three
spectra are superposed, they will exhibit the colours shewn
in Fig. 13, in which we have inserted the three curves
which represent the intensities in each spectrum.

   In order to explain how the seven colours, observed by

Newton, are produced by the three primitive colours, we
shall take the case of the orange, as shewn in Fig. 13,
where the three ordinates ax, bx, cx, will indicate the rela

tive intensities of the three colours, combined at any point
x of the spectrum. Thus let

     The ordinate for red light be ax -- 30
                        bx = 16
     ,,  yellow         cx = 2
     ,,  blue

     Then ax + bx + cx  -- 48 rays.

    Hence the point x will be illuminated with forty-eight
rays, namely, thirty of red, sixteen of yellow, and two of
blue light. Now, as there must be certain quantities of
red and yellow light, which, when combined with two
blue rays, will form white, let us suppose that white light,

whose intensity is ten, will be formed by three red, five

CHAP. V.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  121

          Fig. 13.

122             LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                      CHAP. V.

yellow, and two blue rays, then it follows that the point x
will be illuminated with

      Red rays,       .                 ...                     30 -- 3                                           or 27 rays.
      Yellow rays,    .                 .. .                    16 -- 5
      White light +  3 red              + 5 yellow +                                                              or 11 ,,
                                                              2 blue,                                             or 10 ,,

      Orange = red + yellow + white,                          .          = 48 rays.

That  the point will have the colour of orange ren
      is,
                            x
                                                    x
dered brighter by a mixture of white light. The blue

rays consequently which exist at will not communicate

any blue tinge to the prevailing orange.
   In submitting to the scientific world this new analysis of

light, by absorption, we were fully aware of the difficulties

which we had to encounter, and we anticipated the opposi
tion which would be made to it. " Even in physical science,"
we said,1 "
                an arduous task to unsettle long-established
             it
                is

                                                           ;
and deeply-rooted opinions and the task becomes Hercu-

» lean when these opinions are intrenched in national feel

ing, and associated with immortal names. There are cases,

indeed, where the simple exhibition of new truths suffi
                                                              a;
                                                                         it

                                                                              is is
                                                                                        is
cient to dispel errors the most deeply cherished, and the

most venerable from their antiquity but                                                                           otherwise

with doctrines which depend on chain of reasoning

where every step in the inductive process                                                                         not rigor

ously demonstrative and of this we require no other
             is
                                     ;
proof than      to be found in the history of Newton's

optical discoveries, and particularly in the opposition they

experienced from such distinguished men as Dr. Hooke

and Mr. Huygens."

The preceding analysis of the spectrum embraces three

propositions, which, to certain extent, are independent
1.

                       1

                                   a

                                                                                                              p.
of each other.

      That the colours of the coloured spaces may be

             Edinburgh Transactions, 1831, vol. xii. 124.

CHAP. V.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  123

changed by absorbing media, acting by reflexions and

transmissions.

2. That in pure spectra, white light can be insulated.
3. That the Newtonian spectrum of seven colours con

sists of three primary spectra, red, yellow, and blue super

posed, having their intensity of illumination and maximum

at different points, and shading to nothing at their ex

tremities.

   The first of these propositions may be true, even though
we could not insulate white light at any point of the spec

trum ; and both the first and second may be true, without

our being able to demonstrate that the three spectra
have the same length, and diminish in intensity from their

maxima to their extremities.

The general proposition that the colours of the spec

trum   acrlaesscehs anogfedcritbicys,a--bsobryptiMonr.,   has been questioned by
three                                                    Airy,1 M. Melloni,2 and

Mr.  Draper,3 who have never   repeated                  our experiments,
but  made some very imperfect    ones of
                                                         their own ;--by

Dr. Whewell,4 and the Abbe Moigno,5 who have made no

experiments at all;-- and by M. Helmholtz6 in Prussia,

and M. Bernard7 in France. We have replied to the three

first of these writers, and shall now make a few obser

vations on the results obtained by MM. Helmholtz and

Bernard.

    M. Helmholtz has candidly stated, in contradiction of
Mr. Airy, that " the changes of colour" which we have

   1 Phil. May. vol. xxx. p. 73.                                           vol. lxvi.
   2 Bill. Univers. Aout 1847.
   3 Silliman's Journal, vol. iv. p. 388. 1847.
   4 Hist, of Inductive Sciences, vol. ii. p. 361 ; and Edinburgh Review,
p. 136 ; and vol. lxxiv. p. 288.
   5 Repertoire d'Optique, torn. ii. p. 459.

    8 Poggendorff's Annalen. 1852, No. 8

    1 Ann. de Chim. et de JPhys. torn. xxxv. p. 385, &c.

124             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         CHAP. T.

described, as produced by absorption, " are for the most

part sufficiently striking to be observed without diffi
culty ;" and he adds, that " a careful repetition of at least

the most important of my experiments, carried out in

exact accordance with my method, and with every pre

caution hitherto deemed necessary, has indeed taught me

that the facts which he affirms to have observed, are de

scribed with perfect accuracy."

    The change  of colour, thus  admitted     as  a physical fact,
M. Helmholtz                      causes :
                ascribes to two             --

1. To the possible admixture of rays scattered from

the prism, and the other transparent bodies used in the

experiment ; and

2. To the mixture of complementary colours produced

by the action of the other colours of the spectrum on the

retina.

    The first of these, as M. Helmholtz almost admits, is

wholly influential, and the second, if it does disturb the

colorific impressions on retinae tender and sensitive, had

no such effect on ours.

  If the subjective perception of colour, when we view

the spectrum, or make experiments on which more than

one colour reaches the eye, is capable of masking the co
lours under examination, then all that has been written

on colours, thus seen, must be erroneous, and all the gay
tints of art or of nature are but false hues under the

metamorphosis of a subjective perception. We must not

now pronounce a rose to be red, and its leaves green, till
we have stared at them through a chink, or torn them

from their foot-stalk ! The phenomena of absorption which
we have described we have seen, just as Newton saw his

seven colours in the spectrum, and Hooke his composite
tints in the soap-bubble ; and now that our eyes have

CHAP. V.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                               1:25

nearly finished their work, we are not disposed to mistrust,

without reason, such good and faithful servants.1

The observations of M. Bernard, who has repeated

only a few of our experiments, differ very little from
those of M. Helmholtz. He maintains that the conver

sion of the blue space into violet arises from the light
Ifbeing diminished.
                      the colours of the spectrum thus

change, as he maintains, by their becoming fainter, we

would desire to ask at what degree of illumination are we

to see the spectrum in its true colours ? Colour cannot

depend upon refrangibility, if the blue space is converted

into violet either by diminution of light or absorption ; and

therefore the doctrine of M. Bernard is as fatal to New
Ifton's as to ours.
                      M. Bernard's experiment be correct,

it only proves that the blue rays, when enfeebled, lose their

power over the retina sooner than the red.
    The Newtonian doctrine, " that the degree of refrangi

bility proper to any particular sort of rays is not mutable

by refraction, nor reflection, nor by any other cause,"2

has been recently questioned by Professor Stokes, one of

the distinguished successors of Newton in the Lucasian

chair. Mr. Stokes3 found that the chemical rays in the

violet space, between the lines G and H of the spectrum,

produce, in a solution of sulphate of quinine, light of a
sky-blue colour, which he assumes to have the refrangi-

1 The changes of colour in the spectrum at different seasons of the year, and the

different hours of the day, and when formed from different portions of the illumina

ted sky, as well as from the direct light of the sun, are very remarkable. We hare

mentioned one or two of them in the Edinburgh Review, vol. lxxiv. p. 284, Jan.
1842. One of these observations is as follows: -- " October 23, 1832. 11th, The

yellow comes distinctly up to f, and a little beyond it ; i.e., the blue has been all
absorbed in the green space of Fraunhofer's spectrum from e to f." In another

obs'erLveatttioenr  on the 5th February 1833,    the green space was  wholly   yellow.  3.
                    to Oldenburg, Feb. 6, 1G72,  in Phil, Trans. No.  80, p.  3081, #

· Phil. Trans. 1852.

126  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                CHAP. V.

bility of that portion of the spectrum. By refracting this

light through a prism, he converts the shy-blue rays
into a spectrum of all colours, and all refrangibilities.
Hence he concludes, that the shy-blue light having the
fixed refrangibility due to its locality between G and H, is
changed by refraction into all the other colours, with their

respective refrangibilities. If this conclusion be admitted,

our doctrine of the severance of colour and refrangibility
is placed beyond a doubt. We have in the first experi
ment shy-blue light with the refrangibility of violet light
between G and H ; and, in the second experiment, we

have the same blue light changed by refraction into all

the colours of the spectrum.
    We cannot, however, avail ourselves of this last fact,

for, after a careful consideration of Mr. Stokes's import

ant results,1 we cannot but regard the shy-blue light as a
phosphorescence, produced in the quinine solution by the
chemical rays, which, like all other phosphorescences, is

decomposable by the prism.

     1 Sec my Treatise on Optics, new edition, pp. 182, 183.

1676-76.  LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                                            127

          CHAPTER VI.

NEWTON ON THE CAUSE OF THE MOON'S LIBRATION -- IS OCCUPIED WITH

    THE SUBJECT OF PLANTING CIDER TREES-- SENDS TO OLDENBURG HIS

    DISCOURSE ON LIGHT AND COLOURS, CONTAINING HIS HYPOTHESIS CON

   CERNING LIGHT --VIEWS OF DESCARTES AND HOOKE, WHO ADOPT THE

    HYPOTHESIS OF AN ETHER, THE VIBRATIONS OF WHICH PRODUCE LIGHT

   -- REJECTED BY NEWTON, WHO PROPOSES A MODIFICATION OF IT, BUT
   SOLELY AS AN ILLUSTRATION OF HIS VIEWS, AND NOT AS A TRUTH --
    LIGHT IS NEITHER ETHER, NOR ITS VIBRATING MOTION -- CORPUSCLES
   FROM THE SUN ACT UPON THE ETHER --HOOKE CLAIMS NEWTON'S HYPO
   THESIS AS CONTAINED IN HIS MICROGRAPHIA --DISCUSSIONS ON THE
   SUBJECT --HOOKE's LETTER TO NEWTON PROPOSING A PRIVATE DISCUS
   SION AS MORE SUITABLE --NEWTON's REPLY TO THIS LETTER, ACKNOW

    LEDGING THE VALUE OF HOOKE's DISCOVERIES-- OLDENBURG THE CAUSE

   OF THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN HOOKE AND NEWTON--NEWTON's LET
   TER TO BOYLE ON THE SUBJECT OF ETHER --HIS CONJECTURE ON THE
   CAUSE OF GRAVITY--NEWTON SUPPOSED TO HAVE ABANDONED THE
   EMISSION THEORY --DR. YOUNG'S SUPPOSITION INCORRECT --NEWTON's

     MATURE JUDGMENT IN FAVOUR OF THE EMISSION THEORY.

   In the years 1675 and 1676, when Newton was en

gaged in his fruitless controversy with the Dutch profes
sors, his mind was directed to a great variety of subjects.
Collins1 informs his correspondent, James Gregory, that
he had not written to Newton or even seen him for these

eleven or twelve months ; that he did not wish to trouble
him, as he was " intent upon chemical studies and prac
tices," and that Newton and Barrow had " begun to think

mathematical speculations at least dry, if not somewhat

barren." His attention was at this time occupied with

          1 October 19, 1675. Macclesfield Correspondence, vol.  ii.  p. 280.

128        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             CHAP. VI.

the subject of the moon's libration. In a letter to Olden

burg in 1673, in reference to Huygens's work on Central
Forces, he mentions that " he had sometimes thought

that the moon's libration might depend upon her conatus
from the sun and earth compared together, till he appre

hended a better cause." This better cause he communi

cated in 1675 to Nicolas Mercator, who published it in

the following year in his Astronomical Institutions.1

Galileo had discovered and explained the diurnal libra

tion, arising from the spectator not viewing the moon from

the centre of the earth, but it was reserved for Newton

to explain the libration in longitude, which Hevelius, its

discoverer, had ascribed to the displacement of the centre

of the moon's orbit from the centre of motion. He shewed

that it was occasioned by the inequalities of the moon's

motion in an elliptic orbit round the earth, combined with
the uniformity of her motion round her axis. In the

same letter to Mercator he shewed that the libration in

latitude arose from her axis of rotation being inclined

88° 17' to the ecliptic.

    About  this time we find Newton   occupied   with a sub
ject very   different from his usual   pursuits
                                                 --taking an

interest, like a country gentleman, in the planting of
fruit trees for the manufacture of cider. It does not

appear how his attention was directed to this subject.

A reference is made to it in a letter to Oldenburg, in No

vember 1676; but we have been fortunate enough to find

among his papers a previous letter to the same gentleman,

in September, which we need make no apology for insert

ing here.

   1 " Harum . . .Kbrationum causas Hypothesi elegantissima explicavit nobis  vir
cl. Isaac Newton, cujus humanitati hoc et aliis nominibns phirimum tlebere    me
lubcns profiteor." -- Mercator's Institutionst Astronomic*?, p. 28fi.

1675-76.             LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  129

                                                                                                "September 2, 1676.

" SiR,--I have now made what inquiry I can into the

state we are in for planting, and find there are some gen
tlemen that of late have begun to plant, and seem to

incline more and more toit but cannot hear of any
                         is

                                        it,

                                       I
professed nurseryman we have. Our gardeners find more

profit in cherry trees, and so stock their ground almost

wholly with them. The chief of them plant some

fruit trees, but        to find the gentry with plants to
                                                :
whom am apt to think your proposition will prove
I                                                    a

very reasonable one, considering the new humour of

planting that begins to grow among them. But in order

to promote the design, am desired to inquire what sortI
of trees your friend can furnish us with, at what rates,

which way they can most conveniently be conveyed to so
great a distance, and what may be the charges of car
riage. Also, whether they are to be sent in cions or

grafts the first being more convenient for carriage, and
          ;
so rather to be wished, unless those trees be found best
            I
which are grafted on their native soil.         perceive the
                 if        is
gardener mentioned (Mr. Blackley by name) woulda
gladly embrace the proposal, and provide himself with
                                    I
                                        I
more ground than he has, for nursery, to stock his

neighbours,          he found he can have good sorts of trees,

and the carriage make them not too dear.
    " But, upon discoursing with people, find we lye under

one great difficulty which an opinion generally taken;
up here, that Red Streaks (the famous fruit for cyder in
other parts) will not succeed in this country. The tree
thrives well here, and bears as much fruit, and as good

to look as in other countries but the cyder made of
          I.

                                                               ;
                                                                                                   I

                                                                                     it
they find harsh and churlish, and so this fruit begins here

to be generally neglected, and other fruit, and which they

VOL.

130              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VI

find does pretty well, but the cyder will not keep above

a year, whereas that made of Red Streaks in other parts

Iwill keep three years or more. The ill success of Red

Streaks here, perceive, is generally imputed to the soil ;

but since the tree thrives, and bears as well here as in

Iother parts, am apt to think it is in the manner of
Imaking the cyder. For upon inquiry of the gardiners,

cannot find that they mixed any other fruit with the Red

IStreaks, which have been told they do in the cyder coun

tries, and am apt to believe it necessary ; the juice of the

finer fruit, on the one hand, sweetening and ripening the

harsh juice of the Red Streaks, as that juice, on the other

hand, by its slow ripening, makes the cyder keep long.

Sir, if this prejudice we have against Red Streaks could

be removed, it would much promote the design of plant

ing, and double the benefit of it to us by bettering the

Icyder ; and therefore make bold to desire you to inform

me, if you know of any practical description of making
cyder, printed in any author ; and if not, to desire you, if

it lye in your way at any time, to inquire, about the manner

of making and ordering of it. For which end give me leave

to make these queries :--What sort of fruit are best to be

used, and in what proportion they are to be mixed, and

what degree of ripeness they ought to have ? Whether

it be material to press them as soon as gathered, or to

pare them \ Whether there be any circumstances to be

observed in pressing them 1 or what is the best way to

do it \ If you can direct us to, or procure for us a short

narrative of the way of making and ordering cyder in the

cyder countries, which takes in a resolution of these, or

the most material of these queries, you will oblige your

humble servant,

                 " Is. Newton."

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          131

If" SB-   my last letter be not yet sent to Mr. Lucas, I

desire you would, for preventing any suspicion of insin

cerity, insert this parenthesis (as is well known here) be
altewntedteenr[.w"thiheerewinordI sha[dandsewt rditotewnn]a   tractate on that subject,]
                                                             in the latter part of my

    In November 1676, Newton addresses another letter

to Oldenburg in the following terms :--

   I" am desired to write to you about procuring a recom

mendation of us to Mr. Austin, the Oxonian planter. We
hope your correspondent will be pleased to do us that
favour as to recommend us to him, that we may be fur
nished with the best sort of cider fruit trees. We desire

only about 30 or 40 graffs for the first essay, and if

these prove for our purposes, they will be desired in
greater numbers. We desire graffs rather than sprags,
that we may the sooner see what they will prove. They
are not for Mr. Blackley, but some other persons about

Cambridge." 2
    The friend mentioned in one of these letters, and the

correspondent in the other, was the Rev. Dr. John Beal,
Rector of Yeovil, in Somersetshire, who, in imitation of

his father and great-grandfather, had distinguished him
self by his zeal in the plantation of orchards for the
making of cider.3

    But though thus occasionally occupied with other sub
jects, he was at this time diligent in the prosecution of
his optical researches. On the 1 3th November 1 6 75, he

    1 Newton's letter had been forwarded to Mr. Lucas, and therefore the sentence
does not appear in it. -- See Phil. Trans., No. 128, p. 703.

    2 Eddleston's Correspondence, App. No. xvi. p. 260.
    s He wrote a work entitled, Herefordshire Orchards a Pattern for England, 1659.
See Birch's Hist, of the Royal Society, vol. iv. p. 235.

132  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VI.

intimated to Oldenburg, " that he had some thoughts of
writing a further discourse about colours, to be read at
one of your assemblies, but find it yet against the grain
to put pen to paper any more on that subject. But, how

Iever, have one discourse by me on that subject, written
Iwhen sent my first letter to you about colours, and of
Iwhich then gave you notice. This you may command

when you think it may be convenient, if the custom of

reading weekly discourses still continue." Mr. Oldenburg
having been desired by the Society to thank him for this
offer, and to desire him to send this discourse as soon as

he pleased, Newton again writes to him on the 30th
November, "that he intended to have sent the papers
this week, but that upon reviewing them it came into his

mind to write another little scribble to accompany them."
This little scribble was his " Hypothesis," to which we

shall presently refer.
    This discourse was produced in manuscript on the 9th

December 1 675, with the title of--" A Theory of Light and

Colours, containing partly an Hypothesis to explain the
properties of light discoursed of by him in his former pa
pers, partly the principal phenomena of the various colours
exhibited by thin plates or bubbles, esteemed to be of a

more difficult consideration, yet to depend also on the
said properties of light." This paper was introduced by
the following letter to Oldenburg, which possesses much

historical interest.

  II" SiR, -- have sent you the papers I mentioned, by John

Stiles. Upon reviewing them find some things so
obscure as might have deserved a further explication by

Ischemes ; and some other things guess will not be new
Ito you, though almost all was new to me when wrote

1675-76.      LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.         133

Ithem. But as they are, hope you will accept of them,
Ithough not worth the ample thanks you sent.
                                              remem
Iber in some discourse with Mr. Hooke, happened to say
that I thought light was reflected, not by the parts of

glass, water, air, or other sensible bodies, but by the
same confine or superficies of the ethereal medium which

refracts the rays finding some difficulty to get through
   in passing out of the denser into the rarer medium, and
it

                    ;

               it,

                                     ; it I

                                                                   if

                                                       II
a greater difficulty in passing out of the rarer into the

denser and so being either refracted or reflected by that

superficies, as the circumstances they happened to be in

at their incidence make them able or unable to get through
it. And for confirmation of this, said further, that

thought the reflexion of light, at its tending out of glass

into air, would not be diminished or weakened by draw

ing away the air in an air-pump, as ought to be they

were the parts of air that reflected and added, that

had not tried this experiment, but thought he was not

unacquainted with notions of this kind. To which he

replied, that the notion was new, and he would the first

opportunity try the experiment propounded. But upon
              I
                    I

                         II
reviewing the papers sent you, found there set down
                             I it
for trial which makes me recollect that about the timeI
I
was writing these papers, had occasionally observed inI;

an air-pump here at Christ's College, that could not
perceive the reflexion of the inside of the glass dimi

nished in drawing out the air. This thought fit to

mention, lest my former forgetfulness, through my hav
ing long laid aside my thoughts on these things, should
make me seem to have set down for certain what never
                                             I

tried.

   " Sir, -- had formerly purposed never to write any

hypothesis of light and colours, fearing might be
                                         it           a

134    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 CHAP. VI.

Imeans to engage me in vain disputes ; but hope a

declared resolution to answer nothing that looks like

a controversy, unless possibly at my own time upon some
by-occasion, may defend me from that fear. And there

fore, considering that such an hypothesis would much

Iillustrate the papers promised to send you, and having
Ia little time this last week to spare, have not scrupled
Ito describe one, so far as could on a sudden recollect

my thoughts about it; not concerning myself, whether it

Ishould be thought probable or improbable, so it do but

render the paper send you, and others sent formerly,
more intelligible. You may see by the scratching and

Iinterlining it was done in haste ; and have not had time
Ito get it transcribed, which makes me say reserve a

liberty of adding to and desire that you would return
       I

                                is it,
these and the other papers when you have done with

them.  doubt there too much to be read at one time,

but you will soon see how to order that. At the end of

the hypothesis you will see a paragraph, to be inserted

as there directed. should have added another or two,
I is
             I                                                        will

                  I
but had not time, and such as                   it         hope  you
                                                servant,
accept it. -- Sir, am your obedient                iIs" Is. Newton."

                                                          is
    The Hypothesis,1 to which this letter introductory,
possesses many points of historical interest. Descartes
was the first philosopher who maintained the existence of
an ether, a medium more subtle than air, filling the in
terstices of air, and occupying the pores of glass and all
transparent bodies. He considered the ether to be com
posed of a continued series of molecular globules, along
which motion was propagated constituting light and

                                              See Appendix, No. IF.
       a

                                             1

1675-76.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON".                         135

colour.1 Dr. Hooke, who adopted the general view of
Descartes, maintained that " the parts of bodies when

briskly agitated excite vibrations in the ether which are

propagated every way from these bodies in straight lines,

and cause a sensation of light by beating and dashing

against the bottom of the eye ; something after the man

ner that vibrations in the air cause a sensation of sound

by beating against the organs of hearing." 2 In his reply

to Hooke, on the 11th of July 1673, Newton distinctly

states that this, which he calls the fundamental supposi
tion in Hooke's hypothesis, " seems itself impossible ; name
ly, that the waves or vibrations of any fluid can, like the

rays of light, be propagated in straight lines, without a

continual and very extravagant spreading and bending

/every way into the quiescent medium where they are ter
minated by it.     ifam mistaken                  there be not both experi

ment and demonstration to the contrary."

   In thus summarily rejecting Hooke's hypothesis, Newton

                   I
                                 it,
                                           a
                                                               it
suggests a modification of or form in which will be

better fitted to account for the phenomena, or to use his
own expression, --"
                     The most               free  thanisd--ntahtautratlheappalgicitaatteiodn
of this hypothesis     take to              be

parts of bodies, according to their several figures, sizes, and

motions, do excite vibrations in the ether of various depths

or sizes, which being promiscuously propagated through

that medium to our eyes, effect in us sensation of light
          a

                      ;

                       if

                                                          a
                                                                                  a

                                                                                    a
of a white colour but by any means those of unequal

sizes be separated from one another, the largest beget

sensation of red colour, the least or shortest of deep

'1   Dr. Whewell states that Descartes regarded light as " consisting of small par
ticles emitted by the luminous body," but Mr. Vernon Harcourt (Letter to Lord

Brougham, p. 32) has shewn the incorrectness of this opinion.  See (Euvres de
Descartes, torn. vii. pp. 193, 240.

    Newtoni Opera, torn. iv. pp. 325, 326.

136  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          CHAP. VI.

violet, and the intermediate ones of intermediate colours."1

Now this modification of Hooke's hypothesis has been very
erroneously regarded as an expression of Sir Isaac's own
views, whereas he merely gives it as a better form of a
hypothesis, the fundamental position of which he pro

nounces impossible, and contrary both to experiment and

demonstration. In judging of Sir Isaac's Hypothesis of
1675, it is necessary to keep this in view, as it appears to

be quite clear that this hypothesis is not what he believes,
but what he found it necessary to draw up for the infor
mation of many of his friends. " Having observed," he
says, " the heads of some great virtuosos to run much upon

hypotheses, as if my discourses wanted a hypothesis to

Iexplain them by, and found that some, when could not
Imake them take my meaning, when spoke of the nature

of light and colours abstractedly, have readily apprehended

Iit when illustrated my discourse with an hypothesis ; for
Ithis reason have here thought fit to send you a descrip

tion of the circumstances of this hypothesis, as much tend

ing to the illustration of the papers I herewith send

you."
   In order to prevent any misapprehension of his mean

ing, he goes on to say, " that he shall not assume either
this or any other hypothesis ;" yet while he is describing
this hypothesis " he shall sometimes, to avoid circumlocu
tion, and to represent it more conveniently, speak of it as

if he assumed and propounded to be believed."

    With this caution, he supposes an ethereal medium rarer
than air, subtler, and more elastic, not one uniform matter,
but " compounded of various ethereal spirits or vapours,
with the phlegmatic body of ether. The whole frame of
nature may be nothing but various contextures condensed

                              Phil Trans., 1672, No. 88, p. 5088.
     '

      it,
                                    it

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.          137

by precipitation, and after condensation, wrought into va

rious forms, at first by the immediate hand of the Creator,

and ever since by the power of nature ; which, by virtue

of the command, increase and multiply, became a com

plete imitator of the copies set her by the protoplast."
" Thus," he adds, " perhaps may all things be originated

from ether." Newton then proceeds to describe an elec

trical experiment, which afterwards excited much interest

in the Society. He laid upon a table a round piece of glass

about two inches broad, set in a brass ring, so as to keep

the glass about the sixth of an inch from the table, the

air being enclosed on all sides by the ring. Having placed
some small pieces of paper within the ring, and rubbed

the glass briskly with some rough substance, the pieces of

thin paper began to be attracted and fly about even after

the friction had ceased. From this result he conceived

that some subtle matter lying condensed in the glass was

rarefied by friction as water is rarefied into vapour by
heat, and by " moving and circulating variously, actuate

the pieces of paper till it returns into the glass and be re-

condensed there." He next supposes that this ether may

be imbibed by the earth, and also copiously by the sun, in

order to preserve his shining, and keep the planets from
receding farther from him ; that to increase his " gravi
          it
tating attraction, which may be caused by the continualis,

condensation of some very subtle gummy or unctuous sub!"

stance diffused through the ether. And as he wereif

amusing himself with the extravagance of his speculations,
he adds, " And they that will may also suppose that this

spirit affords, or carries with thither, the solary fuel,

and material principle of light, and that the vast ethereal

spaces between us and the stars are for a sufficient repo
                                             If we laugh
sitory for this food of the sun and planets

138  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         CHAP. VI.

at Kepler's firm belief that the earth and other planets

are enormous living animals taking their daily and nightly

alternations of sleeping and waking, we may be allowed
to smile when Newton condescends to feed them with the

nectar and ambrosia of the ethereal domains. In the same

extravagance of speculation he supposes that the soul may
have an immediate power over the whole ether in any

part of the body, producing, by processes which he invents,

the swelling and shrinking of the muscles, and the animal

motions which result from it.

   In passing from " the effects and uses of ether," to
the " consideration of light," he supposes that light " is

neither ether, nor its vibrating motion, but something of

a different kind propagated from lucid bodies," such as
" multitudes of small and swift corpuscles of various sizes

springing from shining bodies, at great distances, one

after another, but yet without any sensible interval of
time." That it is different from the vibrations of the

ether, he infers from the existence of shadows, and the
                                                       " that
colours of thin plates. His next supposition;"
                                                  is,
light and ether mutually act upon one another, ether in

refracting light, and light in warming ether and, after

some farther observations on this mutual action, he goes
on to explain the manner in which refraction and reflexion

are produced upon this hypothesis, and the cause of trans

parency, opacity, and colour. His discourse concludes
with an application of the hypothesis to the colours of
thin plates, to the inflexion of light, and to the colours of

natural bodies, -- subjects to which we shall presently direct

the reader's attention.

   After the reading of the first part of this discourse onit
the 9th December, Mr. Hooke said, " that the main of

was contained in his Micrographia, which Mr. Newton

1675-76.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                         139

had only carried farther in some particulars." When this
remark was communicated to Newton, he seems to have

been greatly offended, and, on the 21st December, he
wrote a letter to Oldenburg, pointing out the difference
between his hypothesis and that of Dr. Hooke. Although
" he is not much concerned at the liberty of Mr. Hooke's
insinuation," yet he wishes to " avoid the savour of having
done any thing unjustifiable or unhandsome" to him. He
therefore separates the part of the hypothesis that belongs
to Descartes and others, and leaves to Hooke the merit of

having changed Descartes' progressive motion of the ether

into a vibrating one, -- " the rotation of the globuli to the

obliquation of pulses, and the accelerating their rotation
on the one hand, and retarding it on the other, by the
quiescent medium to produce colours, to the like action
of the medium on the two ends of his pulse for the same
end." He gives Hooke the credit also of explaining the
phenomena of thin plates, and also the colours of natural

bodies, fluid and solid.1 In the other two paragraphs of

the letter, he details more specifically the difference be
tween his explanations and those of his rival.2

     These controversial discussions seem to have annoyed
Hooke as much as they did Newton, and, instead of pub

licly replying to the two last communications of Newton,
he addressed a letter to him, which, with Newton's an

swer, we had the good fortune to discover among the

family papers. These letters are highly interesting ; and
we are persuaded, that those who, like us, have had

    1  NInewatpoanpi eOr peenrtait,letdorn."  iv. pp. 378-381 ; or Birch, vol. iii. p. 278.   but which
    *                                                                                        " delivered
was     not printed, Newton                   Observations," which accompanied this letter,
                                               says that Hooke, in his Micrographia, had

many very excellent things concerning the colours of thin plates, and other natural

bodies, which he had not scrupled to make use of as far as they were for his

purpose."

140  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        CHAP. VI.

occasion to animadvert on the conduct of Hooke, will
peruse this letter with much satisfaction.

Robert Hooke--" These to my much esteemed friend,

     Mr. Isaack Newton, at his chambers in Trinity

       College in Cambridge.

" SR, --The hearing a letter of yours read last week in the

meeting of the Royal Society, made me suspect that you

might have been some way or other misinformed concern

I Iing me ; and this suspicion was the more prevalent with

me, when called to mind the experience have formerly
Ihad of the like sinister practices.
                                      have therefore taken
I Ithe freedom, which hope may be allowed in philoso
phical matters to acquaint you of myself. First, that I

doe noe ways approve of contention, or feuding or proving

in print, and shall be very unwillingly drawn to such kind

Iof warre. Next, that have a mind very desirous of, and

very ready to embrace any truth that shall be discovered,

though it may much thwart or contradict any opinions or

Inotions have formerly embraced as such. Thirdly, that
I do justly value your excellent disquisitions, and am ex

tremely well pleased to see those notions promoted and

Iimproved which long since began, but had not time to
compleat. That I judge you have gone farther in that
affair much than 1 did, and that as I judge you cannot

meet with any subject more worthy your contemplation,

Iso believe the subject cannot meet with a fitter and

more able person to inquire into it than yourself, who are

Ievery way accomplished to compleat, rectify, and reform

what were the sentiments of my younger studies, which

designed to have done somewhat at myself, if my other

more troublesome employments would have permitted,

though I am sufficiently sensible it would have been with

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 141

abilities much inferior to yours. Your design and mine

Iare, suppose, both at the same thing, which is the disco
Ivery of truth, and suppose we can both endure to hear

objections, so as they come not in a manner of open hos

tility, and have minds equally inclined to yield to the

plainest deductions of reason from experiment. If, there

fore, you will please to correspond about such matters by

Iprivate letters, shall very gladly embrace it ; and when
I shall have the happiness to peruse your excellent dis
Icourse, (which can as yet understand nothing more of
Iby hearing it cursorily read,) shall, if it be not ungrate
Iful to you, send you freely my objections, if have any,
Ior my concurrences, if am convinced, which is the more
Ilikely. This way of contending, believe, to be the more
Iphilosophical of the two, for though confess the collision

of two hard-to-yield contenders may produce light, [yet]
if they be put together by the ears by other's hands and

incentives, it will [produce rath]er  ill concomitant heat,
which serves for no other use but               kindle -- cole.
ISr, hope you will pardon this plainness of, your very

affectionate humble serv*,            Robert Hooke."
    " 1676-6.

To this letter Newton sent the following reply :--

                                                                    " Cambridge, February 5, 1675-6.

  I" DK. Sm, --At the reading of your letter was exceed

ingly pleased and satisfied with your generous freedom,
and think you have done what becomes a true philosophi

cal spirit. There is nothing which I desire to avoyde in

matters of philosophy more than contention, nor any kind

Iof contention more than one in print ; and, therefore,

most gladly embrace your proposal of a private corre

142  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VI.

spondence. What's done before many witnesses is seldom

without some further concerns than that for truth ; but

what passes between friends in private, usually deserves

the name of consultation rather than contention ; and so

I hope it will prove between you and me. Your animad
Iversions will therefore be welcome to me ; for though

was formerly tyred of this subject by the frequent inter

Iruptions it caused to me, and have not yet, nor believe

ever shall recover so much love for it as to delight in

spending time about it ; yet to have at once in short the

Istrongest objections that may be made, would really

desire, and know no man better able to furnish me with

them than yourself. In this you will oblige me, and if

there be any thing else in my papers in which you appre
Ihend have assumed too  If you please to
Ireserve your sentiments of it for a private letter, hope

Iyou [will find that I] am not so much in love with philo

sophical productions, but that can make them yield.

     But, in the mean time, you defer too much to

my ability in searching into this subject. What Descartes

did was a good step. You have added much several ways,

If Iand especially in considering the colours of thin plates.
       have seen farther, it is by standing on the shoulders

Iof giants. But make no question you have divers very

considerable experiments beside those you have pub

lished, and some, it's very probable, the same with some

of those in my late papers. Two at least there are, which

I know you have often observed, --the dilatation of the

coloured rings by the obliquation of the eye, and the

apparition of a black spot at the contact of two convex

glasses, and at the top of a water-bubble ; and it's proba

Ible there may be more, besides others which have not
made, so that I have reason to defer as much or more in

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  143

this respect to you, as you would to me.1 But not to

insist on this, your letter gives me occasion to enquire

regarding an observation you was propounding to me to

make here of the transit of a star near the zenith. I

Icame out of London some days sooner than told you of,
Iit falling out so that was to meet a friend then at New
Imarket, and so missed of your intended directions ; yet
Icalled at your lodgings a day [or] two before came
          it
                          If,
away, but missed of you.       therefore, you continue

          to have observed, you may, by sending your

directions, command       your humble servant,
                                     " Is. Newton."

    These beautiful letters, emulous of good feeling and1
lofty principle, throw some light on the character and
position of two of the greatest of our English philosophers,;
and we cannot read their mutual confessions and desires

without an anxious hope that two such men may never

again be placed in a state of intellectual collision. In

alluding to the sinister practices of some intermeddling
friend, and to the evil consequences of two hard-to-yield

contenders being put together by the ears by other's hands
and incentives, Hooke evidently refers to his colleague,

Mr. Oldenburg. It was not unlikely that the secretary

to the Royal Society, and its Curator and Professor of
Mechanics, might have occasional grounds of difference
without any imputation upon their social or moral charac
ter but this official jealousy, whatever was its amount,
was increased in a high degree during the disputes be
tween Hooke and Hevelius on the subject of plain and
telescopic sights, and between Hooke and Huygens re-

      In his Optics, published many years after this, in 1704, Newton does not give

Hooke the credit of having made these observations.

1 44  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VI.

specting the invention of pendulum clocks. These dis
putes were running high about the time when Newton's
discourse on colours was before the Royal Society, and in
both of them Oldenburg took a keen and active part

against Hooke. It was, therefore, no improbable suppo

sition, that in communicating to Newton what Hooke had
said at the Society, Oldenburg had given it too high a

colouring, or even artfully misrepresented it. In a sub

sequent dispute, in 1686, about the law of gravity, when
Newton made some severe animadversions on Hooke's
claim, Dr. Halley informs him in reply, that " he feared
Mr. Hooke's manner of claiming the discovery had been
represented in worse colours than it ought." With his
usual good feeling, Newton thus expressed his regret :

I I I" Now that understand he was in some respects misre

presented to me, wish had spared the postscript in my
last"

    When Hooke, in the case more immediately before us,
stated " that the main of Newton's discourse was con

tained in his Micrographia, which he had only carried
further in some particulars," he did not do justice to the
valuable communication of his rival ; but, on the other

hand, we have it on the evidence of Newton himself, that

he did not, in his discourse, give Hooke the same credit

for his discoveries which he afterwards did in the letter

that he addressed to him. It has been too much the

practice of the admirers of Newton to assail the memory
of Hooke with ungenerous animadversions, and unmanly

abuse. A distinguished philosopher has even ventured
to describe him as " a bad man," as if he added to the

intellectual fame of Newton by the moral depreciation of
his rival. We cannot give our sanction to so harsh a
judgment. Under a due sense of the imperfections of

1675-79.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     145

our common nature, and influenced by the charity which

thinketh no evil, we may find in the physical consitu-

tion and social position of Hooke, and to a certain extent

in the injustice of his enemies, some apology for that

jealousy and quickness of temper which may have been
more deeply regretted by himself than it was felt by

others.

   After the publication of his " Hypothesis, explaining
the Properties of Light," Newton seems to have been con

versing with Robert Boyle on the subject of its application

to chemistry, and on the 28th February 1679, he addressed
a letter to him on the subject, in fulfilment of a long de
ferred promise. The views which he here presents to his

friend, he characterizes as indigested and unsatisfactory
to himself, and he adds, that " as it is only an explication

of qualities that is desired," he " sets down his apprehen
sions in the form of suppositions." He supposes a subtle
and elastic ether to pervade all gross bodies, and to stand

rarer in their pores than in free space, and so much the

rarer as their pores are less. The ether within solid and
fluid bodies diminishes in density towards their surface,

while the ether without all such bodies diminishes in

density towards their surface. According to this theory

there is a certain space within solid and fluid bodies, and
a certain space without them, which Newton calls " the
space of the ether's graduated rarity." On these suppo
sitions he tries to explain the inflexion of light in passing
through this space, the colours of minute particles, and of

natural bodies, the repulsion and attraction of bodies
coming into contact, the action of menstruums upon bo
dies, the phenomena of effervescence and ebullition, and

the transmutation of gross substances into aerial ones.

He conceives the confused mass of vapours, air, and exha-

VOL. I.                              K

146  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VI.

lations, which we call the atmosphere, to be nothing else
but the particles of all sorts of bodies of which the earth
consists, separated from one another, and kept at a dis
tance by the said principle, and he concludes this remark
able speculation with a conjecture about the cause of

gravity.

   " I shall set down," he says, " one conjecture more,
Iwhich came into my mind even as was writing this
letter ; it is about the cause of gravity. For this end I

will suppose ether to consist of parts differing from one
another in subtlety by indefinite degrees ; that in the
pores of bodies there is less of the grosser ether in pro
portion to the finer, than in open spaces ; and conse
quently, that in the great body of the earth there is
much less of the grosser ether in proportion to the purer,
than in the regions of the air ; and that yet the grosser
ether in the air affects the upper regions of the earth,
and the finer ether in the earth the lower regions of the
air, in such a manner, that from the top of the air to the
surface of the earth, and again from the surface of the
earth to the centre thereof, the ether is insensibly finer
and finer. Imagine now any body suspended in the air
or lying on the earth ; and the ether being by the hypo
thesis grosser in the pores which are in the upper parts
of the body, than in those which are in its lowest parts,
and that grosser ether being less apt to be lodged in these
pores than the finer ether below, it will endeavour to get
out and give way to the purer ether below, which cannot
be without the bodies descending to make room above for
it to go out into."1

    The Hypothesis of Newton, and his other speculations
regarding ether, have led some writers to suppose that he

                    1 Letter to Boyle, Newtoni Opera, torn. iv. pp. 385-395.

1675-79.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            147

had abandoned the corpuscular or emission theory, in which

light is supposed to be produced by material particles pro
jected from luminous bodies, and that he had adopted

views not very different from those of the supporters of

the undulatory theory. This opinion has been entertained

chiefly on the authority of Dr. Thomas Young, in his theory

of light and colours.1 In introducing this theory, he re

marks, that " a more extensive examination of Newton's

writings has shown me, that he was in reality the first

Ithat suggested such a theory as shall endeavour to main

tain ; and that his own opinion varies less from this theory

Ithan is now almost universally supposed."2 " shall col

lect," he adds, " from Newton's various writings, such

passages as seem to be most favourable to its admission,

I(Dr. Young's theory,) and although shall quote some
Ipapers which may be thought to have been partly re

tracted at the publication of the ' Optics,' yet shall bor

row nothing from them that can be supposed to militate

against his maturer judgment."     In another place he
states in language still more
                                explicit, " that Newton

considered the operation of an ethereal medium as abso
lutely necessary to the production of the most remarkable

effects of light."
   In direct contradiction to these statements, we have

already found Newton distinctly maintaining " that light

is neither ether nor its vibrating motion, but something of

a  different kind propagated from lucid bodies," such as
   multitudes of small and swift corpuscles of various sizes
"

springing from shining bodies ;" and when in order to please

his friends and illustrate his views, he invents a specula
tion " not propounded to be believed," he cannot be re-

   1 Phil. Trans., 1801 ; or Lectures on Natural Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 614.
   * Ibid., vol. i. p. 477.

. 148          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. VI.

garded as maintaining views at all approximating to the

undulatory theory. We cannot understand how Dr. Young

could overlook the language of caution in which he every

where guards   himself against   oitfsanbeeinthgers, u--pplaonsgeudagthea, ttohoe,
believes even  in the existence

so precise, that the honest meaning of its author cannot

be misinterpreted.
    The matured judgment of Newton, of which Dr. Young

speaks, and against which his quotations directly mili

tate, is given in the following explicit passage, published
in 1717, in the second edition of his Optics, revised by

himself.1

   " Are not all hypotheses erroneous in which light is sup
posed to consist in pression or motion propagated through
a fluid medium \ For in all these hypotheses the pheno

mena of light have been hitherto explained by supposing
that they arise from new modifications of the rays, which

is an erroneous supposition.

  If" light consisted only in pression propagated without

actual motion, it would not be able to agitate and heat the
Ifbodies which refract and reflect it.
                                        it consisted in mo

tion propagated to all distances in an instant, it would

require an infinite force every moment in every shining

particle to generate that motion. And if it consisted in

pression or motion propagated either in an instant or in
time, it would bend into the shadow. For pression or
motion cannot be propagated in a fluid in right lines, be
yond an obstacle which stops part of the motion, but will
bend and spread every way into the quiescent medium

which lies beyond the obstacle
    " And it is as difficult to explain by such hypotheses

               1 Optics, edit. 3d, 1720, pp. 336, 339.

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             149

how rays can be alternately in fits of easy reflexion and

easy transmission ; unless perhaps one might suppose that
there are in all space two ethereal vibrating mediums, and
that the vibrations of one of them constitute light, and the

vibrations of the other are swifter, and as often as they
overtake the vibrations of the first, put them into those
fits. But how two ethers can be different through all

space, one of which acts upon the other, and by con

sequence is reacted upon, without retarding, shattering,
dispersing, and compounding one another's motions, is in
conceivable. And against filling the heavens with fluid

mediums, unless they be exceeding rare, a great objection
arises from the regular and very lasting motions of the
planets and comets in all manner of courses through the
heavens. For thence it is manifest that the heavens are

void of all sensible resistance, and by consequence of all

sensible matter."

    That this passage contains the mature and the latest
judgment of Newton on the subject of light cannot be

doubted. All the quotations from Newton referred to by
Dr. Young bear the date of 1672 and 1675, and the letter

to Boyle the date of 1679 ; but the preceding passage was
published in 1 704, 1 71 7, and 1 721, in the lifetime of New
ton, when it was in his power to alter or retract it. But
in addition to this argument, we have the evidence of
Leibnitz in a letter to Huygens, dated 26th April 1694,

Ithat Newton at that time was more convinced than ever

of the truth of the emission theory. " have learned,"
says Leibnitz, " from Mr. Fatio,1 by one of his friends, that
Mr. Newton and he have been more than ever led to be
lieve that light consists of bodies which come actually to

          1 Fatio D'huillicr, the particular friend of Newton.

150  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       CHAP. VI.

us from the sun, and that it is in this way that they ex

plain the different refrangibility of light and colours, as if

there were primitive bodies which always kept their co
lours, and which come materially from the sun to us.
The thing is not impossible, but it appears to me difficult
to understand how by means of these little arrows which,

according to them, the sun darts, we can explain the laws
of refraction."1

     1 Hnygenii Exercitationei Mathematics, t&C; Fascie. i. p. 173.

1675.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  151

                      CHAPTER VII.

 newton's hypothesis of eefraction and reflexion--of transpa
     rency AND OPACITY --HYPOTHESIS OF COLOURS --THE SPECTRUM SUP

     POSED TO BE DIVIDED LIKE A MUSICAL STRING-- INCORRECTNESS OF
     THIS SPECULATION --HOOKE's OBSERVATIONS ON THE COLOURS OF THIN

      PLATES EXPLAINED BY THE VIBRATIONS PRODUCED IN THE ETHER BY

    THE LUMINOUS CORPUSCLES --HOOKE CLAIMS THIS THEORY AS CON
    TAINED IN HIS MICROGRAPHIA -- NEWTON'S RESEARCHES ON THE
    COLOURS OF THIN PLATES --PREVIOUS OBSERVATIONS OF BOYLE --
     HOOKE's ELABORATE EXPERIMENTS ON THESE COLOURS -- HIS EXPLA
     NATION OF THEM -- DR. YOUNG'S OBSERVATIONS UPON IT -- NEWTON
    ACKNOWLEDGES HIS OBLIGATIONS TO HOOKE --NEWTON'S ANALYSIS OF
    THE COLOURS SEEN BETWEEN TWO OBJECT-GLASSES --CORRECTIONS OF
    THEM BY MM. PROVOSTAYES AND DESAINS --NEWTOn's THEORY OF
    FITS OF EASY REFLEXION AND TRANSMISSION --SINGULAR PHENOMENON
    IN THE FRACTURE OF A QUARTZ CRYSTAL --NEWTOn's OBSERVATIONS
    ON THE COLOURS OF THICK PLATES --RECENT EXPERIMENTS ON THE

     SAME SUBJECT.

    In the preceding chapter we have given an account of

the first part of Newton's discourse on light and colours,
read on the 9th December 1675, and explaining his hy
pothesis concerning " ether and ethereal substances, and

their effects and uses." In the second part of the portion

read at the same meeting he proceeds to " the considera
tion of light" as connected with the supposed ether, that
is to the cause of refraction, reflexion, transparency, and

opacity.
    Regarding the ether as more dense in free space than

in solid bodies, and as diminishing in density towards their
surface both from without and from within, Newton sup

152  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VII.

poses the incurvation or bending of a ray of light, incident
on such a surface, in one direction to produce refraction,
and in another to produce reflexion, to be effected within
" the space of ether's graduated rarity," or " physical su

perficies." In the case of refraction, from air to glass, the

ray passes from denser into rarer ether, and is incurvated
from the perpendicular in its passage through the physical
superficies ; whereas in reflexion from a dense medium, such

as glass into air, it is incurvated upwards or towards the

glass, and the incurvation may be such that the ray does
not emerge but suffer total reflexion.

    In order to account by the agency of ether for the si
multaneous refraction and reflexion of light incident upon
the same surface of glass or water, Newton supposes " that
ether in the confine of two mediums is less pliant and
yielding than in other places, and so much the less pliant
(or ' more rigidly tenacious') by how much the mediums
differ in density." When light therefore, that is small cor
puscles, falls upon " this rigid resisting ethereal superficies,
it puts it into a vibrating motion, so that the ether therein

is continually expanded and compressed by turns." When
a ray of light is incident upon it " while it is much com
pressed, it is too dense and stiff to let the ray pass through,
and so reflects it ; but the rays that are incident upon it
at other times, when it is either expanded by the interval
of two vibrations, or not too much compressed or condensed,

go through and are refracted."
    When the ether is of the same rarity in every pore, or

when the ether is evenly spread by its continual vibrations

into all the pores when they do not exceed a certain size,

the light will pass freely through the body, or the body
will be transparent. But when the pores exceed a certain
size, the density of the ether will be greater than that

1075.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                             153

       1

                  it,
which surrounds and the light being refracted or re

flected at its superficies, the body will be opaque.

On the 6th December the second portion of Newton's

discourse was read, in which he applies his hypothesis to
the explanation of colours. For this purpose he supposes
the particles of light to have different degrees of " bigness,

strength, or power," red having the largest, and violet the

least degree of any of these qualities. When light, there
fore, incident on the " refracting superficies," the smallest
       ; is

                                                                        ;

                                                                   of
particles, namely, the violet, will be most incurvated or

refracted, and the red the least and when these fall upon

the refracting superficies of the retina, they will there ex
cite " the sensation of various colours according to their

bigness and mixture, the biggest with the strongest colours

reds and yellows, the least with the weakest blues and vio

lets, the middle with green, and a confusion                                 all with

white much after the manner that in the sense of hearing,

nature makes use of aerial vibrations of several bignesses

to generate sounds of divers tones." Pursuing this idea,
" the analogy of nature," he conjectures, " that colour may

possibly be distinguished into its principal degrees, red,

orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and deep violet, on the

same ground that sound within an eighth graduated
       a
                                                                         is
into tones. In order to test this speculation by experi
ment, he forms a distinct spectrum, and, " because his own

eyes are not very critical in distinguishing colour," he em

ploys friend to whom he has not communicated his

thoughts, to measure the lengths of the different coloured

spaces. The differences between the measures thus ob
tained, he says, " were but little, especially towards the

red end, and taking means between these differences, the

length of the image (reckoned not by the distance of the
verges of the semicircular ends, but by the distance of the

154                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  CHAP. VII.

centres of those semicircles, or length of the strait sides
as it ought to be) was divided in about the same propor
tion that a string is between the end and the middle to

sound the tones in the eighth."

It                                                                      contradicted by

     is

            if
                                it

                                                                 is,

                                                         a it
                                                                    is
Ingenious as this speculation

all the recent discoveries respecting the prismatic spectrum,
of which we have given an account in preceding chapter.

       not even true in the spectrum which Newton himself

observed. There are not seven colours in any spectrum,

and even we divide into such a number of parts, the

divisions have no resemblance to those of a musical string.

From the explanation of colours produced by refraction,

Newton proceeds to explain those produced by reflexion,

namely, the colours of thin plates described by Hooke in
his Micrographia. In order to do this, he supposes that

the ethereal vibrations excited by a ray move faster than
the ray itself, and so " overtake and outrun
                                                                        it     one after
                                                                          it,
another." When light, therefore, incident upon thin
                                           is                                  a
                                                                                 it
                                              it                                      is ;
transparent plate, the waves, excited by its passage

through the first surface, overtaking one after another,
till arrive at the second surface, will cause to be there
it if
reflected or refracted according as the condensed or the
      it                                                                there. If the
expanded part of the wave overtakes         it
                 ;                            it
plate be so thin that the condensed part of the first wave
          if
overtakes the ray at the second surface, must be reflected

there               double that thickness, so that the following rare

                           it,
                               is,

                                        it
fied part of the wave, that the space between that and

the next wave, overtake there must be transmitted

triple the thickness, so that the condensed part of the

                           it,
                                       it
second wave overtake there must be reflected, and so

where the plate Jive, seven, or nine times that thickness,it is

   must be reflected by reason of the third, fourth, or fifth
wave, overtaking at the second surface but when
                                                  ;

1675.             LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.           155

four, six, or eight times that thickness, so that the ray
may be overtaken there, by the dilated interval of those
waves, it shall be transmitted, and so on ; the second sur

face being made able or unable to reflect according as it is

condensed or expanded by the waves.

    In this way he explains the coloured rings produced by

pressing a convex lens against a plain glass ; and he con
 cludes this portion of his discourse, namely, his " Hypo
thesis," by applying it to certain phenomena of Inflexion
 or Diffraction, as observed by Grimaldi.

    It was after the reading of this portion of his discourse

 that Hooke said, " that the main of it was contained in his

 Micrographia, which Mr. Newton had only carried farther

in some particulars," --a remark which led to the corre

 spondence with Oldenburg and Hooke, which we have given
 in the preceding chapter.

    In the remainder of his discourse, Newton gives an

 account of his beautiful experiments on the colours of

 thin plates ; but before we enter upon their consideration,

 we must notice the previous observations of Boyle and
 Hooke, in order that we may apportion to Hooke and to

 Newton the discoveries which they actually made. In the

 details into which this will lead us, we shall see two great

minds striving for victory, --calling forth all their powers

 to surmount the difficulties which beset them in their

 path, --deviating from the rigorous process of research

 which both of them recognised, and perhaps forgetting,
 in the ardour of their pursuit, some of those courtesies

 which are now deemed essential in intellectual warfare.

    In his book on Colours,1 Mr. Boyle informs us, that
 divers, if not all essential oils, as also spirit of wine, when

   1 Experiments  and Observations touching Colours.  Exp. xix. p. 243. London,
1664.

156  LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VII.

shaken, " have a good store of bubbles, which appear

adorned with various and lively colours." He mentions
also, that bubbles of soap and turpentine exhibit the same
colours, which " vary according to the incidence of the
sight and the position of the eye and he had seen a
glass-blower blow bubbles of glass, which burst, and dis
played " the varying colours of the rainbow, which were
exceedingly vivid."

    In the year 1664, Hooke published, in his Micrographia,1
a very interesting chapter of the colours observable in
Muscovy glass, (mica,) and other thin bodies, in which he

has described many new phenomena.

   1. In several parts of plates of mica, he found white
specks or flaws diversely coloured with all the colours of

the rainbow, the colours being ranged in rings, encom
passing, and having the same form as the speck. The
colours from the middle of the spot were blue, purple,
scarlet, yellow, and green, the same series of colours re
curring nine or ten times.

   2. By pressing together two pieces of plate-glass with

his forefingers and thumbs, he produced the same series
of colours as in mica, the colours changing with the thin

plate of air between the glasses. The same phenomena

were produced by placing different fluids between the
plates, the colours being more strong and vivid in pro
portion as the refractive power of the fluids differed from

that of the glass-plates.

  3. If the plate of air or fluid is thickest in the middle

   1 " Micrographia, or some Physiological Descriptions of Minute Bodies made by
magnifying-glasses, with Observations and Inquiries thereupon." In many of the
copies the date is 1667, but the title-page which bears this date was a trick of the
printer, to indicate a second edition, which was never printed. The imprimatur of

the President of the Royal Society is Nov. 23, 1664. See Ward's Life of Hooke,
in the Lives of the Gresham Professors, p. 190.

1664.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  157

like a convex lens, or thinnest as in a concave lens, the
colours will also be produced, the order of colours in the

first case being red, yellow, green, blue, &c. ; and, in the

second, quite contrary.

    4. As the colours cease when the plates have a certain

thickness, so they cease also when the plate has a certain
 thinness, the colours ending in a white and colourless

 ring.
     5. When we cleave a plate of mica with a needle, we

 shall come to one of such a thickness as to exhibit a

uniform colour, every different degree of thinness below
this giving a different colour.

     6. When two or three or more of these coloured plates
 are laid one upon another, they exhibit such compound
 colours " as one would scarce imagine would be the result

of such ingredients." A faint yellow, for example, and a

 blue, may produce a very deep purple.
     7. The same coloured laminae may be obtained by

 blowing glass very thin ; and also from bubbles of pitch,
 rosin, colophony, turpentine, solutions of gums, or any
 glutinous liquor, such as wort, wine, spirit of wine, oil of
 turpentine, glare of snails, soap-water, &c.

     8. The same colours are produced upon polished steel
 by gradually tempering or softening it with a sufficient
 degree of heat. They are also produced on brass, copper,
 silver, gold, tin, but most conspicuously upon lead ; and
 the colours that cover the surface of the metal are no

 thing else than a very thin vitrified part of the heated

 metal.

     9. The same colours are exhibited in animal bodies, as

 in pearls, mother-of-pearl shells, oyster shells, and almost
 all other kinds of stony shells. They are seen also in
 muscles and tendons.

158               LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.      CHAP. VII.

    10. If we take any glutinous substance, and run it ex

ceedingly thin upon the surface of a smooth glass, or a

polished metalline body, the same colours are produced ;
" and in general wheresoever you meet with a transparent

body thin enough, that is terminated by reflecting bodies

of differing refractions from there will be a production
          is
                                            it,
of these pleasing and lovely colours."

    Such     a brief account of Hooke's elaborate inquiry

into the colours of thin plates. We shall now consider

the theory which he invented to explain them. He con
siders light as produced by " a very short vibrating motion

propagated every way through a homogeneous medium

by direct or straight lines extended every way like rays

from the centre of a sphere, and with equal velocity, so

that the pulse or vibration of the luminous body will

generate  a  sphere which will continually increase, and

grow bigger, just after the same manner (though indefi

nitely swifter) as the waves on the surface of the water
do swell into bigger circles about a point of where, by

the sinking of a stone, the motion was begun --whence
                                                 ; it
                                                                  it

necessarily follows, that all the parts of these spheres,

undulated through a homogeneous medium, cut the rays

at right angles." Our author then proceeds to explain

how refraction and reflexion take place at the confines of
media, in which the " fluid undulating substance" (or

ether) has different densities.
    In applying this theory to the explanation of the co
                                                 " most evident that
lours of thin plates, he considers               it
                                                                              is
the reflexion from the under or farther side of the body,

is the principal cause of the production of these colours."
Supposing ray " to fall obliquely on the thin plate, part
          is
thereof reflected back by the first superficies," but, asis a

the body          transparent, another part of the ray                            re

1GG4.  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  159

fracted by the first surface, reflected by the second, and
refracted again by the first surface, so that after two

refractions and one reflexion, there is propagated a kind
of fainter ray, whose pulse, by reason of the time spent
in passing and repassing between the two surfaces, comes

behind the former reflected pulse, so that hereby (the
surfaces being so near together that the eye cannot dis
criminate them from one) this confused or duplicated
pulse, whose strongest part precedes, and whose weakest

follows, does produce on the retina the sensation of a

yellow. If the two reflecting surfaces be yet farther

removed asunder, then will the weaker pulse be so far
behind, that it may be coincident with the second, third,

fourth, fifth, &c., as the plate grows thicker ; " so that if

there be a thin transparent body that, from the greatest
thinness requisite to produce colours, does, in the manner
of a wedge, by degrees grow to the greatest thickness
that a plate can be of to exhibit a colour by the reflexion
of light from such a body, there shall be generated such

a consecution of colours, whose order, from the thin end

towards the thick, shall be yellow, red, purple, blue, green,
and these so often repeated, as the weaker pulse does lose

pace with its primary or first pulse, and is coincident with
a second, third, fourth, &c., pulse behind the first. And
this, as it is coincident, or follows from the first hypothesis

I Itook of colours, so upon experiment have found it in

multitudes of instances that seem to prove it."

    Dr. Thomas Young has quoted nearly the whole of
these passages as such an approximation to the true

explanation of the colours of thin plates, that if he had

not satisfied himself respecting the phenomena of this
class of colours, these passages would have led him earlier

to a similar opinion. The doctrine of interference is dis

160  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      CHAP. VII.

tinctly stated in them, and had Hooke adopted Newton'sit,
views of the different refrangibility of light, and appliedit
them to his own theory of the coincidence of pulses, he
would have left his rival behind in this branch of discovery.it

    Relying on the correctness of his views respecting theis
colours produced by reflexion, Hooke very ingeniously
                                    ;
applied the same principle to the colours produced by       ;

refraction ; and his objection to Newton's doctrine al
ways was, that it was contrary to his theory. It is very

obvious that hypotheses, however much they were abjured
by the experimental philosophers of that day, were not
only invented but admired ; and Newton was thus driven
to propose a hypothesis to satisfy his friends, he himself
declaring that he neither believed nor wished them to

believe it.

    When this hypothesis was read, Hooke, as we have
already seen, stated " that the main of was contained
in his Micrographia, which Mr. Newton had only carried
farther in some particulars." The reader will, we think,
be able to judge, from our abstract of Hooke's theory and
observations, of the truth of this remark. We think

substantially true, and do not hesitate to say, that Newton

has not done justice to Hooke. Excepting once, in refer
ence to the inflexion of light, Hooke's name never men
tioned. The results of his experiments are made use of,
and his theory partly adopted and altered, without any

acknowledgment of the one, or notice of the other. In

his vindication, read on the 21st December 1675, Newton

admits that he made use of some of Hooke's observations

that he adopted the idea of a vibrating ether and he
thanks him for his explanation of opacity, and for his
notice of the colours of plated bodies. In his interesting
reply to Hooke, which we have given in the preceding

1075-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        161

chapter, he goes much farther, acknowledging that Hooke

had added much several ways to Descartes' theory, espe
cially in considering the colours of thin plates, and giving

him the credit of two important discoveries, (which we do
not find in the Micrographia,) namely, the dilatation of

the coloured rings by the obliquation of the eye, and the

apparition of a black spot at the contact of two convex
glasses, and at the top of a water-bubble. In thus justify

ing the criticism of Hooke, and throwing some blame on

Newton, we revert with pleasure to the noble amends

which he made in his private letter, when there was no
" intermeddling friend" to pervert the native generosity
of his character.

We have hitherto considered only that part of Newton's

discourse which contained his hypothesis, and its applica
tion to refraction, reflexion, transparency, and opacity.

The remaining portions of it were read at the Royal
Society on the 20th January, the 3d and the 10th Fe

bruary 1675-6, and contain all the optical discoveries of

Newton.

The portion which was read on the 20th January, con

tained fifteen observations. In the first three of these he

describes the arcs and circles of colours, which are exhi

bited by pressing together the imperfectly flat surfaces of

two prisms. The      place where they   touched was abso
lutely transparent,   appearing like a  black spot " when
looked upon," and " when looked through" it seemed like

a hole in the thin plate of air between the prisms. The

arcs and rings were generally of many colours, and about
eight or nine in number. By turning the prisms about

their common axis, the rings became black and white, and
were sometimes about thirty in number. In order to see

them distinctly, and without any other colour, it was

VOL. I.                                 L

162  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VII.

necessary to hold the eye at a considerable distance from
them, and also to view them through a slit or oblong hole
narrower than the pupil of the eye.

    In order to observe the order of the colours more cor

rectly, and obtain measures of the rings at different thick
nesses of the plate of air between the glasses, Newton
took two object-glasses, the one a plano-convex for a

fourteen feet telescope, and the other a large double con

vex for one of fifty feet, and having laid upon this the
other with its plane side downwards, he pressed them
slowly together, and observed the following orders of
colours, next to the pellucid or dark central spot.

                Order 1st, --Dark spot, violet, blue, white, yellow, and red.
                Order 2d,--Violet, blue, green, yellow, and red.
                Order 3d,--Purple, blue, green, yellow, and red.
                Order 4th, --Green and red.

The succeeding orders became more and more imperfect,
" till after three or four more revolutions they ended in
perfect whiteness."1

    When his eye was placed perpendicularly over the
glasses, he found the diameter of the first six rings at
the most luminous " part of their orbits," to be, when
squared in arithmetical progression of the odd numbers,
1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, and the diameter of the dark rings be
tween the more luminous ones, when squared, to be in
arithmetical progression of the even numbers, 2, 4, 6, 8,
10, 12. When the rings were viewed obliquely, they
became bigger, as Hooke had observed, continually swell
ing as the eye was removed farther from their axis.

   " By measuring the diameter of the same ring at
several obliquities of the eye, partly by other means, as

   1 The reader will observe that the orders here given, and their colours, differ
somewhat from those published nearly thirty years afterwards in his " Optics."

1075-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOK                                                           163

also by making use of the two prisms for very great

obliquities," Newton found its diameter, and consequently
the thickness of the air at its perimeter, to be " propor

tional to the secant of an angle whose sine is a certain

mean proportional between the sines of incidence and
refraction. And that mean proportional is the first of

106 arithmetical mean proportionals between the sines
of incidence and refraction counted from the lesser sine,

that from the sine of refraction when the refractionis,                                      is is

made out of air into water, otherwise from the sine of

incidence."1 That  is is,
                                               is
                      the angle to whose secant the

thickness of the air proportional,                 one whose sine

to the sine of the real angle of incidence in the constant

ratio of

                      106 +±m   1

                                107

m being the index of refraction of the glass.             a                                  mono
   In repeating the experiment with the light of

chromatic lamp, and measuring the angles with great

care, and at incidences so great as 85° 21', MM. Provo-

stayes and Desains obtained the following results. At

an incidence of 85° 21' the diameter of the seventh black

ring in millionths of millimetre, was
                   a

          By observation, . . . 47'53

          By Newton's Formula,       . . 40-ll

According to the doctrine of interference, the thickness
of the plate of air should be proportional to the secant of
the angle of incidence, which, in the present case, would
give 47'55 for the diameter of the seventh ring, coinci

dence with the experiment so remarkable, as to leave no
doubt of the truth of the theory.2
          21
                                                  i.,
                                                                        7,

                                                                                         p.

                                                                                     a
          Optics, Book ii. Part Obs. 18.      498. 1850.
          Comptes Bendus, &c. &c, torn. xxv.

** ------*-* =

164                           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. VII.

       The difference between Newton's experiment and the

result of theory, is so great as to call forth the remark

from Sir John Herschel, that "it might be drawn into

an argument against the theory, were we sure that the
law of refraction at extreme incidences, and with very

thin laminae, does not vary sensibly from that of the pro

portional sines." The important results obtained by MM.

Provostayes and Desains will teach us rather to doubt the

accuracy of an unconfirmed experiment, and carefully to
                 it,                      of
repeat than explain           of to           of it          calling question well
established law.                                                         in
                                                     by                    of
       By various modes
                                                                                           a
                                               observation, Newton found the

following relations between the diameter the rings and

the thickness the plate air:--

Diameter           of of  *}" 101's, 10%, 10%, 11%, 123, 14, 154, 16#, 194, 22%, 29, 35.
   ring,
                          "}". 10.1%, 10%, 113, 13, 153, 20, 23#, 283, 37, 524, 84, 122#.
Thpiclkanteess air,
       or of of
Our author next proceeded                                of     examine the effects            of
                                                            to
homogeneous coloured light, and was thus led
                                                                         or                    more
                                                                             at
important results.
                                                                                     in
                                                                                           to
                                     as In  place eight                  nine rings which

In he  saw the open air,                       as to he  now saw more than twenty.
                 in

       red light the rings were much larger than blue and

violet. The thickness the plate air which any red
                                          of           to
                                                              at
ring was produced, was                                          ofthatwhich the same violet

ring was produced,                        nine fourteen. The rings were

not various colours, before, when white light was

used, but                 of  the prismatic colour which was employed,

and each ring was separated from the other                               of it                 dark
                                                                              of by
ring
                                                                                       a
                 space. Upon placing white paper behind the
                                                         a

rings, Newton observed rings painted upon                                the same

colour with those which were reflected, and the same size

                              *      Treatise  on      Light, Art. 670.

1675-76.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    165

as their intermediate dark space. Hence he concluded
that the light which fell on the dark spaces was trans

mitted through the glasses without any change of colour,

and that the aerial interval of the glasses according to its
various thickness is disposed in some places to reflect,
and in others to transmit, the light of any colour, and
in the same place to reflect one colour where it transmits
another.

From the examination of the colours of thin plates of

air, Newton proceeded to that of the colours of thin plates

of water, as exhibited in the soap-bubble. Having covered

the soap-bubble with a glass shade, he saw its colours

emerge in a regular order, like so many concentric rings

encompassing the top of it. As the bubble grew thinner

by the continual subsidence of the water, the rings dilated

slowly and overspread the whole of
it                                                          descending to the

                                       a
                                                       it,
bottom, where they vanished successively. When the
colours had all emerged from the top, there arose in
the centre of the rings small round black spot, like

that in the centre of the rings formerly described, dila
ting to more than half an inch in breadth till the

bubble burst.

Upon examining the rings between the object-glasses,

Newton found that when they were only eight or nine in

number, more than forty could be seen by viewing them

through prism and even when the plate of air seemed
all over uniformly white, multitudes of rings were disclosed
by the prism. The same result was obtained with thin
          a

                             ;

plates of water, mica, and glass.
   By means of these interesting observations, Newton

proceeds to shew how the system of coloured rings exhi
bited by white light, are produced by the superposition
of the rings belonging to each separate colour in the

166  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VII.

spectrum, and he constructs a diagram, explaining a me
thod of finding the colours of which the rings are composed
at any distance from their centre. He then concludes
this part of his discourse with a table shewing, in millionths
of an inch, the different thicknesses of plates of air, water,
and glass, when they exhibit the different colours in the
seven rings or orders of colours. The thicknesses, for ex
ample, of air, water, and glass, at which no light is reflected,
or at which the black of the first ring is produced, are 2,

      1^ millionths of an inch respectively, and the thick
nesses at the margin of the seventh ring are 84, 63, and
54-| millionths of an inch. This Table, which is known
by the name of Newton's Scale of Colours, is of great
value in all optical researches, and is constantly referred

to by modern writers on Optics.

    This celebrated discourse is concluded by nine propo

sitions, shewing how the phenomena of thin transparent
plates stand related to the colours of all natural bodies,
and how the size of the component parts of such bodies

may be conjectured by their colours, --a subject which

will be discussed in another chapter.

    Such is a brief account of Newton's discoveries respect

ing the colours of thin plates, and of the hypothesis of

ethereal vibrations, by which he proposed to explain them.
The experiments from which they were deduced were all
made previous to 1675 ; and it does not appear that,
during the remaining fifty-two years of his life, he made

any other communications on optical subjects to the Royal
Society. In the preface to his Treatise on Optics, dated

1704, he tells us that "part of the ensuing discourse

about light was written at the desire of some gentlemen
of the Royal Society in the 3rear 1675, and then sent to
their secretary and read at their meetings ; and the rest

1075-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  167

 was added about twelve years after, to complete the Theory,
 except the third book and the last proposition of the se
 cond, which were since put together out of scattered

papers." These additions to the discourse, which were

made in 1687, are no doubt his ampler discussion of the
theory of the colours of natural bodies, and his theory of
fits of easy reflexion and easy transmission, by which he
explains the colours of thin plates ; and what was since
put together out of scattered papers, was the first part of
the third book on the inflexion of light, and the fourth
part of the second book on the colours of thick plates.

An explanation, therefore, of the theory of fits, will form

an appropriate conclusion of our account of Newton's dis
coveries respecting the colours of thin plates.

    In the propositions of his Optics, where he explains

this theory, Newton does not attempt to assign any cause
by which these fits are produced. He does not inquire
whether the kind of action or disposition in which they
originate " consists in a circulating or vibrating motion of
the ray or of the medium, or something else ;" but he says,
that those who require a hypothesis, " which, whether it
be true or false, he does not consider, may for the pre
sent adopt the one previously explained, in which the
rays of light, by impinging on any refracting or reflect
ing surface, excite vibrations in the refracting or reflect
ing medium or substance," and that the ray is refracted
or reflected according as it is in that part of the vibration

which conspires with or impedes its motion.1 A popular

idea may be formed of these fits of reflexion and trans
mission, by supposing that each particle of light, after its

   1 It is curious that Newton here makes no mention of an ethereal medium as that

in which the vibrations are executed, as he does in his Hypothesis, formerly de

scribed. See p. lo6.

168            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. VII.

emission from a luminous body, revolves round an axis

perpendicular to the direction of its motion, and present

ing alternately to a refracting surface, which it approaches,

an attractive and a repulsive pole, in virtue of which it
will be refracted if the attractive pole is nearest the re
fracting surface, and reflected if the repulsive pole is

nearest that surface.

   In order to explain this more clearly, let s be a ray of

light which falls upon a

transparent surface mn,

and is transmitted by

that surface. It is ob

vious that it must have

been nearer its fit of

transmission than its fit

of reflexion when it met

the surface mn at T ; but

whether it was exactly

in its fit of transmission,

or a little way from
it
    isthe theory supposes that
               a t'
     put by the action
                  if

                             it
                                        it,

                                 if
                                                                      R,

                                                                a

                                                                       it ;
of the surface into the

same state as         had    F,°14

begun its fit of transmission at T. Let us now suppose that
its fit of reflexion takes place at and that these fits recur
at t', r', t", r", &c., so that there was second transparent
surface at or t", the ray would be transmitted and if
there was second transparent surface at r', r", would
be reflected. The spaces tt', t't", are called the intervals

of the fits of transmission, and the spaces rr', r'r", the

intervals of the fits of reflexion. Now, as      the spaces
                                                       obvious
tt' rr' are equal for light of the same colour,  it
                                                     is

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  169

that the ray R will be transmitted, if the thickness of the
body is tt', tt", &c., that is tt7, 2 W, 3 tt', or any multiple
whatever of tt', the interval of a fit of easy transmission ;
and as tt' is equal to rr', the ray R will be reflected when

Ifthe thickness of the body is ^ tt', 1^ tt7, 2^ tt7, 3^ tt', &c.
     the body mn, therefore, were a plate with parallel sur

faces, and if the eye were placed above it so as to receive

the rays reflected perpendicularly, it would in every case

see the first surface mn by the portion of light uniformly

reflected from that surface ; but if the thickness of the
body were tt', 2 tt', 3 tt7, 4 tt7, or 1000 tt7, the eye would

receive no rays from the second surface, because they

would be all transmitted ; and, in like manner, if the
thickness were ^tt', 1-^tt', 2-Jtt', or IOOO^tt7, the eye

would receive all the light reflected from the second sur
face, because it would be all reflected. When this re

flected light meets the first surface mn, on its way back
from the second surface, it will be all transmitted, because

it is then in its fit of transmission. At intermediate

fthicknesses, such as tt', a portion only of the light will

be reflected from the second surface, increasing as the
thickness increased from tt7 to 1-J tt', and diminishing

again as the thickness increased from 1$ tt' to 2 tt7.

    Let us now suppose that the plate whose surface is
mn has its thickness varying like a wedge mnp, Fig. 15,
and that the eye is placed above it to receive the light
which it reflects. The interval of the fits being tt', rr',

as before, it is evident that, near the point N, the light
that falls upon the second surface tP, will be transmitted,
because it is in a fit of transmission, but at the thickness

tr the light will be reflected from the second surface at

r, because it is then in a fit of reflexion, and again trans
mitted in returning through the first surface mn. In

170            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             CHAP. VII.

flike manner, the light will be transmitted at and
r, a

  /,

         /

                                             t,

                           f,

                                           t", r",
                                                                                                            t",
and reflected at and  so that the observer will see

series of dark and luminous bands, the middle of the

dark ones being at    and of the luminous ones at

     r".

                      Flo. 15.

Let us now suppose that the figure        adapted to red
                      a
                              is

                                    is
light then since the length of fit greatest in red, least
     ;
in violet, and of an intermediate size in yellow light,  it                     is
            a
obvious that in yellow light there will be set of dark
                                          a

and luminous bands less than those in the figure, and in

violet light another set less than in the yellow. When,

therefore, the light incident on the plate   it is iswhite, all

these bands will be superimposed, and form the coloured

bands already described. When the thin plate wedge-

shaped, the bands will be parallel. When             has the

form of concave lens, like air or vacuity between two

object-glasses, the bands will be circular, with the lowest

tints in the centre. When has the form of convex
                      it

                                                       aa

                                                                             ;
lens, like the plates of air in mica, the bands will also

be circular, with the lowest tints at the margin and

when the thin plate has different thicknesses like film of

1C75-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                 171

blown glass, the bands will have no regular shape, the
same thickness giving always the same colour.

    The preceding doctrine of fits has always been regarded
as an ingenious explanation of the colours of thin plates.

It is not given by its author as a theory or a hypothesis,

but simply as an expression of the facts which he has ob
served ; and yet it has to a certain extent the character of
a hypothesis, in so far as it assumes that the second surface
of the plate does not in every part of it reflect light like
the first, whereas in the theory of interference, certain

portions thus reflected are destroyed before they reach
the eye of the observer.

   With the exception of the interesting observations of MM.

Provostayes and Desains already referred to, no discovery
of any great importance has been made on the subject of
thin plates since the time of Newton. We have had occa

sion to observe a number of curious phenomena in the thin
plates of decomposed glass when acting upon light in a
state of combination. The colours which they reflect and
transmit are not deducible from any theory of light, and
have an intimate connexion with the absorption of light

by coloured media.1
    Among natural phenomena illustrative of the colours of

thin plates, we have found none more remarkable than one
exhibited by the fracture of a large crystal of quartz of a
smoky colour, and about two and a quarter inches in dia
meter. The surface of fracture, in place of being a face
of cleavage, or irregularly conchoidal, as we have sometimes
seen was filamentous like surface of velvet, and con

sisted of short fibres so small as to be incapable of reflect

ing light. Their size could not have been greater than

      " On the Connexion between the Phenomena of the Absorption of Light and
the Colours of Thin Plates."-- Thil. Irons. 1837, 24ft.
1

       it,
                                                     a

                                                                                                p.

172                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    CHAP. VII.

the third of the millionth part of an inch, or one-fourth of
the thinnest part of the soap-bubble when it exhibits the
black spot where it bursts.1

    Although Newton did not communicate his observations
on the colours of thick plates to the Royal Society in his
discourse on light and colours, but " put them together out
of scattered papers" some time before the publication of
his Optics,2 yet this is the proper place for bringing them
under the notice of the reader.

    The colours of thick plates arise from a quantity of
light scattered in all directions from the little inequalities
or imperfections which exist in the surface of a glass mirror

either silvered or unsilvered. In order to observe them,

a sunbeam is admitted through a small hole about a third
of an inch in diameter into a dark room. This beam is

received perpendicularly on a concavo-convex glass mirror,
a quarter of an inch thick, and having each surface ground
to a sphere six feet in radius. When the sunbeam passes
through a small hole in the middle of a sheet of white
paper placed in the centre of the mirror's concavity, the
hole is surrounded with four or five coloured rings. The
rings resembled those seen by transmission through two
object-glasses, but were larger and fainter in their colours.
When mirrors of different thicknesses were used, the dia

meters of the rings were reciprocally as the square roots
of the thicknesses ; and in homogeneous light they were
largest in the red, and smallest in the violet rays, like those
formed by thin plates.

    These and other phenomena described by Newton, he

1 Edinburgh Journal    of Science,  vol. i. p.  e10n8ti.tledJun"eO1b8s2e4r.vations  concerning the
s These observations,               number,
                       thirteen in

Reflections and Colours of thick transparent polished Plates, form the fourth part

of the Second Book of Optics.

1675-76.        LIFE OF SIE ISAAC NEWTON.                                                173

explains by taking into consideration the fits of easy reisit,
flexion and transmission of the faint scattered light alreadyis           a
mentioned. On the undulatory theory they are explained
by the interference of the portions of light scattered atif a                                     1°
the first surface by the rays in passing and repassing
                                         a
through it.
    The Duke de Chaulnes1 observed similar rings when the

surface of the mirror was covered with fine gauze, or with
a thin film of milk dried upon and Sir William Herschel2
noticed analogous colours when hair-powder was scattered
in the air before metallic mirror, on which beam of

light was incident.
    When we look through two plates of parallel glass of

exactly the same thickness, at a circular disc of light
or 2° in diameter, no coloured bands will be seen when

the light incident perpendicularly, and when the plates
are parallel. But we incline them slightly to one an
other, we shall see, beside the direct image of the luminous
body which crossed with no fringes, series of lateral

images formed by successive reflexions between the sur
faces of the plates, which are crossed with fifteen or six

teen highly coloured bands parallel to the common section
of the surfaces of the plates. The breadth of these bands

   inversely as the inclination of the plates, and at given
inclination their magnitudes are inversely as the thickness
of the plates employed.

    These brilliant bands, which we have described minutely
in a separate memoir,3 are explicable by the doctrine of
fits of easy reflexion and transmission. They have been
explained also on the undulatory hypothesis by Dr.
is
                                                                                      a

          3» 1  Mem. Acad. Par. 1705.    1815, vol. vii. p. 435.
                Phil. Trans. 1807.

                Edinburgh Transactions,

174  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       CHAP. VII.

Thomas Young,1 and in greater detail by Sir John

Herschel.2

    Another species of coloured fringes, produced by the
reflexion of a pencil of light between the lenses of a
double or a triple achromatic object-glass, is equally ex
plicable by Newton's theory of fits, and by the doctrine
of interference. Owing to the curvature of the surfaces
which produce them, the forms of the isochromatic lines,
or the lines of equal tint, are various and beautiful.3

     1 Art. Chromatics in Encyclopcedia Britannica.
     1 Treatise on Light, g 688-695.

     3 Edinburgh Transactions, 1832, vol. xii.

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 175

          CHAPTER VIII.

INFLUENCE OF COLOUR IN THE MATERIAL WORLD-- NEWTOn's THEORY OF

THE COLOURS OF NATURAL BODIES COLOURED BODIES REFLECT ONLY

LIGHT OF THEIR OWN COLOUR, ABSORBING ALL THE OTHER PARTS OF

WHITE LIGHT --THE COLOURS OF NATURAL BODIES ARE THOSE OF THIN

PLATES -- THE TRANSPARENT PARTS REFLECTING ONE COLOUR AND
TRANSMITTING ANOTHER --ARRANGEMENT OF THE COLOURS EXHIBITED
IN NATURAL BODIES INTO SEVEN CLASSES --COLOURED JUICES AND SO

LUTIONS, OXIDATED FILMS, METALS, ETC. ETC. -- NEWTON'S THEORY
APPLICABLE ONLY TO ONE CLASS OF COLOURS --OBJECTIONS TO IT

STATED -- MR. JAMIN's RESEARCHES ON THE COLOURS OF METALS --

CAUSE OF COLOURS MUST BE IN THE CONSTITUTION OF BODIES -- EX

AMPLES OF THE EFFECT OF HEAT UPON RUBIES AND NITROUS GAS --
                          ON PHOSPHORUS --EFFECT OF MECHANI
EFFECT OF SUDDEN COOLING

CAL ACTION ON IODIDE OF MERCURY -- INDICATION OF A NEW THEORY
-- AND OF THE CAUSE OF THE ABSORPTION OF DEFINITE RAYS -- ILLUS

TRATION OF THESE VIEWS IN A REMARKABLE TOURMALINE.

   Had the objects of nature been rendered visible only
by white light, and exercised upon it the same action in
refracting and reflecting it to the human eye, all the com
binations in the material world, and all the various forms

of life, would have displayed no other tint than that
which they exhibit in a pencil sketch, a China-ink draw

ing, or a photographic picture. The magnificent foliage
of the vegetable world might have filled the eye with its

picturesque and lovely forms, and given protection to its
fruit and its flowers, but we should not have rejoiced in

the verdure of its youth, nor mourned over the yellow of
its age. The sober mantle of twilight would have replaced
the golden vesture of the rising and the setting sun. The

176  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VIII.

stars would have twinkled colourless in a grey sky, and
the rainbow would have dwindled into a narrow arch of

dusky light. The diamond, the ruby, and the sapphire
might have displayed to science the nice geometry of their
forms, and yielded to the arts their adamantine virtues ;
but they would have ceased to sparkle in the chaplet of
beauty, or adorn the diadem of princes. The human face
divine might have expressed all the qualities of the mind,
and beamed with all the affections of the heart ; but the

purple light of love would not have risen on the cheek of
beauty, nor the hectic flush have heralded its decay. Life
would have breathed and perished in its pale marble ;
and nature would have sprung and decayed in its russet
brown. The material world, however, has been otherwise

framed, and those exquisite models of organic and inor
ganic life, into which the great sculptor has chiselled the
furniture of his terrestrial temple, have been enhanced by
that ethereal beauty which the play of light and colour

can alone impart.
   Many attempts were made previous to the time of

Newton, to explain the colours of natural bodies ; but
they all necessarily failed, while philosophers were igno

rant of the true nature of colours themselves. In his

earliest communications to the Royal Society, Newton had
clearly indicated his views respecting the colours of natural
bodies ; and after showing " that they appear of divers

colours, according as they are disposed to reflect most

copiously the rays endued by these colours," he proceeds,
in the last part of his " Discourse," read to the Royal
Society on the 10th February, 1675-6, to consider " the
constitution of bodies on which their colours depend." This
curious subject continued to occupy the attention of New
ton, and he enters upon it more fully in two different parts

1675-76.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                  177

 of his Optics, where " by the discovered properties of light
 he explains the permanent colours of natural bodies," 1 and
 points out the " analogy between such colours, and the

 colours of thin transparent plates."2
    After shewing that all bodies, whatever were their co

 lours, exhibited these colours best in white light, or in light
 which contained their peculiar colour, he proves by expe
riment, that when coloured bodies are illuminated with

homogeneous red light, they appear red, with homogeneous
blue light, blue, and so on, " their colours being most brisk
and vivid under the influence of their own daylight colours."
 The leaf of a plant, for example, appeared green in the
white light of day, because it had the property of reflecting
green light in greater abundance than any other. When
the leaf was placed in homogeneous red light, it no longer
appeared green, because there were no green rays in the
red ; but it reflected red light in a small degree, because

there were some red rays in the compound green, which

it had the property of reflecting. If the leaf had originally

reflected a pure homogeneous green, unmixed with red,
and reflected no white light (as all leaves do) from its
outer surface, it would have appeared quite black, in pure

homogeneous red light, as this light does not contain a
single ray which the leaf is capable of reflecting. Hence
it follows that the colours of natural bodies are owing to

the property which they possess of stopping or absorbing
certain rays of white light, while they reflect or transmit
to the eye the rest of the rays, of which white light is
composed. The green leaf, for example, stops or absorbs
the red, blue, and violet rays of the white light which falls
upon and reflects and transmits only those which com

pose its peculiar green.
1
                                                                                                          Optict, Book ii., Part iii.
        I. it,                                                                                                                M

                           i.,
                                                                                                       *
 Optics, Book  Part ii., Prop. 10.

VOL.

178             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON".  CHAP. VIII.

To this extent the views of Newton are demonstrable,

and have been universally adopted ; but when he attempts;
to determine the manner in which the colour of any body
is insulated from the other colours which fall upon andit,
in which these other colours are stopped or lost or, in
other words, the physical constitution of natural bodiesis
by which these processes are effected, he enters the region
of hypothesis and fails in bringing conviction to the mind.
His theory, however, grand and imposing, but standing

as does, and as we shall presently shew, on a perishable
it
     it   must soon be swept away in the progress of
basis,

optical discovery.
    The following are the principles on which this theory

founded.
is

      1.
        Bodies that have the highest refractive powers, re
flect the greatest quantity of light from their surfaces, is
and at the confines of equally refracting media there

no reflexion.

2. The least parts of almost all natural bodies are in

some measure transparent.
    3. Between the parts of opaque and coloured bodies,

are many spaces or pores, either empty or filled with
media of other densities.

        The parts of bodies and their interstices or pores5. 4.
must not be less than of some definite bigness, to render

them coloured.

         The transparent parts of bodies, according to their
several sizes, reflect rays of one colour, and transmit those
of another on the same grounds that thin plates do reflect

6.or transmit these rays.
        The parts of bodies on which their colours depend,

are denser than the medium which pervades their inter

stices.

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 179

    7. The bigness of the component parts of natural bodies

may be conjectured by their colours.
   In illustration of the fifth, or leading proposition of the

theory, Newton remarks, " that if a thinned or plated

body, which being of an even thickness, appears all over
of one uniform colour, should be slit into threads or broken

into fragments of the same thickness with the plate, he
sees no reason why every thread or fragment should not
keep its colour, and by consequence why a heap of those

threads or fragments should not constitute a mass or
powder of the same colour which the plate exhibited
before it was broken. And the parts of all natural bodies

being like so many fragments of a plate, must on the
same grounds exhibit the same colours."

   In order to prove this, Newton proceeds to describe

various kinds of colours, to which he considers the theory
specially applicable ; but before we follow him in this
investigation, we must endeavour to classify all the
varieties of colours which are exhibited in the natural

world.

    Colours may be arranged into seven classes, in each of
which the colour has a different origin.

1. Transparent coloured fluids, such as the juices ob

tained from the coloured parts of plants, and coloured

solutions, whether natural or artificial. Transparent

coloured solids, such as coloured minerals, glasses, pow

ders, and vegetable tissues.
2. Oxidated films on metals -- colours of precious and
hydrophanous opal --of Labrador felspar -- of the feathers
foisfhebsir--dso--f othf ethtaepewtiunmgs,                    --of
                                             &c., of insects         the scales of
                                                              the   internal films
                                            of animals --of
of mother-of-pearl and various shells --and of decomposed

glass.

180              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VIII.

3. Superficial colours of mother-of-pearl, striated and

grooved surfaces, which can be communicated by pressure

to other surfaces.

4. Opalescences, or colours dispersed from the particles

of different solid and fluid and gaseous bodies, some of

which are coloured, and others colourless. These colours

aanpdpeasrevienraicl e,glainsswesa--teri,n  in the atmosphere --in fluorspar
                                             solutions of sulphate of quinine,

&c., and in the juices of plants and several oils.

   5. At the surfaces of media of different dispersive

powers, and in which the index of refraction is the same in

each medium for certain rays, but different for all the rest.

6. The colours produced by heat, and during com

bustion.

7. The colours of metals.

    The colours  referred to                yienllotwhewfiniresst--obf yththeesecoclolausrseeds
                 by red and
are represented  the windows of the apothecary --by the
fluids shewn in           ----bayndthbey

green   leaves of plants                    ruby, the cairngorm, the
topaz,  and the sapphire                    the powders of cinnabar,

red lead, ultramarine, sulphur, &c.
   In all these bodies Newton supposes that the colour

peculiar to each, namely, that which passes through its

substance, is the tint reflected from the minute particles

of which it is composed, the opposite or complementary

tint, which is transmitted by the particles being lost within

the body by a multitude of internal reflexions. In the

ruby, for example, the particles are supposed to have such

a size as to appear red by reflexion, and the green light

which would be seen by transmission through a single

particle, is supposed to be lost by repeated reflexions

within the body composed of such particles. If we now

examine the ruby, or any other coloured solid or fluid, we

1675-76.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOU.  181

shall find that neither red nor green light is reflected from

any of its external surfaces, or any of its internal parts.

The red light which characterizes the body is seen only
Ifby transmission through its substance.
                                              we now ana

lyze the red light by the prism, we shall find that it has

not the composition of any of the red rings in Newton's

scale of colours.

In the case of the ruby, which we have purposely

selected, we are able to apply another test, and one which

Newton himself authorizes, when he remarks that changes
of colour may be produced by the swelling or shrinking

of the tinging corpuscles. In subjecting the balas ruby

to a high degree of heat, which must have had the effect

Iof swelling the tinging corpuscles, found that it became

green, which, as the cooling advanced, gradually faded

into brown, the ruby resuming its original brilliant red

when it had returned to its former temperature. Berze-

lius observed an analogous fact in the spinelle of Ceylon

and Aker, which became brown by heat, then black, and

opaque as the heat increased. Upon returning to its
former temperature, it passed through a fine chrome green
before it recovered its red colour. Hence it is obvious

that these colours and changes of transparency, which

have no relation to those of thin plates, could not have

arisen from the gradual swelling and subsequent shrink

ing of tinging corpuscles.

   A still more striking proof of the want of analogy

between the colours of natural bodies and those of thin

plates, may be obtained from the prismatic analysis of

certain colours in which Newton himself believed that

analogy to exist. A green of the third order of colours

as he observes, " constituted principally of original green,
                   a
                                                                                              is,
but not without mixture of some blue and yellow," and

182              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTO>\  CHAP. VIII.

contains not a single ray of orange, red, indigo, or violet.
He considers the green of all vegetables, to be a green

of the third order, not only because this green is the

purest and most intense in colour, but because when
vegetables wither, some of them turn to a greenish yellow,

and others to a more perfect yellow or orange, or perhaps
to red, passing first through all these intermediate co
lours. " Now," he adds, " the green is without doubt one
of the same orders with those colours into which it

changeth, because the changes are gradual, and those

colours, though usually not very full, yet are often too

full and lively  to be of  the fourth   order." These    changes
from green to    red, he   considers   as " effected by   the ex

haling of the moisture which may leave the tinging

corpuscles more dense, and something augmented by

the accretion of the oily and earthy part of that mois

ture."

In order to put these opinions to the test of direct

experiment, we examined the brilliant green juice extracted
by alcohol from the leaves of twenty different plants, and
also the same juice when taken from the leaves in their

yellow, orange, and red state, and found that their com

position had not the least resemblance to that of the

colours of any order whatever, and least of all to those

of the greens of the third order. The spectrum obtained

from a sunbeam passing through these juices is one of
singular beauty, divided by dark spaces into several co

loured bands of unequal breadths, and possessing all the

colours which ought not to exist in the green of the third

order. When the green fluid thus analyzed has stood for

three or four days it loses its bright green colour, and
becomes of an olive green, which grows more and more of
a brownish yellow, till it becomes almost colourless, a

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.   183

series of changes which have no relation whatever to the

effects that might be expected to arise from an increase
or decrease in the density or size of the tinging cor

puscles.

   In some plants the green leaf decays in a different
manner from that described by Newton. In place of
becoming yellow, the green leaves of the privet become
of a deep black violet, when they wither ; a colour which

has no resemblance whatever to any of the colours of thin

plates. The fluid obtained from these violet leaves was

of a deep red colour, --much deeper than that of the
darkest port wine. It divided the red space of the spec

trum into two red bands, absorbed the violet and blue

spaces generally, and obliterated the middle of the green
space. Its action was so different from that of the green

juice, that the two tints had no resemblance to those of

adjacent colours of the same order.1

    The pale blue of the sky is regarded by Newton as a
blue of the first order, produced by the minute particles
of " vapours which have not arrived at that grossness

which is requisite to reflect other colours ;" and while

he considers the whiteness of froth, paper, linen, &c., as
that which arises " from a mixture of the colours of

several orders," that from the action of particles of
1

   A

             it
                   is

                                a

                            it
                                   is is,

                                                    it
                                                             is

                                                                                              a
much greater size than those of vapours which produce

the blue of the first order. Now,     obvious that froth,

when seen under clear blue sky, must have the colour

of the sky itself, as  nothing more than an accumula

tion of images of the sky reflected from the innumerable

aqueous vesicles which compose it. The colour of froth,

wherever  placed, must be the average tint of all the

          full account of these experiments, with coloured drawings of the spectra, will
be found in the Edinburgh Transactions, 1833, vol. xii. pp. 538-545.

184  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                                  CHAP. VIII.

differently coloured rays which fall upon it and are re

flected to the eye.
    The colours referred to in the second class are undoubt

edly analogous to those of thin plates. Newton has him
self mentioned the colours of the feathers of some birds

as those of thin plates, and the fine colours of the dia
mond and other beetles obviously have the same origin.
The splendid colours of the tapetum, or membrane be
hind the retina of animals, afford an interesting example
of this class of colours. Even when the membrane has
been taken out, it exhibits the most beautiful colours by
reflexion, but it becomes absolutely black when dry. The
colours, however, may be revived by moisture, and, after
remaining in the dry state for upwards of twenty years,
we have succeeded in restoring the colours by steeping
the membrane in warm water. The black passes into a
bright blue, the blue into green, and the green into greenish

yellow.

   In placing the internal colours of mother-of-pearl under
this class, we must carefully distinguish them from the
external colours communicable to wax. By reducing the
mother-of-pearl to exceedingly thin plates, we are able to
exhibit the action of the colorific films which they en
close, and which, like those of thin plates, give one
colour by reflexion, and its complementary colour by

transmission.1

    The splendid colours exhibited by decomposed glass,
both in the light which it reflects and transmits, belong
also to colours of the second class ; and though they are
clearly those of thin plates, yet they exhibit peculiarities
when produced by a great number of films, which place

     1 See Phil. Trans. 1814, p. .597 ; an<l 1836. pp. 55, 56.

1675-70.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     185

them in a certain interesting relation with the colours of
the first class.1

    The colours of Labrador felspar, and of precious and
hydrophanous opal, which we have shewn to be produced
by thin plates and minute pores and tubes, belong also to
the second class of colours.2

    The superficial colours which we have placed in the
third class, have obviously no relation whatever to the
colours of thin plates. They are spectra produced by
interference, and, had he been acquainted with them,
they would have been regarded by Newton himself as

inexplicable by his theory.3
    The very remarkable colours produced by internal dis

persion, and which have recently excited so much interest
from the discoveries of Professor Stokes of Cambridge,
form a fourth class, which has not been identified with
those of thin plates. The light thus dispersed must be
reflected, in cases of ordinary opalescence, from the faces
of minute pores in solids, or from particles of different
densities disseminated through solids, or suspended in
fluids. The beautiful colours exhibited by fluor spar, by
solutions of the sulphate of quinine, and various other
solids and fluids, are emanations of a phosphoric nature,
generated by certain rays in the solar spectrum, and have
therefore no analogy with the colours of thin plates.

These emanations have all colours, --red in the alcoholic

juices of leaves, violet, blue, pink, and whitish in fluor
spar, sky-blue in sulphate of quinine, bright green in alco-

    1 See Layard's Discoveries in  the Ruins of Nineveh, 1853, pp. 674-676; and
                                   1829, vol. xi. p. 322 ; and Reports of the British
Phil. Trans. 1837, p. 249.
   " See Edinburgh Transactions,

Association, 1844, p. 9.
   3 See Phil. Trans. 1814, p. 397 ; and 1829, p. 301.

186  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VIII.

liolic solutions of the colchicum autumnale, and in various
glasses and oils, and violet in an alcoholic solution of

guiacum.1

   In the fifth class, we have placed a new species of colours

which we discovered many years ago, and which we believe
have never been studied, or even alluded to by any other

person. In the year 1814, when investigating the law

of polarisation for light reflected at the separating sur
face of different media, we had occasion to inclose oil of

cassia between two flint-glass prisms, and were surprised
to observe that the colour of the reflected light was blue.
The cause of this we had some difficulty in discovering.
The refractive power of oil of cassia exceeds greatly that
of flint-glass for the mean rays of the spectrum, while the
action of the two bodies on the less refrangible rays is
nearly the same. Hence the red rays must be in a great
measure transmitted, while there will be reflected a small

portion of the orange, a greater portion of the yellow, and
a much greater proportion of the blue and violet, so that
the colour of the pencil, formed by reflexion, must neces
sarily be blue, mixed with some of the less refrangible

rays.

   By employing different kinds of glass, and different
oils, we obtained various analogous results, in which rays
of different colours were extinguished from the reflected
pencil according to the part of the spectrum where an
equilibrium had been established between the refractive
powers of the media in contact. When the refractive
indices were equal in the blue rays, the colour of the
reflected pencil was yellow. As the indices of refraction

  Ill;1 See Edinburgh Transactions, 1833, vol. xii. p. 542 ; anil 1846, vol. xvi. p.

Jieports of the British Association, 1838, pp. 10-12; Phil Trans. 1845, p. 143;

hthI 1852, p. 40.'i.

1675-76.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  187

are the same for all obliquities of incidence,1 the tint of

the reflected pencil, though it must vary in intensity, can
never vary in colour ; and as that colour is abstracted
from the white incident light, its complementary tint must
appear, however faintly, in the transmitted pencil. Hence
it follows as a general result, that as all reflecting surfaces
are the separating surfaces of two media, the pencils
which they reflect and transmit must necessarily have a
different tint from the incident pencil, excepting in the
extreme case, and one not known to exist, where the two

bodies in contact have the same refractive powers, or the
same differences of refractive power for every ray of the

spectrum.
    Hitherto we have supposed the irrationality of the co

loured spaces to be simple, but it may be compound, and
there may be two, three, or more points in the spectrum of
two adjacent media where the indices of refraction are the
same, or have equal differences, while in other points they

are not the same, or have their differences unequal. In

these cases the reflected and transmitted tints will be

compound ; but as such colours have not been observed,
it would be out of place to make any farther reference to

such a supposition. It may be sufficient to remark, that
even if we never discover spectra of such a character,

they may exist in the refractions at the separating sur
faces of the tinging corpuscles of Newton, and the media
which fill their interstices.

    In the sixth class of colours may be ranked those pro
duced by heat in metals and other substances, the colours
of different bodies in combustion, and those exhibited in

   1 In his Memoir on Diffraction, FresncI has thrown out the idea that, at great

incidences, and with very thin lamina?, the law of refraction may not follow the
proportionality of the sines.

188                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. VIII.

the deflagration of metals. There is no reason to believe

that any of these colours have the slightest analogy with
those of thin plates, and their nature and origin remain

to be investigated.
    The colours of metals, which form the seventh class in

our enumeration, have been referred by Newton to those

of thin plates, but without any plausible reason. The
polarisation of light by metallic bodies required to be

investigated before the problem of their colour could be
solved, and we owe its solution to the recent and beauti

ful researches of M. Jamin. As it would be foreign to
the character of the present work to give an account of
the process by which M. Jamin obtained his results, we

must content ourselves  with  presenting               them in the fol

lowing Table :--

Copper,               COLOUUS AFTER ONE REFLEXION.            D.      c.
Brass,                                                   69°       0-113
Bell metal, .                      Orange, very red,   103 13      0112
Speculum metal,                   Yellow,                83 10
Zinc,                               Orange, yellow, .    67 25     0065
Silver, .                           Orange, very red,  180 57
                                    Blue,               89 00      0 027
Steel, .                            Orange, yellow,
                                                                   0-021
                                                                   0-013

     Copper,          COLOURS AFTER TEN REFLEXIONS.      42"  29'  0-812
     Brass,                                                   50   0-349
     Bell metal, .                  Red, middle,         62   40   0-767
                                    Orange, very red,   40
     Speculum metal,                Red,                 53   59   0-292
     Zinc, .                        Red, orange,       267         0-188
     Silver, .                      Blue, indigo,        84   58   0-124
     Steel, .                       Orange, yellow, .
                                  White,                --    32

                                                              --

    The numbers in the column marked D are the distances
of the tint of the metal from the red end of a spectrum,
whose whole length is 360° ; and those under the letter c
are the intensities of the tints, that of the incident white

light being TOGO.

Ifw5-7G.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 189

After a careful study of these different classes of co

lours, philosophers will have no hesitation in concluding

that Newton's theory of the colours of natural bodies has

only a limited application, and that instead of any general

theory such as he contemplated, we must look for a sepa

rate explanation of the different classes of phenomena.

The first class of our enumeration, which comprehends
the largest number of coloured bodies, is the one which

presents the greatest difficulty to philosophers ; and to it
the Newtonian hypothesis is certainly inapplicable. Within

the solids, fluids, and gases of this class, certain rays of

the intromitted pencil are absorbed or lost, while others

are transmitted, or, what is the same thing, the coloured

body has different degrees of transparency for different

rays, being opaque for different portions of the spectrum

at different thicknesses ; whereas, in colourless bodies, the

rays are absorbed in equal proportions, so that the trans

mitted beam emerges colourless. The colour of a body,

therefore, is not produced by particles having the same
colour as itself, but it is the colour which arises from the

mixture of all the transmitted rays, and these rays proceed

from every part of the spectrum, though in different pro

portions. Hence we must look for the cause of the colour

in the constitution of the body itself, that in the manner
is is
              a

                         a
                                                 it,

                                                     is
                                                                               is,
in which its atoms are combined, and not in the size or

nature of the atoms themselves.

In support and in illustration of this opinion, we may

mention few remarkable examples, in which the colour

changed by change in the condition of its particles.

The most remarkable of these nitrous gas. This body

almost transparent in small thicknesses, and at low

temperatures. By heating  its colour becomes in suc

cession straw yellow, orange, red, and even absolutely

190               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. VIII.

black. When phosphorus, which in its ordinary state is of

a pale yellow colour, is melted and thrown into cold water,

it becomes black, and recovers its original colour when

again melted. It is therefore obvious, that in both these

cases the blackness could not be produced by any dimi

nution in the size of the particles. A similar change of

colour is produced by simple mechanical pressure on the

crystals of iodide of mercury, which change their colour
by simply pricking them with a sharp point.

    The various phenomena of colour in crystallized bodies,
and the influence of the continued action of light upon

coloured substances, indicate the existence of different

causes of colour ; and the influence of structure, as one of

these causes, is finely shewn in the relation of the colours

of dichroitic crystals to their axes of double refraction or

crystallization.

The great diversity in the constitution of coloured

bodies is peculiarly shewn in the diversity of their action

on the different rays of the spectrum ; and it is therefore

probable that the cause of their difference of colour may

be found in the diversity of action exercised upon light
by their particles or elementary atoms. In describing the

colours of the fifth class, we have already mentioned an
experiment with flint glass and oil of cassia, and its indi
cation of a new theory of the colours of natural bodies of
the first class. In Fraunhofer's spectrum, the principal

black lines which it contains are represented by the letters
If f--A, B, c, D, e, f, Gt, h, I ; A i being nearly the whole of its
length.  a, b, c, d, e, g, h, i, represent the same lines

formed by any fluid or solid different from that which

produces the spectrum ai, then though ai be equal to A I,

it frequently happens, and we venture to say, always

happens, that ab is not equal to ai?, nor cf to CF, while

1G75-76.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOX.                                     191

ac may be equal to ac, and dh to dh. The equal spectra

may coincide in particular points, that individual lines
          is
in the one, indicating particular colours, may coincideit
                                                        is is
with individual lines marking the same colours in the
                                                                   is,
other spectrum, and yet other lines may not coincide,                      is

indicating different colours. When a ray of white light,

therefore, incident on the separating surface of the two

media which give these two spectra, a very large portion,
or rather the whole of the colours, indicated by the coin

cident lines, will be transmitted, while a very small portion

of the colours indicated by the non-coincident lines will

be reflected, the greatest quantity of the colours being

reflected where the non-coincidence  greatest, and the

greatest quantity being transmitted at the points of coin

cidence. Where there are many separating surfaces, and

many elements in the body, the spectrum obtained by

the prismatic analysis of the transmitted light will be cut

up by obscure portions exactly as    found to be in all

coloured media.

When the constitution of any coloured body altered

by heat or pressure, the refractive and dispersive power
of its elements are changed, and the resulting colour

altered, according to the ratio in which the refracting

forces are changed in the elementary molecules. Changes
of this kind are finely exhibited in the growth of certain
coloured crystals. In the tourmaline, for example, we

have sometimes a red nucleus which absorbs one of the

doubly refracted pencils, namely, the green one, and

transmits only the red. When this nucleus was completed,

some change had taken place in the circumstances under

which the crystallization was proceeding, and the molecules,

though still combining as tourmaline, combine in such
manner as to produce no colour --no difference  in
                                                               a
                                                                               the tint

192  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        CHAP. VIII.

of the pencils --and no absorption of one of them. At a

subsequent stage, the structure which produces the red
colour again appears and disappears, forming in succes
sion coloured and colourless laminae round the original

nucleus !

    Another example of great interest is afforded by certain

specimens of jiuor spar, in which the colours of the fourth

class are produced.1 The structure which produces a
white phosphorescence, is succeeded by one which pro
duces a coloured phosphorescence, and this again by a
structure which produces no phosphorescence at all. The
changes of structure to which these different effects are
owing, arise, in all probability, from a change in the ar
rangement of the atoms in the molecular groups of which

the body is composed.

     ' See Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xvi. p. 112.

1G72.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     193

         CHAPTER IX.

nfwton's discoveries on the inflexion of light -- previous re
   searches of hooke -- newton's animadversions on them offen
   sive to hooke --newton's theory of inflexion as described by
   grimaldi, having made no experiments of his own -- discoveries
   of grimaldi, which anticipate those of hooke -- hooke suggests

    THE DOCTRINE OF INTERFERENCE -- NEWTOn's EXPERIMENTS ON IN
    FLEXION -- HIS VIEWS UPON THE SUBJECT UNSETTLED -- MODERN RE
    SEARCHES -- DR. YOUNG DISCOVERS THE LAW OF INTERFERENCE -- DIS
    COVERIES OF FRESNEL AND ARAGO FRAUNHOFER's EXPERIMENTS --
    DIFFRACTION BY GROOVED SURFACES -- DIFFRACTION BY TRANSPARENT
   LINES -- PHENOMENA OF NEGATIVE DIFFRACTION --EXPERIMENTS AND
    DISCOVERIES OF LORD BROUGHAM-- EXPLANATION OF DIFFRACTION BY

    THE UNDULATORY THEORY.

    Among the optical discoveries of Newton, those which
he made on the inflexion of light hold a high place. They
were first published in his Treatise on Optics in 1704, but
we have not been able to ascertain at what period they

were made. In the preface to this work, Sir Isaac informs

us, that the third book, which contains his experiments on
inflexion, " was put together out of scattered papers and
he adds, at the end of his observations, that " he designed

to repeat most of them with more care and exactness,
and to make some new ones for determining the manner
how the rays of light are bent in their passage by bodies
for making the fringes of colours with the dark lines be

tween them. But we were then interrupted, and cannot

now think of taking these things into consideration."
    The earliest notice of the inflexion of light by English

VOL. I.                             N

194  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IX.

 philosophers was taken by Dr. Hooke in a discourse read
 to the Royal Society on the 27th November 1672,
 " containing diverse optical trials made by himself, which
 seemed to discover some new properties of light, and to
 exhibit several phenomena in his opinion not ascribable
to reflexion or refraction, or any other till then known
 properties of light." The Society desired him to pursue
these experiments, and to register some account of them,
in order " to preserve his discoveries from being usurped."

    After an interval of more than two years, he commu
nicated to the Society a second discourse " on the nature
and properties of light, in which were contained several
 new properties of light, not observed that he knew of by

"optical writers." These properties were, --

       1 . That there is an inflexion of light differing both
from refraction and reflexion, and seeming to depend upon

the unequal density of the constituent parts of the ray,
whereby the light is dispersed from the place of condensa
tion, and rarefied, or gradually diverged into a quadrant.

    " 2. That this deflexion is made towards the superficies
of the opaque body perpendicularly.

    " 3. That in this deflexion of the rays, those parts of

diverged radiation that are deflected by the greatest
angle from the strait or direct radiations are faintest ;

those that are deflected by the least are the strongest.
    " 4. That rays cutting each other in one common fora

men, do not make the angles ad verticem equal.
    " 5. That colours may be made without refraction.
    " 6. That the true bigness of the sun's diameter cannot

be taken with common sights.
    " 7. That the same rays of light falling upon the same

point of the object will turn into all sorts of colours, only

by the various inclination of the object.

1C72-V5.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                          195

" 8. That colours begin to appear when two pulses of

light are blended so very well and near together, that the

sense takes them for one."1

These observations of Hooke on the Inflexion of Light,

were referred to, not very courteously, by Sir Isaac New

ton, at the close of the celebrated Discourse on Colours,

of which we have already given an account. After treat
ing of the colours of natural bodies, he says, " that there

is another strange phenomenon of colours which may

deserve to be taken notice of. Mr. Hooke," he adds,
" you may remember, was speaking of an odd straying of

light, caused in its passage near the edge of a razor, knife,

or other opaque body, in a dark room ; the rays which

pass very near the edge being thereby made to stray at

all angles into the shadow of the knife. To this Sir

William Petty, then President, returned a very pertinent

query, Whether that straying was in curve lines 1 and

that made me (having heard Mr. Hooke, some days be

fore, compare it to the straying of sound into the quies

Icent medium) say, that took it to be only a new kind

of refraction, caused perhaps by the external ether's be

ginning to grow rarer a little before it came at the opaque

body, than it was in free spaces, the denser ether without

the body, and the rarer within  being terminated not
1

 a
                                                      it,

                                                                                                                          ;
in mathematical superficies, but passing into one another

through all intermediate degrees of density whence the

rays that pass so near the body, as to come within that

compass where the outward ether begins to grow rarer,

must be refracted by the uneven denseness thereof,

and bended inwards towards the rarer medium of the

body. To this Mr. Hooke was then pleased to answer,

     See Birch's Hist. Royal Society, vol. iii. pp. 63, 194, and Hooke's Posthumous
Works, pp. 186-190.

196  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IX.

that though it should be but a new kind of refraction, yet

it was a new one. What to make of this unexpected

reply I knew not,-- having no other thoughts but that a

new kind of refraction might be as noble an invention as
any thing else about light ; but it made me afterwards,

II know not upon what occasion, happen to say, among

some who were present to what passed before, that

Ithought had seen the experiment before in some Italian

author. And the author is Honoratus Faber, in his dia

Ilogue De Lumine, who had it from Grimaldi, whom

mention because I am to describe something further out

of him."

This passage, which must have been very offensive to

Hooke, may be fairly adduced as affording an additional

apology for his statement that Newton had, in his Dis

course, only carried farther, in some particulars, what was

contained in his Micrographia. We have no doubt that

Hooke discovered the inflexion of light, without knowing
any thing of the previous experiments of Grimaldi.

Hooke was right in calling his discovery a new property
                            wrong in calling it " only a new
of light, and Newton was    stripping it of much of its value,

kind of refraction,"--thus

and placing it in the same category with his own discove

ries. Hooke felt the bitterness of the remark, and with

more temper than might have been expected, replied,
" that though it should be but a new hind of refraction,
yet it was a new one ;" thus taking to himself the credit

of making a new discovery even when reduced in import

ance by its new designation. Newton confesses that he

knew not what to make of this unexpected reply. The

reply was a proper one, and might have been expected ;
but though Newton felt its full significance, he had not
the readiness to make the explanation which it required,

1675.                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       197

and which he subsequently gave. He had no thoughts,

he afterwards said, of undervaluing the discovery of a
property of light by calling it " a new kind of refraction ;"

yet he did not give this explanation till he had ascertained

that the new property had been previously discovered by

Grimaldi ; and though he now gave its true value to the

new discovery, he but embittered the admission when he

announced to the Society, that the discovery belonged to

an Italian philosopher. On a former occasion Newton

had unnecessarily claimed for Descartes some of Hooke's

theoretical opinions ; and when a similar claim was made

for Grimaldi, Hooke could not but feel the unkindness of

his rival. Nearly two centuries have elapsed since these

controversies raged ; and it is not without its moral in

intellectual strife, nor yet without its consolation to the

humbler cultivators of science, that while Newton's Theory

of the Inflexion of Light is maintained by nobody, the

theory of Hooke, imperfect as it
1                                                    adopted by the

 Itgreater number of modern philosophers.

      is
                           is
                                a

                                                                  is,
                                                                is

                                                          it
                                                                                     it is
       obvious from these details, that Newton had at this

time made no important experiments on the Inflexion of
Light. " He propounded his theory with diffidence," as

he had " not made sufficient observation about it." It

equally obvious that he had not seen the work of Gri

maldi,1 which he quoted from Honoratus Faber, although

a copy of the work had been three years in the possession
of the Royal Society, or at least of their secretary, Mr.

Oldenburg, who published an analysis of in the Philo

sophical Transactions for January 22, 1671-72. The

analysis, indeed,         very imperfect one, in so far as

refers to the diffraction of light, and could scarcely have

       Phj/sico-Mathesis  de Limine, Colonbus, hct ide, aUitque annexis.  Bononise,
1665. 4to.

198                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. IX.

led Hooke to his discovery, even if he had perused it

with attention. " The author," says the reviewer, " ex

plains how many ways light is propagated or diffused,

viz., not only directly, and by refraction and reflexion, but
also by diffraction ; which last, according to him, is done
when the parts of light, separated by a manifold dissec

tion,   do in the   same medium proceed in different ways,"
       definition  of diffraction which Newton could scarcely
--a

have comprehended, and which, if he had, he would not

have accepted.

That Newton had not seen Grimaldi's work in 1675,

is avowed by himself ; and there is every reason to be

lieve that he had not even seen it in 1704, when he pub
Iflished his Optics.
                      it it                          and was aware of

                                              it,
                                        he had seen

the discoveries which contains, he has not only done

great injustice to the Italian philosopher, but neglected

the opportunity which afforded him of anticipating the
discoveries of his successors. In the third book of his

Optics, he gives to Grimaldi the credit merely of havingaa
observed that the shadows of all bodies, placed in light
let into dark room through small hole, were larger
than they ought to be, and that these shadows had three
parallel fringes of coloured light adjacent to them, whereas
the Italian philosopher had penetrated more deeply into
the subject, and achieved, as we shall now see, very im

portant results.

    Having admitted ray of light through small holea it
into dark room, Grimaldi observed that was diffuseda
in the form of a cone, and that all bodies placed in     a
this light had their shadows larger than they should
have been had the light passed by their edges in straighta
lines. Upon closer examination of these shadows, he
discovered that they were surrounded by three coloured

1675.  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  199

fringes, growing narrower as they receded from the sha
dow. When the sun's light was strong, he perceived
similar coloured fringes within the shadow of narrow
bodies like a needle. These fringes were sometimes only
two in number, and sometimes four, their number in
creasing and their size diminishing with the thickness of
the body, and also, in the same shadow, when it was
received on a sheet of paper at a greater distance from
the body. From these new and valuable facts Grimaldi
concluded that light is bent from its rectilineal direction
in passing by the edges of bodies. By admitting the
sun's rays through two small holes, so near each other
that the two cones of light which they produced did not
penetrate each other till they had reached to a consider
able distance from the two holes, Grimaldi discovered the

remarkable fact, that in consequence of the mutual inter
ference of the two cones of light, the spot which was
illuminated by both the pencils of light was more obscure
than when it was illuminated by either of them singly,
or, what is the same thing, " that a body actually illumi
nated may become more obscure by adding a light to that
which it already receives." Grimaldi discovered also the
beautiful phenomenon of the crested, or curved fringes
exhibited within the shadow of the rectangular termina
tion of bodies.

    Although Hooke was anticipated by Grimaldi in the
greater number of his observations, yet he is clearly enti
tled to share with the Italian philosopher in the discovery
of the doctrine of the interference of light, though it was
left to Dr. Thomas Young to complete the discovery.

    Such was the state of the subject of Inflexion when
Newton directed to it his powers of acute and accurate
observation. His attention, however, was turned only to

200              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           CHAP. IX

the enlargement of the shadow of inflecting bodies, and
to the three fringes adjacent to it. He was therefore led
to take exact measures of the shadow of a human hair,

and of the breadth of the fringes at different distances

behind2. 1.    and to repeat these observations with light of

different colours. In this way he was led to two newit,

and remarkable results.

     That these breadths were not proportional to the

distances at which they were measured and,
                         ;
                                        ;

                                                                  ;
        That the fringes made in homogeneous red light
were red, and the largest that those made in violet light

were violet, and the smallest and that those made in

green light were green, and of an intermediate size, the
rays which formed the red fringe passing by the hair at

a  greater distance than those which formed the violet.

   When Newton made the preceding observations, he

intended to repeat most of them with more care, and to
make " some new ones, to determine the manner how the

rays of light are bent in their passage by bodies but

having been then interrupted, he could not think of re

suming the inquiry.

            very difficult to ascertain his real views on the

subject of inflexion. In his Discourse, read in 1675, he

ascribes to the variable density of the ether within
   It

        is
             it

and without the inflecting body, thus regarding as a
new species of refraction and in his letter to Robert
                         ;

                                                              it

Boyle in 1679, he takes the same view of the subject, and

considers the several colours of the fringes as produced
" by that refraction." Pursuing the same idea, he asserts

in the Scholium to the 96th Prop, of the first book of

the Principia, that the rays of light, in passing near

bodies, are bent round them as by attraction that the
                         if

                                                                      ;

                                               if
rays which pass nearest them are most bent, as they

1675-1704.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  201

were most attracted ; that those which pass at a greater

distance are less bent ; and that those which pass at still

greater distances, are bent in an opposite direction.

   In this remarkable passage, Newton introduces, for the

first time, the idea of a force bending the rays outwards ;

or of an inflecting force bending the rays inwards, accom

panied with a deflecting force bending them outwards.

This opinion, however, he subsequently abandoned ; for,

in the third book of his Optics, he refers all the pheno
mena to a force which " bends the rays not towards, but
                   and he distinctly asserts, " that light
from the shadow
is never known to follow crooked passages, nor to bend

into the shadow."

    These erroneous opinions, now wholly exploded, arose
from Newton's having never observed the internal fringes,
or those seen within the shadow. Grimaldi had described

them minutely in his work, and, as they have been seen

by almost every philosopher, it is not easy to explain how
they should have escaped the notice of two such careful

observers as Hooke and Newton. Without this cardinal

fact our author stumbled in his path, and was misled into

the erroneous propositions that bodies act upon light at
a distance ; that this action bends its rays with a force
diminishing with the distance ; and that rays which differ
in refrangibility differ also in flexibility. Nor was he
nearer the truth, when he conjectured in his third query
that the rays of light, in passing by the edges of bodies,

may be bent several times backwards and forwards with

a motion like that of an eel, and that the three fringes of
coloured light may arise from three such bendings.

   A subject which had thus baffled the sagacity of New

ton, was not likely to unfold its mysteries to ordinary
observers. The experiments of Grimaldi and Newton

202  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IX.

were repeated by various philosophers in various lands.

 Observations better made, and measures more accurately

taken, were continually accumulating. A Pelion of infer

ences was heaped upon an Ossa of facts, but no Baconian
conjurer could elicit from them the vital spark. The
cardinal facts were still wanting, and a century passed

away before a single experiment dissipated the inflexion
theories of a graduated ether, of refracting atmospheres,
and molecular actions. This humble experiment, which
neither merits nor claims any particular notice, was, we
believe, first made by ourselves in 1798, and afterwards
extended in 1812 and 1813. We found that ice, cork,

metals, and diamond, the lightest and the heaviest bodies,
the least refractive and the most refractive substances,

produced exactly the same fringes ; and that no change
in the phenomena of inflexion was produced when a fibre

of an opaque body was placed in fluids of precisely the
same or of greater refractive power. Hence it followed,
that the light which passed by the edges of bodies was
not inflected by any refracting agent, or by any action
whatever of the bodies themselves.

   It is to Dr. Thomas Young, however, that we owe

the master fact which enabled philosophers to unveil the
mysteries of diffraction, and to account for a great variety

of hitherto unexplained phenomena. In studying the

internal fringes, and the crested ones discovered by
Grimaldi, he found that, by intercepting the rays which
passed by one side of the diffracting body, the internal

and the crested fringes completely disappeared ; and
hence he concluded that the fringes were produced by the
joint action, or by the interference, of the two portions
of light which passed on each side of the diffracting body.

    Having thus discovered the cause of the internal fringes.

1801-18.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOK.                                       203

Dr. Young directed his attention to the external ones.

He considered them as produced by the interference of
the direct rays, or " those which have pursued their

course without interruption," with those which are re

flected from the margin of the diffracting body                               ;  and as
the fringes are on this supposition formed by light                              turned
                                                                              "

away from the substance near which it passes," he has

characterized the phenomenon as one of deflected light.
    M. Fresnel, to whose fine researches we owe the best

experiments on diffraction, and the most perfect theory of

followed Dr. Young in ascribing the external fringes to
it,
       itthe influenceo--f alinghotpinreioflnectwedhicfhrowmethe edge of      the dif
              afracting body,                              never could          recon

cile with the palpable fact, that the fringes had always

the same character, whatever was the reflecting power,

or the shape of the edge of the body. Fresnel, influenced

no doubt by the same consideration, suggested different
                                                          a
                                                                           a
origin for the rays which interfere with the direct ones,

namely, that the rays which pass at sensible distance

from the diffracting body deviate from their primitive

direction towards the shadow, and thus interfere with the

direct rays that pass near the body. In comparing these

two hypotheses, and assuming with Dr. Young that half

an undulation was lost by the reflected rays, he found

that the real place of the fringe, on the hypothesis of
                 if

                                     aa
                                                               a

                                                                          a
                                                                                      a
reflection, would be ^^ths of millimetre different from
what really was.

   In conducting his experiments on diffraction, Fresnel

adopted          new and accurate method of observing and

measuring the fringes. In place of using small hole,

he employed a convex lens of short focal length, which

collected the solar rays into focus, from which they

again diverged, as they had proceeded from small

204          LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. IX.

aperture.1 When bodies were placed in this divergent

light, he examined the fringes adjacent to their shadows

by means of an eye-glass furnished with a micrometer,

instead of receiving them upon a white surface ; and he

was thus able to measure their breadths even to the one

hundred or two hundredth part of a millimetre. In this

way he traced the external fringes to their origin, and

with a lens of short focus he perceived the third fringe

at a distance of less than the one-hundredth part of a

millimetre from the edge of the inflecting body.

By measuring the angular inflexion of homogeneous

red light, when the radiant point was placed at different

distances in front of the diffracting body, and also when

the radiant point remained fixed at different distances of

the fringes    behind the inflecting  body,  he  was  led  to two
important
             discoveries --

1. That the angular inflexion diminishes with the dis

tance of the inflecting body from the radiant point ; and,

2. That when the radiant point remains fixed, the suc

cessive positions of the same fringe are not in a straight

line, but form a curve whose concavity is turned towards

the diffracting body,2 the curves being hyperbolas, having

for their common foci the radiant point and the edge of

the diffracting body.3

The discovery of Dr. Young, that an opaque screen, on

one side of the inflecting body, extinguished the interior

fringes, was extended by M. Arago, who found that the

same effect is produced by a transparent screen of suffi

cient thickness, and that thin screens merely displace the

   1 A concave lens is preferable to a convex one, for reasons which will presently

be seen ; and we recommend that it should be achromatic.

   a This result had been previously obtained by Sir Isaac Newton.
   3 The hyperbolic form of the fringes had been previously discovered by Dr.
Young. --Lect., vol. i. p. 287.

1815. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 205

fringes, and transfer them from the side where they were
formed. When such a screen is placed on each side of

the diffracting body, the effect is equal to the difference

of the transferences which each screen would have pro
duced separately. As the amount of this transference

may be computed theoretically from the thickness and
refractive power of the screen, MM. Arago and Fresnel

employed this method for measuring, with great exact
ness, the refractive power of gases.

The late M. Fraunhofer of Munich made a series of

experiments on the diffraction of light on a large scale,

and obtained many interesting results. The experiments

were made with a telescope, which enabled him to obtain

accurate measures of the fringes or rings produced by

apertures of various forms ; and he has published beauti

ful drawings  of the spectra, and groups    roafyss,p--ecbtrya   pro
duced by a    great number of diffracted                        small

apertures variously arranged, and by wire-gratings either

acting singly, or crossed at right angles.

We have had occasion to study some of the same phe

nomena, when produced by lines cut upon polished steel

with a diamond. The grooved surfaces which we employed
were executed for us by the late Sir John Barton, and

contained groups of lines varying from 500 to 10,000 in

an inch. When divergent light was reflected from these

surfaces, the central image formed by ordinary reflexion

from the original surface of the steel plate was, in general,

white, as observed in every case by Fraunhofer and others,

and the other spectra had their usual character. But

when the bright spaces in the plate, or those between the
grooves had a certain relation to the width of the groove,

or the part of the steel that was excavated by the diamond

point, a series of new and remarkable phenomena were

206  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. IX-

produced. The light reflected from the original surface of

the steel forming the central image was no longer white,
but coloured, the colour varying with the angle of inci

dence at which the steel plate received the divergent beam.

In some of the groups of lines, the colour varied slightly
from 0° to 90° of incidence. In others it passed through

the first order of colours, and in others, where the original

steel surface was nearly removed, it passed through three
or more orders of tints. The light which is obliterated
from the central image, at any angle of incidence, or the
complementary colour of the tint at that angle, is obliter
ated also from all the coloured spectra at less angles of
incidence, the angle diminishing with the distance of the
spectrum from the central one, and being less in each
spectrum for the less refrangible rays.

  If we cover the surface of the grooved steel with a fluid

so as to reduce the refractive power of its surface, we
develop more orders of colours on the white or central

image, and consequently on all the spectra, higher tints

being produced at a given incidence. But what is very

remarkable, when the central image is perfectly white,
and when the spectra are complete without any oblitera
tion of their tints, the application of fluids to the grooved
surface develops colours on the central or white image,
and a corresponding obliteration of tints in the coloured
spectra. 1

   In the experiments hitherto made on diffraction, the

lines employed have been opaque, such as wires, hairs,

or fibres of glass, which act upon light as if they were
opaque. A series of beautiful phenomena are produced

when we employ transparent lines drawn upon glass with

     1 See the Phil Trans., 1829, pp. 301-317.

1829.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                                        207

solutions of gums of different kinds, and different degrees

of strength. A section of these transparent lines varies

with the nature and density of the solution, though it is

generally thicker at its edges. The consequence of this

       that the light which passes through the transparent
is,

            it,
                       it
                                                     a
line not only interferes with that which passes on each

side of but also with part of the light which has its

direction changed by the refraction of its curvilineal

edges. Hence follows, that series of new interfer

ences takes place, and we accordingly have a splendid

display of coloured fringes infinitely surpassing in variety

and brilliancy of colour the ordinary phenomena of dif

fraction.1

   In all the experiments on inflexion and diffraction

made by Newton and Fresnel, the fringes were viewed

either on paper, or in the focus of a lens when the rays

had actually interfered and produced the coloured fringes.

The fringes thus seen may be called positive, because they

are formed in space and out of the eye, on the retina of

which they are afterwards delineated but there another
                          I
                                                ;
                                                             is
form of these fringes, which have examined, and which

may be called negative, because they are not brought toa
   positive focus in space, or do not interfere till they

reach the retina. In order to see these fringes, place the

lens behind the diffracting body, so as to see the positive

fringes, and then move forward till these fringes dis
                      it

appear. The diffracting edge will now be in the anterior
Iffocus of the lens.
                      we advance the lens towards the

diffracting body, the negative fringes will appear, and will

increase in size till the lens touches the body, when they

   These effects are so beautiful, that we have recommended the use of diffracting
1
                                 ;

                                                                                       of

                                                                                                                                          a
apparatus for suggesting patterns for ribands. -- See Reports  British Association,

1838, vol. vii. p. 12 Treatise on Optics. Edit. 1853, p. 117.

208  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      CHAP. IX.

will have the same magnitude as the positive fringes have
when the lens is placed behind the body, at the distance

of twice its focal length.

  If we wish to see the fringes larger, we must use a lens

with a longer focus ; and when it is placed in contact with
the diffracting body, the fringes will in every case be the

same as the positive ones seen by the same lens placed

behind the body twice its focal length. If the diffracting

body is included in a fluid lens, or even placed in front of
the lens, the negative fringes will be seen. In producing

the negative fringes, the interfering rays are those which

virtually radiate from the anterior focus of the lens, and
which being refracted into parallel directions, enter the

eye, and interfere on the retina ; and in consequence of
their not interfering till they enter the eye, they are

much more distinct than the positive fringes.1

    The most recent experiments on the inflexion of light
have been made by Lord Brougham, who had investigated

the subject so early as 1796, and given an account of his
experiments in two interesting papers printed in the Phi

losophical Transactions.2 These investigations were pub
lished before Dr. Young discovered the key to this class
of phenomena, and before Fresnel had explained them on

the principles of the undulatory theory. In his early
papers, Lord Brougham considered the phenomena as

produced by inflecting and deflecting forces emanating
from the diffracting body, and acting, as Newton sup
posed, upon the passing rays ; but in his recent researches

he has used these terms merely for the purpose of making
the narrative shorter and more distinct, and has avoided

     1 See Reports of British Association, vol. vii. p. 12.  1838.
     2 PhU. Trans. 1796, p. 227 ; and 1797, p. 352.

1850.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NF.WTON.     209

all arguments and suggestions relating to the two rival

theories.

    The recent investigations of Lord Brougham were car
ried on under the clear sky of Provence, and with an
excellent set of instruments constructed by M. Soleil of

Paris. It would be impossible, without diagrams, to make

them intelligible to the general reader, but some idea
may be formed of the originality and importance of his
discoveries from the two following propositions, which
relate to a new property of the inflected and deflected

rays :--

    1. " The rays of light, when inflected by bodies near
which they pass, are thrown into a condition or state
which disposes them to be on one of their sides more
easily deflected than before their first flexion, and dis

poses them on the other side to be less easily deflect
ed ; and when deflected by bodies, they are thrown into
a condition or state which disposes them on one side

to be more easily inflected, and on the other side to
be less easily inflected than they were before the first

flexion.
    2. " The rays disposed on one side by the first flexion

are polarized1 on that side by the second flexion ; and
the rays polarized on the other side by the first flexion,
are depolarized and disposed on that side by the second
flexion." 2

    Whatever opinion we may form of the undulatory
theory in its physical aspect, the explanation which it
affords of a vast variety of optical phenomena, entitles it

   1 Lord Brougham uses the term polarisation " merely because the effect of the
first edge resembles polarisation, and without giving any opinion as to its identity."

   * Phil. Tram., 1850, pp. 235-260.

VOL. I.                              0

210  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. IX.

to the highest consideration. With the exception of Lord
Brougham's discoveries, and the peculiar colours on the
central image formed by grooved surfaces, to which we
have already referred, the undulatory theory gives a
satisfactory explanation of the leading phenomena of
diffraction, while the Newtonian or atomical hypothesis

has not even ventured to suggest a probable explana

tion.

1704.  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.  211

                       CHAPTER X,

miscellaneous optical researches of newton --his experiments on
   the absolute refractive powers of bodies--more recent expe
   riments --his conjecture respecting the inflammability of the
   diamond, confirmed by more direct experiments --his erroneous
   law of double refraction--his observations on the polarity
   of doubly refracted images -- discoveries on double refrac
   tion in the present century --his experiments on the eye of a
   sheep --results of them--his three letters on briggs's new
   theory of vision --his theory of the semi-decussation of the
   optic nerves --partly anticipated by rohault --opinions of
   later writers on vision, of reid, brown, wollaston, twining,
   and alison, discussed --the true laws of sensation and vision

   --newton's observations on the impression of strong light
   upon the retina-- more recent observations --his reflecting
   sextant --his reflecting microscope --his reflecting prism for
   reflecting telescopes --his method of varying the magnifying

   power of newtonian telescopes --newton's treatise on optics
   --his lectiones optica.

   Although the discoveries described in the preceding

chapters are those on which Newton's reputation in optics
chiefly rests, yet it is necessary to notice some of his less
elaborate researches, which, though of inferior importance
in the science of light, have either exercised an influence
over the progress of discovery, or have been associated
with the history of other branches of knowledge.

   In the second book of his Optics,1 Newton proves, with
much fulness of detail, that " the cause of reflexion is
not the impinging of light on the solid or impervious

                                        1 Part iii., Prop. viii. ix., &c.

212  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOK.                 CHAP. X.

parts of bodies, as is commonly  believed   "  and  that

                                           ;
" bodies reflect and refract light by one and the same

power variously exercised in various circumstances." He

then proceeds to show, that " if light be swifter in bodies

than in vacuo, in the proportion of the sines which mea

sure the refraction of the bodies, the forces of the bodies

to reflect and refract light are very nearly proportional

to the densities of the same bodies, excepting that unctuous

and sulphureous bodies refract more than others of the same
density." This remarkable exception led our author to

point out the connexion between the refractive powers

and the chemical composition of bodies. Having obtained

measures of the refractive powers and densities, or specific

gravities of twenty-two substances varying in density

between air and diamond, and having computed their

refracting forces, and compared them with their densities,

he calculated their refractive powers in respect of their
density. From this comparison he found that topaz,

selenite, rock- crystal, Iceland spar, common glass, glass of
antimony, and air, have their refractive powers almost
in the same proportion as their densities, " excepting that

the refraction of that strange substance, Iceland spar, is

a little bigger than the rest." -- " Again," he adds, " the

refraction of camphor, olive oil, lintseed oil, spirit of tur
pentine, and amber, which are fat sulphureous unctuous

bodies, and diamond, which probably is an unctuous sub

stance coagulated, have their refractive powers in propor

tion to one another as their densities, without any consi

derable variation. But the refractive powers of these

unctuous substances are two or three times greater in

respect of their densities than the refractive powers of

the former substances are in respect of theirs. Water has

a refractive power in a middle degree between these two

1704.                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                      213

....sorts of substances                     salts of vitriol between those
of earthy substances and water, and spirit of wine be

tween water and oily substances." The following are a

few of the numbers on Newton's Table :--

Pseudo topaz,1           BefractiTe Power.  Rain water,          .   Eefractive Power.
Air, . .                                    Spirit of wine,      .
                         . 3,979            Oil of olives,       .  . 7,845
Rock crystal, .          . 5,208                                 .  . 10,121
                         . 5,450                                 .  . 12,607
Iceland crystal,         . 6,536            Amber,       .          . 13,654
                         . 6,477                                    . 14,556
Rock salt,        .                         Diamond, .

    To the results in this table we have added the following,
computed chiefly from observations of our own, and in

teresting as being, with the exception of three in italics,

below the lowest and above the highest in Newton's
Table :--

                         Refractive Power.                           Refractive Power.

Tabasheer, . .                976           Realgar artificial,     . 16,666
                           2,742                                    . 17,000
Cryolite,       ..         3,426            Ambergris,           .  . 22,000
                          3,829                                     . 28,857
Fluorspar, . .           12,861             Snlpbur, .       .      . 29,964
                         13,816                                     . 31,862
Sulphate of Barytes,     13,964             Phosphorus,          .

Greenockite, .        .                     Hydrogen,        .

Octohedrite, .        .                     Hydrogen,        .

Diamond, . .

     The enormous refractive powers possessed by the last
six bodies in the preceding table, when taken in connexion
with those given by Newton, exhibit in a striking degree
the connexion between a high degree of inflammability
and a great refracting force. The conjecture of Newton
that the diamond " is an unctuous substance coagulated,"

has been generally regarded as a proof of singular sagacity,
and as an anticipation of the results of chemical analysis ;
but it is certainly not entitled to such praise. Its solitary

position among the oils and inflammable bodies led to the
conjecture ; but had he known the refractive index and

specific gravities of greenockite and octohedrite, he would

                      1 Probably Sulphate of Barytes.

214                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 CHAP. X.

have drawn the same conclusion respecting them, and been

mistaken. The real inference respecting the composition
of the diamond, which Newton's Table authorizes, is not
that it should consist of carbon, but of sulphur. " So then,"
says he, " by the foregoing table, all bodies seem to have
their refractive powers proportional to their densities, (or
very nearly,) excepting so far as they partake more or
less of sulphureous oily particles, and thereby have their
refractive power made greater or less. Whence it seems
rational to attribute the refractive power of all bodies

chiefly, if not wholly, to the sulphureous particles with
which they abound. For it is probable that all bodies
abound more or less with sulphurs. And as light congre

gated by a burning glass acts most upon sulphureous
bodies, to turn them into fire and flame ; so since all action

is mutual, sulphurs ought to act most upon light."1
    That diamond is a soft substance coagulated, has been

rendered probable by experiments of a more direct nature.
We have shown by the examination of a great number of
diamonds in polarized light, that the little cavities which
many of them contain, have been pressed outward by an
 elastic force emanating from some gas or fluid with which
 they had been filled. Several such cavities we found in the
 Koh-i-noor diamond, and in the two smaller ones which

 accompanied it ; and in a specimen in the British Museum,
 we found a yellow crystal of diamond that had crystallized
 upon the cleavage surface of another which was colourless,
 having been expelled from an adjacent cavity, in which it
 had existed in a fluid state.2

     Among the more interesting optical researches of New-

1    Optics, Book ii.,  Part  iii.,  Prop. x.    Society,  2d Series,  vol. iii.  p. 455 ; and
     See Transaction     of          Geological
'                             the

North British Bevieto, vol. xviii. p. 227.

1689-90.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           215

ton, we rank his observations on the double refraction and

polarisation of light. On the 12th of June 1689, when
Huygens was in England, during the presidency of Sir
Robert Southwell, he attended a meeting of the Royal
Society, at which Newton was present. Huygens informed
the Society that he was about to publish a treatise con
cerning the cause of gravity, and another about refraction,
giving, among other things, the reasons of the doubly
refracting Iceland crystal. " Mr. Newton, considering a
piece of the Iceland crystal, did observe that of the two
species wherewith things do appear through that body,
the one suffered no refraction when the visual ray came
parallel to the oblique sides of the parallelopiped ; the
other, as is usual in all other transparent bodies, suffered

more when the beam came perpendicular to the planes

through which the object appeared."1 It is remarkable

that this observation of Newton, which had been made

long before by Bartholinus, as Huygens knew at the time,

and as the Royal Society ought to have known,2 should
not have been claimed for that author.

   In the admirable Treatise on Light, to which Huygens

referred at the Royal Society, and which was published
in 1690, he has shewn that the observation of Bartho

linus, adopted by Newton, is erroneous,3 and has explained
the law of unusual refraction, as exhibited in one of the
two pencils formed by the double refraction of Iceland or
calcareous spar. This law he deduced from the principles
of the undulatory theory, and he confirmed it by direct
experiment. Viewing it probably as a theoretical result,
Newton seems to have regarded it as incorrect, and though

1 Journal Book of the Royal Society.                                Optica?,  p. 23-1.
2 It was published in the Phil. Trans. 1671, p. 2039.
3 Traiti de la Lumieve, chap. v. p. 57 ; and Maseres' iScrijrtores

216  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

he has given Huygens the credit of describing the pheno
mena more exactly than Bartholinus, who first discovered
and described the remarkable property of this spar, yet
without assigning any reason, or even referring to the law
of Huygens, he substitutes another in its place. The
observations of Newton were first published in his Optics
in 1704,1 fourteen years after the appearance of Huy-
gens's work. The law of unusual refraction, adopted

by Newton, is not given as the result of theory. It is

stated as an undoubted truth, and no experiments what
ever are referred to as having been made either by him
self or others. " One of these refractions," he says, " is
performed by the usual rule of optics, the sine of inci
dence out of air into this crystal being to the sine of
refraction as five to three. The other refraction, which

may be called the unusual2 refraction, is performed by
the following rule." This rule was first shown to be erro
neous by the Abbe Hauy,3 and it has been rejected by
all succeeding philosophers. 4

   In his observations on the successive disappearance
and re-appearance of two of the four images which are

formed when a luminous object is viewed through two
rhombs of Iceland spar, one of which is made to revolve
upon the other, Newton has been more successful, though
he has omitted to give to Huygens the credit of having
discovered these curious phenomena. He considers " every
ray of light as having four sides or quarters, two of which
are originally endued with the property on which the

   1 Query 25th and 26th at the end of the work.
   8 The term unusual, and the ratio of the sines, viz. 5 to 3, were given by Bar
tholinus in the abstract of his Paper in the Phil. Trans., No. 67, Jan. 1670-1,

pp. 20, 39.
   3 Traite de Mineralogie, torn. i. p. 159, Note.
   4 Hauy's Elements of Nat. Phil., by Gregory, vol. ii p. 337.

1704-1810.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  217

unusual refraction depends, and the other two opposite

sides not endued with that property ;" and he adds, that
" it remains to be inquired whether there are not more

properties of light by which the sides of the rays differ,

and are distinguished from one another."

   In animadverting on Huygens's theory of two vibrating

media within the Iceland crystal, he asserts that the un
usual refraction depends " not on new modifications, but

on the original and unchangeable dispositions of the rays,"

which, he says, "had Huygens known, he would have found

it difficult to explain how these dispositions, which he

supposed to be impressed on the rays by the first crystal,

could be in them before their incidence on that crystal ;
and in general, how all rays emitted by shining bodies can

have these dispositions in them from the beginning. To

me, at least," he adds, " this seems inexplicable, if light

be nothing else than pression or motion propagated

through ether."

After Newton wrote these imperfect observations,

more than a century elapsed before the double refraction

and polarisation of light in Iceland spar and other

bodies were reduced to regular laws. In 1810, Malus

announced to the Institute of France, the remarkable

discovery that a ray of light reflected at a particular angle

was polarised like one of the pencils formed by Iceland

spar, that  exhibited the same properties in its four
            is,

                             ;

                                                a
                                                                                 it
sides or quarters which are exhibited in one of the pen
cils of Iceland spar and the result of this fine discovery

has been the establishment of new branch of Phy

sical Optics, which possesses the highest interest, not

only from the beauty of its laws and the splendour of

its phenomena, but from the new power with which

arms the philosopher in detecting organic or inorganic

218  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                       CHAP. X.

structures, which defy the scrutiny of the eye and theit,
                        is
microscope.                                     a

   Although Sir Isaac Newton has not published any ofa
his opinions or experiments on Vision, or on the structure
and functions of the eye, yet we fortunately possess some
fragments of his researches, which are both valuable and
interesting. Among these is a manuscript in his own
handwriting, which we found among the family papers,

containing some accurate observations and experiments
on the form and dimensions of the eye of a sheep, and
accompanied with an outline drawing, on a large scale, of
a section of the eye.1 The following are the most in
teresting results contained in this manuscript.

   In the first part of which written in Latin, he

makes the outer surface of the cornea part of prolate
spheroid, the major axis coinciding with the optical axis,
or that of the eye, and having to the transverse axis the
ratio of 1350 to 972.

    He places the focus for parallel rays of the first surface
of the cornea at point behind the eye, and as far beyond
the sclerotic coat as one-seventh of the diameter of the

eye-ball, which he makes an oblate spheroid, having its
vertical axis 1025, and its horizontal one 975, the ante

rior portion of the spheroid coinciding nearly with the
front of the iris.

    He represents the crystalline lens as having a great
degree of convexity, differing not much from sphere,
and he remarks that the anterior superficies of the
crystalline more full than the posterior surface, which

    certainly not the case, and not so represented in the

diagram.
    The second part of the manuscript, which contains minute

                                  See Appendix, No. III.
is
                   is

                                                       1

                                                   is
                                                                                  a

1682.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               219

measurements of every part of the eye, is written in

English, and concludes with an expression of regret, that
" he was prevented by an accident from taking the dis

tance of the crystalline humour from the horny tunic,

I(the sclerotic coat,) which would gladly have done to

have had the conformity of all the parts one to another,

in one and the same eye." The elliptical form of the

cornea was detected not many years ago by M. Chossat of

Geneva, who, of course, could not know that he had been

anticipated by Newton.

We have not been able to ascertain at what time these

observations were made, but it appears from the corre

spondence of Newton with Dr. W. Briggs, published by

Mr. Edleston,1 that in 1682 his attention was called to

the subject of binocular vision, in consequence of Dr.

Briggs having communicated to the Royal Society on the

15th March, a paper entitled, " A New Theory of Vi

sion."2 Briggs, who was a contemporary of Newton's at

Cambridge, and a Fellow of Corpus Christi College, seems
to have sent him a copy of his paper, and to have soli

cited his opinion of it. The theory which he proposes

evinces neither sagacity nor genius. Setting out on the

erroneous principle which has so long disfigured the phy

siology of the senses, that sensation is performed only in

the brain, and which has not yet been exploded, he seeks

for an explanation of single  vision   with two           eyes,   and of
other visual phenomena in     " the   rise of the          optic   nerve,

the position of its fibres, and the manner of their insertion

into the   eye." He    describes the optic   nerves       as arising
" from    two gibbous   protuberances,"3    in such       a manner

   1 Correspondence, &c. pp. 264-273. From the originals  in the British Museum,

Add. MSS., 4237, fol. 32 and 34.
   a Hooke's Collections, March 1682, No. 6, p. 167.
   8 The Thalami Nervorum Opticorum.

220       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 CHAP. X.

that those fibres that are in the zenith or apex of the

thalami have the greatest tension, while those in the

nadir, or opposite part, have the least tension by reason

of a less flexure. Every fibre that passes into the upper

part of the right eye from the upper part of one thalamus,

has a corresponding one passing from the upper part of

the other thalamus into the upper part of the left eye,

and the same thing takes place with the lower fibres.

The fibres which thus correspond in site correspond also
in tension, " so that when any impression from an object

without moves both fibres, it causes not a double sensation

any more than unisons in two viols struck together cause

a double sound." This theory may be called the theory of

corresponding fibres, and is doubtless the parent of one

more modern though equally inadmissible --the theory of

corresponding points.

   In his first letter to Briggs, Newton tells him that he

has " perused his very ingenious theory of vision, in which

(to be free with you as a friend should be) there seems

to be some things more solid and satisfactory, others more

disputable, but yet plausibly suggested, and well deserv

ing the consideration of the ingenious. The more satis
Ifactory
           take to be  your asserting that we  see with             both
eyes at                speculation about the   musculus             obli-
        once, --your
quus inferior,1 --your assigning every fibre in the optic

nerve of one eye to have its correspondent in that of the
other, both which make all things appear to both eyes, in

one and the same place, and your solving hereby the

duplicity of the object in distorted eyes, and confuting

the childish opinion about the splitting the optic cone.

The more disputable seems your notion about every pair

    1 Briggs considers this muscle necessary to prevent squinting,  by " keeping the

five even and in sight." -- Hooke's Coll., March 1682, p. 170.

1082.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  221

of fellow fibres being unisons to one another, discords to
the rest, and this consonance making the object seen with
two eyes appear but one, for the same reason that unison
sounds seem but one sound." Newton here terminates
his letter to " his honoured friend, Dr. Briggs," with the
observation that he had intended to state his objections
" against this notion," but that he thought it better " to
reserve it for discourse at their next meeting."

    Briggs, probably anxious for an earlier discussion than

one living at Cambridge could concede, seems to have
requested him to make his objections in writing. New
ton accordingly addressed to his honoured friend a long
letter of nearly seven printed pages,1 a letter of very
great interest, and utterly subversive of the theory of his

correspondent. In the commencement and conclusion of

this letter, which is of a slightly personal nature, we see
finely displayed the modesty and peculiar character of its

Iauthor. " Though am of all men," he begins, " grown

the most shy of setting pen to paper about any thing that

Imay lead into disputes, yet your friendship overcomes me

so far, that shall set down my suspicions about your

theory, yet on this condition, that if I can write but plain
enough to make you understand me, I may leave all to
your use without pressing it further on. For I design

not to confute or convince you, but only to present and
submit my thoughts to your consideration and judg
ment."

   After shewing that the bending of the nerves in the
thalami is no proof of a difference of tension, he states,
that when the ear hears two sounds in unison, it does not

hear them as one sound, unless they come from nearly
the same spot ; and for the same reason a similar tension

      1 Dated Trin. Coll. Cambridge, September 12, 1682. Appendix, No. IV.

222  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

 of the optic fibres will make the object appear one to
 two eyes.

    He then proceeds to show that the singleness of the
picture arises from the coincidence of the two pictures,
and therefore that the cause of single vision must be
sought for in the cause that produces the coincidence. " But
you will say," he adds, " how is this coincidence made 1

I answer, what if I know not 1 Perhaps in the sensorium

after some such way as the Cartesians would have be
lieved,1 or by some other way. Perhaps by the mixing
of the marrow of the nerves in their juncture before they
enter the brain, the fibres on the right side of each eye
going to the right side of the head, those on the left side

to the left."2

    In support of his theory, Briggs maintained that " it
was not to be imagined that the nerves decussate one

another, or are blended together," at the place where they
approach each other before they set off to the right and
left eye ; and he adduces the case of many fishes, where
the nerves are joined only by simple contact, " and in the

chameleon not at all, (as is said)," admitting, at the same
time, that in whitings, and perhaps some other fishes, they

do decussate.

  To this Sir Isaac replies : " If you say that in the

chameleon and fishes the nerves only touch one another
without mixture, and sometimes do not so much as touch ;

'tis true, but makes altogether against you. Fishes look

   1 Descartes himself distinctly states that we see objects single with two eyes in

exactly the same way as we feel objects single with two hands, forgetting that we
see them double by the displacement of the coincident images, and never feel them

double by the two hands. See Descartes' Dioptrice, cap. 6, De Visione, Art. X.
The experiment of feeling a pea double between two fingers, is not hostile to this

observation.
   2 This is precisely the theory of Rohault, see p. 229.

1682. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 223

one way with one eye, the other way with the other ; to

the right hand with this, to the left hand with that, twisting

their eyes severally this way or that as they please. And

in those animals which do not look the same way with

both eyes, what wonder if the nerves do not join 1 To

make them join would have been to no purpose ; and
nature does nothing in vain. But then, whilst in these

animals, where 'tis not necessary, they are not joined, in

all others which look the same way with both eyes, so far

Ias can yet learn, they are joined. Consider, therefore,

for what reason they are joined in the one and not in

the other. For God, in the frame of animals, hath done

nothing without reason."

The last objection of Sir Isaac to the new theory is

unanswerable. Admitting that consonance unites objects
seen with the fibres of two eyes, " much more," says he,
" will it unite those seen with those (consonant fibres) of
the same eye, and yet we find it much otherwise."
   " You have now seen," he says in conclusion, " the sum of
Iwhat think of worth objecting, set down in a tumultuary
way, as I could get time from my Stourbridge Fair friends.
If I have anywhere
                    expressed myself in  aamrgourme epnetr,e--mpptroayry,
way than becomes    the weakness of the

look on that as done not in earnestness, but for the mode

of discoursing. Whether anything be so material as that

Iit may prove any way useful to you, cannot tell ; but

pray, accept of it as written for that end. For having
laid philosophical speculations aside, nothing but the gra

tification of a friend would easily invite me to so large a

scribble about things of this nature."1

   1 This letter contains, as will be seen in the Appendix, No. IV., a paragraph re
specting the opinions of a Mr. Sheldrake, who, as Mr. Edleston informs us, was a
Fellow of Corpus Christi College, and seven years senior to Newton. Mr. Sheldrake

224                    LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                           CHAP. X.

Notwithstanding the force of these objections, Dr.

Briggs continued to press his theory on public notice, and
in May 1683, he published in Hooke's Philosophical Col

lections additional explanations of it, and a reply to seven
different objections that had been sent him " by Mr.

Newton, our worthy Professor of Mathematics at Cam

bridge, and other friends." It would be out of place to

make any observations on this defence of his theory. We

hear no more of it for two years ; but it appears that
Newton had requested Briggs to print a Latin version

it,                                                                               published in Lon

                              a
of and we accordingly find that                                                   it

                                                                                      is

                                                                                                                        ;
don in 1685, with curious letter of Newton's prefixed.

This letter1 must have been solicited by Briggs, in order

to call the attention of philosophers to his book and we

confess that we feel great difficulty in appreciating the

motives that could have induced its author to express the

opinions which contains.it

   In this letter,2 written in Latin, Sir Isaac speaks of

Briggs's two treatises3 as advancing at once two sciences

of great name, Anatomy and Optics. He compliments
him on having diligently inquired into the mysteries of

an organ so skilfully constructed, and he expresses the

great delight which he had formerly received from the

skill and dexterity with which he had dissected it. He

tells him that he had so elegantly developed the muscles

of the eye-ball, and expounded the other parts, that we

could not only understand, but see the uses and functions

states that vision more distinct when the eye directed to the ohject, than when
321
              is                           do not                                 recollect that  this curious
                            is

                                            I
                                                                              is
the object above or below the optic axes.                                                                                  fact

has been stated by any previous writer on vision.

See Appendix, No. V.

Dated Cambridge, May 1685.                                                                                                 Cantab.
The one the Theory of Vision, and the other his Ophthalmographia.

1676, and Loud. 1687.

1082.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               225

of each, and that this shewed that nothing inaccurate could

be expected from his scalpel. He then speaks of his

excellent anatomical tract, in which he shews the value of
accurate observation by " a most ingenious theory." After

describing Briggs's theory in a few lines, and mentioning

the analogy between unisons in music and in optics, he

says that nature is simple --that a great variety of effects

may be produced by the same mode of operation, and that

this was probable in the causes of the cognate senses. But

notwithstanding all this general praise, which is certainly
not merited, Newton does not adopt the theory. For

though he may suspect that there is another analogy be
tween these senses than that contained in the theory, he

must willingly confess that that of Briggs is very inge

niously excogitated. He then remarks that he does not

think the second dissertation useless in which he dilutes
the objections made against the theory. " Go on, then, "
he adds, " illustrious sir, as you are doing, and advance

these sciences by your very great inventions, and teach

the world that those difficulties in investigating physical

causes which usually yield with difficulty to vulgar at

tempts, may be so easily overcome by talent."

While Newton was writing this letter, there is reason

to believe that he had himself conceived another theory

of single vision with two eyes, proceeding on the supposi
tion that Briggs was wrong in his Anatomy as well as in
his Optics. This, we think, is indicated by the " other
analogy" of the senses of sight and hearing which he then

suspected, and to which he was no doubt led by his cor

respondence with Briggs. It is evident, that in September

1682, the date of his second letter, he had laid aside

philosophical   speculations, and  ththaat thenautunrwe il;li"ngalynd  wrote
his opinion                                                              it is
               "about things of

equally obvious, from his supposition about the mixing of

VOL. i.                                        P

226                                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                CHAP. X.

the marrow of the nerves in their juncture before they

enter the brain, that if the idea of the semi-decussation

of the fibres had been then in his view, he had not at

that time given it any serious consideration.
    That he had studied this subject with peculiar care, is

manifest from the 1 5th Query of his Optics,1 where he has
given a brief abstract of his theory of corresponding points,
or of the semi-decussation of the optic nerves, but particu
larly from an elaborate paper on the subject which was
never published in his lifetime, but which was found in MS.
among the papers of William Jones, Esq., which form the
celebrated Macclesfield Collection of scientific correspond

ence. A copy of this paper was given to Joseph Harris, who

inserted it in his Treatise of Optics,2, but from the manner
in which he has garbled we cannot discover whether or
not he has published the whole of the manuscript.8

    ^he theory of Newton, as published in his Optics, and
                                    aa
See Appendix, No. VI.                                                    See Appendix, No. VII.
·1                                    it,
Although                            evident, from careful perusal of the 15th Query, that             con
                it it it                                    ;a                               is
                           is                                        a2                           it
tains the same doctrine of the semi-decussation of the optic nerves which given in
the MS., yet                 has    Hbae1er3nr),ism'"siswuOhnopdteiwcrssat.sootdo"objSyuidrDicriIo.suaRasecid,Nepwwhhitlooosnoo,p"bhveisorauyssalynDdrh.taodoEeniadoc,tcusr(aeInteen
the copy of                  in
quiry, cap. vi.
                             sect.

an observer to have offered even      conjecture which did not tally with the facts

which had fallen under his observation, proposes query with respect to the cause

it,of (namely, the relation and sympathy between                       corresponding points  of the two
                                                                       to have detected the  doctrine of
retime.)" -- Optics, Query 15. Dr. Reid seems not
semi-decussation in the Query, and to have believed that individual nerves, not

half-nerves, from the two sides of both eyes, united before they reached the brain,

and there produced joint and single impression and Dr. Alison has either taken
                             is a
up Dr. Reid's    opinion, or misunderstood the  Query,                   and also the theory of semi
decussation.                                    that an                  explanation (of single vision
                 " It well-known," he says, "

by means of double images) was proposed by Newton, fully considered by Reid,

and since supported by Wollaston, (often called the theory of Wollaston, but quite

incorrectly,) proceeding on the supposition of a semi-decussation of the human
optic nerves at their commissure, whereby the fibres from the right half of the retina
go to the right optic lobe in the brain, and vice versa." This
                                                                         is  the theory of

Rohault, and not of Newton and Wollaston, in which the half-fibres, from the right
half of the retina of each eye, unite into one fibre at their commissure gh in Fig. 12,
and then go to the right optic lobe.

 1082. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 227
 as more fully developed in the MS. in question, will be
 understood from the annexed diagram given by himself.
Let P, Q represent the two eyes, tveg, yxeh the optic

ilnerves, crossing at what has been called the sella turcica,

 gh, and passing between or mk towards the brain. New

ton observes, that if the nerve be cut crosswise anywhere

between tg or yh, the section will " appear full of spots

or pimples, which are a little prominent, especially if the

nerve be pressed or warmed at a candle ; that these shoot
into the very eye, and may be seen withinside where the
retina grows to the nerve ; and that they continue to the
very juncture efgh. But at the juncture they end on a
sudden into a more tender white pap, like the anterior
part of the brain, and so the nerve continues after the
juncture into the brain, filled with a white tender pap, in
which can be seen no distinction of parts as betwixt the
said juncture and the eye."

  I" Now conceive," says he, " that every point in the

228             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

retina of one eye hath its correspondent point in the

other, from which two very slender pipes, filled with a

most limpid liquor, do without any interruption, or any

other unevenness or irregularity in their process, go along

the optic nerves to the juncture efgh, where they meet
either betwixt gf or fh, and there unite into one pipe as

ilbig as both of them ; and so continue in one passing
either betwixt  or mk into the brain, where they are

terminated perhaps at the next meeting of the nerves

between the cerebrum and cerebellum, in the same order

that their extremities were situated in the retinas. And

so there are a vast multitude of these slender pipes which

flow from the brain, the one-half through the right-side

nerve il, till they come at the juncture gf, where they

are each divided into two branches, the one passing by G

and T to the right side of the right eye ab, the other half

shooting through the space ef, and so passing by x to the

right side of the left eye a/3. And, in like manner, the

other half shooting through the left-side nerve mk, divide
themselves at fh, and their branches passing by ev to the
right eye, and by hy to the left, compose that half of the

retina in both eyes which is towards the left side CD

and yS."

    From this theory of the semi-decussation of the optic

nerves, Newton draws the following conclusions :--
   " Hence it appears," says he, --

   " 1. Why the two images of both eyes make but one

image, abed, in the brain.
    " 2. Why, when one eye is distorted, objects appear

double, for if the image of any object be made upon A in

the one eye, and /3 in the other, that object shall have

two images in the brain at a and b. Therefore, the pic

tures of any objects ought to be made upon the corre

1682.         LIFE OF SIE ISAAC NEWTON.                                    229

sponding points of the two retinas ; if upon A in the right
eye, then upon a in the left ; if upon B, then also upon
And so shall the motions concur after they have passed
                                                                           b
                                                                                                      /3.
the juncture gh, and make one image at a or more vivid

than one eye alone could do.
    " 3. Why, though one thing may appear in two places

by distorting the eyes, yet two things cannot appear in
Ifone place.
              the picture of one thing fall upon A, and

of another upon a, they may both proceed to p, but no

farther. They cannot both be carried on the same pipe

pa into the brain that which strongest, or most helped
           if
                     ;
                          G

                           F
                                    F

                                         is
by phantasy, will there prevail, and blot out the other.
" 4. Why,
              one of the branches of the nerve beyond

the juncture, as at       or H should be cut, that half of

both eyes towards the wounded nerve would be blind, the

other half remaining."1

This ingenious theory, decidedly superior to that of

Briggs, was to a considerable extent anticipated by M.

Rohault, in his Traite de Physique, published                              1671,
                                                                           in
more than ten years before Newton's attention was called
                                                                                 ;
to the subject. Rohault gives the very same figure as                               a
                                                                                             is
the preceding one, with this difference, that the nerves

neither cross nor split into two at H. He supposes that
*1

                                                                        G
the two optic nerves have their corresponding or sympa

thetic fibres, which unite in one point in the brain and

he thus explains single vision with two eyes, their dupli

city by distortion, and the impossibility of two things

appearing in one place.2

      Sir Isaac draws other four conclusions from his theory, but they will find fitter

place in the Appendix, No. VIII.
     A Latin translation of Rohault's work was published in 1708, by Dr. Clarke,

" with annotations chiefly from the philosophy of Newton, and yet no notice
taken of Newton's Theory, as contained in his 15th Query, although Dr. Clarke had

translated the Optics into Latin. He adds a note stating, that the conjecture

230  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

    During the 120 years that have elapsed since the pub
lication of Newton's Optics, we hear nothing more of the
Theory of Vision in the 15th Query, and in the manu
script above referred to, till the year 1824, when Dr.
Wollaston published in the Philosophical Transactions of
that year, a paper On Semi-decussation of the Optic Nerves,
in which he reproduces the very theory of Newton, in
order to account for the curious disease of hemiopsy, or
amaurosis dimidiata} in which the patient sees with each
eye only half of an object, being blind to the other half.
This sympathy between the two eyes may certainly arise
from structure, and depend upon " connexion of nervous

fibres," and if it does, is very well explained either by the

hypothesis of Rohault or of Newton ; but we cannot
attach any value to the invention of structural hypotheses
when the phenomena may be explained by that habitual
sympathy of double organs with which we are so well
acquainted. This observation is still more applicable to
the remark of Wollaston, that by his theory " we clearly

gain a step in the solution, if not a full explanation of

the long agitated question of single vision with two eyes,"
because this great fact in vision can be perfectly explained,
as we shall presently see, without any hypothesis what

ever.

    But not only is this theory of semi-decussation uncalled

for, it is contradicted by numerous facts. It has been

examined with great ability by Mr. Twining, of the Indian
Medical Service,2 who concludes " from anatomical obser
vations respecting the structure of the optic nerves and

respecting the fibres of the optic nerve had not yet been confirmed by dissection.
Part I. cap. 31, p. 225, note.

   1 The svffu&io dimidians of other authors.
  * Sec Transactions of the Medical and Phi/siccd Society of Calcutta, vol. ii. p.
151 ; or Edinburgh Journal of Science, July 1828, vol. ix. p. 143.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                     231

thalami, and the effects of disease on those parts, that no
decussation or semi-decussation of the optic nerves exists
in the human subject. No anatomist, indeed, has pre
tended to say that there is any trace of semi-decussation ;
and it has been proved that the decussation or crossing
at gh, Fig. 16, is only partial, the inner bundles decus
sating, while the outer bundles remain on the side on
which they previously lay."1

    There is no branch of physical science upon which

such unsound views have prevailed as in that which
relates to the optical functions of the eye ; and in studying
the speculations of modern metaphysicians and physiolo

gists, we feel as if we were grappling with the chimeras of

Aristotle or Descartes. While Dr. Reid maintains that

objects appear single when their images are formed upon
corresponding points of the retina, and double in all other

circumstances, he gives no explanation whatever of single

vision : he merely attaches the name of corresponding
points to those upon which the image falls when it is seen
single ! And when Dr. Brown tells us that it is from asso

ciation alone we see objects single and erect, by means of
double and inverted pictures, he merely asserts his igno
rance of the cause ; and his assertion is contrary to the
most notorious facts and to all experience, as Dr. Reid has
shewn.2 Nor does Dr. Alison, one of the latest writers

1 Wagner's Handworlerbuch der Physiologic, vol. iii. part ii. p. 297.

If2 by the sense of touch we could make the two images appear one, then we

should also see an object single when it is doubled by looking either at a near er or

a more distant object, or when it is made 100 by a multiplying glass ; but if a man

were to live a 1000 years, he would still see the two or the hundred images, though
he knew there was only one object. In order to illustrate his opinion, Dr. Brown

says that the two English words   he conquered,  excite the   same idea as the one Latin
word vicit. In reply to this Dr.  Whewell says,    " that to  make this pretended illus

tration of any value, it ought to be true that when a person has thoroughly learned the

Latin language, be can no longer distinguish any separate meaning in he and in con

quered." With this assertion we cannot concur. The two words he conquered, un

232                        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. X.

on the subject, bring us a single step nearer the truth.
After controverting the views of Brown and Reid, he

apprehends that he has established the following two facts,

affect our minds in the same manner as a single image
formed on the retina of one eye ; and,

    2. That impressions made on different points of the
retina of the eye, are naturally followed by inferences as

    We are unable to controvert these two palpable facts.

They are truisms which explain nothing ; and if Nature

had been so perverse as to produce three pictures in place

of one from two eyes, and had turned round an erect
picture 90° in place of 180°, which it does in inverting

that had represented man upon the retina lying hori
zontally in place of vertically and inverted, the explanation
       is,                      a                     is
                       it                                                  it
Ifdoubtedly convey the same meaning as vicit.is
                                              it                       is it,
                                                    we unite the two words thus,

heamquered or conqucredhe, we cannot doubt that the word he as truly included

in the termination         of vicit, as he in the single word heconquered, unless

alleged that vicit may also mean she conquered.

   Dr. Brown's real mistake consists in not taking two exactly similar words, as vicit,

vicit, like what he considers as the two exactly similar images. The two words pro

nounced in succession convey certainly only one idea, but the mind recognised the

same in succession or its duplicity, just as would do the two similar and united

images, one of them were slipped from its superposition on the other by pressing
       if
aside one of the eye-balls.
            is
   Dr. Brown's views are affected with another error, namely, in the assumption
                                                                     »
that the pictures in each eye are exactly similar.

   21  Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 479.

       There no opposition between the impressions on the concave retina and on
Ifconcave surface of the body.                                            it
                                we hold up the hand vertically, and bend
                                                                                     a
                                                                                   into

a  concavity, an impression made on the upper part of the concavity, will be felt as

coming from below, and an impression on the lower part of the concavity will be felt

as coming from above, exactly as in the case of the concave retina.

               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  233

of Dr. Alison would have been, that in the first case it
was natural, and that in the other it was naturally, and

exactly half opposite to other impressions on the surface
of the body.1

    From these speculations we venture to solicit the
attention of the reader to the true explanation of single
and erect vision, and of all the other normal visual pheno
mena with which we are acquainted, an explanation which
has been overlooked by our most distinguished optical
writers.

   1. The retina2 is the seat of visual sensation and of

vision ; and there is a law of visual sensation as well as
a law of vision, which can be determined only by expe

riment.

   2. In order to determine the law of visual sensation,

or the mental information given by the action of a physi
cal point of light upon the retina, let us make a hole of
the smallest size, that of the minimum visibile, for exam

ple, on a sheet of black paper, and let a ray of the sun's
light pass through it and fall upon the eye. This cone
of rays, with the pupil for its base, will be refracted by
the humours of the eye into a smaller cone, the apex of
which falls upon the retina. This apex, or point, is the
image of the hole in the paper, and is formed by a cone
of rays whose angle we may suppose to be 12°, so that

1 We have not noticed the additional explanation adopted by Dr. Alison, " that

impressions on the upper part of the retina are impressions on the lower part of the
optic lobes, i.e., of the sensorium ;" because he has not told us what requires as much

explanation as inverted vision, namely, why the lower part of the sensorium makes

the object seem lower ! Is the sensorium a plane, or a convexity, or a concavity ?

If it is a concavity, a physical impression on the lower part will correspond to the

Itop'of  the   object, and an impression  on the upper part with the bottom of it.
         omit   all consideration of the  question, whether the choroid coat or retina
                                                                                        is

the seat of vision, or whether the foramen emirate is or is not an opening in the

retina.

234  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                CHAF. X.

the impression is made by rays falling at all angles on

the retina from 0° to 6° on each side of the perpendicular

0°

                               If,

                                                                is
                                                                    is
or axis of the cone.       while looking at the hole in the

paper, we stop all the different rays in succession from

to 6°, we shall find that the hole                                    seen by them all

in one direction, and that this direction the axis of the

cone, and, as nearly as can be ascertained, the real direc

tion of the hole, or the axis of the incident cone of rays.

Hence follows, that the impression of a ray of light upon
     it
            it

                                 a
                                          is
the retina, whatever be the angle of its incidence, gives

the sensation of having proceeded in direction perpen
                                              it a
dicular to the retina, direction as will be afterwards
                                                                    a
seen coinciding nearly with the real direction of the hole

from which issues. This the law of visible direction.

3. In order to determine the law of vision, look at the

hole in the paper with both eyes, and will be found, by

opening and shutting each eye alternately, that single

image of the hole seen, and always in the same place,
     a
                  is
namely, at point where the optical axes of the two eyes

meet, and consequently at the distance from the eye where

these axes meet. The single image seen by both eyes                           is

formed by the superposition or coincidence of the two

images. This the law of visible distance, and the law; is

of single vision but the law of single vision true only                 a is

for visible points. If we had the hundred eyes of Argus in

place of two, the hundred images of point would coincide
                                              a
                                                       is
in one at the point where the hundred axes converge.

4. The law of vision for visual objects entirely differ

ent from that for points.  A  visual object cannot be seen

single at once. Let the object, for example, be line -^yth

of an inch long. The two images of cannot be seen
                                              it

coincident by both eyes. When the right hand extremi

ties of the images are coincident or single, the left hand

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  235

extremities are not, and vice versa. When the object is a
lineal space or superficies, only one point of it is seen single
and distinct, the two eyes converging their optic axes on
every point of it in succession, and thus obtaining the idea
of space. When the object is a solid, such as a cube, only
one point of it is seen single and distinct, the two eyes
converging their optical axes to the near and remote parts
of it in succession, and thus obtaining an idea of the dif
ferent distances of its parts by the varying angle of the
optic axes. This law of vision for solids, includes the
theory of the stereoscope.1

    We have stated that the law of sensation gives a visible
direction, which is nearly coincident with the real direc
tion of objects. The celebrated D'Alembert maintained
that the action of light upon the retina is conformable to
the laws of Mechanics,2 and therefore that the visible

direction of an object should be a line perpendicular to
the curvature of the retina at the excited point ; but he
rejected this law as contrary to observation. By using,
however, more correct refractive powers for the humours
of the eye, and more accurate measures of its parts, we
have shewn that the visible and true direction of points

nearly coincide.3
   By means of these laws all the phenomena of erect

vision from an inverted image, --of the single vision of
points, --of the vision of plane surfaces and solids, --and

of the conversion of two plane pictures into solids or
objects in relief, may be calculated with as much accu-

   1 See Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xv. p. 360.
   2 When a ray falls obliquely upon the retina (or any other surface of sensation) its
action may be decomposed into two, the one lying in the surface of the membrane,
and acting laterally upon the papilla?, and the other perpendicular, and acting in the
direction of the axis of the papilla?, and therefore passing to the brain.
   3 Sec Edinburgh Transactions, vol. xv. pp. 350-353, and North British Review,
vol. xvii. p. 165.

236                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                               CHAP. X.

racy as we can compute the positions of the heavenly

bodies.

    Among the minor optical labours of Sir Isaac Newton,
we must rank some curious observations on the action of

strong light upon his own eyes, which have been only
recently published by Lord King in his Life of Locke.
In his work on Colours, Mr. Boyle has described a curious
case, in which a gentleman " eminent for his profound
skill in almost all kinds of philological learning, had in
jured his eyes by looking too fixedly upon the sun through
a telescope, without any coloured glass to take off from
the dazzling splendour of the object. The excess of light
did so strongly affect his eye, that ever since when he turns
it towards a window or any white object, he fancies he
sees a globe of light of about the bigness the sun then

appeared to him, to pass before his eyes ; and having
inquired of him how long he had been troubled with this
indisposition, he replied, that it was already nine or ten
years since the accident that occasioned it first befell
him." 1 This remarkable case having attracted the atten
tion of Locke, he requested Sir Isaac to give him his
opinion on the subject. In his reply, dated Cambridge,
June 30, 1691, Sir Isaac sent him the following very

interesting observations, made by himself.2
    " The observation you mention in Mr. Boyle's book of

Icolours, once made upon myself with the hazard of my
eyes. The manner was this : I looked a very little while

upon the sun in the looking-glass with my right eye, and
then turned my eyes into a dark corner of my chamber,

and winked, to observe the impression made, and the

    1 Experiments  and Considerations touching Colours, chap.                                                                              19. Loud.
1664.                Locke, vol. pp. 404-108. Edit. 1830.

     King's Life
a

                    of

                                                i.
                                                                                                       ii.
                                                                                             §
                                                                                                                                  9,
                                                                                                                                       p.

1091.                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                237

circles of colours which encompassed           it,

                                                     I
                                                    and how they

decayed by degrees, and at last vanished. This repeated

   second and third time. At the third time, when
aa                       a

  the phantasm of light and colours about were almost
                                                    it

  vanished, intending my fancy upon them to see their last

  appearance, found, to my amazement, that they began
                    I

  to return, and by little and little to become as lively

  and vivid as when had newly looked upon the sun. But
                            I

  when ceased to intend my fancy upon them, they va
          is I I I
  nished again. After this, found, that, as often as went
                               I                        is
                                 I
                                                            I
  into the dark, and intended my mind upon them, as whena

    man looks earnestly to see anything which difficult toI;

  be seen, could make the phantasm return without look

  ing any more upon the sun and the oftener made                                  it
                                                        I

  return, the more easily could make return again. And
                                           it

  at length, by repeating this without looking any more upon

  the sun, made such an impression on my eye, that,                               I iIf

  looked upon the clouds, or book, or any bright object,

  saw upon        it     round bright spot of light like the sun, and,

                      a

  which still stranger, though looked upon the sun with

  my right eye only, and not with my left, yet my fancy began

  to make an impression upon my left eye, as well as upon
  my right. For
                    it         shut my right eye, or looked upon                  iIf a

  book or the clouds with my left eye, could see the spec;
  trum the sun almost as plain as with my right eye,
          iIf of        a iIf              I
  did but intend my fancy little while upon                                       for at
                               IIa a              II

                                                               it

                                                                               ;
  first,          shut my right eye, and looked with my left, the

  spectrum of the sun did not appear till intended my

  fancy upon             but by repeating, this appeared every time

  more easily. And now, in few hours' time, had brought

  my eyes to such pass, that could look upon no bright

  object with either eye, but saw the sun before me, so

  that durst neither write nor read but to recover the
       I                                   ;

238               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       CHAP. X.

use of my eyes, shut myself up in my chamber made dark,

for three days together, and used all means to divert my

imagination from the sun. For if I thought upon him, I
Ipresently saw his picture, though was in the dark. But

by keeping in the dark, and employing my mind about

Iother things, began in three or four days to have some

use of my eyes again ; and, by forbearing to look upon

bright objects, recovered them pretty well, though not so

well, but that, for some months after, the spectrum of the
Isun began to return as often as began to meditate upon
Ithe phenomena, even though lay in bed at midnight
with my curtains drawn. But now I have been very well
                  though I am apt to think, if I
Ifor many years,                                  durst ven
                  could still make the phantasm   return by
ture my eyes,
Ithe power of my fancy. This story tell you, to let you

understand, that in the observation related by Mr. Boyle,

the man's fancy probably concurred with the impression

made by the sun's light, to produce that phantasm of the

sun which he constantly saw in bright objects. And so

your question about the cause of this phantasm involves

Ianother about the power of fancy, which, must confess,

is too hard a knot for me to untie. To place this effect

in a constant motion is hard, because the sun ought then

to appear perpetually. It seems rather to consist in a dis

position of the sensorium to move the imagination strongly,

and to be easily moved, both by the imagination and by

the light, as often as bright objects are looked upon."

These observations possess in many respects a high

degree of interest. The fact of the transmission of the

impression from the retina of the one eye to that of the

other, or of its production in that eye merely by fancy, is

particularly important ; and it deserves to be remarked

as a singular coincidence, that we had occasion to observe,

1700.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                        239

and to describe the same phenomena above forty years
ago,1 and long before the observations of Sir Isaac were

communicated to the scientific world. iEpinus of St.
Petersburg observed the circles of colours described by
Newton, when produced by looking at the setting sun for

fifteen seconds. In the experiments alluded to, we looked

at the brilliant image of the sun formed by a concave
speculum of 30 inches focus with the right eye tied up,
and upon turning our left eye to a white ground, we
observed six successions of different colours with their

complementary tints when the left eye was shut. Upon
uncovering our right eye, and turning it to a white ground,

we were surprised to observe the reverse spectra, as if

the impression had been conveyed from the left to the

right eye, as in Sir Isaac's case. A spectrum of a darkish

hue floated before the left eye for many hours, and this was

succeeded by severe pains shooting through every part of

the head. A slight inflammation, affecting both eyes, con

tinued for several days, and it was not till several years had
elapsed that our eyes had recovered their former power.

   Among the inventions of Sir Isaac Newton, we may
enumerate his reflecting sextant for observing the moon's
distance from the fixed stars at sea. The description of
this instrument was communicated to Dr. Halley in the
year 1700 ; but, either from having mislaid the manu
script, or from attaching no value to the invention, he

never communicated it to the Royal Society, and it re
mained among his papers till after his death in 1742,
when it was read to the Society on the 28th October.
The following is Sir Isaac's own description of as copied
from the original manuscript :2--
11
                                                                              p.

                                                                             it,

                                                                                                                    i.
Art. Accidental Colours, in the Edinburgh Encyclopedia, vol.                                                            pp. 91, 92.
See Phil. Trans., 1742-43, vol. xlii. 155.

240  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

   " In the annexed figure pqrs denotes a plate of brass,
accurately divided in the limb dq into ^ degrees, ^ minutes,

^and minutes, by a diagonal scale ; and the degrees,

and ^ minutes, and fa minutes, counted for degrees,

minutes, and ^ minutes. A B is a telescope three or four
feet long, fixed on the edge of that brass-plate, a is a

speculum fixed on the brass-plate perpendicularly as near
as may be to the object-glass of the telescope, so as to be

                                                                Fig. 17.

inclined forty-five degrees to the axis of the telescope,
and intercept half the light which would otherwise come
through the telescope to the eye. c d is a moveable
index turning about the centre c, and, with its fiducial
edge, showing the degrees, minutes, and ^ minutes on
the limb of the brass-plate P Q ; the centre c must be
over against the middle of the speculum o. H is an
other speculum, parallel to the former, when the fiducial
edge of index falls on 0° 0' 0" ; so that the same star may
then appear through the telescope in one and the same
place, both by the direct rays and by the reflexed ones ; but

if the index be turned, the star shall appear in two places,

whose distance is showed on the brass limb by the index.

1700.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                               241

    " By this instrument the distance of the moon from
any fixed star is thus observed ; view the star through
the perspicil by the direct light, and the moon by the
reflexed, (or on the contrary ;) and turn the index till
the star touch the limb of the moon, and the index shall

show on the brass limb of the instrument the distance of

the star from the moon's limb ; and though the instru
ment shake by the motion of the ship at sea, yet the

moon and star will move together as if they did really

touch one another in the heavens ; so that an observation

may be made as exactly at sea as at land.
   " And by the same instrument, may be observed ex

actly the altitudes of the moon and stars, by bringing
them to the horizon ; and thereby the latitude and times
of observation may be determined more exactly than by
the ways now in use.

   " In the time of the observation, if the instrument

move angularly about the axis of the telescope, the star
will move in a tangent of the moon's limb, or of the
horizon ; but the observation may notwithstanding be

made exactly, by noting when the line, described by the
star, is a tangent to the moon's limb, or to the horizon.

    " To make the instrument useful, the telescope ought
to take in a large angle ; and, to make the observation
true, let the star touch the moon's limb, not on the out

side, but on the inside."

    This ingenious contrivance is obviously the very same
invention as that which Mr. Hadley produced in 1 73 1 ; 1
and which, under the name of Hadley's Quadrant, has
been of so great service in navigation. But though the
merit of this invention is thus transferred to Newton, we

must not omit to state, that the germ of and something
       I.

                                      1

                                                                it,

                                                                                                            Q
       Phil. Trans. 1731, p. 147.

VOL.

242             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                CHAP. X.

more, had been previously published by Hooke. In giving
an account of the inventions of members of the Royal
Society, Sprot mentions " a new instrument for taking
angles by reflexion, by which means the eye at the same
time sees the two objects both as touching on the same
point, though distant almost to a semicircle, which is of
great use in promoting exact observations at sea."1 Hooke
was the member who made this invention, and there is a

drawing and description of it in his Posthumous Works.2
About the end of the year 1730, Thomas Godfrey of
Philadelphia invented an instrument similar to Hadley's,
and the Royal Society having found that Hadley's inven
tion could be traced to the summer of 1730, decided that

Hadley and Godfrey were independent inventors. The
enlargement of this valuable instrument, so as to measure
an angle of 120°, was first proposed by Captain Campbell
in 1757.3

    On the 6th February 1672, Sir Isaac communicated to
Mr. Oldenburg his " design of a microscope by reflexion,
which should have, instead of an object-glass, a reflecting
piece of metal, and which seemed as capable of improve
ment as telescopes, and perhaps more so, because but one
reflective piece of metal is requisite in them." This mi
croscope is shown in the annexed diagram, copied from
the original, where a b is the object-metal, c d the eye

glass, f their common focus, and o the other focus of the

metal in which the object is placed. This ingenious idea
has been greatly improved in modern times by Professor

1    Sprot's Hist, of the Royal Society,  p. 246.               Lend. 1067.  tab.        xi. fig. 2.  Lond.
     The Posthumous Works of Robert       Hooke,              M.D., p. 503,
'

1705. In   the  "deasncriinpsttiorunmegnivtenforoftaitkinbgy  Waller,  his biographer,   the invention is
           as                                                  angles  at one prospect,  which he found
mentioned

described on a loose paper."

   3 Grant's Hist, of Physical Astronomy, p. 487 ; and Nautical Mag. vol. i. p. 351.

1672.                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            243

 Amici, Professor Potter, and Dr. Goring,1 who make A BI     if
 a portion of an ellipsoid, whose foci are o and F, and whoa      ;
 fix a small                                                           is,
                                                                             a
 plain specu
 lum between

o and A b, in

order to re

flect into the

speculum the object which is placed on one side A P, for
the purpose of being illuminated.2

    In another letter to Mr. Oldenburg, dated July 11th

in the same year, he suggests an improvement of micro

Iscopes by refraction, " which do," he says, " more will

ingly, because Mr. Hooke hath made such excellent use

of that instrument ; and I shall be glad to contribute any

thing to your promotion of these his ingenious endeavours,
or add to his inventions of that kind. The way by
illuminating the object in darkened room with light of
any convenient colour not too much compounded for by
that means the microscope will, with distinctness, bear
deeper charge and larger aperture, especially its con
struction be such as may hereafter describe."3 This
happy idea we have some years ago succeeded in realizing,
by illuminating microscopic objects with the light of
monochromatic lamp, which discharges copious flame of
pure yellow light of definite refrangibility.4 Since the time
of Newton, the microscope has undergone the greatest

improvement, --the single microscopes made of diamond
                                             a
                                                                            a

       See Edinburgh Journal  Science, vol. vi. p. 61 Encyclopaedia Brit., Art.
43* 1                      I.
Microscope, vol. xv. p. 41.        of

                                                                p.
                                                                           ;

                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                            of
       Newtoni Opera, torn. iv. p. 300.

       Sir Isaac does not seem to have afterwards described this construction.

       See Edinburgh Transactions, vol. ix. 433 and the Edinburgh Journal

Science, July 1829, No. new series, p. 108.

244            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

and the other precious stones,--the microscopic doublets,

and the magnificent compound microscopes of Ross,

Powell, and Nachot fitted up as polarizing microscopes.

   In order to remedy the evil of want of light in his re

flecting telescope, arising from the weak reflecting power

of speculum metal, and from its tarnishing by exposure

to the air, Sir Isaac proposed to substitute for the small

oval speculum a triangular prism of glass or crystal A B c,

Fig. 1 9. Its side A B b a he supposes to perform the office

               of that metal, by reflecting towards

               the eye-glass the light which comes

               from^the concave speculum D F, Fig.
               20, the light reflected from which he

               supposes to enter into this prism at

               its side CB be, and lest any colours

               should be produced by the refraction
               °f these planes, it is requisite that
     Fia. i9.

the angles of the prism at A a and B b be precisely equal.

This may be done most conveniently, by making them

half right angles, and consequently the third angle at c c

a right one. The plane A B ba will reflect all the light

     BD

               FlU. 20.

               " especially
incident upon  it,

                                  if

                                                                             it
                             the prism be made of
crystal;" but in order to exclude unnecessary light,

1672.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  245

will be proper to cover it all over with some black sub
stance, excepting two circular spaces of the planes A c and
B c, through which the useful light may pass. The length

of the prism should be such that its sides A c and B c may

be " four square," and so much of the angles B and b as are
superfluous ought to be ground off, to give passage for as
much light as is possible from the object to the speculum.

    One great advantage of this prism, which cannot be
obtained from the oval metal, is that without using two

glasses, the object may be erected, and the magnifying
power of the telescope varied at pleasure, by merely
varying the distances of the speculum, the prism, and the
eye-glass. This will be understood from Fig. 21, where

       Fig. 21.

a i represents the great concave speculum, E F the eye
glass, and BCD the prism of glass, whose sides B c and

B D are not flat, but spherically convex. The rays which
come from G, the focus of the great speculum A I, will, by

the refraction of the first side B D, be reduced to parallel
ism, and after reflexion from the base c D, will be made

by the refraction of the next side B c to converge to the
Iffocus H of the eye-glass E F.
                                 we now bring the prism

BCD nearer the image at G, the point H will recede from

B d, and the image formed there will be greater than that

246  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

at G ; and if we remove the prism BCD from G, the point

H will approach to b c, and the image at H will be less
than that at G. The prism BCD performs the same part
as a convex lens, g and h being its conjugate foci, and

the relative size of the images formed at these points

being proportional to their distance from the lens. These
different contrivances were suggested by some criticisms
upon his reflecting telescope by M. Auzout ; and Newton
does not seem to have executed them, as he recommends
" that the first trials be made with prisms whose sides
are all of them plane." 1 As more than one-half of the
light is lost by reflexion from the small mirror, we have
proposed to substitute for it an achromatic prism to re

fract the rays to the side of the tube.2 An advantage

 would be gained by the use of a plane speculum of silver,
 which reflects much more light than speculum metal.
 The objection to reflecting prisms arises from the imper
 fection of the glass, and the difficulty of obtaining three

 perfectly flat surfaces, and two angles perfectly equal.
 This construction would be a good one for varying opti
 cally the angular distance of a pair of wires placed in the
 focus of the eye-glass E F ; and by bisecting the lenticular
 prism BCD, and giving the halves a slight inclination, we

 should be able to separate and to close the two images or
 discs which the two halves would produce, and thus form

 a double image micrometer.

    In concluding our account of Newton's optical disco

 veries, some notice of the principal work which contains
 them will suitably terminate the present chapter. This
 work, entitled Optichs, or a Treatise on the Reflexions,
 Refractions, Inflexions, and Colours of Light, was pub-

                                  1 See Newtoni Opera, torn. iv. p. 276.
                              8 Treatise on Optics, edit, of 1853, p. 494.

1704.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               247

lished in London, without a date, on the 16th February,

1704. Newton, from the President's chair, presented it

to the Royal Society. Dr. Halley was desired to peruse

it and make an abstract of and the thanks of the So
ciety were given to the author " for the book, and for

being pleased to publish it." In the second edition, with

the date of July 16, 1717, the date of April 1704,
                     a
                                  it,

                                                                      a 1,
                                                                                 is
added to the advertisement of the first edition, step of
which, as Mr. Edleston observes, " the dispute with Leib

nitz had probably taught our philosopher the importance."1

   In the advertisement to the first edition, we are informed

by the author, that " part of the ensuing discourse about

light was written at the desire of some gentlemen of the

Royal Society in the year 1675, and then sent to their

Secretary and read at their meetings, and the rest was

added about twelve years after, to complete the Theory,

except the third book, and the last proposition of the

second, which were since put together out of scattered

papers. To avoid being engaged in disputes about these

matters, have hitherto delayed the printing, and should
       I

still have delayed   it,had not the importunity of friends

prevailed upon me.    Ifany other papers writ on this sub

ject are got out my hands, they are imperfect, and were
          of

perhaps written before had tried all the experiments
                        I

here set down, and fully satisfied myself about the laws

of refractions and composition of colours.                     I  have here

published what think proper to come abroad, wishing
       it

                  I
that may not be translated into another language with

out my consent." In the advertisement to the second

edition, which appeared in 1717, he mentions that he

could have added at the end of the third book some

     It curious fact, that " there the same peculiarity about the preface to the
Frincipia." --Edlcston's Correspondence, &c. &c, pp. Iviii. and lxxi.
1
         is
               a
                                                           is

248            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. X.

questions, (namely, the thirty-one celebrated queries ;)

I" and," he adds, " to shew that do not take gravity for
Ian essential property of bodies, have added one question

concerning its cause, choosing to propose it by way of a

Iquestion, because am not yet satisfied about it for want

of experiments."

   At the request of Newton, Dr. Samuel Clark prepared

a Latin edition of his Optics, which appeared in 1706, and

he was generously presented by Sir Isaac with £500, or

£100 for each of his five children, as a token of the appro

bation and gratitude of the author. Demoivre is said to

have secured and taken charge of this translation, and to

have spared neither time nor trouble in the task. Newton

met him every evening at a coffee-house,1 and when they

had finished their work, he took Demoivre home with

him to spend the evening in philosophical conversation. 2
Both the English and the Latin editions have been fre

quently reprinted, both in England and on the Continent,

and perhaps there never was a work of profound science

more widely circulated.3

The only other optical work by Newton was his Lec-

tiones Opticce, a course of lectures on optics, which he read

as Lucasian Professor in the public schools of the University
                                      1670, and 1671. It was
of Cambridge   in the years    1669,  ;--an English edition in
not published  till after his  death

1 728, in octavo,4 and the Latin original in 1 729 in quarto.

This valuable work is divided into two parts, and con

tains many beautiful propositions, and interesting and in-

   1 " Probably Slaughters' Coffee-house in St. Martin's Lane." --Edleston's Corre

spondence, p. lxxiv.
   " Eloge, by Fontenelle.-- Mem. Acad. Par. 1727. Hist. p. 151.
   3 The English edition was reprinted at London in 1717, 1721, and 1730, and the

Latin one at London in 1719, 1721, 1728, at Lausanne in 1740, and at Padua in 1773.
  * Biographia Brit. Art. Newton, vol. vii. p. 779.

1728.      LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                  249

structive experiments, which are not to be met with in any

modern treatise on optics.

   In the  first part, which is  entitled,   On the   R:--efr1a.ctOiofnthoef
           of Light, he treats              sections
the Rays                         in four

different refrangibility of the rays of light ; 2. Of the

measure of refractions ; 3. Of the refractions of plane

surfaces ; and 4. Of the refractions of curved surfaces.

   In the second part, which is entitled, On the Origin      of
Colours, he treats in five sections --: 1 . On the doctrine  of

colours, and its proof by experiments with the prism ; 2.

On the various phenomena of colours, and on the pheno

mena of light thrown upon a wall by the prism ; 3. On

the phenomena of light received in the eye from a prism ;

4. On the phenomena of light transmitted through a re

fracting medium terminated by parallel planes ; and, 5. On

the phenomena of light transmitted through media termi
nated spherically, and on the rainbow. 1

   The manuscript from which the Latin edition was

printed, was that which had been given by Newton him

self to David Gregory, Savilian Professor of Astronomy

at Oxford ; but after the edition had been printed, the

editor learned that a more perfect manuscript, containing

several corrections and emendations in Newton's own

handwriting, had been preserved in the archives of the

University of Cambridge. These emendations, occupying

five quarto pages, were therefore printed at the end of

the work, and we observe that Bishop Horsley has in

troduced them into the text in the third volume of his

edition of Newton's works.

   1 An analysis of the Lectiones Opticas has been given by the author of the Life of
Newton in the General Dictionary, vol. vii. p. 779, note ; but it is by some mistake
confined to the first Part, as if there were no second Part. The same mistake is
committed in the Biographia Britannica, vol. v. p. 3215, note, where it is obvious

that the author knew nothing of the second Part, as he calls the last portion of the
4rst Part the " Last Section of these Lectures."

250  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       CHAP. XI.

                      CHAPTER XL

ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES OF NEWTON -- COMBINED EXERTION NECES
   SARY FOR THE COMPLETION OF GREAT DISCOVERIES -- SKETCH OF THE
   HISTORY OF ASTRONOMY PREVIOUS TO THE TIME OF NEWTON -- DIS
   COVERIES OF NICOLAS COPERNICUS, BORN 1473, DIED 1553 -- HE
   PLACES THE SUN IN THE CENTRE OF THE SYSTEM -- HIS WORK ON THE

    REVOLUTIONS OF THE HEAVENLY BODIES, PRINTED AT THE EXPENSE

   OF CARDINAL SCHONBERG, AND DEDICATED TO POPE PAUL III. -- TYCHO
    BRAHE, BORN 1546, DIED 1601 -- HIS OBSERVATORY OF URANIBURG --
   IS VISITED BY JAMES VI. -- IS PERSECUTED BY THE DANISH MINISTER
   RETIRES TO GERMANY --HIS DISCOVERIES AND INSTRUMENTS -- THE
    TYCHONIC SYSTEM -- JOHN KEPLER, BORN 1571, DIED 1631 -- HIS SPE

    CULATION ON THE SIX REGULAR SOLIDS DISCOVERS THE ELLIPTICITY
    OF MARS' ORBIT -- HIS LAWS OF THE PLANETARY MOTIONS -- HIS IDEAS OF
    GRAVITATION -- HIS RELIGIOUS CHARACTER -- GALILEO, BORN 1564, DIED
    1642 -- THE FIRST TO APPLY A TELESCOPE TO THE HEAVENS -- DISCO
    VERS THE FOUR SATELLITES AND BELTS OF JUPITER -- HIS RESEARCHES
    IN MECHANICS -- IS SUMMONED BEFORE THE INQUISITION FOR HERESY--
    RETRACTS HIS OPINIONS, BUT PERSISTS IN TEACHING THE DOCTRINE OF

    THE EARTH'S MOTION IS AGAIN SUMMONED BEFORE THE INQUISITION
        HIS SENTENCE TO IMPRISONMENT FOR LIFE BECOMES BLIND -- HIS

     SCIENTIFIC CHARACTER LABOURS OF BOUILLAUD, AND OF BORELLI

         SUGGESTIONS OF DR. HOOKE ON GRAVITY HIS CIRCULAR PENDU
    LUM HIS EXPERIMENTS WITH IT HIS VIEWS RESPECTING THE CAUSE

     OF THE PLANETARY MOTIONS.

From the optical researches of Newton, brilliant though

tohfehyisbea, swtreontoumrnicawl ithdisfcreosvheriweson--dethrotsoe  the contemplation
                                                                      transcendent de

ductions of human reason, by which he has brightened

the scientific glory of his country, achieved for himself an

immortal name, and vindicated the intellectual dignity of

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  251

his species. Pre-eminent as his triumphs have been, it
would be unjust to affirm that they were won by his single
arm. The torch of many a preceding age had thrown its
light into the labyrinths of the material universe, and the
grasp of many a powerful hand had thrown down the most
impregnable of its barriers. An alliance indeed of many
kindred spirits had been long struggling in the combat,

and Newton was but the leader of the mighty phalanx--
the director of their combined genius --the general who

won the victory, and wears its laurels.

    The history of science presents us with no example of
an individual mind throwing itself far in advance of its

contemporaries. It is only in his career of crime and

ambition that reckless man takes the start of his species,
and uncurbed by moral and religious ties, represses the
claims of truth and justice, and founds an unholy empire
upon the ruins of ancient and venerable institutions. The

achievements of intellectual power, though frequently
begun by one mind, and completed by another, have ever
been the results of united labour. Slow in their growth,

they gradually approximate to a more perfect condition :
The variety in the objects and phenomena of nature,
summons to research a variety of intellectual gifts : Obser
vation collects her materials, and patiently plies her humble
avocation : Experiment, with her quick eye and ready
hand, develops new facts : The lofty powers of analysis
and combination generalize insulated results, and establish
physical laws ; and in the ordeal of contending schools,
and rival inquirers, truth is finally purified from error.

tHioonwredaifrfse--rentthoisseitthweoitrhiesthoosfewisldysitmempos rtwwhihcihchthaereimdiaregcintead

against the liberties, the consciences, and the hopes of man.
The fatal poison tree distils its virus in the spring as

252  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                   CHAP. XI.

well as in the summer and the autumn of its growth ; but

the fruit which sustains life must have its bud prepared
before the approach of winter, its blossom expanded in
the spring, and its juice elaborated by the light and heat
of a summer and an autumnal sun.

   In the century which preceded the birth of Newton,
the science of astronomy advanced with the most rapid
pace. Emerging from the darkness of the middle ages,
the human mind seemed to rejoice in its new-born strength,
and to apply itself with elastic vigour to unfold the me
chanism of the heavens. Ancient astronomers, indeed,
had cleared and paved the way for the onward march of

their science. A century and a half before Christ, Hip-

parchus, in his observatory at Rhodes, made the first
catalogue of the stars, and representing the motions of the
sun and moon by epicycles revolving upon circular orbits,
he compiled tables for calculating their places in the
heavens. Guided by the genius of Hipparchus, Claudius
Ptolemy, a century and a half after Christ, though he

ptphlraeincecthdipeaotlrhieeinseeoqafurttahhlietiynsuinnth, etmheocoemnn,otroaenn'dsofpolratbhnieett--ssy--gsatedvmeisc,aovitmehrepeordoryvtheoedf

astronomical refractions more complete than that of any

astronomer before Cassini, and bequeathed to posterity
the valuable legacy of his Almagest, and his Five Books of

Optics}

   After centuries of darkness, Bagdad, the capital of Arabia,
became the focus of science. The ancient astronomy was
preserved and cultivated, but though new and more accu

rate observations were made, the science lay prostrate
amid the cumbrous appendages of cycles and epicycles.

     1 See Art. Optics in Edin. Eneyclopcedia, vol. xv. p. 462.

1497.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                253

In the thirteenth century, the noble-minded AlphonsoX.,

sovereign of Castile, published, at a great expense, new

astronomical tables, computed by the most distinguished

professors in the Moorish universities ; and, as if he had

obtained a glimpse of a simpler arrangement, he denounced

the rude mechanism of epicycles in language less reverent

Iin its expression than in its truth. Were the heavens

thus constituted, he said, could have given the deity
good advice had he consulted me at their creation. Not

withstanding these obstructions, Astronomy advanced,

though with faltering steps, unable to escape from the

trammels of authority, and free itself from those vulgar

prejudices which a false interpretation of scripture had

excited against a belief in the motion of the earth.

   In this almost stationary condition, however, the science

of the heavens  was not suffered to remain.    Nicolas   Coper
                philosopher fitted to develop  the true  system
nicus arose--a

of the universe, and a priest willing to give absolution for

the sin of placing the great luminary in the centre of the

system. This distinguished individual, a native of Thorn in

Prussia, though of Bohemian origin, was born on the 1 9th

January 1472. He at first followed his father's profession

of medicine, but finding it uncongenial with his love of

astronomy, he went to Bologna to study that science under

Dominic Mario. In this situation he was less the disciple

than the assistant and friend of Mario, and we find that

he had made observations on the moon at that place in

1497. About the year 1500, he went to Rome, where

he taught mathematics publicly to a large assemblage of

youth, and of persons of distinction ; and in the month of
November of the same year, he observed an eclipse of the

moon, and made other observations which formed the

basis of his future researches. While thus occupied, the

254          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        CHAP. XI.

death of one of the Canons of the Cathedral Church of

Ermeland, at Frauenburg, enabled his uncle, who was

Bishop of that See, to nominate him to the vacant office.

In this secluded spot, --in the residence of the Canons,

situated on the brow of a hill, Copernicus carried on his

astronomical observations. During his sojourn at Rome,

the Bishop of Fossombrossa, who presided over the council

for reforming the calendar, had requested his assistance

in that important undertaking. Upon this congenial task

he entered with youthful zeal. He charged himself with

the duty of determining the length of the year, and the

other elements which were required by the council ; but

the observations became irksome, and interfered with the

completion of those interesting views which had already

dawned upon his mind.

Convinced that the simplicity and harmony which ap

peared in the other works of creation should characterize

the arrangements of the planetary system, he could not
regard the hypothesis of Ptolemy as a representation of

nature. This opinion was strengthened by actual obser

vation. The variable   appearance of the      scuonpjeurnicotriopnl,an--etsin,
of Mars, for example,  in opposition and

the one case shining with the effulgence of Jupiter, and in

the other with the light of a secondary star, was irrecon

cilable with the dogma that the planet moved round the

earth. That it moved round the sun was the conclusion

to which he was then led ; and the grand idea of the

bright orb of day being the centre of the planetary sys

tem burst upon his mind, though perhaps with all the

dimness  of  a dream-- the    first phase of  seavgeesr,y--grienatthdosise
covery.  In  the opinions of  the Egyptian

of Pythagoras, Philolaus, Aristarchus, and Nicetas of

Syracuse, he recognised his first conviction that the earth

1530.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                             255

was not the centre of the universe ; and in the works of
Martianus Capella, he found it to be the opinion of the
Egyptians that Mercury and Venus revolved about the
sun during his annual motion round the earth. Thus

confirmed in his views, the difficulties which had previously

surrounded them were gradually dispelled, and after
thirty-six years of intense study, in which the labours of
the observer, and the calculations of the mathematician,

were combined with the sagacity of the philosopher, he

was permitted to develop the true system of the heavens.

   In his eye the sun stood immovable in the centre of

the universe, while the earth revolved annually round

him between the orbits of Venus and Mars, producing by

its rotation upon its  axis in twenty-four hours all                         the
diurnal phenomena of                                                         and
                       the celestial sphere --Mercury

Venus revolving round the sun within the earth's orbit,

and all the rest of the planets without while the moonit,

revolved monthly round the earth during its annual motion.

In the system thus constituted, all the phenomena of the

celestial motions received an  --imtmheedivaicteissietxupdleasnatoiof nt.he  The
alternation of day and night
                                                                             sea
sons--the varying brightness of the planets --their stations

and retrogradations, and even the precession of the Equi

noxes, became the necessary results of the Copernican

System.
    The circulation of these great truths, and of the prin

ciples on which they rest, became the leading object of
Copernicus's life. The Canon of Ermeland, however, saw

the difficulties of his position, and exhibited the most
consummate prudence in surmounting them. Aware of
the prejudice and even of the hostility with which his

discoveries would be received, he resolved neither to

startle the one nor provoke the other. He committed

256  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

 his opinions to the slow current of personal communication.
 The points of opposition which they presented to received
 doctrine were thus gradually worn down, and they insi
 nuated themselves into ecclesiastical minds by the very

reluctance of their author to bring them into notice. In

 1536, Cardinal Nicolas Schonberg, Bishop of Capua,1 and
Tidemann Gyse, Bishop of Culm, exerted all their influ

ence to induce Copernicus to lay his system before the
world ; but their entreaties were in vain, and it was not
published till 1539, when an accidental circumstance, con
tributed with other causes to alter his resolution.2 Having
heard of the system of Copernicus, George Rheticus, Pro
fessor of Mathematics at Wirtemberg, resigned his chair,
and repaired to Frauenburg to make himself master of his
discoveries. After studying and adopting them, this zealous
disciple prevailed upon Copernicus to permit their publi

cation ; and they seemed to have arranged a plan for
giving them to the world without alarming the vigilance
of the Church. Under the disguise of a student of mathe
matics, Rheticus published in 1540 an account of the
manuscript volume of Copernicus. The pamphlet was
received without any expression of censure, and its author
was thus encouraged to reprint it at Basle with his own
name. The success of these publications, and the flattering
manner in which the new astronomy was received, com
bined with the solicitations and even reproaches of his
friends, overcame the scruples of Copernicus, and induced

him to place his manuscript in the hands of Rheticus. It

was accordingly printed at the expense of Cardinal Schon
berg, and was published at Nuremberg in 1543, under

   1 The Cardinal's letter is published in the work of Copernicus afterwards men

tion' eTdh. ese facts are recorded by Copernicus himself in the preface to his work.

1648.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                 257

the title of " On the Revolutions of the Celestial Bodies."1
Its illustrious author, however, did not live to peruse it.

A complete copy was handed to him on his dying day,

and he saw and touched it a few hours before he expired.2
In an introductory address " on the hypotheses of his

work," Copernicus propitiates such of his readers as may

be alarmed at their novelty, by assuring them that it is

not necessary that astronomical hypotheses be either true

or probable, and that they accomplish their object if they

reconcile the calculus with observation.3 With the same

view he inscribed his preface to the Holy Pontiff himself,4

and boldly alludes to the hostility to which his opinions

Iwill expose him. " have preferred," says he, " dedica

ting my lucubrations to your Holiness rather than to any

other person, because, in the very remote corner of the

world in which I live, you are so distinguished by your

rank and your love of learning and mathematics, that you

will easily repress the virulence of slander, notwithstanding

the proverb that there is no remedy against the wound
of the sycophant." And " should there be any babblers

who, ignorant of all mathematics, presume to judge of

these things, on account of some passage of scripture

wrested to their own purpose, and dare to blame and

cavil at my work, I will not scruple to hold their judgment

in contempt                    Mathematics are written for mathe-

1 Nicolai Copernici Torinensis De Revolutionibus orbinm c<vlestium, Lib. vi. Fol.

A second edition in folio appeared at Basle in 1566, and a third edition in quarto

was published at Amsterdam in 1617, with notes, by Nicolas Muler, under the title

of Astrorwmia Tnstaurata, &c.
*
3  "CoNpeeqruneicuesnimdiedneicness1e543e, sta, t  the  age of 70.  esse veras,  imo  ne  verisimiles  qui-
                                                   eas  hypotheses

dem, sed sufficit hoc unum, si calculum observationibus congruentem exhib^ant."

Ad Lectorem.
   * Paul III., a member of the Farnese family, who held the Pontificate from 153-1

to 1550. The year in which this preface was written is not known.

   VOL. I.                                                                                R

258  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

maticians, and I am much mistaken if such men will not

regard my labours as conducive to the prosperity of the
ecclesiastical republic over which your Holiness presides."
Thus recommended to the sovereign authority of the
Church, and vindicated against the charge of being hostile
to Scripture, the Copernican system met with no ecclesias
tical opposition, and gradually made its way in spite of
the ignorance and prejudices of the age.

    Although the true solar system was thus established,

yet much remained to be done by the practical astrono
mer before the motions of the planets could be subjected

to mechanical laws. Copernicus had not rejected the
machinery of epicycles ; and the distances of the planets
and the form of their orbits, were very imperfectly known.

A skilful observer, therefore, expert in mechanism, and

girt for nocturnal labour, was now required to prepare for
Kepler distances and periods, and for Newton the raw
material of his philosophy.

    The astronomer thus required appeared in the person
of Tycho Brahe, who was born at Knudstrup, in Scania,

on the 14th December 1546, three years after the death
of Copernicus. When a student at Copenhagen, the

great solar eclipse of the 21st August 1560, arrested
his attention, and having found that all its phases had

been accurately predicted, he resolved to acquire the
knowledge of a science so infallible in its results. Though
destined for the profession of the law, he refused to enter

upon its study ; and when urged to it by the entreaties
and reproaches of his friends, he escaped from their im
portunities by travelling into Germany. During his visit
to Augsburg, he resided in the house of Peter Hainzell,
the burgomaster, whom he inspired with such a love of
astronomy, that he erected an excellent observatory at

1570.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                 259

his own expense, and thus enabled his youthful instructor

to commence that splendid career of observation which

has placed him in the first rank of practical astronomers.

On his return to Copenhagen in 1570, he was welcomed

by the King and the nobility as an honour to the nation,

and his maternal uncle at Herritzvold, near his native

place, offered him a retreat from the gaieties of the capi

tal, and every accommodation for pursuing his astrono

mical studies. Love and alchemy, however, distracted

his thoughts ; but he found the peasant girl, whom he fan

cied, of easier attainment than the philosopher's stone.
His noble relatives were deeply offended with the mar

riage, and it required all the influence of the King to
allay the quarrel which it occasioned. In 1572 and 1573,

he had observed the remarkable star in Cassiopeia, which

rivalled Venus in her greatest brightness, and which, after

being the wonder of astronomers for sixteen months, dis

appeared in March 1574 ; but he refused, for a long time,

to publish his observations upon
                                              !lest he should thus

cast a stain upon his nobility                        it,

                                                                                                             ;;
Fickle in purpose, and discontented with Denmark,

Tycho set out in search of a more suitable residence but

when the King heard of his plans, he resolved to detain

him by acts of kindness and liberality. He was therefore

presented to the canonryof Roschild,with an annual income

of 2000 crowns, and an additional pension of 1000 and

the island of Huen was offered to him as the site of an

observatory, to be furnished with instruments of his own

choice. The generous offer was instantly accepted. The
                                              Uraniburg --the
cHeelaevberantsed--woabssecrvoamtpolreytedof                   city of the
                                              at the expense   of £20,000,

and from its hallowed towers Tycho continued for twenty-

one years to enrich astronomy with the most valuable

260  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. XI.

observations. From every kingdom in Europe admiring

disciples repaired to this sanctuary of the sciences, to

acquire a knowledge of the heavens; and kings and

princes felt themselves honoured as the guests of the

great astronomer.

   Among the princes who visited Uraniburg, we are

proud to enumerate James VI. of Scotland. In 1590,

during his visit to Denmark to celebrate his marriage with

the Princess Anne, he spent eight days with Tycho, accom

panied by his counsellors and a large suite of nobility. He

studied the construction and use of the astronomical in

struments ; he inspected the busts and pictures in the

Museum, and when he found among them the portrait of

his own distinguished preceptor, George Buchanan, he

could not refrain from the strongest expressions of delight.

Upon quitting Uraniburg, James not only presented Tycho

with a magnificent donation, but afterwards gave him his

Royal license to publish his works in England.

The equanimity of Tycho was not disturbed by these

marks of respect and admiration ; but while they animated

his zeal and stimulated his labours, they were destined to

be the instruments of his ruin. By the death of Frede

rick II. in 1588, Tycho lost his most valued friend ; and
though his son and successor, Christian IV., visited Ura

niburg, and seemed to take an interest in astronomy,

                      he did cherish them, must have
ahis wishes to foster
                    a
                               it,

                          if

                                                                                                                                             ;
been overruled by the influence of his counsellors. The

parasites of royalty found themselves eclipsed by the

brightness of Tycho's reputation. They envied the muni

ficent provision which Frederick had made for him and

instigated by physician who was jealous of his reputation,

as successful practitioner of medicine, they succeeded in

exciting against Tycho the hostility of the court. Walchen

1599.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOU".  261

dorp, the President of the Council, was the tool of his
enemies, and on the ground of an exhausted treasury, and
the inutility of the studies of Tycho, he was deprived of

his canonry, his pension, and his Norwegian estate.
    Thus stripped of his income, and degraded from his

office, Tycho, with his wife and family, sought for shelter
in a foreign land. His friend, Count Henry Rantzau,
offered him the hospitality of his Castle of Wandesberg,
near Hamburg, and having embarked his family and his
instruments on board a small vessel, the exiled patriarch

left his ungrateful country never to return. In the Castle
of Wandesberg he enjoyed the kindness and conversation
of his accomplished host, by whom he was introduced to

the Emperor Rodolph, who, to a love of science, added
a passion for alchemy and astrology. The reputation of

Tycho having already reached the Imperial ear, the
recommendation of Rantzau was hardly necessary to
insure him his warmest friendship. On the invitation of

the Emperor, he repaired in 1599 to Prague, where he

met with the kindest reception. A pension of 3000

crowns was immediately settled upon him, and a commo^
dious observatory erected for his use. Here he renewed
with delight his interrupted labours, and rejoiced in the
resting-place which he had so unexpectedly found for his
approaching infirmities. These prospects of returning pros
perity were enhanced by the pleasure of receiving into
his house two such pupils as Kepler and Longomontanus ;
but the fallacy of human anticipations was here, as in so
many other cases, strikingly displayed. His toils and his

disappointments had made severe inroads upon his con
stitution. Though surrounded with affectionate friends
and admiring disciples, he was still an exile in a foreign

land. Though his country had been base in its ingrati

«              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. xi.

          262

 tude, it was yet the land which he loved, --the scene of
 his earliest affections, --the theatre of his scientific glory.

  These feelings constantly preyed upon his mind, and his

 unsettled spirit was ever hovering among his native moun

 tains. In this condition he was attacked with a disease

 of the most painful kind, and though the paroxysms of
 its agonies had lengthened intermissions, yet he saw that
 death was approaching him. He implored his pupils to
 persevere in their scientific labours. He conversed with
 Kepler on some of the profoundest questions in astro
 nomy, and with these secular occupations he mingled

 frequent acts of piety and devotion. In this happy

 frame of mind he expired without pain on the 24th Octo
 ber 1601, at the age of fifty-five, the unquestionable

victim of the councils of Christian IV.

     Among the great discoveries of Tycho, his improve
 ments of the lunar theory are perhaps the most import
ant. He discovered the inequality, called the variation,

amounting to thirty-seven minutes, and depending on the
distance of the moon from the sun. He discovered also

the annual inequality of the moon depending on the posi
tion of the earth in its orbit, and affecting also the place
of her apogee and node. He determined likewise the
greatest and the least inclination of the moon's orbit, and
he represented this variation by the motion of the pole of
the orbit in a small circle. Tycho had the merit, too, of
being the first to correct by the refraction of the atmos
phere the apparent places of the heavenly bodies ; but,
what is very unaccountable, he made the refraction which
he found to be 34' in the horizon, to vanish at 45°, and he

maintained that the light of the moon and stars was re
fracted differently by the atmosphere ! By his observations
on the comet of 1577, he proved that it was three times as

1600.  LIFE OF SiR ISAAC NEWTON.  263

distant as the moon, and that since these bodies moved

in all directions, the doctrine of solid orbs could not be

true. By means of large and accurately divided instru
ments, some of which were altitude and azimuth ones,

having their divided circles six and nine feet in diameter,
and others mural quadrants, sextants, and armillary
spheres, he made a vast collection of observations, which
led Kepler to the discovery of his celebrated laws, and
formed the basis of the Rudolphine Tables. But the most
laborious of his undertakings was his catalogue of 777

stars, for the epoch of 1600, a.d.1 --a catalogue afterwards

enlarged by Kepler from Tycho's observations, and pub
lished in 1627.2 The skill of Tycho in observing pheno
mena, surpassed his genius for discovering their cause, and
it was perhaps from his veneration for the Scriptures,
rather than from the vanity of giving his name to a new

system, that he rejected the Copernican hypothesis. In

the system which bears his name, the earth is stationary in
the centre of the universe, while the sun, with all the

other planets and comets revolving around him, performs
his daily revolution about the earth.

    Notwithstanding the great accessions which astronomy
had received from Copernicus and Tycho, yet no progress
had been made in developing the general laws of the
Solar System, and scarcely an idea had been formed of
the invisible power by which the planets were retained
in their orbits. The materials, however, were prepared,
and Kepler arose to lay the foundations of a structure
which Newton was destined to complete.

   John Kepler was born at the imperial city of Wiel, in
Wirtemberg, on the 21st December 1571. Although his

                       1 Astronomic? Instaiirnlfe Protjymnasmata . 1602.
                          - Published at the end of the Rudolphine Tablet.

264  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XL

early education was neglected, he made considerable pro
gress in his studies at the preparatory school of Maul-
bronn, and when he took liis degree of Master of Arts at
the University of Tubingen in 1591, he held the second
place at the examination. While he was the mathema
tical pupil of Mzestlin, he not only adopted his views of

the Copernican System, but wrote an essay on the " Pri

mary Motion," as produced by the earth's daily rotation.
When the astronomical chair at Gratz, in Styria, fell

vacant in 1594, Kepler accepted the appointment, although
he knew little of mathematics. His attention, however,

was necessarily turned to astronomy, and in 1595, when

he enjoyed some professional leisure, he directed the whole
energy of his mind to the number, the dimensions, and

the motions of the orbits of the planets. After various

fruitless attempts to discover some relation between the

distances and magnitude of the planets, by assuming the
existence of new planets in the wider spaces, he at last
conceived the extraordinary idea that the distances of the

planets were regulated by the six regular geometrical
solids. " The Earth's orbit," says he, " is the sphere, the
measurer of all. Round it describe a dodecahedron, the

circle including this will be (the orbit of) Mars. Round
Mars describe a tetrahedron, the circle including this will

be Jupiter. Describe a cube round Jupiter, the circle in
cluding this will be Saturn. Then inscribe in the (orbit
of the) Earth an icosahedron, the circle described in it
will be Venus. Describe an octohedron round Venus, the

circle inscribed in it will be Mercury. This singular law,

rudely harmonizing with some of Copernicus's measures,
would have failed, for want of solids, in its application to

Uranus and Neptune ; but it took possession of Kepler's

mind, and he declared that he would not barter the glory

1596.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  265

of its invention for the whole Electorate of Saxony."1
"When Galileo's opinion of this hypothesis was requested
by Kepler, he praised the ingenuity which it displayed ;
but when a copy of the Prodromus was presented to Tycho,
he advised his young friend " first to lay a solid founda
tion for his views by actual observation, and by ascending
from these to strive to reach the causes of things ;" and
there is reason to believe, that by the magic of the whole
Baconian philosophy thus compressed by anticipation into
a nutshell, Kepler abandoned for a while his visionary

speculations.
    When driven by religious persecution from the states of

Styria, he accepted an invitation from Tycho to settle at
Prague as his assistant. Here he was introduced to the

Emperor Rodolph, and upon Tycho's death in 1601, he
was appointed mathematician to the Emperor, a situation
which he held during the successive reigns of Matthias
and Ferdinand.

   After devoting much of his time to the subjects of
refraction and vision, and adding largely to our knowledge
of both these branches of Optics,2 he resumed his in
quiries respecting the orbits of the planets. Possessed
of the numerous and valuable observations of Tycho, he
endeavoured to represent them by the hypothesis of a
uniform motion in circular orbits ; but in examining the
orbit of Mars, he found the deviations from a circle too

great to be owing to errors of observation. He therefore
compared the observations with various other curves, and

   1 These researches were published in his Prodromus Dissertationum Cosmogra-

phicorum, &e. Tubingae, 1596, 4to.
    a Kepler was foiled in his attempt to find out the law of refraction, afterwards

discovered by Snellius. His optical discoveries will be found in his Paralipomena
ad Vitellioncm, Francof. 1604; and in his admirable Dioplrka, Franc. 1611.

266  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

was led to the fine discovery that Mars revolved round

the sun in an elliptical orbit in one of the foci of which the
sun himself was placed. By means of the same observa
tions he computed the dimensions of the planet's orbit,

and by comparing the times in which Mars passed over

                    it,
                                                                        in
different parts of  he found that they were to one

another as the areas described by the lines drawn from

the centre of the planet to the centre of the sun, or, in

more technical language, that the radius vector, or line

joining the sun and planet, describes equal areas equal

times. These two brilliant discoveries, the first ever made

in physical astronomy, were extended to all the other

planets of the system, and were given to the world in his

Commentaries on the Motions of the Planet Mars.1

   Thus successful in his researches, and overjoyed with

the result of them, Kepler renewed his attempts to dis

cover the mysterious relation which he believed to exist

between the mean distances of the planets from the sun.

Distrusting his original hypothesis of the geometrical

solids, he compared the planetary distances with the

intervals of musical notes, but though he was supported

in this notion by the opinions of Pythagoras, and even of

Archimedes, his comparisons were fruitless, and he was

about to abandon an inquiry which had more or less

occupied his mind during seventeen years of his life.

   After Kepler had refused to accept the mathematical

chair at Bologna, which was offered to him in 1617, he
seems to have resumed his speculations " on the exquisite

harmonies of the celestial motions." On the 8th March

1618, he conceived the idea of comparing the powers of

1     Nova Astronomia seu JPhysica Celesta tradita Commentariis de Motibus StelUe
MarlU. Pragie, 1609, fol.

1619.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     267

the different numbers which express the distances of the
planets, with the powers of the different numbers which

express their periods round the sun. He compared, for
example, the squares and the cubes of the distances with

the same powers of the periodic times, and he even made
the comparison between the squares of the periodic times

and the cubes of the distances ; but having, in the hurry
and impatience of research, been led into an error of

calculation, he rejected the last of these relations, --the
relation that was true, --as having no existence in nature.

Before a week, however, had elapsed, his mind reverted

to the law which he had rejected, and, upon repeating

his calculations, and discovering his error, he recognised

with rapture the great truth of which he had for seven

teen years been in search, that the periodic times of any
two planets in the system are to one another as the cubes

of their distances from  the sun. This great  discovery was
published in 1619 in     his " Harmony of     the World,"1

which was dedicated to James VI. of Scotland, and which

is marked with all the peculiarities of the author. The

passage which describes the feelings under which he re

cognised the truth of his third law, is too instructive to
Ibe omitted from his history :--" What
  Iurged as a thing to be sought --that
                               sixteen years ago
                               for which joined
Tycho Brahe--for which I settled in Prague--for which
I have devoted the best part of my life to astronomical
Icontemplations --at length have brought to light, and

have recognised its truth beyond my most sanguine ex
            IIt is now eighteen months since got
pectations

the first glimpse of light, three months since the dawn ;

....a very few days since the unveiled sun, most admirable
to gaze on, burst out upon me  the die is cast ---

            1 Harmonia Mmuli, lib. v. Linzii, 1619, fol.

268  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

the book is written, to be read either now or by posterity,

I care not which. It may well wait a century for a

reader, as God has waited six thousand years for an
interpreter of his works." 1

    As the planes of the orbits of all the planets, as well
as the line of their apsides passed through the sun,
Kepler could not fail to suspect that some power resided
in that luminary, by which the motions of the planets
were produced, and he went so far as to conjecture that
this power diminishes as the square of the distance of the
body on which it was exerted ; but he immediately rejects
this law in favour of that of the simple distances. In
the Introduction to his Commentaries on Mars, he dis

tinctly recognises the mutual gravitation of matter, in the
descent of heavy bodies to the centre of the earth, as the
centre of a round body of the same nature with them
selves. He maintained, that two stones situated beyond
the influence of a third body would approach like two

magnets, and meet at a point, each describing a space
proportional to the mass of the other. He maintained

also, that the tides were occasioned by the moon's attrac
tion, and that the lunar inequalities were owing to the
joint action of the sun and earth. Our countryman, Dr.
Gilbert, in his celebrated book Be Magnete, published in
1600, had about the same time announced similar opinions
on gravitation. He compares the earth's action upon the
moon to that of a great loadstone ; and in his posthumous
work which appeared half a century afterwards, he main
tains that the earth and moon act upon each other like
two magnets, the influence of the earth being the greater
on account of its superior mass. But though these opinions
were a step in celestial physics, yet the identity of the

                      1 Harmoniu Mundi, lib. v. Linzii, 1619, fid. p. 178.

1630.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  2G9

gravity which is exhibited on the earth's surface by falling
bodies, with that which guided the planets in their orbits,
was not revealed either to the English or the German

philosopher. It required more patience and thought than

either could command, and its discovery was reserved for
the exercise of higher powers.

    The misery in which Kepler lived, stands in painful
contrast with his arduous labours as an author, and his
noble services to science. His small pension was ever in
arrears, and when he retired to Silesia to spend the re
mainder of his days in retirement, his pecuniary difficulties
became more embarrassing than before. He was com
pelled to apply personally for his arrears ; and, in conse
quence of the great fatigue which he suffered in his long
journey to Ratisbon on horseback, he was seized with a
fever which carried him off on the 30th November 1630,

in the fifty-ninth year of his age. Thus perished one of
the noblest of his race, a victim of poverty, and a martyr
to science.

   In a work which is to record the religious character of

Newton, it would be unjust to withhold from Kepler the
credit which is due to his piety and faith. The harmony
of the universe, which he strove to expound, excited in
him not only admiration, but love. He felt his own hu
mility the farther he penetrated into the mysteries of the
universe, and sensible of the incompetency of his unaided
powers for such transcendent researches, and recognising
himself as but the instrument of the Almighty in making
known his wonders, he never entered upon an inquiry
without praying for assistance from above. Nor was this
frame of mind inconsistent with the tumultuous delight
with which he surveyed his discoveries. His was the un

pretending ovation of success, not the ostentatious triumph

270  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC KEWTON.  CHAP. xi.

of ambition ; and if a noble pride occasionally mingled
with his feelings, it was the pride of being the chosen

messenger of physical truth, not the vanity of being the
favoured possessor of superior genius. With such a frame
of mind, Kepler was necessarily a Christian. The afflic
tions with which he was tried confirmed his faith and

brightened his hopes. He bore them in all their variety
and severity with Christian patience ; and though he
knew that this world was to be the theatre of his glory,
yet he felt that his rest and his reward could be found
only in another.

   It is a remarkable fact in the history of astronomy,

that three of its most distinguished cultivators were con
temporaries. Galileo was the contemporary of Tycho
during thirty-seven years, and of Kepler during the fifty-
nine years of his life. Galileo was born seven years before
Kepler, and survived him nearly the same time. We
have not learned that the intellectual triumvirate of the

age enjoyed any opportunity for mutual congratulation.
What a privilege would it have been to have contrasted
the aristocratic dignity of Tycho with the reckless ease of
Kepler, and the manly and impetuous mien of the Italian

sage !

    While his two predecessors were laying deeply and
surely the foundations of physical astronomy, Galileo was
preparing himself for extending widely the limits of the
Solar system, and exploring the structure of the bodies
that compose it. He was born at Pisa on the 15th

February 1564, and was descended from the noble family
of Bonajuti. Although he exhibited an early passion for
geometry, and had studied without a master the writings
of Euclid and Archimedes, yet even after he was called to
the mathematical chair at Pisa in the twenty-fifth year of

1592.  MFK OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                               271

his age, he was more distinguished for his hostility to the
Aristotelian philosophy than for his progress in original

inquiry. In 1592 he was promoted to the same chair in

Padua, where he remained for eighteen years, adorning
the university by his talents, and diffusing around him a
taste for science. With the exception of some minor con
trivances, Galileo had made no discovery till he entered
his forty-fifth year, an age at which Newton had completed

all his discoveries. In 1609, the memorable year in

which Kepler published his " New Astronomy," Galileo
paid that visit to Venice during which he heard of the
telescope of Lippershey.1 The idea of so extraordinary
an instrument at once filled his mind, and when he learned

from Paris that it had an existence, he resolved instantly
to realize it. The simple idea, indeed, was the invention,
and Galileo's knowledge of optics was sufficient to satisfy
him that a convex lens at one end of a tube, with a con

cave one at the other, would bring objects nearer to his

eye. The lenses were placed in the tube, the astronomer

looked into the concave lens, and saw the objects before
it " pretty large and pretty near him." This little toy,
which magnified only three times lineally, and nine times
superficially, he carried in triumph to Venice, where the
chief magistrate obtained it in barter for the life posses

sion of his professorship, and 480 florins as an increase
of salary. The excitement produced on this occasion at
Venice was of the most extraordinary kind ; and, on a
subsequent occasion, when Sirturi2 had made one of the
instruments, the populace followed him with eager curio
sity, and at last took possession of the tube, till they had

       1 Professor Moll, Journal of Royal Institution, 1831, vol. i. p. 40C.
       a Sirturus, De Telescopic Francofurtse, 1618.

272               LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                               CHAP. XI.

each witnessed its wondrous effects. Galileo lost no time

in availing himself of his new power. He made another

telescope which magnified about eight or nine times, and,

sparing neither labour nor expense, he finally constructed
an instrument so excellent, as " to show things almost a

thousand times larger, (in surface,) and above thirty times
nearer to the eye."

There perhaps, no invention in science so extraordi
     is,

                            ;

                                a
                                          a

                                              it

                                                                                       ;

                                                           it

                                                                 it
nary in its nature, and so boundless in its influence, as

that of the telescope. To the uneducated man the power

of bringing distant objects near to the eye must seem

almost miraculous and to the philosopher even who com

prehends the principles upon which acts, must ever

appear one of the most elegant applications of science.

To have been the first astronomer in whose hands such a

power was placed, was         preference to which Galileo

owed much of his reputation.

Before the telescope was directed to the heavens,

was impossible to distinguish planet from a star. Even

with his first instrument, Galileo saw that Jupiter had a

round appearance like the sun and moon but, on the

7th January 1610, when he used a telescope of superior

power, he saw two little bright stars very near him, two

to the right, and one to the left of his disc. Though
ranged in a line parallel to the ecliptic, he regarded them

as ordinary stars but having, on the 8th of January,
     ;
            1

               it
                                      ;
                                                                     a

                                                                       a
accidentally1 directed his telescope to Jupiter, he was

surprised to see  tahneotthherreethsatanrsbetoforteh,e--wesptroooffthtehaptlatnheety,
and nearer one

had a motion of their own. This fact did not excite his

notice and was only after observing various changes

in their relative position, and discovering                               fourth on

     " Nescin quo fato ductus." --Siderevt Nuncius, p. 20.

1610. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 273

the 13 th of January, that he was enabled to announce

the discovery of the four satellites of Jupiter.1

   In continuing his observations with the telescope, Ga

lileo discovered that Venus had the same crescent phases

as the waxing and the waning moon ; -- that the sun had

spots on his surface which proved that he revolved round
                 --that Saturn was
his axis      ;  to his disc ; --that   not   round,   but had handles
attached                               the   surface  of the moon was

covered with mountains and valleys, and that parts of the

--matrhgaint  of her disc occasionally appeared and   disappeared ;
              the milky-way consisted of numerous      stars, which

the unassisted eye was unable to perceive ; and that the

apparent size of the stars arose from irradiation, or a

spurious light, in consequence of which they were not

magnified by the telescope. These various discoveries

furnished new arguments in support of the hypothesis of

Copernicus ; and we may now consider it as established by

incontrovertible evidence, which ignorance or fanaticism

only could resist, that the sun is placed in the centre of

the System, in the focus of the elliptical, or in the centre

of the circular orbits of the planets, and that by some

power yet to be discovered, he guides them in their course,

while the Earth and Jupiter exercise a similar influence

over the satellites which accompany them.
   But it is not merely from his astronomical discoveries,

brilliant as they are, that Galileo claims a high place in

the history of Newton's discoveries. His profound re

searches on mechanical science--his determination of the
law of acceleration in falling bodies --and his researches

respecting the resistance and cohesion of solid bodies, the

motion of projectiles, and the centre of gravity of solids,

   1 The satellites were observed by our celebrated countryman, Harriot, on tha
17th October 1610. -- See Martyrs of Science, Life of Galileo, pp. 40, 41.
VOL. I.
                                                      S

274  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

have ranked him among the most distinguished of
our mechanical philosophers. The great step, however,
which he made in mechanics, was his discovery of the
general laws of motion uniformly accelerated, which may
be regarded as the basis of the theory of universal gravi

tation.1

    The current of Galileo's life had hitherto flowed in a
smooth and undisturbed channel. His discoveries had

placed him at the head of the great men of the age, and
with an income above his wants, he possessed both the
means and the leisure for prosecuting his studies. Anxious,
however, to propagate the great truths which he disco
vered, and by force of reason to make proselytes of his
enemies, he involved himself in disputes which tried his
temper and disturbed his peace. When argument failed

to convince his opponents, he wielded against them the
powerful weapons of ridicule and sarcasm, and he had
thus marshalled against himself and his opinions, the
Aristotelian professors, the temporizing Jesuits, the poli
tical churchmen, and that timid section of the community
who tremble at innovation, whether it be in religion or
in science. The party of Galileo who abetted him in his
crusade against error, though weak in numbers, were
strong in position and in zeal. His numerous pupils oc
cupying the principal chairs in the Italian universities,

formed a devoted band who cherished his doctrines and

idolized his genius. The enemies of religion followed the
intellectual banner, and many princes and nobles, who had
smarted under ecclesiastical jurisdiction, were willing to
see it shorn of its power.

    While these two parties were standing on the defen-

    1 See Edinburgh JUncyclopcedia, Art. Mechanics, vol. xiii. p. 502, where we have
given a copious abstract of the mechanical discoveries of Galileo.

1615.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  275

sive, Galileo hoisted the first signal for war. In a letter

to his friend and pupil, the Abbe* Castelli, he proved that

the Scriptures were not intended to teach us science and

philosophy, and that the expressions in the Bible were as
irreconcilable with the Ptolemaic as with the Copernican
system. In reply to this letter, Caccini, a Dominican
friar, attacked Galileo from the pulpit, and so violent was
his language, that Maraffi, the general of the Dominicans,
expressed his regret that he should be implicated " in
the brutal conduct of thirty or forty thousand monks."
Encouraged by this apology, Galileo launched another
pamphlet, addressed to the Grand Duchess of Tuscany,
in which he supports his views by quotations from the
Fathers, and by the conduct of the Roman Pontiff him

self, Paul III., in accepting the dedication of Copernicus's
work. It was in vain to meet such arguments by any
other weapon than that of the civil power. It was deemed

necessary either to crush the heresy, or retire from the
contest ; and the church party determined to appeal to

the Inquisition.
    Various circumstances concurred to excite the suspi

cions of Galileo, and, about the end of 1615, he set off for

Rome, where he was lodged in the palace of the Tuscan
ambassador. While Galileo was enjoying the hospitality
of his friend, Caccini was preparing the evidence of his
heresy, and in due time he was charged by the Inquisition
with maintaining the motion of the earth and the stability

of the sun, --with teaching and publishing this heretical

doctrine, and with attempting to reconcile it to Scripture.
On the 25th February 1615, the Inquisition assembled
to take these charges into consideration, and having no
doubt of their truth, they desired that Galileo should be
enjoined by Cardinal Bellarmine to renounce the ob

276  LIFE OF S1E ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

noxious doctrines, and to pledge himself that he would

neither teach, publish, nor defend them in future. In the
event of his refusing to obey this injunction, it was de

creed that he should be thrown into prison. Galileo
acquiesced in the sentence, and on the following day he
renounced before the Cardinal his heretical opinions, aban
doning the doctrine of the earth's motion, and pledging
himself neither to defend nor teach it either in his writings

or his conversation.

    Although Galileo had made a narrow escape from the
grasp of the Inquisition, he left Rome in 1616 with a

suppressed hostility against the church ; and his resolu
tion to propagate the heresy seems to have been coeval
with the vow by which he renounced it. Although he
affected to bow to the decisions of theology, he never
scrupled, either in his writings or in his conversation, to
denounce them with the severest invective. The Lyncean
Academy, ever hostile to the church, encouraged him in
this unwise procedure, and it was doubtless at their in
stigation that he took the daring step which brought him
a second time to the bar of the Inquisition. Forgetting

the pledges under which he lay,--the personal kindness
of the Pope, --and the pecuniary obligations which he

owed him, he resolved to compose a work in which the

Copernican system should be indirectly demonstrated.
This work, entitled, The System of the World of Galileo
Galilei, &c., was completed in 1630, but was not published
till 1632, owing to the difficulty of obtaining a license to

print it. It was dedicated to the Grand Duke of Tus

cany ; and while the decree of the Inquisition was referred
to in insulting and ironical language, the Ptolemaic sys
tem, the doctrine of the Church, was assailed by argu
ments which admitted of no reply. The Copernican

1683.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  277

doctrines, thus eloquently maintained, were eagerly re
ceived and widely disseminated, and the Church of Rome
felt the shock thus given to its intellectual supremacy.

Pope Urban VIII., though attached to Galileo, and friendly

to science, was driven into a position from which he could
not recede. The guardian of its faith, he mounted the
ramparts of the church to defend the weakest of its bas
tions, and, with the artillery of the Inquisition, he silenced
the batteries of its assailants. The Pope brought the
obnoxious work under the eye of the Inquisition, and
Galileo, advanced in years, and infirm in health, was sum
moned before its stern tribunal. He arrived in Rome on

the 14th of February 1633, and soon after his arrival he
was kindly visited by Cardinal Barberino, the Pope's
nephew, and other friends of the church, who, though
they felt the necessity of its interference, were yet anxious
that it should be done with the least injury to Galileo

and to science.

   Early in April, when his examination in person took
place, he was provided with apartments in the house of
the Fiscal of the Inquisition ; and to make this nominal

confinement as agreeable as possible, his table was pro
vided by the Tuscan ambassador, and his servant was
allowed to sleep in an adjoining apartment. Even with
these indulgences, however, Galileo could not brook the

degradation under which he lay. A return of his com

plaint ruffled his temper, and made him impatient for his
release ; and the Cardinal Barberino having been made

acquainted with his feelings, liberated the philosopher on
his own responsibility, and on the 30th of April, after
ten days' confinement, restored him to the hospitable roof
of the Tuscan ambassador.

   It has been stated on authority which is considered

278  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

unquestionable, that during his personal examination
Galileo was put to the torture, and that confessions were
thus extorted which he had been unwilling to make. He
acknowledged that the obnoxious dialogues were written

by himself ;--that he had obtained a license to print them
without informing the functionary who gave it-- and that

he had been prohibited from publishing such opinions ; and
in order to excuse himself, he alleged that he had forgotten
the injunction under which he lay not to teach, in any
manner, the Copernican doctrines. After duly considering
the confessions and excuses of their prisoner, the Inquisi
tion appointed the 22d of June as the day on which their

sentence was to be pronounced. In obedience to the
summons, Galileo repaired to the Holy Office on the

morning of the 21st. Clothed in a penitential dress, he
was conducted on the 2 2d to the convent of Minerva,

where the Inquisition was assembled, and where an elabo
rate sentence was pronounced, which will ever be memo
rable in the history of science. Invoking the name of our
Saviour and of the Holy Virgin, Galileo is declared to be a
heretic, in consequence of believing that the sun was the
centre of the earth's orbit, and did not move from east

to west, and defending the opinion that the earth moved
and was not the centre of the world. He is therefore

charged with having incurred all the censures and penal
ties enacted against such offences ; but from all these he
is to be absolved, provided that with a sincere heart, and

faith unfeigned, he abjures and curses the heresies he has
maintained, as well as every other heresy against the
Catholic Church. In order to prevent the recurrence of
such crimes, it was also decreed that his work should be

prohibited by a formal edict, --that he should be impri
soned during the pleasure of the Inquisition, --and that

163:5.  LIFE .OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  279

during the next three years he should recite weekly the
seven penitential psalms. This sentence was subscribed
by seven cardinals, and on the same day Galileo signed
the abjuration which the sentence imposed.

    Clothed in the sackcloth of a repentant criminal, Ga
lileo, at the age of seventy, fell upon his knees before the
assembled cardinals, and laying his right hand on the
Holy Evangelists, he invoked the Divine assistance, in
abjuring and detesting and vowing never again to teach
the doctrine of the earth's motion and of the sun's stabi

lity. He pledged himself never again to propagate such
heresies either in his conversation or in his writings, and
he vowed that he would observe all the penances which
had been inflicted upon him. What a mortifying picture
does this scene present to us of moral infirmity and intel

lectual weakness ! If we brand with infamy the unholy

zeal of the inquisitorial conclave, what must we think
when we behold the venerable sage, whose gray hairs
were entwined with the chaplet of immortality, quailing
under the fear of man, and sacrificing the convictions of
his conscience, and the deductions of his reason, at the

altar of a base superstition 1 Had Galileo added the

courage of the martyr to the wisdom of the sage, --had

he carried the glance of his eye round the circle of his
judges, and with uplifted hands called upon the living
God to witness the truth and immutability of his opinions,
he might have disarmed the bigotry of his enemies, and
science would have achieved a memorable triumph.

    The sentence of abjuration was publicly read at several

universities. At Florence it was promulgated in the

church of Santa Croce, and the friends and disciples of
Galileo were summoned to the ceremonial, in order to

witness the degradation of their master. But though the

280  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CIIAP. XI.

church was thus anxious to maintain its authority, Galileo
was personally treated with consideration, and even kind
ness. After remaining only four days in the dungeons
of the Inquisition, he was, at the request of the Tuscan
ambassador, allowed to reside with him in his palace, and

when his health began to suffer, he was permitted to leave
Rome and to reside with his friend Piccolomini, Arch
bishop of Sienna, under whose hospitable roof he completed

his investigations respecting the resistance of solids. At

the end of six months he was allowed to return to Florence,

and before the close of the year he re-entered his house
at Arcetri, where he spent the remainder of his days.

    Although still a prisoner, Galileo had the happiness of
being with his family and living under his own roof ; but
like the other " spots of azure in his cloudy sky," it was

ordained to be of short duration. It was now that he was

justly characterized by the poet as " the starry Galileo
with his woes." His favourite daughter Maria, who, along
with her sister, had joined the convent of St. Matthew,
near Arcetri, hastened to the filial duties which she had so

long been prevented from discharging. She assumed the
task of reciting weekly the seven penitential psalms which
formed part of her father's sentence ; but she had scarcely
commenced her domestic toils when she was seized with

a dangerous illness, which in a few weeks proved fatal.
Galileo was laid prostrate by this heavy and unexpected
blow. He was inconsolable for the loss of his daughter,
and disease in various forms shook the frail tenement

which philosophy had abandoned. Time, however, the
only anodyne of sorrow, produced its usual effects, and
Galileo felt himself able to travel to Florence for medical

advice. The Pope refused him permission, and he remained
at Arcetri from 1634 to 1638, preparing for the press his

1642.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                            281

" Dialogues on Motion," and corresponding with the Dutch

government on his proposal to find the longitude by the

eclipses of Jupiter's satellites. Galileo, whose eyes had

been gradually failing him since 1636, was struck with
                           "
total blindness in 1638.          The   noblest eye,"  as his friend
Father Castelli expressed            "  was darkened
                                                       --an eye so
                           it,
                                                             it
privileged and gifted with such rare powers, that may

truly be said to have seen more than the eyes of all that

are gone, and have opened the eyes of all that were to

come." To the want of sight was soon added the want

of hearing, and in     csounbsjeecqtueedn,ce"  of the mental   labour to
which he had been                              his head," as  he himself
said, " became too busy for his body and hypochon
                                                   ;"

driacal attacks, want of sleep, acute rheumatism, and

palpitation of the heart, broke down his constitution.

His last illness, after two months' continuance, terminated

fatally on the 8th January 1642, when he was in the 78th

yea"r  of his age.     character  of Galileo," as we have                                                   else
       The scientific
where1 had occasion to remark, " and his method of

investigating truth, demand our warmest admiration.

The number and ingenuity of his inventions, the brilliant

discoveries which he made in the heavens, and the depth

and beauty of his researches respecting the laws of motion,

have gained him the applause of every succeeding age,

and have placed him next to Newton in the lists of original

and inventive genius. To this high rank he was doubtless

elevated by the inductive processes which he followed in

all his inquiries. Under the sure guidance of observation

and experiment, he advanced to general laws and Bacon
       1

                                                                          of

                                                                                                         ;

                                                       if
had never lived, the student of nature would have found

in the writings and labours of Galileo not only the boasted

       Life of Galileo, chap, vi., in the Martyrs      Science.

282  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      CHAP. XI.

principles of the Inductive philosophy, but also their
practical application to the highest efforts of invention

and discovery."

    Among the astronomers who preceded Newton in astro
nomical inquiries, and contributed some ideas to the
establishment of the true system of the planets, we must
place the names of Bouillaud,1 Borelli, Hooke, Huygens,
Wren, and Halley. After refuting the magnetic notions
of Kepler, Bouillaud maintained that the force of attrac
tion must vary reciprocally as the square, and not as
Kepler asserted, in the simple ratio of the distance ; but
Delambre does not allow him any credit in this respect,
and remarks that he has done nothing more for astronomy
than to introduce the word evection into its language.

    The influence of gravity as a central force in the pla

netary motions has been very distinctly described by
Borelli, Professor of Mathematics at Pisa, in his work on

the theory of Jupiter's Satellites.2 He considers the
motions of the planets round the sun, and of the satellites
round their primaries, as produced by some virtue residing
in the central body. In speaking of the motion of bodies
in circular orbits, he compares the tendency of the body
to recede from the centre of motion to that of a stone

whirled in a sling. When this force of recession is equal
to the tendency of the body to the centre, a balance is

effected between these tendencies, and the body will con
tinually revolve round the centre, and at a determinate
distance from it. Delambre attaches no value to these spe-

   1 Ismaelis Bullialdi Astronomia Philolaica. --Paris, 1G45, p. 23. Sir Isaac ad
mitted that Bullialdus here gives the true " proportion on gravity."-- Letter to

Halley, June 20, 1686, postscript.

   3 Theoricce Mediceorum Plrmetarvm  ex cavgis physicis deductce.  A Alphonso

Borellio. --Florentise, 1666.

1666.                          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                             283

culations of Borelli. He has in his opinion pointed out no

physical cause," and has merely made a series of reflexions

which every astronomer would necessarily make who was

studying the theory of the satellites. He gives him the
credit, however, of being one of the first who conjec

tured that the comets described round the sun elliptical
or parabolic orbits."

The speculations of our distinguished countryman, Dr.

Hooke, respecting the cause of the planetary motions,
exceeded greatly in originality and value the crude views

of Borelli, and form a decided step in physical astronomy.
On the 21st of March 1666, he communicated to the

Royal Society an account of a series of experiments to

determine if bodies experienced any change in their weight

at different distances from the surface of the earth "either

upwards or downwards." Kepler had maintained that

this force, namely, that of gravity, was a property inherent

in
    all

                   of
                               or
                                of

                                           or
in celestial bodies, and Hooke proposed "to consider

                                                                                        it be

                                                                                             be
whether this gravitating attractive power inherent
                                                                                                 mag
the parts                      the earth; and so, whether
                                                       if
netical, electrical,                              some other nature distinct from
                                                           he
either." The experiments which made with the instru

                                                                                              to he
                                                                                                            iii.

                                                                                                                of p.
Newton (in his posthumous work, De Systemate Mundi, 32, Opera, tom.
in *
180, and his postscript his letter Halley, June 20, 1686, where says "that
          de  in               et de in
                           of            ad
Borelli did something") and Huygens have attached greater value the viewsin
                                                   to
Borelli. The last these philosophers thus speaks them:--"Refert Plutarchus
                                                       a

                                                              of

                                                                         ob
libro supramemorato            Facie Orbe Lunae, fuisse jam olim qui putaret ideo
                                                                             motum circularem, inhi
manere lunam orbe suo, quod vis recedendi terra,
              vi
                 in
beretur pari gravitatis, qua                      terram accedere conaretur. Idemgue aevo nostro,

non luna tantum sed            planetis ceteris statuit Alphonsus Borellius,                  et utnempe

primariis eorum gravitas esset solem versus; lunis vero        ad            Terram Jovem Satur

num quos comitantur. Multoque diligentius, subtiliusque idem nuper explicuit
Isaacus Newtonus, quomodo exhis causis nascantur Planetarum orbes Elliptici,
2

                        ii. et
                                              in
quos Keplerus excogitaverat; quorum foco altero Sol ponitur. Christiani Hugenii

Cosmotheoros, lib. ad finem. OPERA, tom.               720.ii.

                                                            p.
                                                                           i.
                                                                                    p.
       Angelo Fabroni, Lettere inedite d'uomini illustri, tom.                          173.

284                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. XI.

ment described in this communication, were far from being

satisfactory, and he was therefore led to the ingenious

idea of measuring the force of gravity " by the motion of
a swing clock," which would go slower at the top of a hill

than at the bottom.1

    About two months afterwards, namely, on the 23d

May 1666, Hooke communicated to the Society a paper
" On the inflexion of a direct motion into a curve by a

supervening attractive principle." 2 After maintaining that

the celestial bodies moving in circular and elliptical orbits
" must have some other cause beside the first impressed

impulse to bend their motion into these curves," he con

siders the only two causes which appear to him capable

of producing such an effect. The first of these causes,
which he considers an improbable one, is that the tendency

to  a centre is produced   by a                    greater density of the ether
in  approaching to the    sun.                     " But the second cause," he
adds, " of inflecting a direct motion into a curve may be

from an attractive property of the body placed in the
centre, whereby it continually endeavours to attract or

draw it to itself. For if such a principle be supposed, all

the phenomena of the planets seem possible to be explained

by the common principle of mechanic motions ; and pos

sibly the prosecuting this speculation, may give us a true

hypothesis of their motion, and from some few observations

their motions may be so far brought to a certainty that

we may be able to calculate them to the greatest exactness
and certainty that can be desired." After describing the

circular pendulum3 for illustrating these views, he adds

1   Birch's Hist,    of Royal Society,  vol.  ii.  pp.  69-72.
    Ibid., vol. ii.
'                    pp. 90-92.

* This pendulum consisted of a wire fastened to the roof of the room, with a large
wooden ball of lignum vitat at the end of it.-- Waller's Life of Hooke, p. xii.

1666.  LIFE OF S1E ISAAC NEWTON.                                                285

that " by this hypothesis the phenomena of the comets,
as well as of the planets, may be solved ; and the motions
of the secondary as well as of the primary planets. The
motions also of the progression of the apsides are very
evident, but as for the motion of libration or latitude that

cannot be so well made out by this way of pendulum ;
but by the motion of a wheel upon a point is most easy."

    By means of the circular pendulum already mentioned,

it was found that " if the impetus of the endeavour by the

tangent at the first setting out was stronger than the en
deavour to the centre, there was then generated an ellip
tical motion whose longest diameter was parallel to the
direct endeavour of the body in the first point of impulse.

But if that impetus was weaker than the endeavour to

the centre, there was generated such an elliptical motion
whose shorter diameter was parallel to the direct endea
vour of the body in the first point of impulse." Another

experiment was made by fastening a small pendulous
body by a shorter string on the lower part of the wire
which suspended the larger ball, " that it might freely
make a circular or elliptical motion round about the

bigger, whilst the bigger moved circularly or elliptically
about another centre." The object of this arrangement

was to explain the manner of the moon's motion about
the earth ; but neither of the balls moved in such perfect

circles and ellipses as when they were suspended singly.

" A certain point, however, which seemed to be the centre

of gravity of the two bodies, however pointed, (considered
as one,) seemed to be regularly moved in such a circle or
ellipsis, the two balls having other peculiar motions in

small epicycles about the same point."'

       1 Waller's Life of Hooke, p. xii. ; and Birch's Ilitt., vol. ii. p. 92.

286  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     CHAP. XI.

At a later period of his life, Hooke resumed the consi

deration of the subject of the planetary motions, and, in

a work which appeared in 167 A,1 he published some

interesting observations on     gravity, which we shall give
                                hereafter," he says, " explain
in his own words. -- " I shall

a system of the world differing in many particulars from

any yet known, but answering in all things to the com

mon rules of mechanical motions. This depends upon
three suppositions : First, That all celestial bodies what

soever have an attraction or gravitating power towards

their own centres, whereby they attract not only their

own parts, and keep them from flying from them, as we

may observe the Earth to do, but that they also do

attract all the other celestial bodies that are within the

sphere of their activity, and consequently that not only

the Sun and Moon have an influence upon the body and
motion of the Earth, and the Earth upon them, but that

Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn also, by their

attractive powers, have a considerable influence upon its

motion, as in the same manner the corresponding attrac
tive power of the Earth hath a considerable influence

upon every one of their motions also. The second suppo

sition is this, that all bodies whatsoever that are put into

a direct and simple motion, will so continue to move for

ward in a straight line till they are, by some other effec

tual powers, deflected, and sent into a motion describing

a circle, ellipsis, or some other more compounded curve

line. The third supposition     that these attractive
1

                                                  of
                                                           is,

                                                                                             p.

                                                                               is

                                                         by I
powers are so much the more powerful in operating by

how much the nearer the body wrought upon          to their

own centres. Now, what these several degrees are,

An Attempt to prove the Motion  the Earth, from Observations made

Robert Hooke, 4to. See Phil. Trans., No. 101, 12.

1679.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  287

have not yet experimentally verified, but it is a notion
which, if fully prosecuted, as it ought to be, will mightily
assist the astronomers to reduce all the celestial motions

Ito a certain rule, which doubt will never be done with

out it. He that understands the nature of the circular

pendulum, and of circular motion, will easily understand
the whole of this principle, and will know where to find

directions in nature for the true stating thereof. This I

only hint at present to such as have ability and opportu
nity of prosecuting this inquiry, and are not wanting of
industry for observing and calculating, wishing heartily

such may be found, having myself many other things in

Ihand which would first complete, and therefore cannot
so well attend it. But this I durst promise the under

taker, that he will find all the great motions of the

world to be influenced by this principle, and that the
true understanding thereof will be the true perfection of

astronomy." 1

   In this remarkable passage, the doctrine of universal

gravitation, and the general law of the planetary motions,
are clearly laid down. The diminution of gravity as the
square of the distance, is alone wanting to complete the
basis of the Newtonian philosophy ; but even this desi
deratum was in the course of a few years supplied by
Dr. Hooke. In a letter which he addressed to Newton in

1679, relative to the curve described by a projectile in

fluenced by the Earth's daily motion, he asserted, that if

   1 In quoting this passage, which Delambre admits to be very curious, we think
he scarcely does justice to Hooke, when he says that what it contains is found
expressly in Kepler. It is quite true that Kepler mentioned as probable the law of
the squares of the distances, but he afterwards, as Delambre admits, rejected it for
that of the simple distances. Hooke, on the contrary, announces it as a truth. --
See Attronomie du 18»te Steele, pp. 9, 10. Clairaut has justly remarked, that the
example of Hooke and Kepler shews how great is the difference between a truth

conjectured or asserted, and a truth demonstrated.

288  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XI.

the force of gravity decreased as the square of the dis
tance, the curve described by a projectile would be an
ellipse, whose focus was the centre of the Earth. But
however great be the merit which we may assign to
Hooke's experimental results and sagacious views, they
cannot be regarded either as anticipating the discoveries
of Newton, or diminishing his fame. Newton had made

the same discoveries by independent researches, and there
is no reason to believe that he derived any ideas from his

contemporaries.

1666.    I,1FE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     289

         CHAPTER XII.

THE FIRST IDEA OF GRAVITY OCCURS TO NEWTON IN 1665 -- HIS FIRST
    SPECULATIONS UPON IT-- HE ABANDONS THE SUBJECT FROM HAVING
    EMPLOYED AN ERRONEOUS MEASURE OF THE EARTH'S RADIUS -- HE RE

    SUMES THE SUBJECT IN CONSEQUENCE OF A DISCUSSION WITH DR.

   HOOKE, BUT LAYS IT ASIDE, BEING OCCUPIED WITH HIS OPTICAL
    EXPERIMENTS -- BY ADOPTING PICARD's MEASURE OF THE EARTH HE

    DISCOVERS THE LAW OF GRAVITY, AND THE CAUSE OF THE PLANETARY
    MOTIONS -- DR. HALLEY GOES TO CAMBRIDGE, AND URGES HIM TO

    PUBLISH HIS TREATISE ON MOTION THE GERM OF THE PRIN-
   CIPIA WHICH WAS COMPOSED IN 1685 AND 1686 -- CORRESPONDENCE
   WITH FLAMSTEED -- MANUSCRIPT OF PRINCIPIA SENT TO THE ROYAL
   SOCIETY -- HALLEY UNDERTAKES TO PUBLISH IT AT HIS OWN EXPENSE
   -- DISPUTE WITH HOOKE, WHO CLAIMS THE DISCOVERY OF THE LAW
   OF GRAVITY-- THE PRINCIPIA PUBLISHED IN 1687 -- THE NEW EDITION
   OF IT BY COTES BEGUN IN 1709, AND PUBLISHED IN 1713 -- CHARACTER
    AND CONTENTS OF THE WORK -- GENERAL ACCOUNT OF THE DISCO
    VERIES IT CONTAINS -- THEY MEET WITH OPPOSITION FROM THE FOL
    LOWERS OF DESCARTES -- THEIR RECEPTION IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES --

    PROGRESS OF THE NEWTONIAN PHILOSOPHY IN ENGLAND AND SCOT

    LAND.

    Such is a brief and general view of the labours and
lives of those illustrious men who prepared the science of
Astronomy for the application of Newton's genius. Coper
nicus had determined the form of the Solar System, and

the relative position and movements of the bodies that

composed it. Kepler had proved that the planets revolve
in elliptical orbits ; that their radii vectores describe areas
proportional to the times ; and that the squares of their

periodic times are as the cubes of their distances from

the sun. Galileo had added to the universe a whole

VOL. I.                              T

290  LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                                     CHAP. XII.

 system of secondary planets. Huygens had given to
 Saturn a satellite, and the strange appendage of a ring ;
 and, while some astronomers had maintained the doctrine

 of universal gravitation, others had referred the motions
 to an attractive force, diminishing with the square of the
 distance, and producing a curvilineal motion from one in

 a straight line.1
     We have already seen that, in the autumn of 1665,

 Newton was led to the opinion that the same power by
 which an apple falls from a tree extends to the moon,
 and retains her in her orbit ; but upon making the calcu
 lation, he found such a discrepancy between the two
 forces that he abandoned the subject, suspecting that the
 power which retained the moon in her orbit might be
partly that of gravity, and partly that of the vortices of
 Descartes.2 This discrepancy arose from the adoption of
an erroneous measure of the semi-diameter of the earth,

of which the moon's distance was taken as a multiple.
Unacquainted with the more accurate determinations of
Snelfius3 and Norwood,4 the last of which would have

given Newton the exact quantity which he required, he
adopted the measure of sixty miles for a degree of lati
tude, which had been employed by the old geographers
and seamen, and in which, as Mr. Rigaud conjectures, he
may have placed the more confidence, as it agreed with
the result of the observations which Edward Wright, a
Cambridge mathematician, had published in 1610.

   It does not distinctly appear at what time Newton

became acquainted with the more accurate measurement

1 In 1673, Huygens had announced the relations between attractive force and

vel'ocWityinisntocnir'sculMaremmoiortsiono.f his own Life, p. 37.  4 Seaman's Practice, 1630.

   8 Eratosthenes Batavus, 1617.

1C72.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                291

of the earth, executed by Picard in 1670, and was thus

led to resume his investigations. Picard's method of

measuring his degree, and the precise result which he

obtained, were communicated to the Royal Society on the

11th January 1672,1 and the results of his observations

and calculations were published in the Philosophical Trans

actions for 1675. But whatever was the time when New

ton became acquainted with Picard's measurement, it
seems to be quite certain that he did not " resume his

former thoughts concerning the moon" till 1684. Pem-
berton tells us, that " some years after he laid aside" his
former thoughts, " a letter from Dr. Hooke put him on

inquiring what was the real figure in which a body, let fall

from any high place,          descends, taking    the    motion of the
earth round its axis          into consideration     "   and that this

                                                      ;

gave occasion to his resuming his former thoughts con

cerning the moon, and determining, from Picard's recent
measures, that " the moon appeared to be kept in her

orbit purely by the power of gravity."2 But though

1 Mr. Rigaud remarks, that " we do not know when Norwood's determination

became known to Newton, but we are certain that he was well aware of Snellius's
measures quite as soon as he was of Picard's, -- probably much sooner, since the

specific    mention of them   aisnemwadeeditiinonVaartenCiaums'sbridGgeeoginrap1h6y7,2."(--capH. isitvo.,ricpapl.  24-26,
1672,)    of which he edited                                                                                       Essay,
p. 12. " Had he adopted," as Mr. Rigaud adds, " 28,500 Rhinland perches, the

length of a degree given by Snellius, he would have obtained for the moon's de

flexion, in a minute, 15"5 feet."
    2 Among the manuscripts of Conduit, we found the following statement regard

ing Newton's " resuming his former thoughts concerning the moon :" --
   " In 1673, Dr. Hooke wrote to him to send him something new for the Transac

tions, whereupon he sent him a little dissertation to confute the common objection,

that if it were true that the earth moved from east to west, all falling bodies would

be left to the west ; and maintained that, on the contrary, they would fall a lit tie

eastward, and, having described a curve with his hand to represent the motion of a
falling body, he drew a negligent stroke with his pen, from whence Dr. Hooke took
occasion to imagine that he meant the curve would be a spiral, whereupon the

Doctor wrote to him that the curve would be an ellipsis, and that the body would
move according to Kepler's notion, which gave Sir Isaac Newton an occasion to

292  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         CHAP. XII.

Hooke's letter of 1679 was the occasion of Newton's
resuming his inquiries, it does not fix the time when he

employed the measures of Picard. In a letter from New

ton to Halley in 1686, he tells him that Hooke's letters
in 1679 were the cause of his " finding the method of

Idetermining the figures, which, when had tried in the
Iellipsis, threw the calculations by, being upon other

studies ; and so it rested for about five years, till, upon

your request, I sought for the papers." Hence Mr. Rigaud

considers it clear, that the figures here alluded to were
the paths of bodies acted upon by a central force, and
that the same occasion induced him to resume his former
thoughts concerning the moon, and to avail himself of

Picard's measures to correct his calculations. It was,

therefore, in 1684, that Newton discovered that the moon's

deflexion in a minute was sixteen feet, the same as that
of bodies at the earth's surface. As his calculations drew

to a close, he is said to have been so much agitated that
he was obliged to desire a friend to finish them.1

examine the thing thoroughly ; and for the foundation of the calculus he intended,

he laid down this proposition, that the areas described in equal times were equal,

which, though assumed by Kepler, was not by him demonstrated, of which demon

stration the first glory is due to Newton."

   Immediately after this statement, Conduit adds,-- " Pemberton, in his preface,

mentions this in another manner," and he quotes part of that preface.

The above extraordinary story of Hooke's having considered a negligent stroke of

Newton's pen as a spiral, and on that ground having charged him with maintaining
that falling bodies would describe such a curve, could not have been given on

Newton's authority, but must have been invented by an enemy of Hooke's. Newton

himself admits, in his letter to Halley, July 27, 1686, that Hooke's " correcting his

spiral occasioned his finding the theorem by which he afterwards examined the

ellipsis."

   In the preceding extract, the date 1673 is obviously erroneous. The document
was copied for me by the late Henry Arthur Wallop Fellowes, the elder brother of

the present Earl of Portsmouth, who kindly assisted me in the examination of

INewton's papers, and who placed at the top of the document the words, (P. 49 in

Jones,) which cannot explain.
1 Eobison's Works, vol. ii. p. 94, 1822. Tradition
     is                                                           we believe, the only autho
                                       by
                                                is

                                                             is,
rity for this anecdote. It not supported  what known of Newton's character.

1084. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 293

    Sir Christopher Wren and Hooke and Halley had each
of them, from independent considerations, concluded that
" the centripetal force decreased in the proportion of the
squares of the distances reciprocally."1 Halley had in
1683-4 derived this law "from the consideration of the

sesquialterate proportion of Kepler," but was unsuccessful
in his att empts to demonstrate by it the laws of the celestial
motions. Sir Christopher Wren had " very many years"

before 1686, attempted by the same law "to make out

the planet's motion by a descent towards the sun, and an
impressed motion," but had " given it over, not finding the
means of doing it ;" and Dr. Hooke, as we have already

seen, though he adopted the law of the squares, never
fulfilled his promise of proving that it could be applied to

the motions of the planets.2 It is therefore to Newton

' Principia, lib. Prop, iv., Schul.
                    i.,
a2
                                 if

                                                          a
      These various facts are stated in letter from Halley to Newton, dated June
29, 1686. " According to your desire in your former, waited upon Sir Christo
                                                             ;I

                                                                       it
                                                                                       a

                                                                              I
pher Wren, to inquire of him he had the first notion of the reciprocal duplicate
proportion from Mr. Hooke. His answer was, that he himself very many years

since had had his thoughts upon making out the planet's motions by composition

of descent towards the sun and an impressed motion but that at length he gave

over, not finding the means of doing it. Since which time Mr. Hooke had fre

quently told him that he had doneit,                and attempted to make out to him, but that

                      I

                                     I,

                                               it,
he never was satisfied that his demonstrations were cogent. And this know to

be true, that in January 1683-4,                  having from the consideration of the sesquialte

rate proportion of Kepler, concluded that the centripetal force decreased in the

proportion of the squares of the distances reciprocally, came on Wednesday to town

(from Islington) where met with Sir Christopher Wren and Mr. Hooke, and falling
in discourse about Mr. Hooke affirmed that upon that principle all the laws of

the celestial motions were to be demonstrated, and that he himself had done it.
                                                                                 it

                                                                                       I
declared the ill success of my attempts, and Sir Christopher to encourage the inquiry,

said that he would give Mr. Hooke some two months' time to bring him a con

vincing demonstration thereof, and besides the honour, he of us that did should

have from him the present of a book of forty shillings. Mr. Hooke then said he

bad but that he would conceal for some time, that others trying and failingit,
                    it
                               it
might know how to value when he should make public. However, remember
                                                             it               I
                                                                         it,
that Sir Christopher was little satisfied that he could do and though Mr. Hooke

then promised to shew him, do not find that in that particular he has been so
                    it

                          I

good as his word."

294     LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                                  CHAP. XII.

alone that we owe the demonstration of the great truth,

that the moon is kept in her orbit by the same power by

which bodies fall on the earth's surface.

The influence of such a result upon such a mind, may
Ifbe more easily conceived than described.
                                                                   the force of

the earth's gravity bends the moon into her orbit, the

satellites of the other planets must be guided by the same

power in their primaries, and the attractive force of the

sun must in like manner control the movements of the

comets and the planets which surround him. In the ap

plication of this grand truth to the motions of the Solar

System, and to the perturbations arising from the mutual

action of the bodies that compose                                  Newton must have
it

                       a

                      it
                                                              it,
rejoiced in the privilege of laying the foundation of so

magnificent work, while he could not fail to see that the

completion of would be the achievement of other minds,

and the glory of another age. But, however fascinating

must have been the picture thus presented to his mind,

was still one of limited extent. He knew not of the

existence of binary and multiple systems of stars, to which

the theory of universal gravitation would be extended.

He could not have anticipated that Adams and Leverrier

would have tracked an unseen planet to its place by the
perturbations occasioned Nor could he have conjec
     a it                 :

                               is
                                                 a is

                                                        It
tured that his own theory of gravitation might detect the

origin and history of nearly thirty planetary bodies, re

volving within sphere apparently destined for one. It

was enough for one man to see what Newton saw. The

service in the Temple of Science must be performed by

many priests and fortunate  he who                                 called to the
     ;

humblest task at its altar. The revelations of infinite

wisdom are not vouchsafed to man in day. A light

so effulgent would paralyze the noblest intellect.                 must

1686.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  2.95

break in upon it by degrees ; and even each separate ray

must be submitted to the ordeal of various minds, --to

the apprentice skill of one age, and to the master genius
of another.

   It is not easy to determine the exact time when New

ton first adopted the great truth, " that the forces of the
planets from the sun are reciprocally duplicate of their dis
tances from him," but there is sufficient evidence to shew
that it must have been as early as 1666, and therefore
contemporaneous with his speculations on Gravity in his

garden at Woolsthorpe. " In one of my papers," says he,1

I" writ, (I cannot say in what year,) but I am sure some

time before had any correspondence with Oldenburg,2
and that's above fifteen years ago, (1671,) the proportion of
the forces of the planets from the sun, reciprocally dupli
cate of their distances from him, is expressed, and the

proportion of our gravity to the moon's conatus recedendi
a centro terrm, is calculated, though not accurately enough.
That when Hugenius put out his Horologium Oscillato-
rium, a copy being presented to me, in my letter of

Ithanks to him gave those rules in the end thereof a

particular commendation for their usefulness in philoso

phy, and added, out of my aforesaid paper, an instance of
their usefulness in comparing the forces of the moon from
the earth, and the earth from the sun ; in determining a
problem about the moon's phase, and putting a limit to

the sun's parallax, which shews that I had then my eye

upon comparing the forces of the planets arising from
their circular motion, and understood it ; so that a while

after when Mr. Hooke propounded the problem solemnly

   1 Letter to Halley, June 20, 1686. See also Rigaud's Hist. Essay, pp. 51, 52.

  2 It appears from Birch, in his Hist, of the Jtoyal Society, vol. iii. p. 1, that

Newton had written to Oldenhur^ a letter, dated January 6, tfi?.1*.

2.96               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. XII.

in the end of his attempt to prove the motion of the

earth, if I had not known the duplicate proportion before,
I could not but have found it now." In another letter

to Halley, written about three weeks afterwards,1 he

distinctly states, that " for the duplicate proportion I can
Iaffirm that gathered it from Kepler's theorem about

twenty years ago," that in 1666. Hence
          is                                               it     obvious
                                                              is
                                   " is,
that the written paper referred to by Newton was, as
Mr. Rigaud says, " the result of his early speculations at

Woolsthorpe," and that the deduction from Kepler,

which     said to have preceded the calculation2 by a

twelvemonth, took place in 1665."

    Such was the state of Newton's knowledge regarding

the law of gravity, when, in January 1684, Halley, Wren,

and Hooke were discussing together the subject in Lon

don. Halley had learned from this interview that neither
of his friends possessed " convincing demonstration" of
                                  a

this law, and finding, after a delay of some months, that
Hooke " had not been so good as his word," in shewing

his demonstration to Wren, he set out for Cambridge in

the month of August 1684, to consult Newton on the

subject.3 Without mentioning either his own specula-

!1  July 14, 15813. Rigaud's Hist. Em., App. pp. 39, 40.
    The erroneous calculations from his having used an incorrect measure of the

earth's diameter.

3   In both the editions of the Commercium Epistolicum,, drawn up by a committee

of Newton's best friends, there occurs the following passage, which has misled
several of Newton's biographers. "Anno . . 1683, in . . . Actis Lipsicis pro
mense Octobri, calculi differentialis elementa primum edidit I). Leibnitius, Uteris
a. a. L. designatus. Anno autem 1683 ad finem vergente, D. Newtonus proposi-
                                in
tiones principales, earum qua?
                                    It

                                           is
                                                        .
Londinuin misit," &c., No. LXXI.  Philosophiae Principal's Mathematicis habentur

                                          certain that 1684 should have been sub

stituted for 1683. Mr. Rigaud, who justly remarks that this could not have been
an error of the press, as " the argument with reference to Leibnitz would fall to the

ground 1684 were substituted for it," has endeavoured successfully to find outif
the cause of the mistake. In the Macclesfield Collection he found tiro Memoranda
on the first communication of the Principia to the Royal Society, said to be " from

1684. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 297

tious, or those of Hooke and Wren, he at once indicated

the object of his visit by asking Newton what would be

the curve described by the planets on the supposition

that gravity diminished at the square of the distance.

Newton immediately answered, an Ellipse. Struck with

joy and amazement, Halley asked him how he knew it 1

Why, replied he, I have calculated it; and being asked

for the calculation, he could not find
   it                                                                               but promised to
                                                           it,
send to him. After Halley left Cambridge, Newton

endeavoured to reproduce the calculation, but did not

succeed in obtaining the same result. Upon examining

carefully his diagram and calculation, he found that in

describing an ellipse coarsely with his own hand, he had
drawn the two axes of the curve instead of two conjugate
diameters somewhat inclined to one another. When this

mistake was corrected he obtained the result which he

had announced to Halley.1

an original paper of Newton," which we presume means in Newton's handwriting.
                            given, and in the second the correct date of 1684, " the
In the first the date 1683  is
                                        a
3  having been evidently altered to 4," by Newton himself, so that the editors of the

Commercium Epistolicum made grave mistake in adopting the date 1683.

   Since the publication of Mr. Rigaud's Historical Essay, Mr. Edleston has thrown

                                                                                    by
                                                                                               by
a new light on this subject. The two Memoranda mentioned                            Mr. Rigaud arc

              a
                                 by
the commencement of critique               Newton himself on three papers                          Leibnitz,

in the Leipsic Acts for January and February 1689. The critique, which Mr.

Edleston thinks was probably written in 1712, occupied nearly six pages, and                                   3, is

preserved among the Lucasian Papers.         The first sentence given in four different
                                              used, and in the two last 1683. "New
forms. In the two first the date 1684      is                                       is
                                                                                                            4
ton," says Mr. Edleston, "first of all clearly wrote 1684, then altered the to a
....afterwards crossed all the figures out, and wrote distinctly 1683
                                                                                                   Newton,

therefore, after endeavouring to recollect the exact year in which he sent up the

fundamental proposition of the Principia to London, antedated the event             is                         a
                                                                                                 by
twelvemonth," so that no blame can be cast upon the editors of the Commercivm

Epistolicum, for the erroneous date which they adopted. The critique                               given by

Mr. Edleston  his Appendix, 307. See Rigaud's Hist. Essay, pp.- 16-18, and
   1
       it

                        in
                                                               p.
                                                                        is
                                                                                is
his Appendix, No. xix.

   We have given this account of Halley's interview with Newton, nearly as we

find in Conduit's manuscript, in which May erroneously mentioned as the time
                                               more brief: -- ''The August following
of Halley's visit. Halley's own account

    298    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                   CHAP..XIL

    Halley returned to London with the double satisfaction                                            a it,
that a grand truth had been demonstrated which he
himself had anticipated, and that he had the honour of
bringing it to light. He was indeed proud of the suc
cess of his mission, and after the Principia had excited

the admiration of Europe, he used frequently to boast to

Conduit that he had been the Ulysses who produced this
Achilles.1 In the month of November, Newton fulfilled

the promise he made to Halley, by sending him through
Mr. Paget2 a copy of the demonstration which he had
brought to perfection ; and very soon after receiving
Halley took another journey to Cambridge, " to confer with
Newton about it." Immediately after his return to Lon

don, namely, on the 10th December, he informed the
Royal Society " that he had lately seen Mr. Newton at
Cambridge, who had shewed him a curious treatise Be
Motu," which at Dr. Halley's desire he promised to send
to the Society to be entered upon their register. " Mr.
Halley was desired to put Mr. Newton in mind of his

    when did myself the honour to visit you, then learned the good news that you
        I  I

                                             a

                              I
    had brought the demonstration to perfection, and you were pleased to promise me

a   copy thereof, which received with great deal of satisfaction from Mr. Paget."
   1
    --Letter to Newton, June 29, 1686.                                                 " for being the
          " Dr. Halley has often valued himself to me," says Conduit,

    Ulysses which produced this Achilles."

    1   Mr. Paget was Mathematical Master in Christ's Hospital. He was a friend of

    Newton's, and was recommended by him to Flamsteed on the 3d April, 1682, as

    hcoismappeptiotoinrtmfoerntthefoMunadstehrsimhip."     Flamsteed joined in the  recommendation, and after
                                                        an able mathematician."     He gave such satisfaction
    to the Governors indeed, that they sent Flamsteed " staff," and made him one of
                                                                     a

    their number. Flamsteed has left on record that this accomplished young man,
                                                        it

                                                                  a
    before seven years had expired, became drunkard, neglected his duties, lost his

character, and banished himself to India. What a lesson to the young who are

accidentally associated with great men after whom posterity inquire As the bearer
                                                                                    !

    of the germ of the Principia to Halley, Paget's name has for nearly two centuriesina
    been mentioned with honour. As protege of Newton and Flamsteed, who faileda

        justifying their recommendation, blot has been left upon his name, which but

    for that honour would never have been known. See Baily's Flamsteed, p. 125.

1084.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   299

promise for the securing this invention to himself, till
such time as he could be at leisure to publish it," and Mr.
Paget was desired to join with Mr. Halley.

   That Halley and Paget would, without delay, remind
Newton of his promise, and that Newton would fulfil it
there can be no doubt ; and we accordingly find that about
the middle of February he had sent to Mr. Aston, one of
the Secretaries of the Royal Society, his " notions about
motion." Mr. Aston, as a matter of course, would thank

Newton for the communication, and mention the fact of

its being registered ; and that all this was done, appears
from a letter of Newton's to Aston of the 23d February,
1685, written on another subject, but thanking him for
" having entered on the register his notions about motion."

INewton added, " designed them for you before now,

but the examining several things has taken a greater part

Iof my time than expected, and a great deal of it to no
purpose. And now I am to go into Lincolnshire for a
month or six weeks. Afterwards I intend to finish it as
soon as I can conveniently."

    The treatise De Motu, thus registered in the books of
the Royal Society, was the germ of the Principia, and
was obviously intended to be a brief exposition of the

system which that work was to establish. It occupies

twenty-four octavo pages, and consists of four theorems
and seven problems, four of the theorems and four of the
problems containing the more important truths which
are demonstrated in the second and third sections of the

First Book of the Principia.1

1 Mr. Rigaud has published it in his Historical Essay. He is of opinion that it

is not the same paper, a copy of which was brought to Halley by Mr. Paget in

November    1684, on the  ground that  that paper was   never mentioned to the Royal
Society by  Halley, and   that Halley  did not see the  " curious treatise De Motu till

his second visit to Cambridge, in November or December 1684." Mr. Edleston,

300              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                CHAP. XII.

    The years 1685 and 1686 will ever be memorable in

the life of Newton, and in the history of science. It was

in these two years, and in the early months of 1687, that
he composed the Principia and gave it to the world, and
all the details connected with this great event have been
carefully preserved for the instruction and gratification
of posterity. The personal history of the philosopher,
therefore, during this period, the nature of his corre
spondence and inquiries, and all the mechanical and even
commercial circumstances under which his great work

however, is of opinion that the treatise De Motu was part of the lectures delivered

by Newton as Lucasian Professor, which commenced in October 1684, and a copy

of which is preserved in the University library ; and that the paper sent to Halley
in November was the germ of this treatise, and the one registered by Mr. Aston. In

a letter from Cotes to Jones, published in Edleston's Correspondence, p. 209, it is
stated that the manuscript at Cambridge was <!the first draught of the Principia,"
as Newton read it in his lectures, -- a statement to which Mr. Edleston refers in sup

port of his opinion. There are certainly expressions in the letters both of Newton

and Halley unfavourable to both these opinions, but we think that the following

view of the question is the most probable. Halley went to Cambridge to learn if

Newton had a demonstration of the proposition that a force varying reciprocally with

the square of the distance would produce a motion in an ellipsis. Newton told him
that he " had brought this demonstration to perfection," but that having mislaid
he would send him " copy thereof." This copy was sent to Halley in November
                 it,                      it
                            a
obviously for his own information. Halley does not lay before the Society, butby
                 that he goes again to Cambridge in order to " confer with Newtonis
so pleased with
                                                       it
about it." He now saw the treatise De Motu which Newton promised to send toit

the Society, and which was registered. Now when Halley says (letter to Newton,it
June 29, 1686)
demonstration,   that he went to Newton                                              p.to confer with him aboutthat is, the
                 and adds immediately, "                                          it,since which time has beenentered upon

                                                                                               is it,
the register books of the Society," he can only mean that the demonstration was

entered as part of the treatise De Motu, of which  was certainly the leading
Iffeature.
            the two its mean the same thing, then Halley received in November the

same treatise that was afterwards sent to Aston in the following February, which

scarcely admissible even upon Mr. Edleston's conjecture that Halley did produce
is
                                 it,               not recorded in the journal
                                      it
the paper on the 10th December, though the fact

book. In Newton's letter to Halley, July 14, 1686, he says, that having tried the

calculation in the Ellipsis, he had thrown them for about five years,     till  upon Dr.
Halley's request " he sought for that paper, (namely, the calculation in  the   Ellipsis,)

and not finding  did again, and reduced   into the propositions       (wc read pro
position) showed you by Mr. Paget.'' -- See Kigaud's Hist. Essay,     14, and Kdle-

hton's Correspondence, pp. lv. and 209.

1680. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 301

was written, and printed and published, are subjects

which cannot be overlooked in any extended account of

his life and writings. Although Newton had identified

the law of gravity on the earth with the same law at the

moon, yet he required the aid of the practical astronomer

in enabling him to apply his theory to the motions of the

planets and comets of the system. Fortunately for New

ton, Flamsteed was the Astronomer-Royal at Greenwich.

   In November and December 1680, when the great

comet appeared, Flamsteed observed it with peculiar care,

and, before it had ceased to be visible, he put all its ob

served places into a little table, which, with his thoughts

on the subject of comets, he communicated to Mr. Cromp-

ton, Fellow of Jesus College, Cambridge. In this letter,
Flamsteed asserted that " the two comets (as they were
generally thought) were only one and the same ; and he

described the line of their motions before and after it

passed the sun." Mr. Crompton shewed this letter to

Newton, who, in return, addressed a long letter to him,

to be sent to Flamsteed, containing observations on
Flamsteed's " hypothetical notions," and endeavouring to
prove " that the comets of November and December

were different comets." The commencement of Newton's

letter is very characteristic, and though it is intended to

be kind in its expressions, we can conceive a mind like

that of Flamsteed regarding                         as he did many years
            I1
                1I

                                               it,
afterwards, as " magisterially ridiculing the opinion for

which he thought the arguments convincing and unan
            " thank Mr. Flamsteed," says Newton,
swerable."
" for this kind mention of me in his letters to Mr. Cromp

ton, and, as commend his wisdom in deferring to publish

his hypothetical notions till they have been well consi-

            Sec Bailv's Flamsteed, p. 50, note.

302                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        CHAP. XII.

Idered both by his friends and himself, so shall act the

part of a friend in this paper, not objecting against it by

Iway of opposition, but in describing what imagine might

be objected by others, and so leaving it to his considera

tion. If hereafter he shall please to publish his theory,
Iand think any of the objections propound need an an

swer, to prevent their being objected by others, he may

describe the objections as raised by himself or his friends

in general, without taking any notice of me." After this

kind introduction, Newton proceeds, in a long and elabo

rate letter, to controvert Flamsteed's opinions, and, from

the evidence of several Cambridge scholars, to shew that

there were two comets, and not one ; and also in opposi
tion to Flamsteed, that " more comets go northward than

southward." Flamsteed replied to this letter in March

1681,1 in such complimentary terms, that he could not

have taken any offence at Newton's remarks upon his

views.'2 He seems to have answered several of Newton's

objections, and removed some of his difficulties, but to

have failed in satisfying him that there was only one

comet in 1680. Newton had been on a visit in the

country during almost the whole of March, and, after his
return to Cambridge, was prevented, " by some indispo

sition and other impediments," from replying to Flam

steed till the 16th of April. In this letter " he forbears

atondurgceonffuinrethserh"imasneylfob"jetcotiotnhse  to Flamsteed's hypothesis,
                                                     question of two comets,"

1 This letter is not extant, but its date anil character appear from Newton's

answer.

* Mr. Baily, whose views respecting the quarrel which subsequently arose be

tween Newton   and   Flamsteed, we shall afterwards have occasion     to  controvert,
acknowledges  that  he cannot find in these two letters of Newton "  any  foundation'

for Flamsteed's censure." It is very obvious, indeed, from the highly complimentary

terms in which Flamsteed at this time wrote to New ton, that he dicl not consider
Newton as " magisterially ridiculing his opinions."

1685.              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      303

which he discusses at great length, pertinaciously main
taining an opinion, which, a few years afterwards, he was

obliged to abandon.1
    When, after his return from Lincolnshire to Cambridge,

Newton was occupied with the composition of the Prin-
cipia, he renewed his correspondence with Flamsteed.
Many of their letters are lost ;2 but it is obvious, from
one of Newton's, dated September 19, 1685, that he had

received many useful communications from Flamsteed,
and especially regarding Saturn, " whose orbit, as defined
by Kepler," Newton " found too little for the sesquial-

terate proportions." In the other letters written in 1685

and 1686, he applies to Flamsteed for information re
specting the orbits of the satellites of Jupiter and Sa-

1 At this time, and even in 1684, when he wrote his treatise De Motu, Newton

had very erroneous views regarding the motions of comets ; and it was not till
September 19, 1685, that he acknowledged, in a letter to Flamsteed, that " it

seemed very probable that the comets of November and December were the same

comet." In the first edition of the Principia, p. 494, he went farther, and acknow
ledged that Flamsteed was right. In giving an account of the treatise De Motu,
                                              respecting the motions of comets :--
Mr. Eigaud thus speaks of Newton's views      the difficult question of the paths of
" He certainly at this time had not resolved

comets. In the Arithmetica Universalis, (Prob. 56,) he had proceeded on their

supposed uniform rectilinear motion, and, in the present case, he still holds expressly

to that earlier theory. How, under such conditions,  strictly adhered to,) they
                                                     (if
could return,  not easy to understand but waving this question, his reasoningis
               is                 ;
                                                                    a
                     if
seems to show that they did, they might be recognised by similarity in their

motions. To determine this, he proposes to reduce the places of the comet to

analogous points in an imaginary ellipse, of which the focus occupied by the sun  ;

and these places having been calculated by means of the auxiliary curve, were to be

verified by their application to the rectilinear path. It seems wonderful, when we

consider his extraordinary acuteness, that such an hypothesis did not immediately

lead him to the truth but as he so repeatedly and so distinctly describes the sup
                   ;

posed motion of the comet to be in straight line,    impossible not to conclude,
                               a              ;
                                                 ;

                                                   it
                                                         is

                                                                              3,
that even his most powerful mind required the assistance of time to emancipate
itself from preconceived opinions." --Rigaud's Hist. Essay, p. 29.

!  The dates of these letters, which are published in the General Dictionary,

vol. vii. pp. 793-797, are, September 19, 1685 September 25, 1685; October 14,

1685; December 30, 1685  (;?)  January (?) 1686 September 1686. Excepting

the second, which from Flamsteed, they arc all from Newton.
               is

304  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. XII.

turn ; --respecting   the rise and fall of the    spring and
                     solstices and the equinoxes
neap tides at the                                 ;-- respect

ing the flattening of Jupiter at the poles, which, if certain,

he  says, would conduce    much to the stating the reasons
of  the precession of the
                           equinoxes ;--and respecting the

differences between the observed places of Saturn and

those computed from Kepler's tables about the time of

his conjunction with Jupiter. On this last point the

information supplied by Flamsteed was peculiarly grati

fying to Newton ; and it is obvious from the language of

this part of his letter, that he had still doubts of the uni
versal application of the sesquialteral proportion. " Your
information," says he, " about the errors of Kepler's tables

for Jupiter and Saturn, has eased me of several scruples.

I was apt to suspect there might be some cause or other

unknown to me which might disturb the sesquialteral

Iproportions, for the influences of the planets one upon

another seemed not great enough, though imagined

Jupiter's influence greater than your numbers determine

it. It would add to my satisfaction if you would be

pleased to let me know the long diameters of the orbits

Iof Jupiter and Saturn, assigned by yourself and Mr.

Halley in your new tables, that may see how the ses

quialteral proportion fills the heavens, together with another
small proportion which must be allowed for." 1

    Upon Newton's return from Lincolnshire in the begin

ning of April 1685, he seems to have devoted himself to

the preparation of his work, and to fulfil his intention, as
expressed to Aston, " of finishing it as soon as he conve

niently could." In the spring he had determined the

attractions of masses, and thus completed the demonstra-

   1 This letter has no date, but Flamsteed says that it was written about 1685, or
January 1685-86.

1686.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                              305

tion of the law of universal gravitation ; and in summer

he had finished the Second Book of the Principia,1 the

First Book being the Treatise Be Motu, which he had

already enlarged and completed. Excepting in the cor

respondence with Flamsteed, to which we have already

referred, we hear nothing more of the preparation of the

Principia till the 21st of April 1686, when Halley read
to the Royal Society his " Discourse concerning Gravity,
and its Properties," in which he states " that his worthy

countryman, Mr. Isaac Newton, has an incomparable Trea

tise of Motion almost  ready for   the   press ;" and that the
reciprocal law of the   squares   " is  the principle on which

Mr. Newton has made out all the phenomena of the

celestial motions so easily and naturally, that its truth

is past dispute."2 The intelligence thus given by Halley

was speedily confirmed. At the very next meeting of
the Society on the 28th of April, " Dr. Vincent presented

to the Society a manuscript treatise entitled Philosophies

Naturalis Principia Mathematica, and dedicated to the

Society by Mr. Isaac Newton." Although this manuscript

contained only the First Book, yet such was the confidence

which the Society placed in its author, that an order was
given " that a letter of thanks be written to Mr. Newton ;

that the printing of his book be referred to the conside

ration of the Council ; and that in the meantime the

book be put into the hands of Mr. Halley, to make a

report thereof to the Council." Although there could be

no doubt of the meaning of this report, yet no progress

was made in the publication of the work. At the next

meeting of the Society on the 19th May, some dissatis-

   1 Edleston's Correspondence, &c, p. xxix. ; and  Newton's  letter to Halley,
June 20, 1686.                                                       U

     Phil. Trans., 1G86, pp. 6-8.

    VOL. I.

306               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOX.                                                                                CHAP. XII.

faction seems to have been expressed at the delay, as it
was ordered " that Mr. Newton's work should be printed

forthwith in quarto, and that a letter should be written to
him to signify the Society's resolutions, and to desire his

opinion as to the print, volume, cuts, and so forth." Three

days afterwards, namely, on the 22d of May, Halley com

municated the resolution to Newton, and stated to him

that the printing was to be at the charge of the Society.
As the manuscript, however, had not been referred to the

consideration of the Council, as previously ordered, and

as no sum exceeding five pounds could be paid without

its authority, a farther delay took place. At the next

meeting of the Council on the 2d of June, it was again
ordered " that Mr. Newton's book be printed;" but in

stead of  sanctioning   the resolution of the                                  general meeting
to print  it at their  charge, they added, "                                   that Mr. Halley

undertake the business of looking after and printing
                                ;

                                     2
                                                       is

                                                           it,
                                                                        it

                                                                                 it
at his own charge, which he engaged to do."

   In order to explain to Newton the cause of the delay,

Halley, in his letter of the 2d May, alleges that arose
from " the President's attendance upon the King, and the

absence of        the Vice-Presidents, whom       the good weather
had drawn         out of town " but there          reason to believe

that this was not the real cause, and that the delay arose

from the unwillingness of the Council to undertake the

publication in the present state of their finances.1

       Such was the emergency in which Halley undertook

the labour of editing, and the expense of printing, the

      We here express the opinion of Mr. Rigaud,
examination of the Royal Society's minutes, from
       1
                           is
                                           a
                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                           a
that "                                            who, after careful and                                                   repeated
cipia."                                           1686 to 1699, " ventures                                                 to say,"

         there    no notice of  amnyanpewciutnhiaryfamaiidly,haavnindgatbe"en                                            extended to the Prin-
          Halley  was married
                                                                                                                         considerable pecuniary

risk provided for the disbursement, precisely at that period of his life when he could

least afford it."--Rigaud's Hist. Essay, pp. 33-37.

1686.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  307

Principia, and thus earned the gratitude of Newton and
of posterity. We cannot admit that the low state of their
funds was any apology for the conduct of the Council in
refusing to carry into effect the resolution of a general
meeting of the Society. Why did they not borrow the
necessary sum on the security of their future income, or
subscribe individually to fulfil an honourable obligation,

and discharge an important duty ? If the nobility and

gentry who then composed the Royal Society devolved
upon their secretary the payment of expenses which, as

a body, they had agreed to defray, let it not be said that
it was to the Royal Society that we are indebted for the

publication of the Principia. It is to Halley alone that
science owes this debt of gratitude : It was he who tracked

Newton to his College, who drew from him his great dis

coveries, and who generously gave them to the world.

   In Halley's letter of the 22d May, announcing to New

ton the resolution of the Society, he found it necessary to
inform him of the conduct of Hooke when the manuscript
of the Principia was presented to the Society. Sir John
Hoskyns, the particular friend of Hooke, was in the chair,
when Dr. Vincent presented the manuscript, and passed a
high encomium on the novelty and dignity of the subject.
Another member remarked that Newton had carried the

thing so far that there was no more to be added, to which
Sir John replied, that it was so much the more to be
prized, as it was both invented and perfected at the same
time. Mr. Hooke was offended because Sir John did not

mention what he had told him of his own discovery ; and
the consequence was, as Halley says, " that these two,
who, till then, were inseparable cronies, have since scarce
seen one another, and are utterly fallen out." After the
meeting broke up and adjourned to the coffee-house, Mr.

308  UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                CHAP. XII.

Hooke endeavoured to persuade the members " that he

had some such thing by him, and that he gave Newton

the first hint of this invention." Although this scene

passed at the Royal Society, Halley only communicated
to Newton the fact, " that Hooke had some pretensions to

the invention of the rule for the decrease of gravity being

reciprocally as the squares of the distances from the

centre," acknowledging at the same time, that though
Newton had the notion from him, " yet the demonstration

of the curves generated thereby belonged wholly to New
ton." " How much of this," Halley adds, " is so, you know

best, as likewise what you have to do in this matter ; only

Mr. Hooke seems to expect you should make some men

tion of him in the preface, which 'tis possible you may
I Isee reason to prefix.
     must beg your pardon that 'tis
that send you this ungrateful account ; but I thought it

my duty to let you know that so you might act accord
                            it,
                                    is
ingly, being in myself fully satisfied that nothing but the

greatest candour imaginable             to be expected from a

person who has of all men the least need to borrow repu
tation." In thus appealing to Newton's candour, Halley

obviously wished that some acknowledgment of Hooke

should be made. He knew indeed, that before Newton

had announced the inverse law, Hooke and Wren and

himself had spoken of and discussed
     is                                 and therefore

                            1

                               it
                                    it

                                                        a
                                                                it,

                                                                          a
justice demanded that though none of them had given a

demonstration of the law, Hooke especially should receive

credit for having maintained as truth of which he was

seeking the demonstration.

Newton's reply to Halley,1 written after month's

delay, a remarkable production. He acknowledges that

Hooke told him of the duplicate proportion, but that his

     June 20, 1636. Appendix, No. IX.

1686. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 309

views were erroneous, as he conceived it " to reach down

from hence to the centre of the earth." He confesses
" that he himself had never extended the duplicate propor

tion lower    than   to the superficies of the   earth," and that
" before a  certain   demonstration he found     last year (1685)

he suspected it did not reach accurately enough down so
low." In the rest of the letter he shews very satisfac

torily, from letters to Oldenburg and Huygens, and even

from this theory of gravity, that he must have been ac

quainted with the duplicate proportion before his conver

sation with Hooke.

   When Newton had finished this letter, he was informed
" by one who had it from another lately present at one

of the Society's meetings, that Mr. Hooke had there made

a great stir, pretending that Newton had all from him,

and desiring they would see that he had justice done
him." Roused by what he considered " a very strange

and undeserved carriage towards him," he writes an angry

postscript to his letter, putting forward the claims of

Borelli and Bullialdus to the duplicate proportion, and

ungenerously charging Hooke with having derived his

knowledge of it from them, and even with having been led

to it by perusing his own letter to Huygens, which might

have   com" eMiyntloettheisr,"possasyessshieo,n   after the death of Olden
burg.                                            " to Huygens was directed

to Mr. Oldenburg, who used to keep the originals. His

papers came into Mr. Hooke's possession. Mr. Hooke

knowing my hand, might have the curiosity to look into

that letter, and thence take the notion of comparing the
forces of the planets from their circular motion ; and so
what he wrote to me afterwards about the rate of gravity
might be nothing but the fruit of my own garden. And

it's more than I can affirm, that the duplicate proportion

310            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               CHAP. XII.

was not expressed in that letter."1 This reasoning is

certainly far from being sound. If Hooke had the law of

gravity from Borelli and Bullialdus, Newton might have

had it from them also ; and if Hooke obtained it by the

process indicated in the letter to Huygens, which he

probably never saw, it follows that Hooke's views were

as sound as those expressed in that letter, and that he
then knew as much about the law as Newton did. But

there is no evidence whatever that Hooke saw the letter.

Halley was much annoyed with the contents of this

postscript, and lost no time in replying to it. He gives

Newton an account of the interview between Hooke,

Wren, and himself, previously described, and which led

him to go to Cambridge. He tells him that Hooke's

manner of claiming the discovery has been represented
in worse colours than it ought, " for he neither made

application to the Society for justice, nor pretended you
had all from him ;" and he gives " the truth," by telling

what really happened at the meeting of the Society, and
of the little quarrel between Hooke and his friend Sir John

Hoskyns. Halley concludes his letter by begging Newton
" not to let his resentments run so high" as to deprive
the world of his Third Book, on the theory of comets.

Though ruffled for a moment, Newton's excellent tem

per soon recovered its serenity. When he understood

from Halley that Hooke had been in some respects mis
represented to him, he " wished that he had spared the

postscript in  his last   ;" and he goes   on to acknowledge
that Hooke's   " letters   occasioned his  finding the method
                                                     el"lipHsiaslle;"y--'s
of determining figures     which  he tried in  the
that Hooke told him       of the  experiment   with

   1 It was not expressed in the letter, as Newton afterwards admits.  See Appkn-.
nix, No. X. Letter, July 27, 1686.

1686-87.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                             311

pendulum clock at St. Helena, as an argument that gravity

was lessened at the equator by the diurnal motion ;"--and

that he also told him a third thing which was new to him,

and which he would acknowledge if he made use of

namely, " the deflexion of fallen bodies to the south-east
                                                                                     It
in our latitude."   Having              Mthru. sHosionkcee,re"lyhetoclodnsMidre.reHdahlloewy
the case between   him and                                                                   is it,

best to compose the present dispute," which he thought

might be       done by the enclosed           scholium to the            fourth pro
position.       " The inverse law             of gravity holds            in all the

celestial motions, as was discovered also independently

by my countrymen, Wren, Hooke, and Halley."

On the 30th June, the President was desired by the

Council to license Mr. Newton's book, entitled Philosophice

Naturalis Principia Mathematica, and after Halley had

obtained the author's leave about the middle of July to

substitute wooden cuts for copperplates, the printing of

was commenced and went on with considerable regu
it
larity. The Second Book, though ready for the press in
    1
autumn, was not sent till March 1687. The Third Bookis

was presented to the Society on the 6th of April, and the

whole work published about midsummer of 7.1 was
                                                                         1
                                                                           6
                                                                              8

dedicated to the Royal Society as flourishing under his

The manuscript of the Principia, without the preface, bound in one volume,

in the possession of the Royal Society. Mr. Edleston of opinion that the manu
                                                          it is
script not in Newton's autograph, and he believes to be by the same hand as

the first draught of the Principia in the University library, the author's own hand

writing being easily recognised in the additions and alterations in both manuscripts.
Edleston's Correspondence, &c, pp. lvii. lviii. In very interesting letter from Dr.
                                                        it a a
Humphrey Newton to Conduitt, which      a is  printed in our second volume, p. 91, heit
informs him, that " he copied
states that the Principia was  out the  Principia before             'swentto press."   Pemberton
                               written  in year and       half. "        Sir Isaac   Newton says

in one of his papers, that he wrote the Principia in seventeen or eighteen months,

beginning the end of December 1684, and sending to the Society in May 1686,

except about ten or twelve of the propositions, which were composed before, viz., two

in 1679, and the rest in June and July 1684."-- Conduitt MS. See p. 471.

312                            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               CHAP. XII.

august Majesty James VII, and there was prefixed to it

a set of beautiful Latin hexameters, addressed by Halley
to immortal author." They began thus--
   its

                                                      et
                En tibi norma poli, divae libramina molis,
                Computus atque Jovis; quas, dum primordia rerum
                Pangeret, omniparens leges violare creator
                Noluit, aeternique operis fundamina fixit,

and ended with the following lines--

                Talia monstrantem mecum celebrate camoenis,
                Vos qui coelestigaudetis nectare vesci,
                NEWTONUM clausi reserantem scrinia veri;

                NEwToNUM Musis charum, cui pectore puro

                Phoebus adest, totoque incessit numine mentem,
                Nec fas est propius mortali attingere divos.

This great work, might have been expected, excited
                     in
                          in

                            A as
warm interest every part Europe. The impression
be a                                   at
was quickly sold."                       of
       in                                    of
                                   copy the Principia could scarcely

   procured 1691, and that time improved edition                             an
                                                                                  it,
was contemplation. Newton himself, though pressed

by his friends, had refused undertake and Facio
D'Huillier, who had studied            In to                                           of M.
                                                                         with the most minute
                                          to
attention, had intimated                      it          Huygens his design pub

lishing new edition."                                     1694 Newton resumed the
of
         of a
study the lunar and planetary theories, with the view
   rendering more perfect new edition his Book; but
                                   he                                        in
                                          a                                       of
the difficulty which               experienced getting the neces

                                                                         the King  to by
                                                                                               in a

                                                                                                           an
                the Principia was presented                                           Halley, accompanied
*         copy  of                                        of
                     as a                                            to
  of a A
                            a
with paper giving general account the Book, and more especially explana
tion the notes, subject which the King was likely
                               in                                                  take deep interest,

from his having Lord High Admiral commanded the British fleet the war with

the United Provinces. See Phil. Trans, vol. xix. 445, and Rigaud's Hist. Essay,p.

APP. 77.

    See APPENDIx, No. XI.
**
       p.
   The number copies printed not known. The original price seemsof                                             to  have
                                   is

been ten shillings.

*  See Rigaud's Hist. Essay, pp. 89-95.

1694-1 709.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  313

sary observations from the Astronomer-Royal, interfered
with his investigations, and contributed more than any
other cause to prevent him from bringing them to a close.
Flamsteed did not sufficiently appreciate the importance
of Newton's labours ; but while we deeply regret that
he should have treated so ungraciously the importuni
ties of his friend, we are disposed to find some apology
for his conduct in the infirmities of his health and of his

temper.
    Mr. Edleston has stated, with much appearance of truth,

that the steps taken by Newton's friends at the close of
1695, may have interfered as much as the infirmities of
Flamsteed with the completion of the lunar theory ;a but

whether or not this was the case, there can be no doubt

that his appointment to the Wardenship of the Mint in
1696, and to the Mastership in 1699, deferred to a distant
day the appearance of a new edition of the Principia.
Even in November 1702, when he was visited by Bd.
Greves, who saw in his hands an interleaved and corrected

copy of the Principia, he would not acknowledge that he
had any intention to reprint it.2 The preparation of his
Optics, which was published in April 1704, must have
interfered with his revision of the Principia, and it appears,
from his letter to Flamsteed, in November 1694, that he

was then occupied in preparing a new edition of his great
work.3 His duties at the Mint allowed him but little
time for the performance of so laborious a task ; and when
his consent was at last obtained to put the work to press,
they greatly interrupted its progress.

    Dr. Bentley, the distinguished Master of Trinity College,
had for a long time solicited and even urged Newton to

1 Correspondence, &c, Prcef. p. xi.  2 Ibid. Pros/', p. xiv.
3 Baily's Flamsteed, p. 138.

314                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 CHAP. Xii.

give his consent to the re-publication of the Principia.1
In the middle of 1708 he succeeded in removing his
scruples, but it was not till the spring of 1709 that he
prevailed upon him to entrust the superintendence of it

to a young mathematician of great promise, Roger Cotes,

Fellow of Trinity College, who had been recently appointed

Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy.

On the 21st May 1709, after having been that day with

Newton, Bentley announced this arrangement to Cotes.
" Sir Isaac Newton," he said, " will be glad to see you in

June, and then put into your hands one part of his Book

corrected for the press." About the middle of July Cotes

went to London, in the expectation doubtless to bring

down with him to Cambridge the corrected portion of

the Principia. Newton, however, had some farther im

provements to make upon   a                   and promised to send
                                        it,                                                         'I
down in about a fortnight. Cotes was impatient to begin
                                                                                                             & it
his work, and when whole month had passed without

any intelligence           from      Newton,  he    addressed                                   to  him the
following letter
          a               --

      " SR, -- The earnest desireit :              " Cambridge, August 18fft, 1709.

                                              have to see a new Edition of
                                              I
    Princip. makes me somewhat impatient till we receive1 yrII
your Copy of which You was pleased to promise me
about the middle of the last Month, You would send down

in about Fourtnights time.                        hope you will pardon me

for this uneasiness from which cannot free myself

for giving You this Trouble to let You know it.                                                     have

      It would appear from conversation between Sir Isaac and Conduitt, that Bentley
          I
was at the expenseI   of  printing   the second edition of the Principia, and received the
profits of the work.   "     asking  him, (Newton,") says Conduitt, " how he came to let
                                a
                                              dmidonneoyt .u' n"d--ersCtoannddu--itt'sWhMyS,'.
                                it
Bentley print his Principia, which       he         '                                           said he, he was
                                         get                                                      See vol. ii. pp.
covetous, and let him do             to

248-254.

1713. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 315

been so much obliged to You by Yrself & by Yr Book yt
I(I desire you to believe me) think myself bound in gra
Ititude to take all the Care possibly can that it shall be
               I take this Opportunity to return You
correct

my most hearty thanks for Yr many Favours and Civilitys

to me who am

                   Your most obliged      humble Servant,

" For Sie Isaac Newton at His House in             Roger Cotes.
   Jermin Street near Sl. James's Church

Westminster."

    No answer was returned to this letter from Cotes, and

a long month had passed away when one evening his
next-door neighbour, William Whiston, about the end of
September, put into his hands " the greatest part of the
copy of the Principia," ending with the thirty-second
Proposition of the Second Book. In a letter dated Octo
ber 11, Newton intimated to Cotes that he had sent him
by Mr. Whiston " the greatest part of the copy of his
Principia, in order to a new edition," thanked him for his
letter of the 18 th of August, and requested him not to be
at the trouble of examining all the Demonstrations, but
" to print by the copy sent him, correcting only such faults
as occur in reading over the sheets," which would entail
upon him " more labour than it was fit to give him."
These were the two first letters of that celebrated corre

spondence between Newton and Cotes, which has lain in
Trinity College Library for nearly a century and a half,
in spite of the wishes expressed by Dr. Monk,1 and felt
by other admirers of the Principia, " that one of the many
accomplished Newtonians who are resident in that society
would favour the world by publishing the whole collec-

                                 1 Monk's Life of Bent'ey, p. 180.

316'                                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XII.

tion." Through the liberality of the present Master and

Seniors of Trinity College, this has at last been done, and

in a manner highly creditable to the learning and talents

of Mr. Edleston, by whom the Correspondence is edited.1

The printing of the Principia went on very slowly, and
was not finished till the first week of March 1713. Cotes

expressed a wish that Dr. Bentley should write the preface

to but was the opinion of Sir Isaac and the Master of
        it,
Trinity, that the preface should come from the pen of
          it
Cotes himself. This he readily undertook, but previous toit it

writing             toheleaardndre"ssweidththwehfaotllovwieiwnghleetttheorutgohDt r.pBroepnetlreyto,
in order

have written."

                                     TO DR. BENTLEY.

                                                                                " March 10th, 1712-13.

" SR, -- received what you wrote to me in Sr Isaac's
         II
                 I
letter.             will set about the Index in day or two. As
                                        it
                                                  a

                                                            it
to the Preface, should be glad to know from Sr Isaac

with what view he thinks proper to have written.

You know the book has been received abroad with some

disadvantage, and the cause of may easily be guessed

at. The Commercium Epistolicum, lately published by

order of the Royal Society, gives such indubitable proofs

of Mr. Leibnitz's want of candour, that shall not scruple
                                        a

                                               I

                                                                     if
                                                                         it
in the least to speak out the full truth of the matter
be thought convenient. There are some pieces of his

looking this way which deserve censure, as his Tentamen

      These letters, relating to questions connected with the new edition of the Prin
cipia, arc seventy-two number, and extend from May 21, 1709, to March 31, 1713.
Mr. Edleston has added other fifty, connected with the Principia, from Newton,
Cotes, Keill, Jones, Brook Taylor, and others, and in an Appendix he has published

thirty-four letters, chiefly from Newton, and collected principally from original
sources. Mr. Edleston has enriched this valuable work with an excellent synop

tical view of Newton's life, and large number of notes of the highest interest.
1
                                 in

                                     a

1713.                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 317

Ifde Motuum Ccelesthm causis.1          Sr Isaac is willing that
something of this nature may be done, I should be glad of

it,

        I

                    it,
   whilst am making the Index, he would be pleased to

consider of and put down few notes of what he thinks
                              a

                                        I
                                                 I
most material to be insisted on. This say upon suppo

sition that write the Preface myself. But think                                                                      it
I
        if I

                   it

                    I it
would be much more adviseable that you or he or both

of you should write whilst you are in town. You may

                         that will own  it,                        as well

                                                I

                                                               it
depend upon                             and defend
as can, hereafter there be occasion. -- am, Sr," &c.

   Immediately after the arrival of this letter on the 12th,

Sir Isaac happened to call upon Dr. Bentley, and they
agreed to meet in the evening at Sir Isaac's house, to

write a reply to it. They objected to any joint preface
" to be fathered by Cotes they suggested as the subject
                         ,

                                :"
                                      it,

                                                                                                                  1

                                                                                              8
of the Preface an account of the work itself, and of the

improvements of the new edition, and they answered that
he has Sir Isaac's consent " to add what he thought

proper about the controversy of the first invention, you

yourself being full master of and want no hints to be
given you." Cotes was also instructed " to spare the

name of M. Leibnitz, and abstain from all words and

epithets of reproach." In reply to this letter on the th

March, Cotes sketched the plan of the Preface in confor

mity with the directions already given him, and asks

Newton for permission to appeal to the judgment of the

Society in the Commercium Epistolicum. To this Newtonis
answers, that any farther Preface written, " he must
         it,

                if
not see  as he finds he shall be examined about it."

The plan of the Preface therefore altered, and the prois
posed notice of the dispute respecting the discovery of

1     The critique by Newton, already mentioned, bore upon this paper by Leibnitz,
see p. 296, Note.

318                           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XII.

fluxions is abandoned. Cotes confines himself to an ex
position of " the manner of philosophizing made use of"
in the Principia, and to an examination of the objections
of Leibnitz and of the theory of vortices.

   The general Preface thus drawn up by Cotes, is dated
13th May 1713, and in a subsidiary Preface, dated
March 2d, Sir Isaac himself mentions the leading altera

tions which have been made in the New Edition. " In the
second section of the First Book," he says, " the determi

nation of the force by which bodies may revolve in given

orbits, is simplified and enlarged. In the seventh section

of thevSecond Book, the theory of the resistance of fluids
is more accurately investigated, and confirmed by new
experiments ; and in the Third Book the theory of the
moon, and the precession of the equinoxes, are more fully
deduced from their principles, and the theory of comets

is confirmed by several examples, and their orbits more

accurately computed."
    On the 25th of June, Cotes announces to its author,

through Dr. Samuel Clark, " that the book is finished,"1

and on the 27th of July, Newton waited on the Queen to

present a copy of the Principia to her Majesty.2
    Such is a brief notice of the composition and printing

of the first and second editions of a work which will be

memorable not only in the annals of one science or of one

1 Some account of this interesting and distinguished person, whose name is so

indissolubly associated with that of Newton, and with the Principia, will be found

in Appendix, No. XII.
  ' A third edition of the Principia was published in 1726, by Dr. Henry Pember-

ton, from materials furnished by Newton himself. Pemberton tells us that he had
much personal intercourse with Newton, and that " a great number of letters passed

between them on this account." This correspondence, however, has been lost. It

is stated in Conduit's manuscript, that Sir Isaac " gave Pemberton two hundred

guineas   for  p"riVntieinwg   his Principia," and   that he had 3000 subscriptions at  a  guinea
each for  his                 of Sir Isaac Newton's    Philosophy," published in 1728.

1713.           LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.              319

country, but which will form an epoch in the history of

the world, and  will  ever be  rreeagsaornd,e--d aaswtohrek,brmigahyteswtepangoet
in the records   of   human

add,    which   would be read with   delight in every  planet of
our    system,                      of the universe.     What a
                --in every system

glorious privilege was it to have been the author of the

Principia ! There was but one earth upon whose form and

tides and movements the philosopher could exercise his

genius, -- one moon, whose perturbations and inequalities
and actions he could study, --one sun, whose controlling

force and apparent motions he could calculate and deter

mine, --one system of planets, whose mutual disturbances
could tax his highest reason,1 --one system of comets, whose
eccentric paths he could explore and rectify, --and one

universe of stars, to whose binary and multiple combina

tions he could extend the law of terrestrial gravity. To

have been the chosen   sage    summoned to the study of that
earth, these systems,   and    that universe, --the favoured

lawgiver to worlds unnumbered, the high-priest in the
                      space, --was a
temple of boundless                   privilege that could be
granted but to one    member of the
                                      human family ; --and

to have executed the task was an achievement which in

its magnitude can be measured only by the infinite in

space,  and in the duration of its triumphs by the infinite in
time.
         That Sage --that Lawgiver ---that High-priest was

Newton. Let us endeavour to convey to the reader some

idea of the revelations which he made, and of the brilliant

discoveries to which they conducted his successors.

The Principia consists of three Books. The First and

   1 The celebrated Lagrange, who frequently asserted that Newton was the greatest
genius that ever existed, used to add-- and the most fortunate, for we cannot find
more than once a system of the world to establish. -- Delambre, Notice sur la Vie de
Lagrange, Mem. de VInstitut. 1812, p. xlv.

.320         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            CHAP. XII.

Second, which occupy three-fourths of the work, are enti
tled, On the Motion of Bodies ; the First treating of their
motions in free space, and the Second of their motions in
a resisting medium. The Third bears the title, On the

System of the World.
   The First Book, besides the definition and axioms, or laws

of motion, with which it begins, consists of fourteen sec
tions, in the first of which the author explains the method
of prime and ultimate ratios, used in his investigations,
and which is similar to the method of fluxions, more fully
explained in the Second Book. The other sections treat
of centripetal forces, and motions in fixed and moveable

orbits.

The Second Book consists of nine sections, and treats

of bodies moving in resisting media, or oscillating as

pendulums.
The Third Book is introduced by the " Rules of Philo
             ofItthceonWsiosrtsld,o--f foivne
sophizing."                                     sections on  the  Causes of
the System                                     the Quantity   of
                                                                  Lunar Er
rors, --on the Quantity of the Tides, -- on the Precession
of the Equinoxes,--and on Comets ; and it concludes with

a general scholium, containing reflections on the constitu
tion of the universe, and on the " Eternal, Infinite, and

perfect Being" by whom it is governed.

The great discovery which characterizes the Principia,

is that of the principle of universal gravitation, that every

particle of matter in the universe is attracted by, or gravi
tates to every other particle of matter, with a force inversely
proportional to the squares of their distances. In order to
establish this principle, Newton begins by considering the

curves, which are generated by the composition of a direct

impressed motion with a gravitation or tendency towards

a centre ; and having demonstrated, that in all cases the

1687.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     321

areas described by the revolving body are proportional to

the times of their description, he shows how to find, from
the curves described, the law of the force. In the case

of a circular orbit passing through the centre of tendency,
the force or tendency towards the centre will be in every

point as the fifth power of the distance. If the orbit is

the proportional spiral, the force will be reciprocally as
Ifthe cube of the distance.
                             it is an ellipse, the force
towards the centre of it will be directly as the distance. If

it is any of the conic sections, the centripetal force, or ten

dency towards the focus, will, in all points, be reciprocally

as the square of the distance from the focus. If the velo

city of the impressed motion is of a certain magnitude,

the curve described will be a hyperbola, -- if different to a
certain degree, it will be a parabola, -- and if slower, an

ellipse, or a circle in one case.

   In order to determine whether the force of gravity

resided in the centres of the sun and planets, or in each

individual particle of which they are composed, Newton

demonstrated, that if a spherical body acts upon a distant

body with a force varying as the distance of this body

from the centre of the sphere, the same effect will be

produced as if each of its particles acted upon the distant

body according to the same law. And hence it follows,

that the spheres, whether they are of uniform density, or

consist of concentric layers, with densities varying accord

ing to any law whatever, will act upon each other in the
same manner as if their force resided in their centre alone.

But as the bodies of the solar system are very nearly

spherical, they will all act upon one another, and upon
bodies placed on their surface, as if they were so many
centres of attraction ; and therefore we obtain the law of

gravity which subsists between spherical bodies, namely,

vol. L                             x

322  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XII.

that one sphere will act upon another with a force directly
proportional to their quantities of matter, and inversely,
as the square of the distance between the centres of the
spheres. From the equality of action and reaction, to
which no exception can be found, Newton concluded that

the sun gravitated to the planets, and the planets to their
satellites, and the earth itself to the stone which falls upon

its surface ; and consequently that the two mutually gra
vitating bodies approached to one another with velocities
inversely proportional to their quantities of matter.

    Having established this universal law, Newton was

enabled not only to determine the weight which the
same body would have at the surface of the sun and the

planets, but even to calculate the quantity of matter in
the sun and in all the planets that had satellites, and

even to determine the density or specific gravity of the

matter of which they were composed, -- results which

Adam Smith pronounced to be " above the reach of hu
man reason and experience." In this way he found that
the weight of the same body would be twenty-three times
greater at the surface of the sun than at the surface of
the earth, and that the density of the earth was four
times greater than that of the sun, the planets increasing
in density as they are nearer the centre of the system.

   If the peculiar genius of Newton has been displayed

in his investigation of the law of universal gravitation, it
shines with no less lustre in the patience and sagacity
with which he traced the consequences of this fertile

principle.
   The discovery of the spheroidal form of Jupiter by

Cassini had probably directed the attention of Newton to

the determination of its cause, and consequently to the
investigation of the true figure of the earth. The spheri

1687.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  323

cal form of the planets had been ascribed by Copernicus

to the gravity or natural appetency of their parts ; but

upon considering the earth as a body revolving upon its

axis, Newton quickly saw that the figure arising from the

mutual attraction of its parts must be modified by another

force arising from its rotation. When a body revolves

upon an axis, the velocity of rotation increases from

the poles where it is nothing, to the equator where it

is a maximum. In consequence of this velocity the

bodies on the earth's surface have a tendency to fly off

from   and this tendency increases with the velocity.
       it,
Hence arises a centrifugal force, which acts in combinait
                   is
tion with the force of gravity, and which Newton founda

to be the 289th part of the force of gravity at theis

equator, and decreasing as the cosine of the latitude,                                         ;

from the equator to the poles. The great predominance            is

                                                                                                                                                     ;
of gravity over the centrifugal force prevents the latter

from carrying off any bodies from the earth's surface, but

the weight of all bodies diminished by the centrifugal

force, so that the weight of any body greater at the
            Ifat the equator.
poles than                     we now suppose the

waters at the pole to communicate with those at the

equator by means of canal, one branch of which goes

from the pole to the centre of the earth, and the other

from the centre of the earth to the equator, then the

polar branch of the canal will be heavier than the equa

torial branch, in consequence of its weight not being

diminished by the centrifugal force and, therefore, in

order that the two columns may be in equilibrio, the

equatorial one must be lengthened. Newton found that

the length of the polar must be to that of the equatorial

canal as 229 to 230, or that the earth's polar radius

must be seventeen miles less than its equatorial radius

324               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   CHAP. XII.

         is,

                     it
that that the figure of the earth an oblate spheroid,
                                     is
formed by the revolution of an ellipse round its lesseris

axis. Hence follows, that the intensity of gravity at

any point of the earth's surface     in the inverse ratio of

the distance of that point from the centre, and conse

quently that diminishes from the equator to the poles,
              it

--a result which he confirmed by the fact, that clocks

required to have their pendulums shortened, in order to

beat true time, when carried from Europe towards the

equator.1
    The next subject to which Newton applied the prin

ciple of gravity, was the tides of the ocean. The philo
sophers of all ages had recognised the connexion between

the phenomena of the tides and the position of the moon.

The College of Jesuits at Coimbra, and subsequently An

tonio de Dominis and Kepler, distinctly referred the tides
to the attraction of the waters of the earth by the moon,

but so imperfect was the explanation which was thus

given of the phenomena, that Galileo ridiculed the idea
of lunar attraction, and substituted for a fallacious
                                     ;

                                                       is it
explanation of his own. That the moon the principal
cause of the tides obvious from the well-known fact, that
              is,
a is it  high water at any given place a short time after she; is
    is
       in the meridian of that place and that the sun performsby

secondary part in their production, may be proved from

the circumstance, that the highest tides take place when

the sun, the  moon, and the earth are in the same straight
                 when the force of the sun conspires with
line, --that

that of the moon and that the lowest tides take place

when the lines drawn from the sun and moon to the earth
are at right angles to each other, --that
                                                     a       when the force

1     This was Hist observed Richer, who found that     is,
time at Paris lost 2' 28" daily at Cayenne.          clock regulated to mean

1G87.  MFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                       325

of the sun acts in opposition to that of the moon. The        a
most perplexing phenomenon in the tides of the ocean,                it,
and one which is still a stumbling-block to persons slightly
acquainted with the theory of attraction, is the existence                it
of high water on the side of the earth opposite to the                             is
moon, as well as on the side next the earth. To maintain
                                                                                      if
that the attraction of the moon at the same instant draws
                                                                                                   a
the waters of the ocean towards herself, and also draws

them from the earth in an opposite direction, seems at
first sight paradoxical ; but the difficulty vanishes when
we consider the earth, or rather the centre of the earth,

and the water on each side of as three distinct bodies,

placed at different distances from the moon, and conse
quently attracted with forces inversely proportional to
the squares of their distances. The water nearest the
moon will be much more powerfully attracted than the
centre of the earth, and the centre of the earth more

powerfully than the water farthest from the moon. The
consequence of this must be, that the waters nearest the
moon will be drawn away from the centre of the earth,
and will consequently rise from their level, while the
centre of the earth will be drawn away from the waters
opposite the moon, which will, as were, be left behind,
and consequently be in the same situation as they were
raised from the earth in direction opposite to that in
which they are attracted by the moon. Hence the effect
of the moon's action upon the earth to draw its fluid
parts into the form of an oblong spheroid, the axis of
which passes through the moon. As the action of the
sun will produce the very same effect, though in smaller
degree, the tide at any place will depend on the relative
position of these two spheroids, and will be always equal
 either to the sum, or to the difference of the effects of the

326                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. XII.

two luminaries. At the time of new and full moon, the

two spheroids will have their axes coincident ; and the
height of the tide, which then will be a spring one, will

be equal to the sum of the elevations produced in each

spheroid considered separately, while at the first and
third quarters the axes of the spheroids will be at right

angles to each other, and the height of the tide, which
will then be a neap one, will be equal to the difference of

the elevations produced in each separate spheroid. By

comparing the spring and neap tides, Newton found that

the force with which the moon acted upon the waters of

the earth, was to that with which the sun acted upon
                               --that
them    as   4"48    to 1   ;  ; -- that  the  force of the  moon produced
a tide        8 '63   feet                 of  the sun one
         of                                                  of 1'93 feet ;--
and both combined, one of 10^ feet,--a result which, in

the open sea, does not deviate much from observation.

Having thus ascertained the force of the moon on the

waters of our globe, he found that the quantity of water

in the moon was to that in the earth as 1 to 40, and the

density of the moon to that of the earth as 1 1 to 9.

The motions of the moon, so much within the reach of

our own observation, presented a fine field for the appli

cation of the theory of universal gravitation. The irre

gularities exhibited in the lunar motions had been known

in the time of Hipparchus and Ptolemy. Tycho had dis

covered the great inequality called the variation, amount

ing to 37', and depending on the alternate acceleration

and retardation of the moon by the action of the sun in

every quarter of a revolution ; and he had also ascertained
the existence of the annual equation. Of these two in

equalities, Newton gave a most satisfactory explanation,
making the first 36' 10", and the other 11' 51", differing

only a few seconds from the numbers adopted by Tobias

1687.             LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  327

Mayer in his celebrated Lunar Tables. The force exerted

by the sun upon the moon may be always resolved into

two forces, one acting in the direction of the line joining

the moon and the earth, and consequently tending to in

crease or diminish the moon's gravity to the earth ; and

the other in a direction at right angles to this, and conse

quently tending to accelerate or retard the motion in her

orbit. Now, it was found by Newton that this last force

was reduced to nothing, or vanished at the syzygies or

quadratures, so that at these four points the described areas

are proportional to the times. The instant, however, that

the moon quits these positions, the force under considera

tion, which we may call the tangential force, begins, and it

reaches its maximum in the four octants. The force, there

fore, compounded of these two elements of the solar force,

or the diagonal of the parallelogram which they form, is

no longer directed to the earth's centre, but deviates from it

at a maximum about thirty minutes, and therefore affects

the angular motion of the moon, the motion being acce

lerated in passing from the quadratures to the syzygies,

and retarded in passing from the syzygies to the quadra

tures. Hence the velocity4'                in its mean state, in the
                                      is,
octants, a maximum in the syzygies, and a minimum in

the quadratures.

Upon considering the influence of the solar force in

diminishing or increasing the moon's gravity to the earth,

Newton saw that her distance and periodic time must,

from this cause, be subject to change, and in this way he

accounted for the annual equation observed by Tycho.

By the application of similar principles, he explained
the cause of the motion of the apsides, or of the greater

axis of the moon's orbit, which was an angular progres

sive motion of 3°  nearly in the course of one luna

328  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              CHAF. XII.

tion ; 1 and he showed that the retrogradation of the nodes,

amounting to 3' 1 0" daily, arose from one of the elements

of the solar force    being exerted     in   the plane of     the
ecliptic, and not in  the plane of   the                      the
                                            moon's orbit, --

effect of which was to draw the moon down to the plane

of the ecliptic, and thus cause the line of the nodes, or

the intersection of these two planes, to move in a direc

tion opposite to that of the moon.

The lunar theory thus sketched by Newton, required

for its completion the labours of another century. The

imperfections of the fluxionary calculus prevented him from

explaining the other inequalities of the moon's motions,

and it was reserved to Euler, D'Alembert, Clairaut, Mayer,

and Laplace, to bring the lunar tables to a high degree of

perfection, and to enable the navigator to determine his

longitude at sea with a degree of precision which the most

sanguine astronomer could scarcely have anticipated.

By the consideration of the retrograde motion of the

moon's nodes, Newton was led to one of the most striking

of all his discoveries, namely, the cause of the remarkable

phenomenon of the precession of the equinoctial points,

which moved 50" annually, and completed the circuit of

the heavens in 25,920 years. Kepler had declared him

self incapable of assigning any cause for this motion, and

we do not believe that any other astronomer ever made

the attempt. From the spheroidal form of the earth, it

may be regarded as a sphere with a spheroidal ring sur

rounding its equator, one half of the ring being above the

plane of the ecliptic, and the other half below it. Consi

dering this excess of matter as a system of satellites

   1 Newton made it only 1° 31' 28", just one-half of its real value. Clairaut ob
tained the same result, but afterwards, by a more accurate calculation, found it to

be 3° 4', agreeing exactly with observation.

1C87.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  32.9

adhering to the earth's surface, Newton now saw that the
combined actions of the sun and the moon upon these
satellites tended to produce a retrogradation in the nodes
of the circles which they described in their diurnal rota
tion, and that the sum of all the tendencies being commu
nicated to the whole mass of the planet, ought to produce
a slow retrogradation of the equinoctial points. The effect
produced by the motion of the sun he found to be forty
seconds, and that produced by the action of the moon

ten seconds.

    Although there could be little doubt that the comets
were retained in their orbits by the same laws which
regulated the motions of the planets, yet it was not easy
to put this opinion to the test of observation. The visibi
lity of comets only in a small part of their orbits rendered
it difficult to ascertain their distance and periodic times,
and as their periods were probably of great length, it

was impossible to obtain approximate results by repeated
observation. Newton, however, though he at first ima
gined that comets moved in straight lines, removed this

difficulty, by showing how to determine the orbit of a
comet, namely, the form and position of the orbit, and
the periodic time, by three observations. This method
consists of an easy geometrical construction, founded on
the supposition that the paths of comets are so nearly
parabolic, that the parabola may be used without an}r
sensible error, although he considers it more probable that
their orbits are elliptical, and that after a long period they
may return. By applying this method to the comet of
1680, he calculated the elements of its orbit, and from

the agreement of the computed places with those which
were observed, he justly inferred that the motions of
comets were regulated by the same laws as those of the

330               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOiT.  CHAP. XII.

planetary bodies. This result was one of great importance ;

for as the comets enter our system in every possible

direction, and at all angles with the ecliptic, and as a

great part of their orbits extends far beyond the limits of

the solar system, it demonstrated the existence of gravity

in spaces beyond the planets, and proved that the law

of the inverse ratio of the squares of the distance was true

in every possible direction, and at very remote distances

from the centre of our system.

    Such is a brief view of the leading discoveries which the

Principia first announced to the world. The grandeur
                               utnrefoaltdss, ,----ththeebecaleuatirfulansdimcpolnicciitsye
of  the subjects  of which it
of  the system     which it

reasoning by which that system is explained,-- and the

irresistible evidence by which it is supported, might have

insured it the warmest admiration of contemporary ma

thematicians, and the most welcome reception in all the

schools of philosophy throughout Europe. This, however,

is not the way in which great truths are generally re

ceived. Though the astronomical discoveries of Newton

were not assailed by the class of ignorant pretenders who

attacked his optical writings, yet they were everywhere

resisted by the errors and prejudices which had taken a

deep hold even of the strongest minds. The philosophy

of Descartes was predominant throughout Europe. Ap

pealing to the imagination more than to reason, it was

quickly received into popular favour, and the same causes

which facilitated its introduction, extended its influence,

and completed its dominion over the human mind. In

explaining all the movements of the heavenly bodies by

a system of vortices in a fluid medium diffused through

the universe, Descartes had seized upon an analogy of the

most alluring and deceitful kind. Those who had seen

1G87.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  331

heavy bodies revolving in the eddies of a whirlpool, or in
the gyrations of a vessel of water thrown into a circular

motion, had no difficulty in conceiving how the planets
might revolve round the sun by analogous movements.
The mind instantly grasped at an explanation of so pal
pable a character, and which required for its development
neither the exercise of patient thought, nor the aid of
mathematical skill. The talent and perspicuity with
which the Cartesian system was expounded, and the show
of experiments with which it was sustained, contributed
powerfully to its adoption, while it derived a still higher
sanction from the excellent character and the unaffected

piety of its author.

    Thus entrenched as the Cartesian system was, in the
strongholds of the human mind, and fortified by its most
obstinate prejudices, it was not to be wondered at that

the pure and sublime doctrines of the Principia were dis

trustfully received, and perseveringly resisted. The unin-
structed mind could not readily admit the idea, that the
great masses of the planets were suspended in empty
space, and retained in their orbits by an invisible influence

residing in the sun ; and even those philosophers who had
been accustomed to the rigour of true scientific research,
and who possessed sufficient mathematical skill for the

examination of the Newtonian doctrines, viewed them at

first as reviving the occult qualities of the ancient physics,
and resisted their introduction with a pertinacity which it
is not easy to explain. Prejudiced, no doubt, in favour of his
own metaphysical views, Leibnitz himself misapprehended

the principles of the Newtonian philosophy, and endea
voured to demonstrate the truths in the Principia by the
application of different principles. Even two years after
the publication of the Principia, he published a dissertation

332  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    CHAP. XII.

in which he explained the motions of the planets by an

ethereal fluid. Huygens, who above all other men was

qualified to appreciate the new philosophy, rejected the
doctrine of gravitation as existing between the individual
particles of matter, and received it only as an attribute of
the planetary masses. John Bernouilli, also, one of the
first mathematicians of the age, opposed the philosophy
of Newton. Mairan, in the early part of his life, was a
strenuous defender of the system of vortices. Cassini and
Maraldi were quite ignorant of the Principia, and occupied
themselves with the most absurd methods of calculating
the orbits of the comets long after the Newtonian method

had been established on the most impregnable basis ; and
even Fontenelle, a man of liberal views and extensive

information, continued throughout the whole of his life to

maintain the doctrines of Descartes.
    The Chevalier Louville, in his memoir " On the Con

struction and Theory of Tables of the Sun," had applied
the doctrine of central force to the motions of the planets,
so early as 1 720.1 S'Gravesande had introduced it into

the Dutch universities at a somewhat earlier period ; and
Maupertuis, in consequence of a visit which he paid to
England in 1728, zealously defended it in his Treatise on
the Figures of the Celestial Bodies. But notwithstanding
these and some other examples that might be quoted, we
must admit the truth of the remark of Voltaire, that
though Newton survived the publication of the Principia
more than forty years, yet at the time of his death he
had not above twenty followers in England.2 With regard
to the progress of the Newtonian philosophy in England.

   1 Mem. Acad. Par. 1720.                                        discoveries,  which
   " In 1738 Voltaire published a popular exposition of Newton's

contributed greatly to their reception on the Continent.

1718-20.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  333

some difference of opinion has been entertained. Professorit,
                     a
Playfair gives the following account of it :--" In the univer

sities of England, though the Aristotelian physics had made
an obstinate resistance, they had been supplanted by the
Cartesian, which became firmly established about the time
when their foundation began to be sapped by the general
progress of science, and particularly by the discoveries of
Newton. For more than thirty years after the publication
of these discoveries, the system of vortices kept its ground,
and a translation from French into Latin of the Physics
of Rohault, a work entirely Cartesian, continued at
Cambridge to be the text for philosophical instruction.
About the year 1718, a new and more elegant translation
of the same book was published by Dr. Samuel Clarke,
with the addition of notes, in which that profound and
ingenious writer explained the views of Newton on the
principal objects of discussion, so that the notes contained
virtually a refutation of the text ; they did so, however,
only virtually, all appearance of argument and controversy
being carefully avoided. Whether this escaped the notice
of the learned Doctor or not is uncertain, but the new

translation, from its better Latinity and the name of the
editor, was readily admitted to all the academical honours
which the old one had enjoyed. Thus the stratagem of
Dr. Clarke completely succeeded ; the tutor might prelect
from the text, but the pupil would sometimes look into
the notes ; and error is never so sure of being exposed, as
when the truth is placed close to side by side, without
any thing to alarm prejudice, or awaken from its lethargy
the dread of innovation. Thus, therefore, the Newtonian

 philosophy first entered the University of Cambridge,
under the protection of the Cartesian." To this passage
 Professor Playfair adds the following as note.

334      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               CHAP. XII.

    " The Universities of St. Andrews and Edinburgh were,

I believe, the first in Britain where the Newtonian philo

sophy was made the subject of the academical prelections.

For this distinction they are indebted to James and David

Gregory, the first in some respects the rival, but both the

friends of Newton. Whiston bewails, in the anguish of

his heart, the difference in this respect between those
universities and his own. David Gregory taught in Edin

burgh for several years prior to 1690, when he removed
to Oxford ; and Whiston says,1 ' he had already caused
several of his scholars to keep Acts, as we call them, upon

several branches of the Newtonian philosophy, while we

at Cambridge, poor wretches, were ignominiously studying
Ithe fictitious hypotheses of the Cartesians.'2
                                                                 do not,

   1 " Winston's Memoirs of his ovm Life," p. 36.
  * It does not appear at what time the Newtonian Philosophy was received at
Oxford. Judging from Addison's " Oration in Defence of the New Philosophy,"

spoken in the Theatre at Oxford, July 7, 1693, six years after the publication of the

t"PiorNinne,cwi"pdiPaoh,nilewoseforpohhmayv,e"thneodLedafoetiunnbdteodtrhibgaytinaAthld,ed" isiCsoanar,ptepsweianandsediPnhtifoluolstlohpefohrEyc,ne galtwishthhicahttradniasstleao. tbiovnioTuhosislfyFootrhnae-

tenelle   on the Plurality of  Worlds ; and on   the title-page  to that work it is   called
         Addison's Defence     on the Newtonian    Philosophy."     Our readers will  decide
" Mr.

from the following extract whether the New Philosophy means the Newtonian or
the Cartesian Philosophy :--
   " How long, gentlemen of the University, shall we slavishly tread in the steps of

the ancients, and be afraid of being wiser than our ancestors ? How long shall we

religiously worship the triflings of antiquity as some do old wives' stories? It is

indeed shameful, when we survey the great ornament of the present age, (New
ton,) to transfer our applauses to the ancients, and to take pains to search into

ages past for persons fit for panegyrick." So far the New Philosophy may mean

that of Newton, but the following passage contradicts any such inference :-- " The

ancient philosophy has had more allowed than it could reasonably pretend to ; how

often has Sheldon's Theatre rung with encomia on the Stagyrite, who, greater than

his own Alexander, has long, unopposed, triumphed in our school desks, and had the

whole world for his pupils ? At length rose Cartesius, a happier genius, who has

bravely asserted the truth against the united force of all opposers, and has brought

on the stage a new method ofphilosophizing. But shall we stigmatize with the name

of novelty, that philosophy which, though but lately revived, is more ancient than the

peripatetic, and as old as the mother from whence it is derived ? A great man

1690-97.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  335

however, mean to say, that from this date the Cartesian

philosophy was expelled from those universities ; the

Physics of Rohault were still in use as a text-book, -- at

least occasionally, to a much later period than this, and a
great deal, no doubt, depended on the character of the
individual. Professor Keill introduced the Newtonian

philosophy in his lectures at Oxford in 1697; but the
instructions of the tutors, which constitute the real and

efficient system of the University, were not cast in that
mould till long afterwards." Adopting the same view of
the subject, Mr. Dugald Stewart has stated, " that the
philosophy of Newton was taught by David Gregory at
Edinburgh, and by his brother, James Gregory, at St.
Andrews,1 before it was able to supplant the vortices of
Descartes in that very university of which Newton was

a member. It was in the Scottish universities that the

philosophy of Locke, as well as that of Newton, was first
adopted as a branch of academical education."

    Anxious as we should have been to have awarded to

Scotland the honour of having first adopted the Newto
nian philosophy, yet a regard for historical truth compels

us to take a different view of the subject. It is well known

that Sir Isaac Newton delivered lectures on his own

philosophy from the Lucasian chair before the publication
of the Principia ; and in the very page of Whiston's life,
quoted by Professor Playfair, he informs us that he had
heard him read such lectures in the public schools, though
at that time he did not at all understand them. Newton

indeed he was, and the only one we envy France, (Descartes.) He solved the diffi

culties of the universe almost as well as if he had been its architect.'' The name

of Newton or his philosophy is never again mentioned. -- Author.

   1 Dr. Eeid states, that James Gregory, Professor of Philosophy at St. Andrews,
printed a Thesis at Edinburgh in 1690, containing twenty -five positions, of which
twenty-two were a compend of Newton's Principia.

336    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XII.

continued to lecture till 1699, and occasionally, we pre

sume, till 1703, when Whiston became his successor,

having been appointed his deputy in 1699. In both of
these capacities, Whiston delivered in the public schools a

course of lectures on astronomy, and a course of physico-

mathematical lectures, in which the mathematical philo

sophy of Newton     wwaesreexppulbailnisehded,a--ndthdeeomnoenisntra1t7e0d7, ,  and
both these courses                                                              and
the other in 1710, --for the use of the young men in the

University. In 1707, the celebrated blind mathematician,

Nicholas Saunderson, took up his residence in Christ's

College, without being admitted a member of that body.

The society not only allotted to him apartments, but gave
him the free use of their library. With the concurrence
of Whiston, he delivered a course " On the Principia,

Optics, and Universal Arithmetic of Newton," and the
popularity of these lectures was so great, that Sir Isaac

corresponded on the subject of them with their author ;

and on the ejection of Whiston from the Lucasian chair

in 1711, Saunderson was appointed his successor. In

this important office he continued to teach the Newtonian

philosophy till the time of his death, which took place in

1739.

But while the Newtonian philosophy was thus regularly

taught in Cambridge, after the publication of the Principia,

there were not wanting other exertions for accelerating its

progress. About 1694, the celebrated Dr. Samuel Clarke,
while an under-graduate, defended, in the public schools,

a question taken from the Newtonian philosophy, and his

translation of Rohault's Physics, which contains references

in the notes to the Principia, and which was published in

1697, (and not in 1718, as stated by Professor Playfair,)
shows how early the Cartesian system was attacked by

1707-10.               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 337

the disciples of Newton. The author of the Life of Saun-1 it,
derson informs us, that public exercises or acts, founded
on every part of the Newtonian system, were very com

mon about 1707, and so general were such studies in the
 University, that the Principia rose to four times its ori
ginal price.1 One of the most ardent votaries of the
Newtonian philosophy was Dr. Laughton, who had been

tutor in Clare Hall from 1694, and it is probable that,
during the whole, or at least a greater part of his tutor
ship, he had inculcated the same doctrines. In 1709-10,
when he was proctor in that college, instead of appoint

ing a moderator, he discharged the office himself, and
devoted his most active exertions to the promotion of
mathematical knowledge. Previous to this, he had even
published a paper of questions on the Newtonian philo
sophy, which appear to have been used as theses for dis
putations ; and such was his ardour and learning, that
they powerfully contributed to the popularity of his col
lege.2 About the same time the learned Dr. Bentley,
who first made known the philosophy of his friend to
general readers, filled the high office of Master of Trinity
College, and could not fail to have exerted his influence
in propagating doctrines which he so greatly admired.
Had any opposition been offered to the introduction of
the true system of the universe, the talents and influence
of these individuals would have immediately suppressed

     but no such opposition seems to have been made and
                       p. a
                                                                           a

                                                           Y
                                                                                              ;
       Cotes states in his preface to the second edition of the Principia, that copies of
the first edition were scarce, and could only be obtained at an immense price. Sir
William Brown, when at college, gave more than two guineas for copy, and owing
to the difficulty of procuring one at reasonable price, the father of Dr. John
Moore of Glasgow transcribed the whole work with his own hand. See Nichol's
Literary Anecdotes, vol. iii. p. 822, and Encyc. Brit., Art. Moork.

      See the Museum Criticum, vol. ii. 514.

     VOL.
2
                   1.

338  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         CHAP. XII.

though there may have been individuals at Cambridge
ignorant of mathematical science, who adhered to the

system of Descartes, and patronized the study of the
Physics of Rohault, yet it is probable that similar persons

existed in the Universities of Edinburgh and St. An

drews ; and we cannot regard their adherence to error
as disproving the general fact, that the philosophy of
Newton was quickly introduced into all the universities
of Great Britain. 1

   But while the mathematical principles of the Newtonian
system were ably expounded in our seats of learning, its

   1 The following passage in Whiston's Life of Dr. Clarke, is not in accordance

Iwith some of the preceding statements. " About the year 1697, while was chap
Ilain to Dr. John Moor, then Bishop of Norwich, met at one of the coffee-houses in

the market-place at Norwich, a young man, to me then wholly unknown ; his name

Iwas Clarke, pupil to that eminent and careful tutor, Mr. Ellis, of Gonvil and Caius

College in Cambridge. Mr. Clarke knew me so far at the university, being about

eight years elder than himself, and so far knew the nature and success of my studies,

as to enter into a conversation with me about that system of Cartesian philosophy

Ihis tutor had put him to translate, -- mean Rohault's Physics ; and to ask my opi
I Inion about the fitness of such a translation.
     well remember the answer made
him, that, ' since the youth of the university must have, at present, some system of

Natural Philosophy for their studies and exercises ; and since the true system of

Sir Isaac Newton's was not yet made easy enough for the purpose ; it was not

improper, for their sakes, yet to translate and use the system of Rohault, (who was
esteemed the best expositor of Descartes,) but that as soon as Sir Isaac Newton's

philosophy came to be better known, that only ought to be taught, and the other
dropped.' Which last part of my advice, by the way, has not been followed, as it
ought to have been, in that university: But, as Bishop Hoadley truly observes, Dr.

Clarke's Rohault is still the principal book for the young students there. Though

such an observation be no way to the honour of the tutors in that university, who,

in reading Rohault, do only read a philosophical romance to their pupils, almost per
petually contradicted by the better notes thereto belonging. And certainly to use

Cartesian fictitious hypotheses at this time of day, after the principal parts of Sir

Isaac Newton's certain system have been made easy enough for the understanding

of ordinary mathematicians, is like the continuing to eat old acorns after the dis
covery of new wheat, for the food of mankind. However, upon this occasion, Mr.

IClarke and fell into a discourse about the wonderful discoveries made in Sir Isaac
INewton's philosophy ;--and the result of that discourse was, that was greatly sur
Iprised that so young a man as Mr. Clarke then was, not much think above twenty-

two years of age, should know so much of those sublime discoveries which were

then almost a secret to all, but to a few particular mathematicians."

1089.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    339

physical truths had been studied by some of the most
distinguished scholars and philosophers of the times, and
were subsequently explained and communicated to the

public by various lecturers on experimental philosophy.
The celebrated Locke, who was incapable of understand
ing the Principia from his want of geometrical knowledge,

inquired of Huygens if all the mathematical propositions
in that work were true. When he was assured that he

might depend upon their certainty, he took them for

granted, and carefully examined the reasonings and corol

laries deduced from them. In this manner he acquired

a knowledge of the physical truths in the Principia, and
became a firm believer in the discoveries which it con
tained. In the same manner he studied the treatise on

Optics, and made himself master of every part of it which
was not mathematical.1 From a manuscript of Sir Isaac

Newton's, entitled, " A Demonstration that the Planets,

by their gravity towards the Sun, may move in Ellipses,2
found among the papers of Mr. Locke, and published by
Lord King," it would appear that he himself had been at
considerable trouble in explaining to his friend that in
teresting proposition. This manuscript is endorsed, " Mr.

Newton, March, 1689." It begins with three hypo

theses, (the two first being the two laws of motion, and
the third the parallelogram of motion,) which introduce
the proposition of the proportionality of the areas to
the times in motions round an immovable centre of

attraction.3 Three lemmas, containing the properties of
the ellipse, then prepare the reader for the celebrated

   1 Preface to Desaguliers' Course of Experimental Philosophy, vol. i. p. viii. Dr.
Dcsaguliers says that he was told this anecdote several times by Sir Isaac Newton

himself.                          Edit. 1830, vol. i. pp. 389-400.

   2 The Life of John Locke.
   3 Principia, lib. i. prop. i.

340  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. XII.

proposition, that when a body moves in an ellipse,1 the
attraction is reciprocally as the square of the distance of
the body from the focus to which it is attracted. These

propositions are demonstrated in a more popular manner
than in the Principia, but there can be no doubt that,

even in their present modified form, they were beyond

the capacity of Mr. Locke.

Among the learned men who were desirous of under

standing the truths revealed in the Principia, Richard

Bentley was one of the most distinguished. In 1691,

when only thirty years of age, he applied to John Craige,
a mathematician of some eminence, and a friend of New

ton, for a list of works which would enable him to study

the Principia. Alarmed at the list which Craige sent

him, he was induced to apply to Newton himself, who

drew up the directions which, along with those of Craige,

we have given in the Appendix.2 When Bentley was

appointed, in 1692, the  first Lecturer  on   RdiosbcoeurtrseB,oy"leA's
Foundation, he chose as  the subject of  his

Confutation of Atheism." The insidious doctrines of

Spinoza and Hobbes had at that time made considerable

progress among the upper ranks of society, and as these

authors denied a Divine Providence, and considered the

existence of the universe as the result of necessity, Bent

ley proposed to conclude his course of lectures with the

demonstration of a Divine Providence from the physical

constitution of the universe, as demonstrated by Newton.

Before printing his discourses, he consulted Newton on

some points which required elucidation, and it was in

    1 Principia, lib. i. prop. xi.

  ! See Appendix, No. XIII. The original of these directions was given by Richard

Cumberland, the relation of Bentley, to Trinity College, along with the originals of
the five celebrated letters from Newton to Bentley, to which our attention will be

afterwards directed.

1718.                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    341

reply to the Queries thus addressed to him, that Newton
wrote the five remarkable letters already alluded to. By
this means some of the great truths of the Newtonian

Philosophy were promulgated among a class of readers
who would not otherwise have heard of them.1

   About the year 1718, Isaac Watts speaks of the ex
ploded Physics of Descartes, and the noble inventions of
Sir Isaac Newton, in his " hypotheses of the heavenly
bodies and their motions;" and he refers to previous
writers who have explained Nature and its operations in
a more sensible and geometrical manner than Aristotle,
especially those who have followed the principles of that
wonder of our age and nation, Sir Isaac Newton. 2

   Dr. John Keill was the first person who publicly taught
natural philosophy, " by experiments in a mathematical
manner." Desaguliers informs us, that this author " laid
down very simple propositions, which he proved by expe
riments, and from these he deduced others more com

pound, which he still confirmed by experiments, till he
had instructed his auditors in the laws of motion, the

principles of hydrostatics and optics, and some of the
chief propositions of Sir Isaac Newton, concerning light

   1 Lord Aston, " a great lover of the mathematics, who would gladly be satisfied
in a difficulty or two on that science," requested Mr. Greves and Sir E. Southcote

to submit these difficulties to Sir Isaac Newton. Mr. Greves accordingly went on

Monday, the 30th November 1702, and gives the following account of the conversa
tion. " He owns there are a great many faults in his book, and has crossed it and
             and writ in the margin of in a great many places. It talked he
interleaved  it,                                                          is
                        it,                                                        p.
                                                                   asked him about his proof of
                           if

                                                is
                                                              it,
designs to reprint        though he would not own it.              I
                                                                      ;I
a vacuum, and said that there such a matter as escapes through the pores of

all sensible bodies, this could not be weighed                          find he designs to alter that

part,   for he has  writ   on the  margin, Materia sensibilis perceiving his reasons do
not    conclude in  all   matter   whatsoever." --Edleston's Correspondence, Pref.
                                                                                       xiv.,

and Tixall's Letters, II. 152, quoted there.

                          the Mind, Part chap, xx. Art. vi. and xvi., or his Works,
'      Improvement  of
                                               I.

vol. v. pp. 301, 306.

342  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          CHAP. XII.

and colours. He began these courses in Oxford about
the year 1704 or 1705, and in that way introduced the
love of the Newtonian philosophy."1 When Dr. Keill
left the University, Desaguliers began to teach the new
philosophy by experiments. He commenced his lectures
at Harthall, in Oxford, in 1710, and delivered more than

a hundred and twenty discourses ; and when he went
to settle in London in 1713, he informs us that he found
" the Newtonian philosophy generally received among
persons of all ranks and professions, and even among
the ladies by the help of experiments." 2

    Such were the steps by which the philosophy of Newton
was established in Great Britain. From the time of the

publication of the Principia, its mathematical doctrines
formed a regular part of academical education, and before
twenty years had elapsed, its physical truths were com
municated to the public in popular lectures, illustrated
by experiments, and accommodated to the capacities of
those who were not versed in mathematical knowledge.
The Cartesian system, though it may have lingered for a
while in the recesses of our universities, was soon over

turned ; and long before his death, Newton enjoyed the
high satisfaction of seeing his philosophy triumphant in

 his native land.

    In closing our account of the Principia, and in justifi
 cation of the high eulogium we have pronounced upon
we may quote the opinions of two of the most distin

guished men of the past or the present age. " It may be

justly said," observes Halley, " that so many and so valu-
81

                                                                                    of

                                                                                     it,
     These lectures were first published in Latin in 1718, and afterwards in English
in 1721 and 1739, under the title of An Introduction to the true Astronomy, or

Astronomical Lectures, read in the Astronomical School  the University of Ox
ford. By John Keill, M.D., F.R.S.

     Desaguliers, ut supra, Preface, pp. viii, x.

1710-13.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     343

able philosophical truths, as are herein discovered, and

put past dispute, were never yet owing to the capacity
and industry of any one man." 1 " The importance and
generality of the discoveries," says Laplace, " and the
immense number of original and profound views which
has been the germ of the most brilliant theories of the
philosophers of this century, and all presented with much
elegance, will ensure to the work, on the Mathematical
Principles of Natural Philosophy, a pre-eminence above
all the other productions of human genius." 2

          1 Phil. Tram. vol. xvi. p. 296.
          a Systeme du Monde, Edit. 2de, 1799, p. 336.

344  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

                  CHAPTER XIII.

THE NEWTONIAN PHILOSOPHY STATIONARY FOR HALF A CENTURY, OWING

   TO THE IMPERFECT STATE OF MECHANICS, OPTICS, AND ANALYSIS --
   DEVELOPED AND EXTENDED BY THE FRENCH MATHEMATICIANS --IN
   FLUENCE OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES -- IMPROVEMENTS IN THE
   INFINITESIMAL CALCULUS -- CHRISTIAN MAYER ON THE ARITHMETIC
   OF SINES-- D'ALEMBERT'S CALCULUS OF PARTIAL DIFFERENCES --LA-
   GRANGE's CALCULUS OF VARIATIONS --THE PROBLEM OF THREE BODIES
   -- IMPORTANCE OF THE LUNAR THEORY -- LUNAR TABLES OF CLAIRAUTy
   D'ALEMBERT, AND EULER -- THE SUPERIOR TABLES OF TOBIAS MAYER1
    GAINS THE PRIZE OFFERED BY THE ENGLISH BOARD OF LONGITUDE --

    EULER RECEIVES PART OF THE ENGLISH REWARD, AND ALSO A REWARD'
    FROM THE FRENCH BOARD -- LAPLACE DISCOVERS THE CAUSE OF THE

   MOON'S ACCELERATION, AND COMPLETES THE LUNAR THEORY --LA-

    GRANGE'S SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF THREE BODIES AS APPLIED
    TO THE PLANETS -- INEQUALITIES OF JUPITER AND SATURN EXPLAINED
    BY LAPLACE -- STABILITY OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM THE PROOF OF DESIGN

       MACLAURIN, LAPLACE, AND OTHERS, ON THE FIGURE OF THE EARTH
    -- RESEARCHES OF LAPLACE ON THE TIDES, AND THE STABLE EQUILI
    BRIUM OF THE OCEAN -- THEORETICAL DISCOVERY OF NEPTUNE BY
    ADAMS AND LEVERRIER -- NEW SATELLITES OF SATURN AND NEPTUNE
    -- EXTENSION OF SATURN'S RING AND ITS PARTIAL FLUIDITY -- TWENTY-
   SEVEN ASTEROIDS DISCOVERED -- LEVERRIEr's THEORY OF THEM --
    COMETS WITH ELLIPTIC ORBITS WITHIN OUR SYSTEM -- LAW OF GRA
   VITY APPLIED TO DOUBLE STARS-- SPIRAL NEBULA-- MOTION OF THE
    SOLAR SYSTEM IN SPACE.

   When Halley remarked that the author of the Prin-

cipia " seemed to have exhausted his argument, and left
little to be done by those who should succeed him," he
committed a mistake which, though it had a tendency to
check the progress of inquiry, was yet one into which

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  345

philosophers are apt to fall when their science has made
a great start by the discovery of some general and com
prehensive law. Had Halley ventured to make this

remark at the close of his life, rather than in 1687, he

might have found some justification of it in the long
interval which elapsed before any brilliant addition had

been made to physical astronomy. During the half cen
tury which had passed away since the discovery of uni
versal gravitation, no application of it of any importance
had been made, and, as Laplace has observed, " all this
interval was required for this great truth to be generally
comprehended, and for surmounting the opposition which
it encountered from the system of vortices, and from the

prejudices of contemporaneous mathematicians." The
infinitesimal analysis, as it was left by Newton and Leib
nitz, was incapable of conducting the physical astronomer
to any higher results than those which were consigned in
the Principia ; and it is a remarkable fact in the history
of science, that the very men who spurned the new phi
losophy of gravitation, were strenuously engaged in im
proving that very calculus which was destined to establish
and extend those great truths which they had so rashly

denounced.

   It has been remarked by Laplace, that " with the ex

ception of his researches on the elliptical motion of the
planets and comets, of the attraction of spherical bodies,
and of the intensity of gravity at the surface of the sun,
and of the planets that are accompanied by satellites, all
the other discoveries which we have described were only
blocked out by Newton. His theory of the figures of the
planets was limited by the supposition of their homoge
neity. His solution of the problem of the precession of
the equinoxes, though very ingenious and accordant with

346  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.     CHAP. XIII.

observations, is in many respects defective. In the great
number of perturbations in the celestial motions, he has
considered only those of the lunar motions, the most
important of which, namely, the evection, had escaped
his researches. He has completely established the exist
ence of the principle which he discovered, but the deve
lopment of its consequences and of its advantages has
been the work of the successors of this great geometer." 1

   In thus completing the great work of which Newton
laid the foundation, it was necessary, as Laplace observes,
" to bring to perfection at once the sciences of mechanics,

optics, and analysis ; and though physical astronomy may
still be improved and simplified, yet posterity will grate
fully acknowledge that the geometers of the eighteenth
century have not transmitted to us a single astronomical
phenomenon of which they have not determined the cause
and the law. We owe to France the justice of observing,

that if England had the advantage of giving birth to the

discovery of universal gravitation, it is principally to the
French geometers, and to the encouragement held out
by the Academy of Sciences, that we owe the numerous
developments of this discovery, and the revolution which
it has produced in astronomy."2

   In submitting to our readers a brief history of these

developments, and of that revolution, we shall gather

fresh laurels for the author of the Principia. It is from

what he left undone, and what he enabled others to do,

that we can rightly estimate the magnitude and appre
ciate the value of his achievement. The importance of a
great discovery does not lie in its intrinsic novelty and

beauty : It is the number of its applications, and the

     1 Syatime cht Monde, p. 336.  ' Jbid., p. 340.

                          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               347

\ibiquity of its range, that stamps its value ; and when
we proclaim Newton the Father of the Philosophy of the
Universe, we must regard the Eulers, the Clairauts, the
D'Alemberts, the Lagranges, and the Laplaces of another
age, as the intellectual progeny whom he educated and

reared. A distinguished philosopher has asked the ques

tion, why no British name is ever mentioned in the list
of mathematicians who followed Newton in his brilliant

career, and completed the magnificent edifice of which
he laid the foundation ? 1 May we not make the question
more special by asking why the University which he
instructed and adorned, which possessed such noble en
dowments, and which claims the honour of having first
adopted and taught his philosophy, did not rear a younger
son, or even a sickly child, that could be ranked in the
great family we have named ? Scotland contributed her
Maclaurin, but England no European name ; and a cen

tury and a half passed away till Airy and Adams adorned
the birth-place of Newton's genius. In the same spirit

in which we have asked these questions, M. Arago, equally
jealous of the glory of his country, has freely confessed,
" that no Frenchman can reflect, without an aching heart,
on the small participation of his own country in the me
morable achievement of the discovery of universal gravi
tation;" and Mr. Grant, the latest historian of physical
 science,2 in responding to this liberal sentiment, has added,

1 Professor Playfair adds, that this was " the more remarkable, as the interests

of navigation were deeply involved in the question of the lunar theory, so that no

motive which a regard to reputation or to interest could create was wanting to

engage the mathematicians of England in the inquiry." --Edinhurgh Review,

vol. xi., p. 280. Jan. 1808.

rema aHrkiss,tor"ythoaft  Physical  Astronomy,    &c, p. 108. London, 1852. Mr.   Grant   also
                          with the   exception  of Maclaurin and Thomas Simpson,  hardly  any

individual of these islands deserves even to be mentioned in connexion with the

history of physical astronomy during that period ;" and that, at the beginning of

348                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            CHAP. XIII.

in the language of just severity, that " if an Englishman

could be supposed to be equally sensitive, he has ample

reason to regret the inglorious part his country played
during the long period which marked the development of
the Newtonian theory."1

   In the imperfect state in which the differential calculus
was left by Newton and Leibnitz, its inventors, it was not

fitted to grapple with the higher problems in physical
astronomy which still remained to be solved ; and it was
fortunate for the future progress of the science, that dis

tinguished mathematicians directed themselves to the
improvement of the infinitesimal calculus, and to the
discovery of new mechanical principles, or extended ap
plications of those already known.

   In 1727, the very year in which Newton died, Christian

Mayer published in the Petersburg Commentaries a va
luable memoir on the application of algebra to geometry ;

the present century, " there was hardly an individual in this country who possessed

an intimate acquaintance with the methods of investigation which had conducted

the foreign mathematicians to so many sublime results."

   1 Referring our readers to the statement at the end of Chapter IV., as showing

the probable cause of the success of the French mathematicians, and of the inglorious

failure of our own, we beg their attention to the following confirmation of our views
by one of the wisest and most eminent of our Scottish mathematicians. In a review

of Laplace's Systeme du Monde, Professor Playfair makes the following observations.
   " The literary institution which has most completely produced its effect of any in

modern times, and that has been most successful in promoting the interests of science,

is that of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris, where small pensions and great

honours, bestowed on a few men for devoting themselves exclusively to works of in

vention and discovery, have been the means of advancing the mathematical sciences

in  France to a state of  unexampled prosperity.
    " In England, where    such an institution as
                                                   that  just  mentioned  was  wanting,  and

where the public is perpetually prepared, with the question cui bono, to repress

what seems the luxury of science, the same progress has not been made ; and our

mercantile prejudices have so far defeated our own purpose, that if the matter had

been left to us, the theory of the moon's motion would still have been extremely

imperfect, and the great nautical  problem of finding the longitude could have re
                                   solution." -- Edinburgh Review, vol. xv. p. 39.
ceived nothing like an accurate
Jan. 1810.

1727-47.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                  349

and the geometrical theorems which he demonstrated,

formed the basis of the Arithmetic of Sines, for which
Euler provided a notation and an algorithm, which have

rendered it one of the most simple and valuable instru

ments of astronomical research. The invention of the

calculus of Partial Differences by D'Alembert, which he

first made known in 1747, was particularly applicable to

the more difficult problems in physical astronomy, and

when improved and extended by Euler, it became an

invaluable instrument in every inquiry which demanded

the aid of the pure or mixed mathematics.

But however valuable were these instruments of ana

lysis, the calculus of variations discovered by Lagrange
in 1 760, was the greatest step in the improvement of the
infinitesimal calculus which was made in the last century.

It not only afforded the most complete solution of the

1problems that gave rise to     but had an application of
                                                                     a

                                          of it,
                                                    a
                                                                         is

                                                                                                 is,
the most extensive kind, exceeding even the expectations
of its inventor. Euler, who had made some progress in

the same subject, at once acknowledged the superiority

of his youthful rival, and with a nobility of mind not fre

quently displayed even by the greatest men, he renounced

his own less perfect methods, and devoted himself to the

study and extension of the new calculus.1

Nearly twenty years after the death of Newton, Euler,

Clairaut,  and D'Alembert were   engaged in     solving                                             what
has been   called the problem                                                                         the
                                three bodies,  --that

determination of the motion of one body revolving round

a second body, such as the moon round the earth, and

disturbed by the attractions of third body, such as the

sun. The rigorous solution of this problem beyond the

      See the Article Mathematics in the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia, vol. xiii. p. 380,
where Sir John Herschel pronounces beautiful eulogium on the conduct of Euler.

350  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

reach of human genius, and the imperfect solution which

has been obtained is only an approximate one depending
for its accuracy on the more or less advanced state of the

infinitesimal calculus. But even if the problem of three

bodies had been susceptible of an accurate solution, it
would not have diminished the difficulty of solving the
more general problem of finding the motion of a planet,
when simultaneously acted upon by all the other planets
of the system. In this case the disturbances are very
small, and when the separate action of each planet upon
the disturbed body is determined, the sum of the perturb
ations, when applied to the place of the planet in its elliptic
orbit, will give its true place in the heavens as seen from
the centre of the sun.

    When the three bodies are the sun, the moon, and the

earth, the disturbance of the moon's motions by the action
of the sun are very considerable, and hence the theory of
the moon was the first subject to which the continental
mathematicians directed their attention. The determina

tion of the longitude at sea by observing the distance of
the moon from the stars, had given a peculiar interest to
the construction of accurate tables for computing the
moon's place, and the Board of Longitude in England had
offered a high reward. Mathematicians were urged to the
inquiry by the united motives of wealth and fame. New
ton had explained only five of the principal equations
of the moon's orbit, and it was obvious that there were

many other irregularities which observation alone was
incapable of detecting. Clairaut seems to have been the
first of the three mathematicians who undertook this in

quiry ; but however this may be, the competitors arrived
at the same goal with nearly equal success. Clairaut
had at first endeavoured to compute the lunar inequalities

1746-55.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             351

by the method of Newton, but he was obliged to aban

          and appeal to the higher powers of analysis. In
don  it,

                                    a
1746, Euler drew up set of lunar tables, founded on the

results of his researches, but they were not found to be

very superior to those in common use. In 1754, Clairaut

and D'Alembert published lunar tables, embodying the

results of their theory. Those of Clairaut were far supe
rior to any that had hitherto been published, while those

of D'Alembert were very inferior in accuracy. Encou

raged by the failure of his rivals, Euler resumed his in

vestigations in 1755, and published                             more complete set
          ;

                                                             a
of lunar tables, along with his researches on the lunar

theory but though more conformable with observation

than his former set, they had not that degree of accuracy

which was required for the determination of the longitude.

While the mathematicians, trusting too much to theory,

were thus baffled in the useful application of their own

results, a sagacious practical astronomer directed his

attention to the improvement of the lunar tables, and

carried off the prize. Tobias Mayer of Gottingen, com

paring the results obtained by Euler with number of
a
                                  a

                                                        1

                                                                                     a

                                                                                                                                                                   ;
accurate observations made by himself and others, pro

duced a set of tables which, when compared with the

observations of Bradley, gave the moon's place within

thirty seconds. These tables were sent to the English

Board of Longitude in 755, in competition for the prize

but they did not possess that degree of precision which

was required. Mayer, however, continued till the day of

his death to add to their accuracy, and he left behind him

complete set of solar and lunar tables, for which the

Board of Longitude awarded his widow the sum of three

thousand pounds, portion of the reward which they had

offered for the discovery of the longitude. These tables

352  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. XIII-

were first published in 1770, and their greatest error was
found never to exceed one minute and a quarter. As these

tables were founded on Euler's theorems, the Board pre

sented this distinguished mathematician with the sum of

three hundred pounds. Though advanced in years, Euler

was full of intellectual life, and having continued to labour

at the lunar theory, he constructed a new set of tables,

which were published in 1771, and were rewarded by the

Board of Longitude in France.

Notwithstanding the accuracy of Mayer's tables, an

irregularity had been discovered by observation which

was not indicated by the theory of gravity. Halley and

other astronomers had placed it beyond a doubt that the

moon performed her monthly revolution round the earth

in a shorter time than formerly. This acceleration of the

moon, as it was called, amounted to nearly ten seconds in

a century, and various hypotheses were framed to account

for it,. Thrfnniti pUlir]?10 of them was, that all space was
filled with an ethereaTm&fl^JTM which opposed such a
resistance to the motions of^UcSplanets, that the force

which kept them in their orbit wouhTg^11^ overpower
their diminished velocity, and thus shorto tneir Perio(i

round the central body. This hypothesis was supported
by Euler, and by the abettors of the undulatory theory,

^who

tion
     required the   existence of a medium for  the\?r0PaSa~
     of light, and  it was adopted with equal  eageni£fs

another class of theorists,  who saw in the acceleratioiW^
the celestial motions the
                             process by which the Almighty
was to destroy the solar system, by precipitating the se
condary planets upon their primaries, and the primary
planets upon the sun.     Laplace admitted the sufficiency
of the hypothesis, but  as he saw no reason for admitting

the existence of a resisting medium, he did not consider

1775.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                        353

himself warranted in adopting such an hypothesis till it
was found that gravitation was incapable of accounting
for the fact. Another theory of the moon's acceleration
was founded on the supposition that the daily motion of
the earth was retarded by the continued blowing of the
easterly winds of the tropics against the mountain ranges
which extend from the equator to the poles ; but Laplace
satisfied himself from a rigorous examination of this sup
position, that no retardation of the earth's motion could

be thus produced. Another hypothesis still remained to
which astronomers might appeal not only for the expla
nation of the moon's acceleration, but also of some consi

derable inequalities in the motions of Jupiter and Saturn,
which appeared not to have a periodical character, and
therefore to be in the same category with the moon's
acceleration. Newton and every other philosopher had
taken it for granted that the force of gravity was propa
gated instantaneously from bodies, and not in time like

the rays of light ; but it occurred to Laplace that if time

was required for the transmission of gravity, it would affect
the intensity of the force. He therefore computed the
velocity of gravity that would be required to produce the
observed acceleration, and he found it to be eight millions
of times greater than the velocity of light, that is 192,500
miles multiplied by 8,000,000, or 1,540,000,000,000 miles

in a second --a velocity which no language can express.
After arriving at this result, Laplace found that if the

acceleration is produced by another cause, then the effect
of the successive transmissions would be insensible, and

consequently the velocity of gravity, if it is not instanta

neous, must at least be fifty millions of times greater than
that of light, that must be at least 9,625,000,000,000
miles in a second.

   vol.
       i.
                          is,

                                                                                     z

354    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

   In the course of these investigations it had been placed
beyond a doubt that every inequality in the motion of the

planets, and in the form of their orbits produced by their

                               it
                                                    is,
mutual gravitation, must be periodical, that that the
inequality, after reaching its maximum, will diminish ac

it   cording to the same law by which increased, and hence
        became doubly interesting to discover the cause of
    1
     phenomena which had this character. Although foiled in

     so many attempts to refer the moon's acceleration to the
     action of gravity, Laplace returned to the inquiry with

     fresh zeal, and about the end of 1787 his labours were

     crowned with success.  was well known to Lagrange
       is

                It
     and to himself, that the eccentricities of the planetary

     orbits underwent extremely slow changes, which had a
     very long period. To such a change the eccentricity of

     the earth's orbit subject from the action of the planets.
     The mean action of the sun must therefore vary with the

     earth's eccentricity, and the earth, thus exerting greater
                                  a
                                               is
     or a less force over the moon, will accelerate or retard her,

     and thus produce the secular inequality which has been

     observed in her mean motion. When the eccentricity

     diminishing, which has been doing since the date of the
       it

                 ;
     earliest astronomical observations, the moon's mean mo

     tion will be accelerated but when the diminution ceases,

     and the orbit returns to its former ellipticity, the sun's
     action will increase, and the moon's mean motion will be

     retarded.1 Laplace found the acceleration to be ten

     seconds during a century, rate which, notwithstanding
                            a

     its variable character, may be considered as uniform for

     two thousand years.

       Although Halley suspected the existence of this inequa-

          M. Leverrier has recently shewn that the earth's eccentricity will diminish during
     the period of twenty-four thousand years
                            !

WJ3.                                     LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                   3.55

lity so early as 1693, yet it is to Mr. Dunthorne that we

owe the first accurate determination of its magnitude.

By means of lunar eclipses observed at Babylon in 721
B.C., and at Alexandria in 201 B.C., --a solar eclipse ob

served by Theon, a.d. 364, and other two by Ibyn Jounis

at Cairo, about the end of the tenth century, he found

the acceleration to be ten seconds in a hundred years.

The consequence of this inequality          is,                     that the moon
                                               is
is  about two hours later in coming to the meridian than

she would have been had she performed her monthly

revolution in the same time that she did when the earliest

Chaldean observations were made. " It indeed a won

derful fact in the history of science," as Mr. Grant remarks,
" that these rude notes of the priests of Babylon should

escape the ruins of successive empires, and finally, after

the lapse of three thousand years, should become subser

vient in establishing phenomenon of so refined and com
                                         a

plicated character as the inequality we have just been
      a

                   1
considering." And in referring to the long period of the
same inequality, Professor Playfair remarks, that " two

thousand years are little more than an infinitesimal in this

reckoning and as an astronomer thinks that he commits
      ;

no error when he considers the rate of the sun's motion

as uniform for twenty-four hours, so he commits none

when he regards the rate of this equation as continuing the

same for twenty centuries. That man, whose life, nay,
the history of whose species occupies such a mere point

in the duration of the world, should come to the knowledge
of laws that embrace myriads of ages in their revolution,

    perhaps the most astonishing fact that the history of
is

                                     21
science exhibits."2

                                         History of Physical Astronomy, pp. 63, 64.
                                         Edinburgh Review, vol. xi. p. 261.

356  LIFE OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON.                             CHAP. XIII

   By this great discovery, which had eluded the grasp of
Euler and Lagrange, 1 Laplace may be regarded as having
completed the lunar theory exactly one hundred years
after it had been sketched out in the first edition of the

Principia.
    The theory of the lunar motions being thus completed,

the three rival mathematicians directed all the powers of
their mind, and all the refinements of analysis, to the
determination of the mutual action of the primary planets.
In this case the three bodies were the sun, the disturbed
and the disturbing planet. In 1748, the Academy of
Sciences proposed the Inequalities of Jupiter and Saturn
as the subject of their prize. In his Memoir, which gained
the prize, Euler proved that both Jupiter and Saturn were
subject to considerable inequalities, arising from their
mutual action, but all of them periodical, and returning
nearly in the same order after short intervals of not much
more than twenty or thirty years. But though these
results accorded with observation, they afforded no ex

planation of the great secular inequalities which in twenty
centuries had produced in Jupiter an acceleration of 3° 33',
and in Saturn a retardation of 5° 13'. The Academy,
therefore, again offered their prize of 1752 for the best
Memoir on the same subject. Euler a second time carried

off the prize ; but though he found two inequalities of long
periods depending on the angle formed by the line of the

1 The Academy of Sciences proposed the moon's acceleration as the subject of

their prize for 1770. Euler gained
     a
                                                it,

                                                                                                it
                                    but came to the conclusion that was not

produced by the force of gravity. The same subject was again proposed in 1772,

and the prize was divided between Euler and Lagrange. Euler ascribed the acce

leration to resisting medium, and Lagrange evaded the difficulty. The prize was

again offered in 1774, and was gained by Lagrange, and he now doubted the exist

ence of the inequality. It was under these circumstances that Laplace took up the

subject, and obtained the results which we have mentioned.

1768.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOX.  357

apsides of each planet, yet he made them equal and addi
tive, contrary to observation. Lagrange failed in the same

inquiry ; and Laplace, after carrying his approximation
farther than either of his rivals, came to the conclusion

that no change in the mean motion of Jupiter and Saturn
could be produced by their mutual action. Under this
grave embarrassment, apparently threatening the truth
or accuracy of the law of gravity, but really heralding a
great discovery, Lagrange appeared with a new solution
of the problem of three bodies. At the age of twenty-
seven he published this solution in the Turin Memoirs for
1763, and, in applying it to the motions of Jupiter and
Saturn, he obtained for the former an additive secular

equation of nearly three seconds, and for the latter a
subtractive one of fourteen seconds ; but though this re
sult was in its general character superior to that of Euler,
it yet afforded no explanation of the great inequalities we
have mentioned. Having observed that the calculus had
never given any inequalities but periodical ones, Lagrange
now set himself to inquire, whether in the planetary

system, continually increasing or continually diminishing

inequalities, affecting the mean motions, could be produced
by the mutual action of the two planets. Independently of

any approximation, and by a method peculiarly his own, he
found that all the inequalities produced by gravity must
be periodical, and that amid all the changes arising from
the mutual action of the planets, two elements are un

changeable, --the length of the major axis of the planet's

 elliptical orbit, and the time in which that orbit is de
 scribed. The inclination of the orbit to the ecliptic changes,
 the ellipse and its eccentricity change, but its greater axis
 and the time of the planet's revolution are unalterable.
 This grand discovery, excluding every source of disorder,

358  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XTTI.

  and securing the stability of the system, is doubtless one
  of the noblest in physical astronomy, and more than any
  other displays the wisdom of the Creator.

      But though Lagrange had made this great step in
  celestial physics, he failed in discovering the cause of the
 inequalities of Jupiter and Saturn, and left to Laplace the
 honour of solving this perplexing problem. By a more
 rigorous inquiry into the effects of their mutual action,
 Laplace found that the mean motion of Jupiter would be
 accelerated, while that of Saturn would be retarded, and

 that the relative derangement of the two planets would
 be as five to ten, the ratio of their mean motion, or as
 3° 58' to 5° 16', the result for Jupiter differing only nine

 minutes from that given by Halley. In continuing the

 inquiry, he found that each planet was subject to an

inequality whose period was 969 years ;--that of Saturn,

 when a maximum, being 48' 44", and that of Jupiter
 20' 49", with an opposite sign. These inequalities were a
 maximum in 1560, and from that epoch the apparent
mean motions of the two planets have been approaching
to their true mean motions, and became the same in 1 790.

By a comparison of these results with forty-three obser
ved oppositions of Saturn, Laplace found them generally
correct, and the error never exceeding two minutes of a
degree. This difference he afterwards reduced in the
case of both planets to twelve seconds, although the best
tables of Saturn often erred twenty minutes. By these
brilliant researches theory and observation were reconci

ewlexadps,l--arientmehdeo,v--leads,ta--nddieffvticheueryltylainwwehqoiucfahlgibtryeasvieinttattthhioeenNSeeowslattarobnlsiiysahsnteedmthaewsoaryas

law of the universe.
   In concluding this brief notice of the progress of phy-

1703.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       359

sical astronomy since the time of Newton in a few of

its leading features, we are naturally led to ponder on

the great truth of the stability and permanence of the
solar system as demonstrated by the discoveries of La

grange and Laplace. In the present day, when worlds

and systems of worlds, when life physical and life intel

lectual are supposed to be the result of general law, it is

interesting to study those conditions of the planetary

system which are necessary to its stability, and to con

sider whether they appear to be the result of necessity

or design. It follows, from the discoveries of Laplace,

that there are three conditions essential to the stability

and permanence of the        Solar  sdyisrteecmti,onn, a--methlye, irthmeomtioontioinn
of all the planets in the     same
                             or nearly circular,--and the com-
orbits slightly elliptical,

mensurability of their periods of revolution. That these

conditions are not necessary is very obvious. Any one

of them may be supposed different from what it while
       ;

                                                                  is,
the rest remained the same. The planets, like the comets,

might have been launched in different directions, and

moved in planes of various and great inclinations to the

ecliptic. They might have been propelled with such

varieties of tangential force as to have moved in orbits of

great ellipticity and no reason, even of the most hypo

thetical nature, can be assigned why their annual periods

might not have been incommensurable. The arrange

ments, therefore, upon which the stability of the system

depends, must have been the result of design, the con

trivance of that omniscience which foresaw all that was

future, and of that infinite skill which knew how to pro

vide for the permanence of His work. How far the

comets, whose motions are not regulated by such laws,

and which move in so many directions, may in the future

360  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

interfere with the order of our system, can only be conjec
tured. They have not interfered with it in the past, owing
no doubt to the smallness of their density ; and we cannot
doubt that the same wisdom which has established so great
a harmony in the movements of the planetary system,
that the inequalities which necessarily arise from their

mutual action arrive at a maximum, and then disappear,
will also have made provision for the future stability of

the system.

    Although it is only a general view that we can take of

the important discoveries in physical astronomy which
have sprung from those of Newton, yet we should scarcely
be justified in omitting those which relate to the figure of
our earth and the tides of its ocean. Newton inferred

that the figure of the earth was an oblate spheroid, whose
equatorial diameter was to its polar axis in the ratio of
231 to 230, but it was reserved for Maclaurin to demon

strate, a priori, that the earth, if homogeneous, might

assume such a form. The method which he employed,
though synthetical, was remarkable for its accuracy and

elegance. In 1743, Clairaut published his Treatise on

the Figure of the Earth, in which he investigated the
form it would assume on the supposition of its density
being heterogeneous. He found that the earth would

have the form of an elliptic spheroid, if its mass was

arranged in homogeneous concentric strata of the same
form ; and he investigated the beautiful theorem which

bears his name, by which we can determine the ellipticity
of the earth from measures of the force of gravity, taken
in two different latitudes by the aid of the pendulum.
D'Alembert, Lagrange, Legendre, Laplace, Ivory, Plana,
Gauss, Poisson. and Airy, have directed their attention to
the subject of the earth's figure, but without adding much to

1(40.  LIFJ5 OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.  361

the results obtained by Clairaut. In his MScanique Celeste,

Laplace has applied the deductions of his calculus to the
determination of the figure of the earth, from the mea
surement of degrees on its surface, and the observations
made in different latitudes on the length of a pendulum
vibrating seconds, and he finds that the result cannot be
reconciled with the hypothesis of an elliptic spheroid,
unless a greater error than is probable be admitted in
some of the measurements.1 Upon discussing, however,
all the more recent measurements of a degree, and all
the observations with the pendulum, the ellipticity of the
earth in the former case has been found to be -g-^, and,
in the latter, -^fa, the ellipticity indicated by the lunar
perturbation being ^ J^, an agreement which is very re
markable, when we consider the local causes which neces

sarily affect the observations with the pendulum, as first
noticed by Colonel Sabine, and the measurement of an
arc of the meridian.

    The theory of the tides of our ocean, though treated
by a master mind in the Principia, was nevertheless sus
ceptible of extension and improvement. The Academy
of Sciences proposed it as the subject of their prize for
1740. Four dissertations competed for the prize, three
of them of great merit, by Euler, Daniel Bernouilli, and
Maclaurin, and a fourth by Father Cavalleri, a Jesuit,
who founded his investigation on the system of Vortices.

The prize was divided among all the four competitors, --a

proof, doubtless, that the Cartesian doctrines were not

entirely exploded. These dissertations, and others on
the same subject, are founded on what is called the equi
librium theory, which supposes that the sun and moon

   ' Micanique Cflesle, torn, ii., liv. iii., chap. v. ; and Systeme du Monde, liv. iv.,
rhap. vii.

362               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. XIII.

draw the waters of the ocean into the form of an aqueous

spheroid, in which the molecules of water are maintained
at rest by the action of these forces. In consequence,

however, of the daily motion of the earth, such a spheroid

never can be formed,-- there can only be a tendency to

it ; and hence    the  tides are the  tchoensoecqeuaenn, c--e   of the perpe
tual oscillation   of  the waters of                           a result which

the state of mechanical and mathematical science will not

allow us to determine. Laplace, however, undertook the

task, and communicated to the Academy of Sciences in

1755, 1779, and 1790, a series of valuable memoirs on

the subject. The theory to which he was led by these

researches rests upon two suppositions not strictly true,

namely, that the earth is covered with water, and that

the depth of the ocean is uniform under the same parallel

of latitude. Regarding every particle of water as under

the influence of three forces, namely, the attraction of the

earth, the attraction of the sun and moon, and that which

arises from the earth's rotation, he found that three kinds

of oscillation are produced ; the first depending on the sun

and moon, and varying periodically, so as not to return

till after a long interval ; the second depending on the

earth's rotation, and returning in the same order after the

interval of about a day ; and the third depending on

double the angular rotation of the earth, and returning

after an interval of about half a day. As the oscillations

of the second class are affected by the depth of the sea

as well as the earth's rotation, and as the differences be

tween the two tides in the same day depend chiefly upon

them, Laplace has from this been able to determine that

the mean depth of the sea is about four leagues. The

general correctness of this theory has been placed beyond

a doubt by a comparison of its results, with observations

1779.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                                        363

on the tides made at Brest during a long succession of

 years.1

    As the ocean is often agitated by several irregular

causes, such as storms and earthquakes, which raise it to
great heights, and sometimes make it overstep its limits,
Laplace has endeavoured to ascertain the " stability of the
equilibrium of our seas." Although we find that the sea

falls into its hollow bed after the ordinary commotions to
which it is subject, yet we may reasonably fear that some

extraordinary cause may communicate to it such a disturb

ance, that, though inconsiderable in its origin, may go on
increasing till it raises it above the highest mountains. As

such a result would afford an explanation of several pheno

mena of natural history, it becomes interesting to deter

mine the conditions necessary to the absolute stability of

the equilibrium of our seas, and to see if these conditions
exist in nature. In submitting this question to analysis,

Laplace has found that the equilibrium of the ocean is

stable if its density is less than the mean density of the earth,

and that its equilibrium cannot be subverted unless these

two densities are equal, or that of the earth less than
that of its waters. The experiments on the attraction of

Schehallien and Mount Cenis, and those made by Mr. Caven

dish, Reich, and Baily, with balls of lead, demonstrate that

the mean density of the earth is at least five times that
of water, and hence the stability of the ocean is placed
beyond a doubt. As the seas therefore have at one time
covered continents which are now raised above their level,

we must seek for some other cause of it than any want of
stability in the equilibrium of the ocean. 2

1 Mtcanique Celeste, part        liv. iv., chap,  torn, ii., p. 171 and Systlme du
'

                                                p.
                                                i.,

                                                      i.,
                                                                              i.,

                                                                                                                          p.
                                                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                                                     ;
Monde, liv. iv., chap, x., 248.

See Mecanique Celeste, part liv. iv., chap, ii., torn, ii., 204 and Syiteme

du Monde, liv. iv., chap, xi., p. 265.

364  LIFK OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

    We have already seen how Newton deduced the preces
sion of the equinoxes from the action of the sun and moon
upon the excess of matter accumulated at the equator of
the terrestrial spheroid. This investigation, however, was

founded on principles not rigorously correct, and therefore
the complete solution of the problem was left to his suc
cessors. The discovery, too, of the nutation and of its
cause, by Bradley, gave a new character to the investiga
tion, which now required the aid of the calculus of partial

differences. It fell to the lot of D'Alembert to give a

complete solution of the problem, whatever were the figure
and the density of the strata of the terrestrial spheroid.
The results which he obtained agreed accurately with

observations on the precession, and he obtained also the
true measure of the nutation, or the dimensions of the

small ellipse described by the pole of the equator, which
the observations of Bradley had left in some uncer

tainty.
   In viewing the subject under a more general aspect than

D'Alembert, Laplace was led to some very interesting
results. From his researches on the oscillations of the
ocean, he was led to the remarkable theorem, " that what

ever be the law of the depth of the sea, and the form of
the spheroid which it covers, the phenomena of the pre

cession and the nutation are the same as if the sea formed

a solid mass with this spheroid." Laplace has also shown
that the rotation of the earth upon its axis, or the length
of the day, cannot be affected either by currents on the
ocean, rivers, trade-winds, or even earthquakes, or in
general any force which can shake the earth either in its

interior or upon its surface. It might have been expected

that the trade winds blowing between the tropics would,
by their action upon the sea, and upon the continents

1779.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             365

and mountains which they meet, insensibly diminish the

rotatory motion of the earth ; but upon the same prin

ciple the other motions of the atmosphere, which take

place beyond the tropics, would accelerate that motion by

the same quantity. In order to produce any sensible

change in the length of the day, a very considerable dis

placement in the parts of the earth would be required.

A great mass of matter, for example, transported from

the poles to the equator, would increase the length of the

day, and it would be diminished if dense bodies approached

either pole, or the axis of the earth. But as there appears

to be no cause which is capable of displacing masses suffi

ciently large to produce such effects, we may regard the

length of the day as one of the most unchangeable elements
in the system of the world. " The same thing is true,"
as Laplace observes, " with respect to the points where
Ifthe earth's axis meets its surface.
                                       this planet turned

successively round different diameters inclined to one an

other at considerable angles, the equator and the poles

would change their place upon the earth ; and the seas on

rushing to the new equator, would cover and uncover

alternately the highest mountains ; but all the researches

which I have made on the displacement of the poles of

rotation at the surface of the earth, have proved to me

that it is insensible." 1 After discussing the consequences

respecting the constitution of the earth, which are accor

dant with his theory of the precession and nutation,

Laplace states that though it does not enable us to deter

mine the ellipticity of the earth, it fixes its limit between

-g^j and -g^^ part of the radius of the equator. The

same theory indicates as the most probable constitution

   1 Syxteme du Monde, liv. iv., chap, xiii., pp. 276, 277.  See also Mecaniqve
Celeste, part liv. v., chap, torn, ii., p. 347.
       i.,
                                 i.,

366  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

of the earth, that the density of its strata increases from
its surface to its centre.1

    Such is a brief and general view of the important dis
coveries in physical astronomy which have illustrated the
century that followed the publication of the Principia.
Brilliant as they are, and evincing as they do the highest
genius, yet the century in which we live has been rendered
remarkable by a discovery which, whether we view it in
its theoretical relations, or in its practical results, is the

most remarkable in the history of physical astronomy. In

the motions of the planet Uranus, discovered since the
time of Newton, astronomers had been for a long time
perplexed with certain irregularities, which could not
be deduced from the action of the other planets. M.
Bouvard, who constructed tables of this planet, seeing the
impossibility of reconciling the ancient with the modern
observations, threw out the idea that the irregularities
from which this discrepancy arose might be owing to the
action of an unknown planet. Our countryman, the Rev.
Mr. Hussey, conceived " the possibility of some disturbing
body beyond Uranus ;" and Hansen, with whom Bouvard
corresponded on the subject, was of opinion that there
must be two new planets beyond Uranus to account for

the irregularities. In 1834, Mr. Hussey was anxious that

the Astronomer-Royal should assist him in detecting the
invisible planet, and other astronomers expressed the same

desire, to have so important a question examined and
settled. On his return to Berlin from the meeting of the
British Association in 1846, the celebrated astronomer,

M. Bessel, commenced the task of determining the actual
position of the planet ; but in consequence of the death of

                                  1 Mecanique Celeste, torn, ii., pp. 354, 355.

1845.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.    367

M. Flemming, the young German astronomer, to whom he

had entrusted some of the preliminary calculations, and of

his own death not long afterwards, the inquiry was stopped.

While the leading astronomers in Europe were thus

thinking and talking about the possible existence of a new

planet beyond the orbit of Uranus, two young astronomers,
Mr. Adams of St. John's College, Cambridge, and M.

Leverrier of Paris, were diligently engaged in attempting
to deduce from the irregularities which it produced in the

motions of Uranus, the elements of the planet's orbit, and
its actual position in the heavens. In October 1845, Mr.

Adams had solved this intricate problem --the inverse

problem of perturbations, as it has been called, placing
beyond a doubt the theoretical existence of the planet, and
assigning to it a place in the heavens, which was after

wards found to be little more than a single degree from

its exact place ! Anxious for the discovery of the planet
in the heavens, Mr. Adams communicated his results to

the Astronomer-Royal and Professor Challis ; but more

than nine months were allowed to pass away before a

single telescope was directed in search of it to the heavens.

On the 29 th July, Professor Challis began his observations,

and on the 4th and 1 2th of August, when he directed his
telescope to the theoretical place of the planet as given

him by Mr. Adams, he saw the planet, and obtained two

             it.
positions of
    While Mr. Adams was engaged in this important in

quiry, M. Leverrier, who had distinguished himself by a

series   of   valuable memoirs on the great    --ineanqduaolitny    of
Pallas,      on the perturbations of Mercury,                     the
         --

rectification of the orbits of comets, was busily occupied

with the same problem. In the summer of 1845, M.

Arago represented to Leverrier the importance of study

368  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

ing the perturbations of Uranus. Abandoning his re
searches on comets, he devoted himself to the task sug

gested by his friend, and on the 10th November 1845,
he communicated to the Academy of Sciences his First
Memoir on the Theory of Uranus. In the following June
he submitted to the Academy his Second Memoir, enti
tled, Researches on the Motions of Uranus, in which, after
examining the different hypotheses that had been adduced
to explain the irregularities of that planet, he is driven

to the conclusion that they are due to the action of a
planet situated in the ecliptic at a mean distance double
that of Uranus. He then proceeds to determine where
this planet is actually situated, what is its mass, and
what are the elements of the orbit which it describes :

After giving a rigorous solution of this problem, and
shewing that there are not two quarters of the heavens
in which we can place the planet at a given epoch, he

computes its heliocentric place on the 1st January 1847,
which he finds to be in the 325th degree of longitude,
and he boldly asserts that in assigning to it this place, he
does not commit an error of more than 10°. The posi
tion thus given to it is within a degree of that found by
Mr. Adams. Anxious, like Mr. Adams, for the actual dis

covery of the planet, M. Leverrier naturally expected that
practical astronomers would exert themselves in searching
for it. The place which he assigned to it was published
on the 1st of June, and yet no attempt seems to have
been made to find it for nearly five months. The exact
position of the planet was published on the 31st August,
and on the 18 th September was communicated to M.
Galle, of the Royal Observatory of Berlin, who discovered
it as a star of the eighth magnitude the very evening on
which he received the request to look for it. Professor

1846.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      369

Challis had secured the discovery of this remarkable

body six weeks before, but the honour of having actually
found it belongs to the Prussian astronomer. With the

universal concurrence of the astronomical world, the new

planet received the name of Neptune. It revolves round

the Sun in about 172 years, at a mean distance of thirty,

that of Uranus being nineteen, and that of the Earth one ;

and by its discovery the Solar sj'ste'm has been extended

one thousand millions of miles beyond its former limits.
    The honour of having made this discovery belongs

equally to Adams and Leverrier. It is the greatest in

tellectual achievement in the annals of astronomy, and

the .noblest triumph of the Newtonian Philosophy. To

detect a planet by the eye, or to track it to its place by

the mind, are acts as incommensurable as those of mus

cular and intellectual power. Recumbent on his easy

chair, the practical astronomer has but to look through

the cleft in his revolving cupola, in order to trace the

pilgrim star in its course ; or by the application of mag

nifying power, to expand its tiny disc, and thus transfer

it from among its sidereal companions to the planetary

domains. The physical astronomer, on the contrary, has

no such auxiliaries : he calculates at noon, when the stars

disappear under a meridian sun : he computes at mid

night, when clouds and darkness shroud the heavens ; and

from within that cerebral dome, which has no opening

heavenward, and no instrument but the Eye of Reason,

he sees in the disturbing agencies of an unseen planet,

upon a planet by him equally unseen, the existence of
the disturbing agent, and from the nature and amount of

its action, he computes its magnitude and indicates its
Ifplace.
          man has ever been permitted to see otherwise

than by the eye, it is when the clairvoyance of reason,

VOL. I.                              2A

370          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     CHAP. XIII.

piercing through screens of epidermis and walls of bone,
grasps amid the abstractions of number and of quantity,
those sublime realities which have eluded the keenest

touch, and evaded the sharpest eye.

   Although the philosophy of Newton has since his day

enjoyed such signal triumphs, it has yet other strong
holds to storm, and other conquests to achieve. In his

survey of the sidereal and planetary domains, the practi
cal astronomer has in the present century laid open new
fields of research ripe for the intellectual sickle, and fitted

to yield to the accomplished analyst the richest harvest
of discovery.

    Within our own system the detection of a satellite to

Neptune, by Mr. Lassels, -- of an eighth satellite to Sa

turn, by Mr. Lassels and Mr. Bond, between the orbits

of the 4th and 5th of these bodies, -- and of a new fluid

ring gradually advancing to the body of the planet, will
furnish interesting materials to the physical astronomer.
This new and remarkable feature in the system of Saturn,
has been recently studied by Mr. Bond of the United
States, and M. Otto Struve, at the observatory of Pul-
kova, with the great Munich telescope. With that fine
instrument they saw distinctly the dark interval which
separates this new ring from the two old ones, and the

boundaries of this interval were so well marked, that they

succeeded in measuring its dimensions. They perceived,

also, at the inner margin of the new ring, an edge or bor

der feebly illuminated, which they conceived might be

the commencement of another similar appendage, though

the line of separation had not yet become visible. The

following are the principal results which these two able
                            --"
astronomers  have obtained        The new  ring is  not  sub
                            : 1.

ject to very rapid changes. 2. It is not of very recent

1852.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                      371

formation ; for it is quite certain that it has been seen, if

not recognised, according to its true character, ever since

the improvements upon astronomical telescopes have en
abled astronomers to see the belts upon the surface of the
planet, or at least since the beginning of the last cen
tury. 3. That the inner border of the annular system of

Saturn has, since the time of Huygens, been gradually
approaching to the body of the planet, and therefore it
follows, that there has been a successive enlargement of
this system. 4. That it is at least very probable that the
approach of the rings towards the planet is caused parti
cularly by the successive extension of the inner or middle
ring. Hence it follows, that Saturn's system of rings
does not exist, as has been generally supposed,1 in a state
of stable equilibrium, and that we may expect sooner or
later, perhaps in some dozen of years, to see the rings
united with the body of the planet."

   Of all the celestial phenomena which have been disco
vered since the time of Newton, the most remarkable are

the twenty-seven small planets which have been discovered
between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. Dr. Olbers of
Bremen, who discovered two of them, hazarded the idea

that a large planet which had once occupied the same
place, had been burst in pieces by some internal force.
This opinion, which has been long considered as a very
probable one, has only recently been called in question.
M. Leverrier, the first mathematician who has directed

his attention to the theory of this remarkable group of
bodies, considers the opinion of Olbers as contradicted by

1 Laplace has shewn that the stability of the equilibrium of the rings requires

that they be irregular solids, unequally wide in different parts of their circumfer
ence, so that their centres of gravity do not coincide with their centres of figure. --

See Mecanique Celeste, part     liv. iii., chap, vi., torn, ii., p. 155 Systeme du Monde,
liv. iv., chap, viii., p. 242.  i.,
                                                                                                   ;

372  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

the great inclination of the orbit of Pallas ; and in place
of explaining the existence of these planets by an altera
tion of the primitive system of the universe, he believes
" that they have been regularly formed like all the other

planets, and in virtue of the same laws." In a very in

teresting communication on this subject, lately made to
the Academy of Sciences,1 M. Leverrier has endeavoured
to ascertain the limit of the sum of the magnitudes of

the whole group, known and unknown, by the disturbing
action which they exercise on the motion of the perihe

lion of Mars and the Earth. If the perihelions of these

small planets were distributed uniformly in all the regions
of the zodiac, the action of these masses of matter, situ

ated in one half or semi-circumference of the heavens,

would be destroyed by the action of the equal masses
situated in the opposite half or semi-circumference. But
M. Leverrier finds that twenty out of twenty-six of the
planets have the longitudes of their perihelion between
4° and 184°, a semi-circumference of the heavens, and
hence their action as one mass on Mars and the Earth is

not destroyed by the action of the other six planets. It

is possible that the small planets, which may yet be dis
covered, may have more of their perihelions in the latter
of their semi-circumferences than in the former; but the

possibility that there will be more of them conjoined
with the larger than the smaller group, or, at least, that
they will be equally diffused over the zodiac in reference
to their perihelion points.

   Having shewn that the perihelion of Mars placed
much more advantageously than that of the Earth, in
1

                   is,
                                                                                is
      Considerations sur I'ensemble du Systime des petites Plandtes situies entre Mars

etjupiter, par M. IT. J. Leverrier. Lu 28 Nov. 1853. Comptes Rendvs, &c, torn,

xxxvii. pp. 793-798.

1801-58.  LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                 373

relation to the mean direction of the perihelions of the
small planets, and that the greater eccentricity of the
orbit of Mars is more favourable for determining the

amount of their action, he finds that if the total mass of

the small planets were equal to the mass of the Earth, it
would produce in the heliocentric longitude of the peri-
fa elion of Mars, an inequality which in a century would
amount to eleven seconds, a quantity which could not have
escaped the notice of astronomers. Considering, there
fore, that this inequality would become particularly sen
sible at the oppositions of Mars, M. Leverrier is led to

believe, that though the orbit of Mars has not received its
final improvements, yet it will not admit of an error in
longitude greater than one-fourth of the above quantity,
and hence he concludes, that the sum total of the matter
constituting the small planets situated between the mean
distances 2-20 and 3-16, cannot exceed about the fourth
part of the mass of the Earth.

   In examining the place of the nodes of the twenty-six

planets, M. Leverrier finds that twenty-two of the ascend
ing nodes of their orbits have their longitudes between
36° and 216°, that within semi-circumference of the

heavens,1 a result almost the same as that which takes

place in their perihelions. From this fact he observes,
that in considering the motion of the plane of the ecliptic,
we may arrive at conclusions of the same kind respecting
the magnitude of the mass of the small planets, though
the limit would be less strict than in that which derived

from the grouping of their perihelions.
1

                                   is,
                                               a

                                                                                       p.
                                                                                                in

                                                                               is
M. Leverrier takes occasion to remark, " that we might perhaps find some

systematic difference between the mean direction of the ascending nodes of the

planets near the Sun, and that of the ascending nodes of the more distant planets,

and that we may thus conjecture that these planets belong  reality to three distinct
groups." -- Comptes Sendus, &c, torn, xxxvii.
                                               795.

374  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.        CHAP. XIII.

In his theory of the motion of comets, Sir Isaac Newton

did not anticipate that bodies of this kind would be dis

covered moving in elliptical orbits, contained within the

limits of our own system, and thus affording a new appli
cation of the law of gravity, and remarkable examples of

the action of the planets upon this new class of wandering

stars. It had long been the universal belief among astro

nomers, that every comet strayed far beyond the limits

of our system, the shortest period being about seventy

years. In 1818, however, M. Pons announced the disco

very of a very faint comet, without a tail, the motions

of which could not be reconciled with a parabolic orbit.
After its fourth appearance, Professor M. Encke of Ber

lin, whose name is now attached to the comet, found that

it moved in an elliptic orbit with a period of about 1211

days, or three years and a third, and that its orbit was

included within our system, extending inward as far as
Mercury, and outward only a little beyond the orbit of

Pallas. He computed the perturbations produced by the

action of Venus, the Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn,

and he found that its periods had been diminishing be

tween 1786 and 1838, at     the rate  of about 2|- hours in
                            which he  ascribed to the resist
each revolution--an effect

ance of an ethereal medium.

  A still more remarkable comet, supposed to be the same

as that of 1772, 1805, 1839, &c.,was discovered in 1826

by M. Biela. Its period was found to be about 2410

days, or 6f years, and its orbit did not reach so far as

that of Saturn. M. Damoiseau found that its arrival at

its perihelion would be retarded nine days and sixteen

hours by the action of Saturn, Jupiter, and the Earth ; and

that on the 29th October 1832, about a month before

its perihelion passage, it would cross the plane of the

                                                      1826-43.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  375

is 7 is,                                              ecliptic, within 1 8,000 miles of a point in the Earth's orbit.
          is                                          The announcement of this fact excited such an alarm in

                                      a               Paris, that M. Arago was summoned to allay the fears of
                                                    !z
                                                      the community. According to prediction, the comet
                                                      returned in 1839 and 1846 ; but, strange to say, it was
                                                      on this last occasion separated into two distinct comets,
                                                      the one a little fainter than the other. Their tails were
                                                      parallel, and their distance, which was the same till the
                                                      comet became single by the gradual disappearance of the
                                                      smaller one, was found by M. Plantamour to be equal to
                                                      about two-thirds of the radius of the moon's orbit, that

                                                           about 160,000 miles

                                                          Another comet belonging to our system was discovered
                                                      by M. Faye in November 1843. Dr. Goldsmicht found
                                                      that its period was about 2718 days, or 7^ years, and
                                                      M. Leverrier computed that its arrival would be delayed

                                                         days and 16 hours by the action of the planets. Its
                                                      orbit more circular than that of any other comet, and

                                                         included between the orbits of Mars and Saturn. It

                                                      had been suggested by M. Valz, that this comet might be
                                                      Lexell's comet of 1770,2 which had been rendered visible

                                                      by the action of Jupiter in 1767, and which was after
                                                      wards thrown into larger orbit and rendered invisible
                                                      in 1779 by the action of the same planet. M. Lever
                                                      rier, however, has shown that the two bodies cannot be

                                                      identical.

                                                          Before another year had expired, a fourth comet be-

                                                      Sir John Hersohel has ventured to say, " that the orbit ofBiela's comet so nearly
                                                      a1

                                                                            it
                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                              is

                                                                                                                                           ! it
                                                                                                                                                                 it

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                      intersects that of the Earth, that an actual collision                                  not impossible, and indeed

                                                      (supposing   yneeaitrhs.e"r--orObiuttlvinaersiable)Asmtruosnto, miny,  all likelihood,  happen in the lapse of some
                                                      millions of                                                              §585.

                                                      This comet ought to have appeared thirteen times since 1770, and, as has not

                                                      been since seen, must be lost. Burckhardt supposed that might have become

                                                      satellite to Jupiter, from its aphelion being near that planet

376  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

longing to our system was discovered by M. De Vico of
Rome. He first saw it on the 29th August 1844, and
M. Faye found that it revolved in an elliptic orbit with a

period of about 2000 days, or 5£ years. It was supposed

by some astronomers that this comet was the same as

that of 1585, observed by Tycho ; but M. Leverrier has
shown that they are not identical, and that the comet of
De Vico is not the same as that of Lexell. He discovered,

however, such a striking similarity between it and the
comet observed by De la Hire in 1678, that he considers

them clearly identical. It is strange, however, that this

comet should only have been seen once previous to 1844,

although it has frequently come very near the Earth.
    Another comet of the Solar system was discovered by

M. Brorsen on the 26th February 1846. Its period is

2042 days, or about 5^ years. It is very faint, and is

almost identical in its elements with the comet of 1532.

   A seventh comet, discovered by M. Peters on the 26th

June 1846, has been placed by the calculations of M.

Arrest among those having elliptic elements and a short
period, and therefore belonging to our system. Its period

is 5804 days, or about 16 years.
    Such are some of the important celestial phenomena

within the limits of our own Solar system, to which the
Newtonian theory is applicable, and to which it has been
to some extent successfully applied. The sidereal pheno

mena which have been discovered beyond our system, in
which movements of long periods, round visible and invi

sible centres, have been traced and measured, possess a

higher interest, and to some of them also the Newtonian

law of gravitation has been actually extended.
    The most important of this class of phenomena are

those of binary and multiple systems of stars. Among

1830.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  377

the many stars of this kind which have been discovered

by Sir William Herschel, and succeeding observers, there

must be a large number in which the two, three, or four

stars constituting a group have no other connexion than

that of being placed nearly in the same line. There are

others, however, in which, as Sir W. Herschel long ago

announced, one of two stars revolves round the other in

regular orbits, and with   periods which have been deter
                          being 334 years, y Virginis 708
mined--that of Castor,

years, and y Leonis 1200 years. Although the list of double

stars has been greatly extended, yet those whose orbits and

periods have been determined with any accuracy, amount

only to twenty-one. Nine of these have been computed
by Mr. Madler of Dorpat, five by Sir John Herschel, four

by Mr. Hind, and one by M. Savary.1 The first calcula

tion of the orbit of a double star was made in 1830 by

fM. Savary, (in the case of of the Great Bear,) who

showed that the changes of place in one of the stars could

be explained by an elliptic orbit, and a period of 58£
years. The periods of the other twenty double stars vary

from 31^ to 737 years, eleven having their periods below
100 years, three below 200, two below 300, and three

between 600 and 700 years. These orbits are calculated

on the supposition that the force exerted by the stars
varies inversely as the square of the distance, and the

accuracy with which the observations are represented

allows us to conclude that the Newtonian law of gravity
extends to the distant region of the double stars.2

  1 A table of the elements of their orbits is given by Sir John Herschel in his
Outlines of Astronomy, £ 843.

   s M. Madler has adduced an instance, (p Ophiuchi,) where he regards the devia
tions from an elliptic orbit too considerable to be accounted for by an error of obser
vation ; but we cannot view a single fact of this kind as affecting the generality

nf the law of gravity.

378  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIII.

    Another sidereal phenomenon, in which we have the
appearance of motion round a centre, is displayed in the
spiral nebulae discovered by Lord Rosse ; that the stars
which compose these spirals have been placed there in
virtue of some movement related to the central mass,

cannot be doubted, although it is vain for man to attempt
the solution of such a problem. To suppose these spirals
to be nothing more than vaporous matter, like the tail of
a comet, whirled round into spiral branches, because we
cannot find any explanation compatible with the almost
universally admitted fact, that every nebula is composed
of stars, is to renounce all faith in the great truths of
astronomy, and seek for some resting-place to the mind,
when reason stands aghast amid the infinite and the in

comprehensible.
    Beside the motions of one of the bodies which compose

a binary system, a proper motion of a very peculiar

kind has been observed in the stars. In one region of

the heavens the distance between the stars is increasing,
and in the opposite region diminishing, while in interme
diate localities little or no change of place is observed.

It is obvious that such changes indicate a motion of our

earth, and consequently of the whole Solar system, to
a point in the heavens where the increasing distance of
the stars is a maximum. Before the proper motion of

the fixed stars had been measured, various speculators,
among whom Hooke was the earliest, hazarded the sup
position that the whole Solar system was in continual
motion. Tobias Mayer, in 1771, attempted in vain to
deduce such a movement of the system from the proper
motions of eighty stars ; but a few years afterwards, in
1783, when better observations were accessible, Sir W.

Herschcl and M. Prevost came to the conclusion that the

1783-1850.               LIFE OF SiR ISAAC NEWTON.                            379

Solar system was advancing to a point in the heavens

whose right ascension was 25    a                        and north declination

25°. Although both Biot and Bessel came to the same0
                                           .
conclusion as Tobias Mayer, that no such motion existed,
                                                aa
yet the existence of a proper motion has been more recent: 71°,

lyplaced beyond doubt by the observations made at the
                         a
       is
observatories of Dorpat, Abo, and Pulkova And has
                                                             is               0 it
been shewn by the united studies of Argelander, Otto                   :              is

Struve, and Peters, that        the point               to which the Solar    --sys
tem advancing at the            epoch of               1840, situated in,

            Eight ascension, 259° 35', with probable error of 2° 57'
            North declination, 34° 33', with probable error of 3° 24'.

   Not content with determining the direction of the solar
motion, Otto Struve has computed the angular value of
this motion, as seen at right angle to the Sun's path,
and at the mean distance of the stars of the first magni

tude. His results are as follows --

From the right ascension of the stars, 0". 32122, with   aaprobable error of 0". 03C84
                                                           probable error of . 03562
From their declination,     ..  357 19, with

Or, taking the mean of these results, 0". 33920                               0". 03623

But as the parallax of stars of the first magnitude

0".209, we can change the angular motion of the Sun into

linear motion in space and hence taking the radius of
a                           J

    a1                             is

           of                               0
the Earth's orbit as unity, M. Struve finds that the annual
                                                         = 1.623 radii of the
motion of the Sun in space

Earth's orbit, with a probable error of 0.229.

   In his interesting work on Stellar Astronomy,2 he has
expressed these results in the following manner :-- " The

motion         the solar system in space directed to a point
                                                         is

                                                                           a
      M. Provost, who used Mayer's proper motions, made the right ascension only

230°.
       Etudes <VAstronomic SteUaire, of which we have given copious abstract in

the North British Beview, vol. viii. pp. 523-534.

380          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        CHAP. XIII.

of the celestial vault situated on the right line which joins
the two stars ir and p Herculis at a quarter of the appa
rent distance of these stars, reckoning from it Herculis.
The velocity of this motion is such, that the Sun, with all
the bodies which depend upon advances annually in the
                                           it,

                                                       of
above direction 1.623 times the radius the Earth's orbit,

or 33,550,000 geographical miles. The possible error
                                                              of
this last number amounts to 1,733,000 geographical miles,               of

or to a seventh part  the whole. We may then wager
     1
                1

                        1

                     it
                            is

                               of
                                        of a
400,000 to that the Sun has proper progressive motion,

and to that  comprised between the limits thirty-

eight and twenty-nine millions geographical miles."

   If we take 95 millions of English miles as the mean

radius of the Earth's orbit, we have 95 1.623 = 154.185
                                                           x

millions of miles, and, consequently,

     The velocity of the Solar system  is  154,185,000 miles in the year.
                                                422,424 miles in a day.
                   ,, ,,                           17,001 miles in an hour.
                   ,,,,                                293 miles in a minute.
                  ,,,,
                     ,, ,,                              57 miles in a second.

   As none of the celestial motions are rectilineal, the

advance of the system in space must be round some
distant centre, which M. Madler, without much reason,

supposes to be Alcyone, the brightest star in the Pleiades.
In the course of time, however, the point to which the
system advancing must change its place, and from the
nature and magnitude of that change, its curvilineal mo
tion, and perhaps the form of its orbit, may be established.
But even so grand a result were obtained, we may
never be able to ascertain whether our Sun and planets
revolve like multiple star round single centre, or, as
in our planetary system, they form only one of a number
of systems revolving round the same centre. On such a
subject speculation vain. We must rest satisfied with
     is

       a if

                         is
                                                        a

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  381

the simple truth, that since the earliest observation of the
stars, our system has described so small a portion of its
curvilineal orbit, that it cannot be distinguished from a

straight line. If the buried relics of primeval life have

taught us how brief has been our tenure of this terrestrial
paradise, compared with its occupancy by the brutes that
perish, the great sidereal truth which we have been ex

pounding, impresses upon us the no less humbling lesson,

that from the birth of man to the extinction of his race,

the system to which he belongs will have described but
an infinitesimal arc of that immeasurable circle in which

it is destined to revolve.

    Such are the great sidereal movements to some of which
the law of gravitation has been already applied, and no
body has ventured to doubt that all of them will, in due
time, come under its rule. Every new satellite, every
new asteroid, every new comet, every new planet, every
new star circulating round its fellow, proclaims the uni
versality of Newton's philosophy, and adds fresh lustre

to his name. It is otherwise, however, in the general his

tory of science. The reputation achieved by a great in
vention is often transferred to another which supersedes

    and a discovery which the glory of one age eclipsed
by the extension of in another. The fame of having
invented the steam-engine has disappeared beside the
reputation of the philosophers who have improved
and the laurels which the discoverer of Ceres has worn
for half a century, have been almost withered by the dis

covery of twenty-six similar bodies. It the peculiar

glory of Newton, however, that every discovery in the
heavens attests the universality of his laws, and adds a
greener leaf to the laurel chaplet which he wears.
it,
                                 it

                                          is
                                                                         is

                                                                                 is
                                                                                     it

                                                                                                                                                                  ;


APPENDIX.


                 APPENDIX.

                 No. I.

                 {lie/erred to in page 34.)

LETTER FROM MR. NEWTON TO FRANCIS ASTON,                   ESQ., A YOUNG
    FRIEND WHO WAS ON THE EVE OF SETTING                   OUT UPON HIS
    TRAVELS.

Mr. Aston was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1678-

He was an active member, and was frequently in the Council.

He was chosen one of the Secretaries on the 30th November

1681, and held that office till the 9th December 1685. He had

been re-elected  onthethe9t3h0tDh ecoefmNboevre, m"behre,  but, at a meeting of
the Council on                                             threw up," says Mr.
Weld,1 " the Secretaryship in so sudden and violent a manner,

that the Council resolved not to run the risk of being similarly

treated on any future occasion, and determined on having an

officer more immediately under their command." Halley's lettei

(dated March 27, 1686, and giving an account of this affair to
Mr. William Molyneux) will better explain the circumstances
of the case : --
    " The history of our affairs,"  says Halley, " is briefly       this.

On St. Andrew's day last, being our anniversary day of election,

Mr. Pepys was continued President, Mr. Aston, Secretary, and

         1 History of the Royal Society, vol. i. pp. 302, 303.

VOL. I.                                                         2B

386  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

Tancred Kobinson chosen in the room of Mr. Musgrave. Every

Ibody seemed satisfied, and no discontent appeared anywhere,

when, on a sudden, Mr. Aston, as suppose, willing to gain
better terms of reward from the Society than formerly, on De
cember 9th, in Council, declared that he would not serve them

as Secretary ; and therefore desired them to provide some other

Ito supply that office ; and that after such a passionate manner,

that fear he has lost several of his friends by it. The Council,
resolved not to be so served for the future, thought it expedient

to have only honorary secretaries, and a clerk or amanuensis,
upon whom the whole burthen of the business should lie, and
to give him a fixed salary, so as to make it worth his while, and
he to be accountable to the secretaries for the performance of
his office ; and, on January 27th last, they chose me for their
under officer, with a promise of a salary of fifty pounds per

annum at least."

    Notwithstanding Mr. Aston's conduct, the Council ordered
that he be presented with a gratuity of £60. About two
months and a half after Mr. Aston's demission, Newton ad
dressed to him a letter, dated February 23, 1684-5, in which
he states, that the attempt made by himself and Mr. Charles

Montague to establish a Philosophical Society at Cambridge,
had failed.

    Mr. Aston does not seem to have taken offence at these pro
ceedings of the Council. He communicated to the Society some
observations on certain unknown ancient characters, which were
published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1692 ; and, pre
vious to his death, which seems to have taken place in 1715, he
bequeathed to the Royal Society a small estate, still possessed
by them, at Mablesthorpe, in Lincolnshire, consisting of 55 acres,
2 roods, and 2 perches. He likewise left to the Society a consi
derable number of books and some personal property, which,
after paying off certain debts, amounted to £445.1

    The following letter was written when Newton was only
twenty-six years of age. We have not been able to find any
account of the information which Mr. Aston communicated to

his friend, either during his travels or after his return :--

                   1 Weld's History of the Royal Society, vol. i. p. 428.

no. i.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           387

"  Sir, --Since  in          " Trinity College, Cambridge, May 18, 1669.

                     your letter you give mee so much liberty of

spending my judgement about what may be to your advantage

Iin travelling, shall do it more freely than perhaps otherwise
Iwould have been decent. First, then, will lay down some
Igeneral rules, most of which, believe, you have considered

already ; but if any of them be new to you, they may excuse
the rest ; if none at all, yet is my punishment more in writing

tha"nWyhouern's  in reading.  into  any fresh company,  1.  Observe  their
                 you come

humours. 2. Suit your own carriage thereto, by which insinua
tion you will make their converse more free and open. 3. Let

your discours be more in querys and doubtings than peremptory
assertions or disputings, it being the designe of travellers to

learne, not to teach. Besides, it will persuade your acquaint

ance that you have the greater esteem of them, and soe make

them more ready to communicate what they know to you ;

whereas nothing sooner occasions disrespect and quarrels than
peremptorinesse. You will find little or no advantage in seem

ing wiser, or much more ignorant than your company. 4. Sel

dom discommend any thing though never so bad, or doe it but

moderately, lest you bee unexpectedly forced to an unhansom

retraction. It is safer to commend any thing more than it de

serves, than to discommend a thing soe much as it deserves ; for

commendations meet not soe often with oppositions, or, at least,

are not usually soe ill resented by men that think otherwise, as
discommendations ; and you will insinuate into men's favour by

nothing sooner than seeming to approve and commend what

Ifthey like ; but beware of doing it by a comparison. 5. you

bee affronted, it is better, in a forraine country, to pass it by in

silence, and with a jest, though with some dishonour, than to

endeavour revenge ; for, in the first case, your credit's ne'er the
worse when you return into England, or come into other com

pany that have not heard of the quarrell. But, in the second

case, you may beare the marks of the quarrell while you live, if

Iyou outlive it at all. But, if you find yourself unavoidably

engaged, 'tis best, think, if you can command your passion

and language, to keep them pretty eavenly at some certain

388                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              APPENDIX,

moderate pitch, not much hightning them to exasperate your

adversary, or provoke his friends, nor letting them grow over

much dejected to make him insult. In a word, if you can keep
reason above passion, that and watch fullnesse will be your best

Idefendants. To which purpose you may consider, that, though

such excuses as this, -- He provok't mee so much could not
forbear, -- may pass among friends, yet amongst strangers they

     insignificant,   and  only argue a traveller's weaknesse.
      To these       may   add some general heads for inquirys
Iare                                                              or

   "
Iobservations, such as at present can think on. As, 1. To

observe the policys, wealth, and state affairs of nations, so far as

a solitary traveller may conveniently doe. 2. Their impositions

upon all sorts of people, trades, or commoditys, that are remark

able. 3. Their laws and customs, how far they differ from ours.

4. Their trades and arts, wherein they excell or come short of

us in England. 5. Such fortifications as you shall meet with,

their fashion, strength, and advantages for defence, and other

such military affairs as are considerable. 6. The power and

respect belonging to their degrees of nobility or magistracy. 7.

It will not be time mispent to make a catalogue of the names

and excellencys of those men that are most wise, learned, or

esteemed in any nation. 8. Observe the mechanisme and man

ner of guiding ships. 9. Observe the products of nature in

several places, especially in mines, with the circumstances of

mining and of extracting metals or minerals out of their oare,

and of refining them ; and if you meet with any transmutations

out of their own species into another, (as out of iron into copper,
out of any metall into quicksilver, out of one salt into another,
or into an insipid body, &c.,) those, above all, will be worth

your noting, being the most luciferous, and many times lucrifer-

ous experiments too in philosophy. 10. The prices of diet and

Iother things. 11. And the
   " These generals, (such
                           staple  commoditys of  places.   of,)  if
                           as at   present could
                                                   think

they will serve for nothing else, yet they may assist you in

      a modell to          regulate your travels
     particulars,          these that follow are
Idra"wAinsgfourp
                                                  by.       can now
                                                  all that

think of, viz., Whether at Schemnitium, in Hungary, (where
there are mines of gold, copper, iron, vitriol, antimony, &c.,)

NO. I.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                     389

they change iron into copper by dissolving it in a vitriolate

water, which they find in cavitys of rocks in the mines, and

then melting the slimy solution in a strong fire, which in the

Icooling proves copper. The like is said to be done in other

places, which cannot now remember ; perhaps, too, it may be
done in Italy. For about twenty or thirty years agone there

was a certain vitrioll came from thence, (called Roman vitrioll,)
but of a nobler virtue than that which is now called by that

name ; which vitrioll is not now to be gotten, because, perhaps,

they make a greater gain by some such trick as turning iron

                                                             Whether, in Hun
into copper with  thanit,           selling it.

                              ;

                                  by
                                                                2.
                                                                                             by
gary, Sclavonia, Bohemia, near the town Eila, or at the moun

tains of Bohemia near Silesia, there be rivers whose waters are

impregnated with gold perhaps, the gold being dissolved

some corrosive waters like aqua regis, and the solution carried

along with the streame, that runs through the mines. And

whether the practise of laying mercury in the rivers, till be
                                                                           is it
tinged with gold, and then straining the mercury through lea

ther, that the gold may stay behind, be secret yet, or openly
                                           I
                                                          a
             There newly contrived, in Holland, mill to
practised.it                                                     a

                 3.
                                is
grind glasses plane withall, and think polishing them too                                                       ;

perhaps     will be worth the while to see it.               4.  There in

Holland one       Borry, who some years since was imprisoned

by the Pope, to have extorted from him secrets (as am told)
of great worth, both as to medicine and profit, but he escaped
                                                                 I
                                                                    I
into Holland, where they have granted him a guard.                         think

he usually goes cloathed in green. Pray inquire what you can

of him, and whether his ingenuity be any profit to the Dutch.

You may inform yourself whether the Dutch have any tricks to

keep their ships from being all worm-eaten in their voyages to

the Indies. Whether pendulum clocks do any service in finding

out   the longitude, &c.  and       shall  not  stay         to part with                                       long
         am very weary,
   "
    I
                 I

                                                        a
                                                        in

                                                                       I

                                                                                                             a
compliment, only wish you good journey, and God be with

you.                                                         Is. Newton.

    " Pray let us hear from you            your travells.        have given

your two books to Dr. Arrowsmith."

390  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 APPENDIX,

                                  No. II.

                                                (Referred to in page 134.)

   As Newton's Hypothesis " touching his Theory of Light and
Colours," which he communicated to the Royal Society on the
9th December 1675, and which he afterwards illustrated and
extended in his celebrated letter to Robert Boyle in 1679, is
very little known, and must ever be referred to in the History
of Optical Discovery, we have reprinted these two interesting
documents : --

AN HYPOTHESIS1 EXPLAINING THE PROPERTIES OF LIGHT DIS
                        COURSED OF IN MY SEVERAL PAPERS.

  I" Sir, --In my answer to Mr. Hook, you may remember 1

had occasion to say something of hypotheses, where gave a
reason why all allowable hypotheses in their genuine constitu

Ition should be conformable to my theories, and said of Mr.

Hook's hypothesis, that took the most free and natural appli

cation of it to phasnomena to be this: --'That the agitated

parts of bodies, according to their several sizes, figure, and mo
tions, do excite vibrations in the aether of various depths or
bignesses, which being promiscuously propagated through that
medium to our eyes, effect in us a sensation of light of a white

colour ; but if by any means those of unequal bignesses be sepa

rated from one another, the largest beget a sensation of a red

colour, the least or shortest of a deep violet, and the intermediate

ones of intermediate colours, much after the manner that bodies,

according to their several sizes, shapes, and motions, excite vibra

tions in the air of various bignesses, which, according to those
Ibignesses, make several tones in sound, &c.'
                                               was glad to un
Iderstand, as apprehended from Zlv. Hook's discourse at my

last being at one of your assemblies, that he had changed his

former notion of all colours being compounded of only two

original ones, made by the two sides of an oblique pulse, and

     1 Tii a letter to Oldenburg, dated January 2.5, 1675-76.

NO. II.          LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                       391

accommodated his hypothesis to this my suggestion of colours,

Ilike sounds, being various, according to the various bigness of

the pulses. For this take to be a more plausible hypothesis

Ithan any other described by former authors ; because see not

how the colours of thin transparent plates, or skins, can be hand

somely explained without having recourse to aetherial pulses.
I IBut yet like another hypothesis better, which had occasion
Ito hint something of in the same letter in these words :--' The
hypothesis of light's being a body, had propounded
                                              if I               has
                                                       by itI
much greater affinity with the objector's own hypothesis than
                                                                   is
he seems to be aware of, the vibrations of the aether being as
                                                                                      ;;
useful and necessary in this as in his. For assuming the rays of
                                                                            by
light to be small bodies emitted every way from shining sub                   it,

stances, those, when they impinge on any refracting or reflecting       ; I it a

superficies, must as necessarily excite vibrations in the aether as

stones do in water when thrown into it. And supposing these vi

brations to be of several depths or thicknesses, accordingly as they
are excited by the said corpuscular rays of various sizes and

velocities, of what use they will be for explicating the manner

of reflexion and refraction, the production of heat              the sun

beams, the emission of light from burning, putrifying, or other

substances whose parts are vehemently agitated, the phasnoinena

of thin transparent plates and bubbles, and of all natural bodies,
the manner of vision, and the difference of colours, as also their

harmony and discord, shall leave to their consideration who
it
               it

                      if

                    I

                                         is,
may think worth their endeavour to apply this hypothesis to

the solution of phaenomena.' Were to assume an hypothesis,

should be this,       propounded more generally so as not to

determine what light                          further than that  something or

other capable of exciting vibrations in the aether for thus

will become so general and comprehensive of other hypotheses

as to leave little room for new ones to be invented and there

fore because have observed the heads of some great virtuosos
         I

to run much upon hypotheses, as               my discourses wanted an

hypothesis to explain them by, and found that some, when

could not make them take my meaning when spake of the

nature of light and colours abstractedly, have readily appre

hended   when illustrated my discourse                           an hypothesis
         it

                 I

392  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                      APPENDIX,

Ifor this reason have here thought fit to send you a description

of the circumstances of this hypothesis, as much tending to the

I Iillustration of the papers herewith send you ; and though

shall not assume either this or any other hypothesis, not think

ing it necessary to concern myself whether the properties of light

discovered by me be explained by this, or Mr. Hook's, or any

Iother hypothesis capable of explaining them ; yet while am

Idescribing this, shall sometimes, to avoid circumlocution and
Ito represent it more conveniently, speak of it as if assumed it

Iand propounded it to be believed. This thought fit to express,

that no man may confound this with my other discourses, or

Imeasure the certainty of one by the other, or think me obliged

to answer objections against this script ; for desire to decline

being involved in such  troublesome, insignificant  disputes.
   " But to proceed to                              to be supposed
                        the hypothesis :--1. It is

therein, that there is an aetherial medium, much of the same

constitution with air, but far rarer, subtiler, and more strongly
elastic. Of the existence of this medium, the motion of a pen

dulum in a glass exhausted of air almost as quickly as in the

open air is no inconsiderable argument. But it is not to be

supposed that this medium is one uniform matter, but composed

partly of the main phlegmatic body of aether, partly of other

various aetherial spirits, much after the manner that air is com

pounded of the phlegmatic body of air intermixed with various

vapours and exhalations. For the electric and magnetic effluvia,

and the gravitating principle, seem to argue such variety. Per

haps the whole frame of nature may be nothing but various

contextures of some certain aetherial spirits or vapours, condensed

as it were by precipitation, much after the manner that vapours

are condensed into water, or exhalations into grosser substances,

though not so easily condensable ; and after condensation wrought

into various forms, at first by the immediate hand of the Creator,

and ever since by the power of nature, which, by virtue of the

command, increase and multiply, became a complete imitator of

the copy set her by the Protoplast. Thus perhaps may all things

be originated from aether.
"At least the electric effluvia seem to instruct us that there is
Isomething of an setherial nature condensed in bodies.
                                                        have

NO. IT.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  393

sometimes laid upon a table a round piece of glass about two
inches broad, set in a brass ring, so that the glass might be about
one-eighth or one-sixth of an inch from the table, and the air

Ibetween them inclosed on all sides by the ring, after the manner

as if had whelmed a little sieve upon the table. And then

rubbing a pretty while the glass briskly with some rough and

raking stuff, till some very little fragments of very thin paper

Ilaid on the table under the glass began to be attracted and move

nimbly to and fro ; after had done rubbing the glass, the papers
would continue a pretty while in various motions, sometimes

leaping up to the glass and resting there a while, then leaping

down and resting there, then leaping up, and perhaps down and

up again, and this sometimes in lines seeming perpendicular to
the table, sometimes in oblique ones ; sometimes also they would
leap up in one arch and down in another divers times together,
without sensible resting between ; sometimes skip in a bow from
one part of the glass to another without touching the table, and
sometimes hang by a corner and turn often about very nimbly,

as if they had been carried about in the midst of a whirlwind,
and be otherwise variously moved, --every paper with a divers

motion. And upon sliding my finger on the upper side of the

glass, though neither the glass nor the enclosed air below were

moved thereby, yet would the papers as they hung under the

glass receive some new motion, inclining this way or that way,

Iaccordingly as moved my finger. Now whence all these irre
Igular motions should spring cannot imagine, unless from some

kind of subtile matter lying condensed in the glass, and rarefied
by rubbing, as water is rarefied into vapour by heat, and in that

rarefaction diffused through the space round the glass to a great

distance, and made to move and circulate variously, and accord

ingly to actuate the papers, till it returns into the glass again,
and be recondensed there. And as this condensed matter by

Irarefaction into an aetherial wind (for by its easy penetrating and

circulating through glass esteem it astherial) may cause these

odd motions, and by condensing again may cause electrical at
traction with its returning to the glass to succeed in the place of

what is there continually recondensed ; so may the gravitating
attraction of the earth be caused by the continual condensation

394                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           APPENDIX,

of some other such like aetherial spirit, not of the main body of

phlegmatic fether, but of something very thinly and subtilely

diffused through perhaps of an unctuous, or gummy tenacious
                          it,

                                ;

                                                          if
and springy nature and bearing much the same relation to

fether which the vital aerial spirit requisite for the conservation

of flame and vital motions does to air. For such an aetherial

spirit may be condensed in fermenting or burning bodies, or

otherwise coagulated in the pores of the earth and water into

some kind of humid active matter for the continual uses of na

ture, (adhering to the sides of those pores after the manner

that vapours condense on the sides of vessel,) the vast body
                                            a
of the earth, which may be everywhere to the very centre ina
perpetual working, may continually condense so much of this

spirit as to cause from above to descend with great celerity for
                          it
                                        it
supply in which descent may bear down with the bodies
it a                                                                      it
        it

                       :
pervades with force proportional to the superficies of all their

parts                   acts upon, nature making circulation by the slow

ascent of as much matter out of the bowels of the earth in an

aerial form, which for time constitutes the atmosphere, but
                          a

being continually buoyed up by the new air, exhalations, and

vapours rising underneath, at length (some part of the vapours
which return in rain excepted) vanishes again into the aetherial

spaces, and there perhaps in time relents and attenuated into
                                            is
its first principle. For nature                 a

                                                                      is
                                            perpetual circulatory worker,

generating fluids out of solids, and solids out of fluids, fixed
things out of volatile, and volatile out of fixed, subtile out of

gross, and gross out of subtile, some things to ascend and make

the upper terrestrial juices, rivers, and the atmosphere, and by

consequence others to descend for requital to the former.
                          it :

                              is
                                              aa

                                              it

                                                                                       is
                                                                                                   a
And as the earth, so perhaps may the sun imbibe this spirit

copiously, to conserve his shining, and keep the planets from

receding further from him and they that will may also suppose

that this spirit affords or carries with thither the solary fuel

and material principle of light, and that the vast aetherial spaces

between us and the stars are for            sufficient repository for

this food of the sun and planets. But this of the constitution

of authorial natures by the bye.
" In the second place,
                                 to be supposed that the aether

NO. N.                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  395

vibrating medium like air, only the vibrations far more swift and
minute ; those of air made by a man's ordinary voice, succeeding

one another at more than half a foot or a foot distance, but those
of aether at a less distance than the hundred-thousandth part of
an inch. And as in air the vibrations are some larger than
others, but yet all equally swift, (for in a ring of bells the sound

Iof every tone is heard at two or three miles' distance in the same

order that the bells are struck,) so suppose the aetherial vibra

tions differ in bigness, but not in swiftness. Now these vibrations,
besides their use in reflexion and refraction, may be supposed

the chief means by which the parts of fermenting or putrifying

substances, fluid liquors, or melted, burning, or other hot bodies,

continue in motion, are shaken asunder like a ship by waves,
and dissipated into vapours, exhalations, or smoke, and light

Iloosed or excited in those bodies, and consequently by which a

body becomes a burning coal, and smoke flame ; and suppose

flame is nothing but the particles of smoke turned by the access

of  "ligThht iradnldy,htehaet  to burning coals, little and innumerable.
                               air can pervade the bores of small glass
                                                                          pipes,
but yet not so easily as if they were wider, and therefore stands

at a greater degree of rarity than in the free aerial spaces, and
at so much greater a degree of rarity as the pipe is smaller, as

is known by the rising of water in such pipes to a much greater

Iheight than the surface of the stagnating water into which they

are dipped. So suppose aether, though it pervades the pores of

crystal, glass, water, and other natural bodies, yet it stands at a

greater degree of rarity in those pores than in the free aetherial

spaces, and at so much a greater degree of rarity as the pores of

the body are smaller. Whence it may be that spirit of wine,

for instance, though a lighter body, yet having subtiler parts,

and consequently smaller pores than water, is the more strongly

refracting liquor. This also may be the principal cause of the

cohesion of the parts of solids and fluids, of the springiness of

glass and other bodies whose parts slide not one upon another

in bending, and of the standing of the mercury in the Torricel

lian experiment, sometimes to the top of the glass, though a
much greater height than twenty-nine inches. For the denser

nether which surrounds these bodies must crowd and press their

396            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 appendix;

parts together, much after the manner that air surrounding two

marbles presses them together if there be little or no air between

them. Yea, and that puzzling problem, by what means the

muscles are contracted and dilated to cause animal motion, may

receive greater light from hence than from any other means men

have hitherto been thinking on. For if there be any power in

man to condense and dilate at will the aether that pervades the

muscle, that condensation or dilatation must vary the compres

sion of the muscle made by the ambient aether, and cause it to
swell or shrink, accordingly ; for though common water will

scarce shrink by compression and swell by relaxation, yet (so far
as my observation reaches) spirit of wine and oil will ; and Mr.
Boyle's experiment of a tadpole shrinking very much by hard

compressing the water in which it swam, is an argument that

animal juices do the same : and as for their various pression by

the ambient aether, it is plain that that must be more or less,

Ifaccordingly as there is more or less aether within to sustain and
counterpoise the pressure of that without.       both aethers were
equally dense, the muscle would be at liberty as if pressed by
Ifneither : if there were no aether within, the ambient would
compress it with the whole force of its spring.          the aether

within were twice as much dilated as that without, so as to

have but half as much springiness, the ambient would have half

the force of its springiness counterpoised thereby, and exercise

but the other half upon the muscle ; and so in all other cases
the ambient compresses the muscle by the excess of the force

of its springiness above that of the springiness of the included.
To vary the compression of the muscle therefore, and so to

swell and shrink                   there needs nothing but to change the
it

        if

                              it,
consistence of the included aether and very little change may
                                   ;

                                              a

suffice, the spring of aether be supposed very strong, as take
                                                                it I
to    be many  degrees stronger than that of     air.    aether,    some
     Now for   the changing the consistence
"                                                of the

may be ready to grant that the soul may have an immediate

power over the whole aether in any part of the body, to swell or
shrink at will but then how depends the muscular motion on
     it

            ?

                             ;
the nerves Others therefore may be more apt to think done

by some certain aetherial spirit included within the dura mater,

NO. II.      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                      397

which the soul may have power to contract or dilate at will in

any muscle, and so cause it to flow thither through the nerves ;

but still there is a difficulty why this force of the soul upon it

does not take off the power of springiness, whereby it should

sustain more or less the force of the outward aether. A third

supposition may be, that the soul has a power to inspire any

muscle with this spirit, by impelling it thither through the

nerves ; but this too has its difficulties ; for it requires a forcible
intruding the spring of the aether in the muscles by pressure ex

erted from the parts of the brain ; and it is hard to conceive how

so great force can be exercised amidst so tender matter as the

brain is ; and besides, why does not this aetherial spirit, being
subtile enough, and urged with so great force, go away through

the dura mater and skins of the muscle, or at least so much of

the other aether go out to make way for this which is crowded in ?

To take away these difficulties is a digression, but seeing the

I Isubject is a deserving one, shall not stick to tell you how

Ithink it may be done.                                                                      that

   " First, then, suppose there is such a spirit ; that
             ;

                                                                                       is,
the animal spirits are neither like the liquor, vapour, or gas, of
spirits of wine but of an aetherial nature, subtile enough to per

vade the animal juices as freely as the electric, or perhaps mag

netic, effluvia do glass. And to know how the coats of the brain,

nerves, and muscles, may become a convenient vessel to hold so

subtile a spirit, you may consider how liquors and spirits are

disposed to pervade, or not pervade, things on other accounts

than their subtilty water and oil pervade wood and stone, which
             ;
                 ;
quicksilver does not and quicksilver, metals, which water and

oil do not water and acid spirits pervade salts, which oil and
          ;

spirit of wine do not and oil and spirit of wine pervade sul
                    ;

phur, which water and acid spirits do not so some fluids, (as         ;
oil and water,) though their parts are in freedom enough to mix

with one another, yet by some secret principle of unsociableness

they keep asunder and some that are sociable may become un
          by
                           a;

                                                                   ;
sociable     adding third thing to one of them, as water to spirit

of wine by dissolving salt of tartar in it. The like unsociableness

may be in aatherial natures, as perhaps between the aethers in the

vortices of the sun and planets and the reason why air stands

398                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             APPENDIX,

rarer in the bores of small glass pipes, and aether in the pores of
bodies, may be, not want of subtilty, but sociabhness ; and on

this ground, if the aetherial vital spirit in a man be very sociable

to the marrow and juices, and unsociable to the coats of the

brain, nerves, and muscles, or to any thing lodged in the pores
of those coats, it may be contained thereby, notwithstanding its

snbtilty , especially if we suppose no great violence done to it to

squeeze it out, and that it may not be altogether so subtile as

the main body of aather, though subtile enough to pervade readily
the animal juices, and that as any of it is spent, it is continually

sup"plIined thbey   new  spirit from the heart.  this  spirit  may  be  used
                   next  place, for knowing how

for animal motion, you may consider how some things unsociable

are made sociable by the mediation of a third. Water, which

will not dissolve copper, will do it if the copper be melted with

sulphur. Aquafortis, which will not pervade gold, will do it by
addition of a little sal-ammoniac or spirit of salt. Lead will not

mix in melting with copper ; but if a little tin, or antimony, be
added, they mix readily, and part again of their own accord, if

the antimony be wasted by throwing saltpetre, or otherwise.
And so lead melted with silver quickly pervades and liquifies the

silver in a much less heat than is required to melt the silver

alone ; but if they be kept in the test till that little substance

that reconciled them be wasted or altered, they part again of
their own accord. And in like manner the aetherial animal spirit

in a man may be a mediator between the common aether, and

the muscular juices, to make them mix more freely ; and so by
sending a little of this spirit into any muscle, though so little as

to cause no sensible tension of the muscle by its own force, yet

by rendering the juices more sociable to the common external

aether, it may cause that aether to pervade the muscle of its own
accord in a moment more freely and more copiously than it

would otherwise do, and to recede again as freely, so soon as

Ithis mediator of sociableness is retracted ; whence, according

to what said above, will proceed the swelling or shrinking of

the muscle, and consequently the animal motion depending

the"reTohnu. s may therefore the soul, by determining this aetherial

NO. II.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             399

animal spirit or wind into this or that nerve, perhaps with as

much ease as air is moved in open spaces, cause all the motions

we see in animals ; for the making which motions strong, it is

not necessary that we should suppose the aather within the muscle

very much condensed, or rarefied, by this means, but only that

its spring is so very great that a little alteration of its density

shall cause a great alteration in the pressure. And what is said
of muscular motion may be applied to the motion of the heart,

only with this difference ; that the spirit is not sent thither as

into other muscles, but continually generated there by the fer

mentation of the juices with which its flesh is replenished, and
as it is generated, let out by starts into the brain, through some

convenient ductus, to perform those motions in other muscles by

Iinspiration, which it did in the heart by its generation. For

see not why the ferment in the heart may not raise as subtile a

spirit out of its juices, to cause those motions, as rubbing does

out of a glass to cause electric attraction, or burning out of fuel

to penetrate glass, as Mr. Boyle has shown, and calcine by cor

rosion metals melted therein.1

  I" Hitherto have been contemplating the nature of asther and
Iaetherial substances by their effects and uses, and now come to
Ijoin therewith the consideration of light.

   " In the fourth place, therefore, suppose light is neither aether,

nor its vibrating motion, but something of a different kind
propagated from lucid bodies. They that will may suppose it

an aggregate of various peripatetic qualities. Others may sup

pose it multitudes of unimaginable small and swift corpuscles

of various sizes springing from shining bodies at great distances

one after another, but yet without any sensible interval of time,

and continually urged forward by a principle of motion, which

in the beginning accelerates them, till the resistance of the aethe-

rial medium equal the force of that principle, much after the

manner that bodies let fall in water are accelerated till the

resistance of the water equals the force of gravity. God, who

gave animals motion beyond our understanding,  without
1

                                                                                          is,

                                                                                                                                                               a
doubt, able to implant other principles of motions in bodies

      Boyle's Essays of the strange suUilty, &c. of effluviums, &c., together with
discovery of the perviousness of glass to ponderable parts of flame.

400                        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                APPENDIX,

which we may understand as little. Some would readily grant

Ithis may be a spiritual one ; yet a mechanical one might be

shown, did not think it better to pass it by. But they that

like not this, may suppose light any other corporeal emanation,

or an impulse or motion of any other medium or aetherial spirit

diffused through the main body of aether, or what else they ima
gine proper for this purpose. To avoid dispute, and make this

Ihypothesis general, let every man here take his fancy ; only,

whatever light be, would suppose it consists of successive rays

differing from one another in contingent circumstances, as big

ness, force, or vigour, like as the sands on the shore, the waves

of the sea, the faces of men, and all other natural things of the

Isame kind differ, it being almost impossible for any sort of things

to be found without some contingent variety. And further,
would suppose it diverse from the vibrations of the asther, be
cause, (besides that were it those vibrations, it ought always to
verge copiously in crooked lines into the dark or quiescent me

Idium, destroying all shadows, and to comply readily with any

crooked pores or passages as sounds do,) see not how any su

perficies, (as the side of a glass prism on which the rays within are
incident at an angle of about forty degrees,) can be totally opake.

For the vibrations beating against the refracting confine of the

rarer and denser aether must needs make that pliant superficies
undulate, and those undulations will stir up and propagate

vibrations on the other side. And further, how light, incident

on very thin skins or plates of any transparent body, should for

Imany successive thicknesses of the plate in arithmetical progres

sion, be alternately reflected and transmitted, as find it
                         it

                             is

                              I it

                                         it

                                         II
                                                                                                               is,
puzzles me as much. For though the arithmetical progression

of those thicknesses, which reflect and transmit the rays alter

nately, argues that depends upon the number of vibrations

between the two superficies of the plate, whether the ray shall

be reflected or transmitted, yet cannot see how the number

should vary the case, be greater or less, whole or broken, un

less light be supposed something else than these vibrations.

Something indeed could fancy towards helping the two last

diff"icFulitfitehsl,y,but  nothing which     see not insufficient.  mutually
                             to be supposed  that light and nsther

NO. II.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                  401

act upon one another, aether in refracting light, and light in

warming aether, and that the densest aether acts most strongly.

IWhen a ray therefore moves through aether of uneven density,

  suppose it most pressed, urged, or acted upon by the medium

on that side towards the denser aether, and receives a continual

impulse or ply from that side to recede towards the rarer, and

so is accelerated if it move that way, or retarded if the contrary.
On this ground, if a ray move obliquely through such an un

                 it                             obliquely to those imaginary

                     is
                                           is,
evenly dense medium, (that
superficies which run through the equally dense parts of the

medium, and may be called the refracting superficies,) must
                                                a
                                                        a

                                                                it
be incurved, as  found to be by observation in water,1 whose

lower parts were made gradually more salt, and so more dense
than the upper. And this may be the ground of all refraction
and reflexion. For as the rarer air within small glass pipe,

and the denser without, are not distinguished by mere mathe

matical superficies, but have air between them at the orifice of

the pipe running through all intermediate degrees of density, so

suppose the refracting superficies of aether between unequally
a it I
       isdense mediums to be not mathematical one, but of some breadth,
                 a
the aether therein at the orifices of the pores of the solid body
                                ;
being of all intermediate degrees of density between the rarer

and denser aetherial mediums and the refraction conceive to
                                                if

                                                     I
proceed from the continual incurvation of the ray all the while

           passing the physical superficies. Now the motion of the

ray be supposed in this passage to be increased or diminished in

certain proportion, according to the difference of the densities

of the aetherial mediums, and the addition or detraction of the

motion be reckoned in the perpendicular from the refracting

superficies, as ought to be, the sines of incidence and refracit
tion will be proportional according to what Descartes has de

mo"nsTthraeterda.y, therefore, in passing out of the rarer medium into

the denser, inclines continually more and more towards paral

lelism with the refracting superficies and the differing den
           1

              I.

                                        it
                                                                                           ;
                                                           if
                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                         C
sities of the mediums be not so great, nor the incidence of the

ray so oblique as to make   parallel to that superficies before

        Mr. Hook's Micrographia where he speaks of the inflexion of rays.
VOL.

402             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             APPENDIX,

it gets through, then it goes through and is refracted ; but if

through the aforesaid causes the ray becomes parallel to that
superficies before it can get through, then it must turn back and
be reflected. Thus, for instance, it may be observed in a trian

gular glass prism o e f, that the rays a n that tend out of the

                             glass into air, do, by inclining them

                             more and more to the refracting

                             superficies, emerge more and more

                             obliquely till they be infinitely ob

                             lique, that in manner parallel
c
        e

                 b;

                          if

                             I
                                                                                is,
                                                                               a
                                                                                                is
                             to the superficies, which happens

                             ~L when the angle of incidence

about 40° and then they be a little more inclined, are all
reflected, as at a v\, becoming, suppose, parallel to the super

     they can get            through it.
                              the rarer medium,
     cd represent
ficies before                                         the denser,

  efhg" Let a
fd the space between them or refracting physical superficies,

in which the asther   is  of all intermediate degrees of density, from
the rarest aether at
                      c     to the densest atEF; a m  l         ray, a m
                         d
                                                            ca
its incident part, m n its incurvation by the refracting superfi

cies, and n its emergent part. Now, the ray A m be so much
     cl                      if
                                     if
incurved as to become at its emergence n, as nearly as may be,

parallel to d,          plain that that ray had been incident a
                it
                             must have become parallel to d before
                    is

                      f, it
little more obliquely,

it  had arrived at e the further side of the refracting super

NO. II.               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                              403

flcies, avid so could have got no nearer to E F, but must have

turned back by further incurvation, and been reflected as it is
represented at A /t v X : and the like would have happened if the
fdensity of the aether had further increased from e to p Q, so that
efhgp Q h g might be a denser medium than
                                                                    was supposed ;

for then the ray in passing from m to n, being so much incurved

as at n to become parallel to c d or p q, it's impossible it should

ever get nearer to p Q, but must at n begin by further incurva

tion to turn back, and so be reflected. And because if a refracted

ray (as nii) be made incident, the incident (Am) shall become

Ithe refracted ; and therefore if the ray a/j-v, after it is arrived

at v, where suppose it parallel to the refracting superficies,

should be reflected perpendicularly back, it would return back

in the line of incidence v a therefore going forward, must
                                          /j,                          it
                                                  ;
                                                    v

                                                         X,
go forward in such another line ir both cases being alike, and

so  be reflected  at  an angle equal to that of incidence.
                  be  the cause and manner of reflexion,
    " This may                                                         when  light

tends from the rarer towards the denser aether but to know how
                                                             ;

    should be reflected when tends from the denser towards the
it                                        it

            if
rarer, you are farther to consider, how fluids near their super

ficies are less pliant and yielding than in their more inward

parts, and formed into thin plates or shells, they become much

more stiff and tenacious than otherwise. Thus things which

readily fall in water, let fall upon bubble of water, they do
                      if

                             it,

                                                    a

                                                 if
not easily break through                  but are apt to slide down by the sides

of they be not too big and heavy. So two well-polished
    it,

      if

convex glasses, ground on very large spheres, be laid one upon
the other, the air between them easily recedes till they almost

touch, but then begins to resist so much that the weight of the

upper glass too little to bring them together, so as to make
          is
              is

                                       a
the black (mentioned in the other papers send you) appear
in the midst of the rings of colours. And the glasses be plain,
                                                             a

                                                              if I
though no broader than                    twopence,          man with his whole

strength not able to press all the air out from between Ihem,
so as to make them fully touch. You may observe also that

insects will walk upon water without wetting their feet, and the

water bearing them up also motes falling upon water will often
                it
                                       ;
lie long upon without being wetted. And so suppose aether
                                                                    I

404           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          APPENDIX,

in the confine of two mediums is less pliant and yielding than

in other places, and so much the less pliant by how much the

mediums differ more in density ; so that in passing out of denser
aether into rarer, when there remains but a very little of the denser

aether to be passed through, a ray finds more than ordinary diffi

culty to get through, and so great difficulty where the mediums

are of a very differing density as to be reflected by incurvation

after the manner described above, the parts of aether on the side

where they are less pliant and yielding, acting upon the ray

much after the manner that they would do were they denser

there than on the other side ; for the resistance of the medium

Iought to have the same effect on the ray from whatsoever cause

it arises. And this suppose may be the cause of the reflexion

of quicksilver and other metalline bodies. It must also concur

to increase the reflective virtue of the superficies when rays tend

out of the rarer medium into the denser ; and in that case there

fore the reflexion having a double cause ought to be stronger

than in the aether, as it is apparently. But in refraction this rigid

tenacity or unpliableness of the superficies need not be consi

dered, because so much as the ray is thereby bent in passing to

the most tenacious and rigid part of the superficies, so much is
it thereby unbent again in passing on from thence through the

next   parts   gradually    less tenacious.  some  superficies,  and  reflected
      Thus    may rays    be refracted by
   "

by others, be the medium they tend into denser or rarer. But
it remains further to be explained, how rays alike incident on

the same superficies, (suppose of crystal, glass, or water,) may

Ibe, at the same time, some refracted, others reflected ; and for

explaining this, suppose that the rays when they impinge on

the rigid resisting setherial superficies, as they are acted upon by

                          and cause vibrations in
so they react uponis it,                                         as stones
                                   it,

                                                                                           ;

                                                                               it,
                                                                                      it
thrown into water do in its surface and that these vibrations

are propagated everyway into both the rarer and denser me

diums, as the vibrations of air which cause sound are from a

stroke, but yet continue strongest where they began, and alter

nately contract and dilate the aether in that physical superficies.
For it's plain by the heat which light produces in bodies that

able to put their parts in motion, and much more to heat and

NO. II.                MFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                    405

put in motion the more tender aether ; and it's more probable
that it communicates motion to the gross parts of bodies by

the mediation of aether than immediately ; as, for instance, in
the inward parts of quicksilver, tin, silver, and other very opake

bodies, by generating vibrations that run through them, than

by striking the outward parts only without entering the body.

The shock of every single ray may generate many thousand

vibrations, and by sending them all over the body, move all the

parts, and that perhaps with more motion than it could move

one single part by an immediate stroke ; for the vibrations, by

shaking each particle backward and forward, may every time

                                                 a
                                                      a

                                                                                 it,
increase its motion, as a ringer does a bell by often pulling

and so at length move the particles to very great degree of

agitation, which neither the simple shock of ray, nor any other

motion in the aether, besides a vibrating one, could do. Thus in

air shut up in vessel, the motion of its parts caused by heat,
                       Ia
how violent soever, unable to move the bodies hung in witha is
                                                           if

                                                                 it
                                                                     it
either a     trembling or progressive motion but                                   air be put
          a                                      I;
into vibrating motion by beating a drum or two, shakes

glass windows, the whole body of man, and other massy things,
                                          aa
especially those of congruous tone yea, have observed                                                              a it
                                              ;

manifestly shake under my feet cellared free-stone floor of

large hall so as believe the immediate stroke of five hundred
             ;

drum-sticks could not have done, unless perhaps quickly suc

ceeding one another at equal intervals of time. iEtherial vibra

tions are therefore the best means by which such subtle agent
                                      it

                                                 a
                                                                     a
                                                                                a
as light can shake the gross particles of solid bodies to heat them.

And so supposing that light impinging on refracting or reflecting

aetherial superficies puts into vibrating motion, that physical

superficies being by the perpetual appulse of rays always kept

in vibrating motion, and the aether therein continually ex
it
                           it
     a
                                 by
           it
                                    I;
                   is
                                         if

                                                       a

                                                         it it

                                                                     is is

                                                                      it

                                                                                                                ;
panded and compressed turns                   ray of light impinge upon

while                  much compressed, suppose            then too dense

and stiff to let the ray pass through, and so reflects                                                             but the

rays that impinge on at other times, when                  either expanded

by the interval of two vibrations, or not too much compressed

and    condensed,      go  through, and   are refracted.   reflexions                                              in all
    "  These may       be  the causes of  refractions and

406              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOX.                                 APPENDIX,

cases, but for understanding how they come to be so regular,
it's further to be considered, that, as in a heap of sand, although

the surface be rugged, yet if water be poured on it to fill its

pores, the water, so soon as its pores are filled, will evenly over

spread the surface, and so much the more evenly as the sand is

Ifiner ; so, although the surface of all bodies, even the most

polished, be rugged, as conceive, yet when that ruggedness is

not too gross and coarse, the refracting aetherial superficies may

evenly overspread it. In polishing glass or metal, it is not to

be imagined that sand, putty, or other fretting powders should
wear the surface so regularly as to make the front of every par
ticle exactly plane, and all those planes look the same way, as
they ought to do in well-polished bodies, were reflexion per

formed by their parts ; but, that those fretting powders should

wear the bodies first to a coarse ruggedness, such as is sensible,

and then to a finer and finer ruggedness, till it be so fine that

the aetherial superficies evenly overspreads                    it,  and so makes the

body put on the appearance of a polish,                     is       very natural and
                                                                a

intelligible supposition. So in fluids                  it  is  not well to be con

ceived that the surfaces of their parts should be all plain, and

the planes of the superficial parts always kept looking all the
same way, notwithstanding that they are in perpetual motion,
and yet without these two suppositions, the superficies of fluids

could not be so regularly reflexive as they are, were the reflexion

doneI          the parts themselves, and not by an aetherial superficies

eve"nFlyurothveerrs,prceoandcienrgnintgheit byfluid.    motion  of light,  it  might be
                                           the regular

suspected whether the various vibrations of the fluid through

which passes may not much disturb                       it           but that suspicion

suppose will vanisha                                        ;
                        by
                                                           if
                                           considering, that at any time the

foremost part of an oblique wave begin to turn awry, the
                                                                     it
                                                                       it
hindermost part by contrary action must soon set straight

aga"inL.astly, because without doubt there are in every transpaI
rent body pores of various sizes, and said that aether stands at
the greatest rarity in the smallest pores, hence the aether in every
pore should be of a differing rarity, and so light be refracted in

its passage out of every pore into the next, which would cause

NO. II.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           407

a great confusion, and spoil the body's transparency ; but, con
sidering that the aether in all dense bodies is agitated by conti

nual vibrations, and these vibrations cannot be performed without
forcing the parts of aether forward and backward from one pore

to another by a kind of tremor, so that the aether which one mo

ment is in a great pore, is the next moment forced into a less ;
and, on the contrary, this must evenly spread the aether into all

the pores not exceeding some certain bigness, suppose the breadth

of a vibration, and so make it of an even density throughout

Ithe transparent body, agreeable to the middle sort of pores.

But where the pores exceed a certain bigness, suppose the

aether suits its density to the bigness of the pore or to the me

dium within and so being of divers density from the aether
              it,                         a
that surrounds    it,  refracts, or reflects light in its superficies,
                                             ;I
and so makes the body where many such interstices are, appear

opa"keT.hus much of refraction, reflexion, transparency, and opa
city --and now to explain colours.
;                                                suppose that as bodies of

various sizes, densities, or tensions, do by percussion or other
action, excite sounds of various tones, and consequently vibra

tions in the air of various bignesses so, when the rays of light,
by impinging on the stiff refracting superficies, excite vibrations

in the aether, those rays, whatever they be, as they happen to
differ in magnitude, strength, or vigour, excite vibrations of

various bignesses the biggest, strongest, or most potent rays,
the largest vibrations, and others shorter according to their
bigness, strength, or power and therefore the ends of the capil-
                ;
                                       ;

lamenta of the optic nerve, which front or face the retina, being

such refracting superficies, when the rays impinge upon them,

they must there excite these vibrations which vibrations (like;
those of sound in trumpet) will run along the aqueous pores
                       a

or crystalline pith of the capillamenta, through the optic nerves

into the sensorium, (which light itself cannot do,) and there,
suppose, affect the sense with various colours, according to their
                                                    ;
bigness and mixture: the biggest with the strongest colours,
                                                        ;I
reds and yellows the least with the weakest, blues and violets
                ;

                                  a
the middle with green, and confusion of all, with white much

after the manner that in the sense of hearing nature makes use

408  WFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

of aerial vibrations of several bignesses, to generate sounds of
divers tones ; for the analogy of nature is to be observed. And

further, as the harmony and discord of sounds proceed from the
proportions of the aerial vibrations, so may the harmony of
some colours, as of a golden and blue, and the discord of others,
as of red and blue, proceed from the proportions of the aetherial.
And possibly colour may be distinguished into its principal de

grees : red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and deep violet,

--on the same ground that sound within an eighth is graduated

into tones. For, some years past, the prismatic colours, being

Iin a well-darkened room, cast perpendicularly upon a paper

about two-and-twenty foot distant from the prism, desired a
friend to draw with a pencil lines across the image or pillar of

colours, where every one of the seven aforenamed colours was
most full and brisk, and also where he judged the truest confines

Iof them to be, whilst held the paper so that the said image
Imight fall within a certain compass marked on it. And this
Idid, partly because my own eyes are not very critical in distin

guishing colours, partly because another to whom had not

communicated my thoughts about this matter could have no
thing but his eyes to determine his fancy in making those marks.
This observation we repeated divers times, both in the same and

divers days, to see how the marks on several papers would agree ;
and comparing the observations, though the just confines of the
colours are hard to be assigned, because they passed into one
another by insensible gradation, yet the differences of the obser

vations were but little, especially towards the red end; and
taking means between those differences that were, the length of
the image (reckoned not by the distance of the verges of the
semicircular ends, but by the distance of the centres of those

semicircles, or length of the straight sides, as it ought to be)
was divided in about the same proportion that a string is be
tween the end and the middle to sound the tones in an eighth.

You will understand me best by viewing the annexed figure, in

which a b and c d represent the straight sides about ten inches

long, a p c and btd the semicircular ends, x and Y the centres

of those semicircles, x z the length of a musical string double to
x y, and divided between x and y so as to sound the tones ex

NO. II.          LIFE OF SIE ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 409

                                  x h the half, x and
pressed  at  the side, (that;)                                     the third
             the fifth part, is,
part, y  k                                                   g

                                                          ig

                                                                                        G
                                  y m the eighth part, and e the
ninth part of x y and the intervals between these divisions

                 A ;g d
                     G

                                        I

                                                               ft

                                                          4
                 -- BP--           a
                            « II             -- H ---

                                  O

express the spaces which the colours written there took up,
every colour being most briskly specific in the middle of those
spaces. Now for the cause of these and such like colours made

by refraction, the biggest or strongest rays must penetrate the

refracting superficies more freely and easily than the weaker,
and so be less turned awry        by
                                      it,
                                                   is

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                    if

                                                                                            a is
                                  that less refracted which

as much as to say, the rays which make red are least refrangible,
those which make blue, or violet, most refrangible, and others

otherwise refrangible according to their colour. Whence the
rays which come promiscuously from the sun be refracted by
prism, as in the aforesaid experiment, those of several sorts

being variously refracted, must go to several places on an oppo
site paper or wall, and so parted, exhibit every one their own

colours, which they could not do while blended together. And

because refraction only severs them, and changes not the bigness
or strength of the ray, thence    it        that after they are once well-

                                       is,

severed, refraction cannot make any further changes in their
colour. On this ground may all the phaenomena of refractions

be understood."

             Letteb from Newton to Eobeet Boyle.

" Honoured Sir, -- have so long deferred to send you my
                     I

                          by

                                 is, I
                                         I
                                                          I
thoughts about the physical qualities we speak of, that did not

esteem myself obliged             promise, think should be ashamed

to send them at all. The truth              my notions about things of

410  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             APPENDIX,

Ithis kind are so indigested, that am not well satisfied myself
I Iin them ; and what am not satisfied in, can scarce esteem fit

Ito be communicated to others ; especially in natural philosophy,

where there is no end of fancying. But because am indebted

to you, and yesterday met with a friend, Mr. Maulyverer, who

Itold me he was going to London, and intended to give you the

trouble of a visit, could not forbear to take the opportunity of

con"veItyinbgeintghiosntloy  you by him.     of qualities  which you desire of
                             an explication
Ime, shall set down my apprehensions in the form of suppo
Isitions as follows. And first, suppose, that there is diffused

through all places an aetherial substance, capable of contraction

and dilatation, strongly elastic, and, in a word, much like air in

Iall "re2s.pectssu, ppboustefathr ims oareethesrubpteilrev.ades all gross bodies, but yet so

Ias to stand rarer in their pores than in free spaces, and so much

the rarer, as their pores are less ; and this suppose (with
others) to be the cause why light incident on those bodies is

refracted towards the perpendicular ; why two well-polished
metals cohere in a receiver exhausted of air; why $ stands

sometimes up to the top of a glass pipe, though much higher

than thirty inches ; and one of the main causes why the parts
of all bodies cohere ; also the cause of filtration, and of the

Irising of water in small glass pipes above the surface of the stag

nating water they are dipped into ; for suspect the aether may

stand rarer, not only in the insensible pores of bodies, but even

in the very sensible cavities of those pipes ; and the same prin

ciple may cause menstruums to pervade with violence the pores
of the bodies they dissolve, the surrounding aether, as well as the

Iatm"o3s.pherseu,ppporseessitnhge  them   together.      bodies, and the  denser
                                   rarer  aether within

without them, not to be terminated in a mathematical superfi

cies, but to grow gradually into one another ; the external aether

beginning to grow rarer, and the internal to grow denser, at

some little distance from the superficies of the body, and running

through all intermediate degrees of density in the intermediate

spaces ; and this may be the cause why light, in Grimaldo's

experiment, passing by the edge of a knife, or other opake body,

NO. II.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              411

is turned aside, and as it were refracted, and by that refraction
                                    abcd be
makes    several colours.  efLgeht               a dense                           body, whether
opake    or transparent,            the outside                                   uniform aether,
                                                  of the

which is within  K M the inside of the uniform aether, which
is

              it

                           ;

                    iit,

                                     L
                                                                              is
efghwithout
                 and conceive the aether, which between

                                    Fig.
                           is
                                 b

                                                 1.

                                                                                a
and k m, to run through all intermediate degrees of density
4. i il
between that of the two uniform aethers on either side. This
     IL
        Ibeing supposed, the rays of the sun SB, sk, which pass by the

edge of this body between           and K, ought in their passage

through the unequally dense aether there, to receive ply from
the denser aether, which on that side towards k, and that the

more by how much they pass nearer to the body, and thereby
to be scattered through the space pqrst,
                                                 as                               blyimeitxspeerifegnche
they are found to be. Now the space between      the

and k m,         shall call the space of the aether's graduated

rar"ity. When two bodies moving towards one another come near

together, suppose the aether between them to grow rarer than

before, and the spaces of its graduated rarity to extend further
from the superficies of the bodies towards one another and this,
                                                                                  ;
by reason that the aether cannot move and play up and down so
                                                                                    it
freely in the straight passage between the bodies, as could

before they came so near together thus,          is ifthe space of the
                                          :

aether's graduated rarity reach from the body abcdfe only to
the distance ghlmks, when no other body near yet may
                                                                                  it,

412  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                      APPENDIX,

Iit reach further, as to I K, when another body nopq approaches ;

and as the other body approaches more and more, suppose the

I Iaether between them will grow rarer and rarer. These supposi

tions have so described, as if thought the spaces of graduated

     ti         u             p           M
         A       jr           0        J)

            B                       C

     EF
                                                 R

                     Fig. 2.

ielmaether had precise limits, as is expressed at   in the first
gibs I Ifigure, and
            in the second ; for thus thought could
Ibetter express myself. But really do not think they have such

precise limits, but rather decay insensibly, and, in so decaying,

extend to a much greater distance than can easily be believed

or "ne5e.dNboew,sufrpopmosethde. fourth supposition it follows, that when two

bodies approaching one another come so near together as to

make the aether between them begin to rarefy, they will begin to

have a reluctance from being brought nearer together, and an

endeavour to recede from one another ; which reluctance and
endeavour will increase as they come nearer together, because

thereby they cause the interjacent aether to rarefy more and

more. But at length, when they come so near together that the
excess of pressure of the external aether which surrounds the

bodies, above that of the rarefied aether, which is between them,

is so great as to overcome the reluctance which the bodies have

from being brought together ; then will that excess of pressure
drive them with violence together, and make them adhere

strongly to one another, as was said in the second supposition.
For instance, in the second figure, when the bodies e d and N p

NO. II.                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             413

are so near together that the spaces of the tether's graduated

rarity begin to reach to one another, and meet in the line i k,

the aether between them will have suffered much rarefaction,
which rarefaction requires much force, that much pressing of

the bodies together and the endeavour which the aether between
                       ;

                                                                        is,

them has to return to its former natural state of condensation,
will cause the bodies to have an endeavour of receding from one

another. But, on the other hand, to counterpoise this endea
vour, there will not yet be any excess of density of the aether

which surrounds the bodies, above that of the aether which
                       i
                                   a if

                                                        i

                                                                                     is
between them at the line K. But the bodies come nearer

together, so as to make the aether in the mid- way line k grow

rarer than the surrounding aether, there will arise from the excess
of density of the surrounding aether compressure of the bodies

towards one another, which, when by the nearer approach of the

bodies becomes so great as to overcome the aforesaid endeavour

the bodies have to recede from one another, they will then go
         if it
towards one another and adhere together. And, on the conit

trary, any power force them asunder to that distance, whereis

the endeavour to recede begins to overcome the endeavour to

accede, they will again leap from one another. Now hence
                                ;
conceive               chiefly that fly walks on water without wetting
                       if a        I
her feet, and consequently without touching the water; that;
                                                if I
two polished pieces of glass are not without pressure brought to

contact, no, not though the one be plain, the other a little con

vex that the particles of dust cannot by pressing be made to
;

cohere, as they would do, they did but fully touch that the

particles of tinging substances and salts dissolved in water do

not of their own accord concrete and fall to the bottom, but

diffuse themselves all over the liquor, and expand still more

you add more liquor to them. Also, that the particles of vapours,

exhalations, and air do stand at distance from one another,
                             a

and endeavour to recede as far from one another as the pressure

of the incumbent atmosphere will let them for conceive the

confused mass of vapours, air, and exhalations which we call

the atmosphere, to be nothing else but the particles of all sorts

of bodies, of which the earth consists, separated from one another,

and kept at distance,  by  the said principle.
          a

414  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                               APPENDIX,

" From these principles the actions of menstruums upon

bodies may be thus explained : suppose any tinging body, as

cochineal or logwood be put into water ; so soon as the water

sinks into its pores and wets on all sides any particle which

adheres to the body only by the principle in the second suppo

sition, it takes off, or at least much diminishes, the efficacy of
that principle to hold the particle to the body, because it makes

the aether on all sides the particle to be of a more uniform den

sity than before. And then the particle being shaken off by any

little motion, floats in the water, and with many such others

makes a tincture ; which tincture will be of some lively colour,

if the particles be all of the same size and density ; otherwise of

a dirty one. For the colours of all natural bodies whatever

seem to depend on nothing but the various sizes and densities
Iof their particles, as think you have seen described by me more
Ifat large in another paper.
                              the particles be very small (as are

those of salts, vitriols, and gums) they are transparent ; and as

they are supposed bigger and bigger, they put on these colours

in order, black, white, yellow, red ; violet, blue, pale green,

yellow, orange, red ; purple, blue, green, yellow, orange, red,

&c., as it is discerned by the colours, which appear at the several

thicknesses of very thin plates of transparent bodies. Whence,

to know the causes of the changes of colours, which are often
made by the mixtures of several liquors, it is to be considered

how the particles of any tincture may have their size or density

altered by the infusion of another liquor. When any metal is

put into common water, the water cannot enter into its pores,

to act on it and dissolve it. Not that water consists of too gross

parts for this purpose, but because it is unsociable to metal.
For there is a certain secret principle in nature, by which liquors

are sociable to some things and unsociable to others ; thus water

will not mix with oil, but readily with spirit of wine, or with

Isalts ; it sinks also into wood, which quicksilver will not ; but

quicksilver sinks into metals, which, as said, water will not.
So aquafortis dissolves D, not © ; aqua regis ©, not &c. But
a
                           is
                                                                           a

                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                    J),
liquor, which of itself unsociable to body, may, by the mix

ture of a convenient mediator, be made sociable so molten lead,

which alone will not mix with copper, or with regulus of Mars,

NO. II.                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       415

by the addition of tin is made to mix with either. And water,
by the mediation of saline spirits, will mix with metal. Now

when any metal is put in water impregnated with such spirits,

as into aquafortis, aqua regis, spirit of vitriol, or the like, the

particles of the spirits, as they, in floating in the water, strike on
the metal, will by their sociableness enter into its pores and

gather round its outside particles, and by advantage of the conti

nual tremor the particles of the metal are in, hitch themselves in

by degrees between those particles and the body, and loosen

them from it ; and the water entering into the pores together
with the saline spirits, the particles of the metal will be thereby

still more loosed, so as by that motion the solution puts them
into, to be easily shaken off, and made to float in the water :

the saline particles still encompassing the metallic

ones as a coat or shell does a kernel, after the man

Iner expressed in the annexed figure, in which figure
   have made the particles round, though they may
                       of any
Ifbe"cubicianlt,o  or            other shape.  thus  made  be  poured   fio. 3.
                    a  solution
                                   of metal                            a liquor

abounding with particles, to which the former saline particles

are more sociable than to the particles of the metal, (suppose

with particles of salt of tartar,) then so soon as they strike on
one another in the liquor, the saline particles will adhere to those

more firmly than to the metalline ones, and by degrees be

wrought off from those to enclose these. Suppose a a metalline
particle, inclosed with saline ones of spirit of nitre, e a particle

of salt of tartar, contiguous to two of the particles of spirit of

nitre, b and c ; and suppose the particle e is impelled by any

motion towards d, so as to roll about the particle c

till it touch the particle d, the particle & adhering
more firmly to e than to A, will be forced off from
a ; and by the same means the particle e, as it

rolls about a, will tear off the rest of the saline
particles from a one after another, till it has got
them all, or almost all, about itself. And when

the metallic particles are thus divested of the ni

trous ones, which, as a mediator between them and the water,

held them floating in            it,  the alcalizate ones, crowding for the

     416             LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                                   APPENDIX,

     room the metallic ones took up before, will press these towards

     one another, and make them come more easily together : so that

     by the motion they continually have in the water, they shall be

     made to strike on one another ; and then, by means of the prin
     ciple in the second supposition, they will cohere and grow into

     clusters, and fall down by their weight to the bottom, which is
     called precipitation. In the solution of metals, when a particle

     is loosing from the body, so soon as it gets to that distance from

a it,  where the principle of receding described in the fourth and

     fifth supposition begins to overcome the principle of acceding,

     described in the second supposition, the receding of the particle

     will be thereby accelerated so that the particle shall, as were,
                                          ;                                            it, it

                                                      it

                                                       is if
     with violence leap from the body, and putting the liquor into a

     brisk agitation, beget and promote that heat we often find to be

     caused in solutions of metals. And any particle happen to

     leap off thus from the body, before                      surrounded with water,

     or to leap off with that smartness as to get loose from the water,

     the water, by the principle in the fourth and fifth suppositions,

     will be kept off from the particle, and stand round about like

     a spherically hollow arch, not being able to come to full con
                                                                                 is a
tact with any more and several of these particles afterwards
          it                           ;

                  a
     gathering into cluster, so as by the same principle to stand at

     distance from one another, without any water between them,

     will compose bubble. Whence suppose                                         that in brisk
                a                         if

     solutions there usually happens an ebullition. This one wayI
                                                        I I it
     of transmuting gross compact substance into aerial ones. An
                                                                        it, is,
                is
                     by

                                    ;
     other way     heat for as fast as the motion of heat can shake

     off the particles of water from the surface of those particles,

     by the said principle, will float up and down in the air, at dis
                                                                                       is,
     tance both from one another, and from the particles of air, and                      a

     make that substance we call vapour. Thus suppose                            it        when

     the particles of body are very small, (as suppose those ofa

     water are,) so that the action of heat alone may be sufficient to

shake them asunder. But the particles be much larger, they

     then require the greater force of dissolving menstruums to se

     parate them, unless by any means the particles can be first

     broken into smaller ones. For the most fixed bodies, even gold

     itself, some have said, will become volatile, only by breaking

HO. II.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        417

their parts smaller. Thus may the volatility and fixedness of
bodies depend on the different sizes of their parts. And on the

same difference of size may depend the more or less permanency

of aerial substances, in their state of

rarefaction. To understand this, let

fus suppose a b c d to be a large piece

of any metal, e g h the limit of the

Ifinterior uniform tether, and k a part

of the metal at the superficies ab.

this part or particle k be so little that
it reaches not to the limit ef, it is

plain that the aether at its centre must be less rare than if the

particle were greater ; for were it greater, its centre would be

further from the superficies ab, that in place where the aether
                             ;
                                          ;

                                           is
                                                 is,
                                                            a
(by supposition)         rarer the less the particle K therefore, the
             a
denser the aether at its centre because its centre comes nearer
              if
to the edge ab, where the aether denser than within the limit
efgh. And the particle were divided from the body, andit is

removed to distance from     it,                                     still denser,
                                          it

                                                       by
                                                                 is
                             where the aether
Ifthe aether within
                           must proportionally grow denser.          you

consider this, you may apprehend how,                          diminishing the

particle, the rarity of the aether within will be diminished, till

between the density of the aether without, and the density of the

aether within there be little difference that                     till the cause
             a                           ;

               it,                                    is,

be almost taken away, which should keep this and other such
particles at distance from one another. For that cause ex

plained in the fourth and fifth suppositions, was the excess of

density of the external aether above that of the internal. This

may be the reason then why the small particles of vapours easily

come together, and are reduced back into water, unless the heat,

which keeps them in agitation, be so great as to dissipate them

as fast as they come together but the grosser particles of exhal
                             ;

                                              is
ations raised by fermentation keep their aerial form more obsti

nately, because the aether within them rarer.
    " Nor does the size only, but the density of the particles also,

conduce to the permanency of aerial substances for the excess
                                                               ;

of density of the aether without such particles above that of the

aether within them       is  ;still greater which has made me some-
   vol.                                                                 2d
         i.

418           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              APPENDIX,

times think that the true permanent air may be of a metallic

original ; the particles of no substances being more dense than

Ithose of metals. This, think, is also favoured by experience,
I Ifor remember once read in the Philosophical Transactions,

how M. Huygens at Paris, found that the air made by dissolving

salt of tartar would in two or three days' time condense and fall

down again, but the air made by dissolving a metal continued
Ifwithout condensing or relenting in the least.
                                                                                  you consider

then, how by the continual fermentations made in the bowels of

the earth there are aerial substances raised out of all kinds of

bodies, all which together make the atmosphere, and that of all
these the metallic are the most permanent, you will not perhaps

think it absurd, that the most permanent part of the atmosphere,

which is the true air, should be constituted of these, especially

since they are the heaviest of all other, and so must subside to

the lower parts of the atmosphere and float upon the surface of

Ithe earth, and buoy up the lighter exhalations and vapours to

float in greatest plenty above them. Thus, say, it ought to be

with the metallic exhalations raised in the bowels of the earth

by the action of acid menstruums, and thus it is with the true

permanent air ; for this, as in reason it ought to be esteemed

the most ponderous part of the atmosphere, because the lowest,
so it betrays its ponderosity by making vapours ascend readily

it,
     by
                                                                 is
                                                                                 by
in sustaining mists and clouds of snow, and buoying up

gross and ponderous smoke. The air also the most gross

unactive part of the atmosphere, affording living things no

              deprived of the more tender exhalations and
Inourishment,
        I if

                      it

                 I;
                                                    ?
                                                                             ;
                                                         it
                                                                              is
spirits that float in  and what more unactive and remote from

nourishment than metallic bodies

   " shall set down one conjecture more, which came into my

mind now as was writing this letter                                               about the cause of

gravity. For this end will suppose aether to consist of parts

differing from one another in subtilty by indefinite degrees that
                                                                                     ;
in the pores of bodies there less of the grosser aether, in pro                                  ;
                       is
                                      is

                                                    ;
portion to the finer, than in open spaces and consequently, that

in the great body of the earth there much less of the grosser

rether, in proportion to the finer, than in the regions of the air

and that yet the grosser tether in the air affects the upper regions

NO. III.              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                      419

of the earth, and the finer asther in the earth the lower regions

of the air, in such a manner, that from the top of the air to the

surface of the earth, and again from the surface of the earth to

the centre thereof, the asther is insensibly finer and finer. Ima

gine now any body suspended in the air, or lying on the earth,

and the aether being by the hypothesis grosser in the pores,

which are in the upper parts of the body, than in those which

are in its lower parts, and that grosser aather being less apt to be

lodged in those pores than the finer aether below, it will endea

vour to get out and give way to the finer aether below, which

cannot be, without the bodies descending to make room above

for"itFrtoomgo  out   into.     gradual  subtilty of  the  parts of  asther
                this  supposed

some things above might be further illustrated and made more

intelligible ; but by what has been said, you will easily discern

I Iwhether in these conjectures there be any degree of probability,

which is all aim at. For my own part, have so little fancy

to things of this nature, that had not your encouragement moved

                should never, think, have thus far set pen to paper
me to     iIt,

                                 is

                         I
                                       I
about them. What amiss, therefore, hope you will the more

easily pardon in                         servant  an"dIshaoancouNreerw, ton.
                  " Your most humble

" Cambridge. Feb. 28, 1678-9."

420                            LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.                                         APPENDIX,

                                                   No. III.

                                   (Referred to in page 218.)

     The following is an accurate copy of the large drawing of a

sheep's eye, as mentioned in the text, and of the manuscript

axtywhich                          it.
                                       talis est
   " I.
               accompanied                         ut parallel,    (ad medium                     inter
               Ellipsis

vitrum et aquam medium refractos projiciat in
     2.
         s
            z

             \
                                                                                             z.)
               est fere as.

     5. 4. 3.  Retina; superficies piano                    duplo  magis                          quam

superficies utravis crystalline.

               Crystallini superficies anterior posteriore plenius est.

               Convexitatis cornea; et aranea; fere commune centrum

est

               Centrum antcrioris aranea; istis aliquanto inferior habetur.
2
    R 6.

          Z

   j
               CSt A E.

a                           25 18  (:              proxime
                            :                                )
  t                                    :
                                          7
        :                                     :
                                                5
     tx

                      :
                         :

          NO. III.                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        421

          E B : tt£::83 : 101 (: :23: 28:: 9 : 1 1 pr.)
          ar: fv e :
                    |tt0 : : 9 : 8.
                                 13 12.1
                          :::   :
                                   :
          A B.
          T     AEE

             :

Ii A      E           B.

             :

          A R.:B
          K A R.
          s
            commune centrum curvatura? tunicarum ad:

                                                                                         a,        et R.
                                                                                             a b,
            A                 13 21.

          IB: ie:             19:36 (::
          :lr

                      :

                          :                1       fere.)
                                              :

                                                2

FFfFF     oo pp     e.

                        c.: : : :f
                       w.
                      H.o vo
             H H 0.
          :
             The dimensions of
                                              this  figure,     taken                from          sheep's eye,
          are as followeth --
                                      :

                                              By Experiment

er        a    =        975.
               =       1025.
    Ss B sfi8  =
               =           52.
          A    =

                          60
                          16.
          ay -- 686.

vf        a/3==           196
     o     w=             429.
                          530.
          ho=             248.

          The angle fao about 160 degrees.                      go = 265 and                              = 350,
          vow                                                    = 307, are the
                    is      circle     whose radius        i is                      a, £ ;               radii of
             ib         a 298,                                                           b, R
                      =               r = 565, and             F
                                i                                                          r,

                                       a                                                    i
                                          y,
                                                                                                    a
               spheres so much concave or convex as the surfaces of the
                                              B
                                                     <f>,                                  7r, and of the
               horny tunic a a> of the retina                                                   f. Lastly,

               exterior        9a6ra8ne=a   vfw, at their       vertices
                                           arcui Ayr.
               a aa =

                                           This obviously mistake.
                                           '
                                                        is
                                                                                  a

422               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    APPENDIX,

                          By Deduction.

at = 1350      =  2 a q,  and  xT    =  972.
eepr ==        =  2mB,    and  /j,B  =  993.
         816   =          and  $6    = 542.
And az            2 f k,
         4=81                        lines at,
               1143. The said                   x y, ek,  &c,  being  the
right and transverse axes of the ellipses AaXrY y, e^rtt,
Iand F^Pffl, and z the exterior focus of a a r y.

       was prevented by an accident from taking the distance

Iof the crystalline humour from the horny tunic, which would

gladly have done to have had the conformity of all the parts

f= =one to another in one and the same eye ; but by all circum
stances 'tis near the truth to make ah 340, or a                      159.
I have made the same centre i to both the horny and network
Itunic, they happening to be very near together. But am apt
to suspect that it is somewhat too remote from the cornea by

reason of the difficulty of measuring the least convexity of the

cornea, or the greatest   mcaokneveixaity=o3f 4t4h,e  irebti=na.571P, earhnadpsthiet
may not be amiss to

point h (since it is so near it) coincident with i."

NO IV.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   423

                       No. IV.

                       {Referred to in page 221.)

        LETTER FROM NEWTON TO DR. WILLIAM BR1GgS.1

        " For His Hon* ffriend Dr W« Briggs.

    " Though I am of all men grown y» most shy of setting pen

to paper about any thing that may lead into disputes yet yor

Ifriendship overcomes me so far as y' shall set down my suspi
Icions about yor Theory, yet on this condition, that if can write
Ibut plain enough to make you understand me, may leave all
Ito yor use wthout pressing it further on. For designe not to

confute or convince you but only to present & submit my thoughts

to  yor consideration    & judgment.

    " First then it    seems not necessary  that the bending of ye

nerves in ye Thalamus opticus should cause a differing tension

Ifof ye ffibres. ffor those wch have ye further way about, will be
apt by nature to grow the longer.           ye arm of a tree be grown

bent it follows not that the fibres on ye elbow are more stretcht

then those on the concave side, but that they are longer. And
if a straight arm of a tree be bent by force for some time, the

fibres on ye elbow w01* were at first on ye stretch will by degrees
grow longer & longer till at length the arm stand of it's self in

ye bended figure it was at first by force put into, that is till ye

fibres on ye elbow be grown as much longer then y8 rest as they

go further about, & so have but the same degree of tension wlh

them. The observation is ordinary in twisted Codling hedges,

fruit trees nailed up against a wall &c. And ye younger & more
tender a tree is the sooner will it stand bent. How much more

therefore ought it to be so in that most tender substance of ye

Optick nerves wch grew bent from ye very beginning ? And

whether if those nerves were carefully cut out of y8 brain &

outward coat & put into brine made as neare as could be of the

        1 Edleston's Correspondence, &c, p. 265.

424                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  APPENDIX,

same specific gravity           y8 nerves, they would unbend or ex

actly keep the same bent they had in ye brain may be worth

considering, ffor though ye strength of a single fibre upon the

stretch be inconsiderably little, yet all together ought to have as

much strength to unbend ye nerve, as would suffice by outward

application of ye hand to bend a straight nerve of ye same thick

nes"s,   the dura Mater being   taken off.         that  an  object                                         whe
        Mr Sheldrake further    suggests wittily

                                                   it,               or directly
                                                                & it,
ther the axis opticus be directed above under

towards       it,  appears in all cases alike as to figure colour ex

cepting that in 3d case tis distincter, wch proceeds not fromy8

   frame of nerves but from distinctness of picture made
in Retina in that case. But in first case where vision
y8                 y8 & ye             ye                y8                                                 is
      ye                                       ye
                                                              by
made by            fibres above second where tis made                  those be
          if                    a                                   ye
              ye                    &
low, the object appearing alike he thinks argues that the
                                       ye          it

                                         I:
fibres above below are of same constitution              &   tension, or

at least they be of differing tension, that that tension has

no effect on mode of vision, but understand you are already

ma"deItacmqauyainbteedfurwththerhiscotnhsoiduegrhetds. that the cause of an objects

appearing one to both eyes not its appearing of same colour
                                & is                     ye
                                          y8 ye                      ye y8
form & bigness to both, but in same situation or place. Dis

tort one eye & you will see                    coincident images of object

divide from one another                one of them remove from other

upwards downwards or sideways to a greater or less distance

according as distortionye       is     when the eyes are let return to

                                    ;

                                     &
                                           &
their natural posture the two images advance towards one an

Ifother till they become coincident                by that coincidence appear

but one.           we would then know why they appear but one, we

must e{n}quire why they appear in one
                            ye

                                                               &

                                                                                          ye

                                                                               &
                                                                                       &

                                                                                 if
                                                         same place

we would know cause of that we must enquire why in other

cases they appear in divers places variously situate                    distant

one from another, ffor that wch can make their distance greater

or less can make                none at all. Consider whats the cause of
                   ye
                          ye

                          ye it
                                   &

                                                           is
                                                                         ye

                                                                       is

                                                                                                     y8
                                                                                                        ye

                                                                                & : ye
their being in same altitude when one directly to right

hand other to left what of their being in same coastye

or point of compas, when one directly over other these

two causes joyned will make them in same altitude                                                           coast

NO. IV.  LIFE OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON.                       425

at once that is in ye same place. The cause of situations is

therefore to be enquired into. Now for finding out this ye

analogy will stand between ye situations of sounds & the situa
tions of visible things, if we will compare these two senses.
IBut the situations of sounds depend not on their tones.
                                                          can
Ijudge from whence an echo or other sound comes tho see not
ye sounding body, & this judgment depends not at all on y"
Itone.
         judge it not from east because acute, from west because
Igrave: but be ye tone what it will judge it from hence or
Ithence by some other principle. And by that principle am

apt to think a blind man may distinguish unisons one from

another when ye one is on his right hand ye other on his left.
And were our ears as good & accurate at distinguishing ye

Icoasts of audibles as our eyes are at distinguishing ye coasts of

visibles conceive we should judge no two sounds the same for

being unisons unless they came so exactly from ye same coast as

not to vary from one another a sensible point in situation to any

side. Suppose then you had to do with one of so accurate an

ear in distinguishing ye situation of sounds, how would you
deale with him ? Would you tell him that you heard all unisons

as but one sound ? He would tell you he had a better ear then

so. He accounted no sounds ye same wch differed in situation :

& if your eyes were no better at ye situation of things then your

ears, you would perhaps think all objects ye same, wch were of
ye same colour. But for his part he found y* ye like tension of

strings & other sounding bodies did not make sounds one, but

only of ye same tone : & therefore not allowing the supposition
that it does make them one, the inference from thence that ye

like tension of ye optick fibres made ye object to ye two eyes

appeare one, he did not think himself obliged to admit. As he

found y' tones depended on those tensions so perhaps might

colours, but the situation of audibles depended not on those

tensions, & therefore if the two senses hold analogy with one
another, that of visibles does not, & consequently the union of

visibles as well as audibles which depends on the agreement of

situation as well as of colour or tone must have some other

cau"seB. ut to leave this imaginary disputant, let us now consider

426    LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                        APPENDIX,

Ifwhat may be ye cause of y8 various situations of things to ye
eyes.  when we look but wth one eye it be asked why objects

appear thus & thus situated one to another the answer would be

because they are really so situated among themselves & make

their coloured pictures in y8 Ketina so situated one to another

as they are & those pictures transmit motional pictures into ye

sensorium in ye same situation & by the situation of those

motional pictures one to another the soul judges of ye situation

of things without. In like manner when we look with two eyes
distorted so as to see ye same object double if it be asked why

those objects appeare in this or that situation & distance one

from another, the answer should be because through ye two eyes

are transmitted into ye sensorium two motional pictures by

whose situation & distance then from one another the soule

judges she sees two things so situate & distant. And if this be

true then the reason why when the distortion ceases & ye eyes

return to their natural posture the doubled object grows a single

one is that the two motional pictures in ye sensorium come

       & become coincident.
       you will say, how is this
Itog"etBheurt
                                  coincidence  made  ?  answer,
Iwhat if know not ? Perhaps in ye sensorium, after some such

way as ye Cartesians would have beleived or by some other way.

Perhaps by ye mixing of ye marrow of ye nerves in their juncture

before they enter the brain, the fibres on y8 right side of each

Ifeye going to ye right side of ye head those on ye left side t©-y»
left.  you mention ye experim' of y8 nerve shrunck all ye way

on one side ye head, that might be either by some unkind juyce

abounding more on one side ye head yn on y8 other, or by y 8

shrinking of ye coate of ye nerve whose fibres & vessels for

nourishment perhaps do not cross in y8 juncture as ye fibres of!

y8 marrow may do. And its more probable y* y8 stubborn coate

being vitiated or wanting due nourishment shrank & made y8

tender marrow yeild to its capacity, then that ye tender marrow
Iby shrinking should make ye coate yeild.
                                               know not whether
Ifyou would have ye succus nutricius run along ye marrow.
you would, 'tis an opinion not yet proved & so not fit to ground
Ifan argument on.
                   you say y* in y8 Camaelion & flushes y8

nerves only touch one another without mixture & sometimes do

NO. IV.                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         427

not so much as touch ; Tis true, but makes altogether against

you. ffishes looke one way with one eye ye other way with y8
other : the Chamaslion looks up wth one eye, down w'h t'other,

         if

                ye

                                 &
                                                            ye
                                                        ?
                                                                       y',
to ye right hand wth this, to ye left wth                                    twisting his eyes

severally this way or that way as he pleases. And in these

Animals which do not look            same way wth both eyes what

wonder             nerves do not joyn To make them joyn would

have been to no purpose nature does nothing in vain. But

then whilst in these animals where tis not necessary they are

not joyned, in all others wch look same way w"1 both eyes, so

far as can yet learn, they are joyned. Consider therefore for
what reason they are joyned in one not in the other, ffor
       ye I
               ye

              if is

           J
                                                                     ye
                                                                         ye
                                                       &
Go"d   in     frame of animals has   done                                  nothing wthout  reason.
       There       one thing more   comes                                   into my mind     to object.
Let circle D represent the

Eetina, or you will the end of
}'8 optick nerve cut cross. A the

end of fibre above of most ten
       0a
sion,              end of one below of
               y8

least tension. D Gy" ends of
                            &
Ffibres above on either hand almost0

of as much tension as A,         ye J
                                           &
the ends of others below almost
Eof as little tension as C.
                                   end

of fibre of less tension then A
Ga
    &
J.or                                        And between A
         of more then        or.                                             &
Ethere will {be} fibres of equal tension wth                                      C,
                                                                                      G

                                                                                 J&

                                                                             because       between

them there are in continual series fibres of all degrees of ten
                   ye                                                                         J.
                          a
sion between most tended at A       3&
                                          G
                                            &

                                               E,
                                                       &

                                                                     C
                                                                         &
                                                                             least tended at
                                                                             B H of like ten
And by the same argument that fibres

sion are noted let the whole line of fibres of the same Degree of

E Htension running from to be noted. Do you now say
                                                                                           ?
                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                     y'
                                                                                                               ye
reason why an object seen w"1 two eyes appears but one that

fibres in                   two eyes by wch 'tis seen are unisons then all
ye
                            unison fibres must for same reason appear in
    &                                   ye
                                                     ye
               ye

                     by ye
objects seen

one same place that all objects seen by the line of
EB Hfibres                   y is
                   running from one side of the eye to other, ffor
                                                                             ye ye
instance two stars one to right hand seen by fibres about

428      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               APPENDIX,

EH, the other to ye left seen by ye fibres about ought to appear

but one starr, & so of other objects, ffor if consonance unite
objects seen wth the fibres of two eyes much more will it unite
those seen wth those of y8 same eye. And yet we find it much

otherwise. What soever it is that causes the two images of an

object seen with both eyes to appear in y8 same place so as to

seem but one can make them upon distorting ye eyes separate

one from ye other & go as readily & as far asunder to y8 right

Ihan"dYo&utohayveelenftowasy°upswumarmds&
         of  downwards.                   think  of worth                 ob
             what can
Ijecting set down in a tumultuary way as could get time from
If Imy Sturbridge flair friends.
                                  have any where exprest myself

in a more peremptory way then becomes ye weaknes of ye argu

ment pray look on that as done not in earnestness but for ye

Imode of discoursing. Whether any thing be so material as y' it

may prove any way useful to you cannot tell. But pray accept
of it as written for that end. ffor having laid Philosophical

speculations aside nothing but ye gratification of a friend would

easily invite me to so large a scribble about things of this

nature.         I" Sr am

         " Yor humble Servant

"Trin. Coll. Cambr. Sept. 12th. 1682.     Is. Newton."1

     1 From the original in the British Museum, Add. MSS. 4237, fol. 34.

NO. W.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  429

                              NO. W.

                              (Referred to in page 224)

[THIS letter is prefixed to the Latin version of Briggs' Theory

   of Vision, Lond. 1685, which was made at Newton's request,

   and must have been intended as a recommendation of that
   work as well as of his Ophthalmographia.]

        "Isaacus Newtonus Doctori Gulielmo Briggio.

"Wir Clarissime,

"Hisce tuis Tractatibus" duas magni nominis scientias uno

opere promoves, Anatomiam dico & Opticam. Organi enim (in
quo utraque versatur) artificio summo constructi diligenter per

scrutaris mysteria. In hujus dissectione peritiam & dexteritatem
tuam non exiguo olim mihi oblectamento fuisse recordor. Mus

culis motoriis secundum situm suum naturalem elegantër a te

expansis, caeterisque partibus coråm expositis, sicut singularum

usus & ministeria non tm intelligere liceret quâm cernere,

effecerat dudüm ut ex cultro tuo nihil non accuratum sperarem.

Nec spem fallebat eximius ille Tractatus Anatomicus, quem
postmodüm edidisti. Jam praxeos hujus depigetav pergis inge

niosissimä Theoriá instruere & exornare. Et quis Theoriis con

dendis aptior extiterit, quâm qui phaenomenis accurate obser

vandis navrit operam 2 Nervos opticos ex capillamentis variè

tensis constare supponis, eague magis esse tensa quae per iter

longius porriguntur; ex diversä autem tensione fieri ut objec
                                                         &

                                                                         se,
torum partes singulae non coincidant & confundantur inter
                                                         capilla
sed pro situ suo naturali diversis locis appareant;
                              in
mentis amborum oculorum aequali tensione factis concordibus,in

geminas objectorum species uniri. Sic extensione chordarum,

quá soni vel variantur vel concordant Music, colligere videris

quid fieri debet Optic. Simplex etenim est Natura, eodem
of                                                       &
                       in in
operandi tenore               immensã effectuum varietate sibi ipsa con

 i.e., Ophthalmographia, Cantab. 1676, (2d edit. Lond. 1687) and his Theory
Vision.

430  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIx,

stare solet. Quantò verö magis in sensuum cognatorum causis?

Et quamvis aliam etiam horum sensuum analogiam suspicari

possim, ingeniosam tamen esse quam tute excogitasti, certé
nemo non lubenter fatebitur. Nec inutilem censeo Disserta

tionem ultimam quâ diluis objectiones. Inde Lector attentus
& plenius intelliget Hypothesin totam, & in quaestiones incidet
vel tuis Meditationibus illustratas, vel novis experimentis &
disquisitionibus posthäc dirimendas. Id quod in usum cedet
juventuti Academicae, & provectiores ad ulteriores in Philoso
phi progressus manuducet. Pergas itaque, vir ornatissime,
scientias hasce praeclaris inventis, uti facis, excolere; doceasque

difficultates causarum naturalium tâm facilè solertià vinci posse,
quâm solent conatibus vulgaribus difficultér cedere.

                                                                               "Wale."

"Dabam Cantabrigiae 7 Kal. Maii.

         1685."

NO. VI.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  431

                                 No. VI.

                                          (Referred to in page 226.)

                            Newton's Fifteenth Query.1

   Are not the species of objects seen with both eyes united

where the optic nerves meet before they come into the brain,
the fibres on the right side of both nerves uniting there, and,
after union, going thence into the brain in the nerve which is
on the right side of the heart ; and the fibres on the left side of
both nerves uniting in the same place, and, after union, going
into the brain in the nerve which is on the left side of the head,
and these two nerves meeting in the brain, in such a manner
that their fibres make but one entire species or picture, half of
which on the right side of the sensorium, comes from the right
side of both eyes through the right side of both optic nerves, to
the place where the nerves meet, and from thence on the right
side of the head into the brain ; and the other half on the left
side of the sensorium comes in like manner from the left side of
both eyes. For the optic nerves of such animals as look the
same way with both eyes, (as of men, dogs, sheep, oxen, &c.,)
meet before they come into the brain, but the optic nerves of

Isuch animals as do not look the same way with both eyes, (as

of fishes and of the chameleon,) do not meet, if am rightly

informed.

                                       1 Optics, 3d edit. 1721, pp. 320, 321.

432            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     APPENDIX,

                    No. VII.

                    (Referred to in page 226.)

   Although we have extracted a part of this document in the
text, for the sake of illustration, we shall give now the whole of
it as published by Mr. Harris.

JDescription of the Optic Nerves and their uncture in the
                     Brain, by Sir Isaac Newton.

" The tunic retina grows not from the sides of the optic

nerve, (as the other two which rise one from the dura, the other

from the pia mater :) but it grows from the middle of the nerve,
sticking to it all over the extremity of its marrow. Which

marrow, if the nerve be any where cut cross-wise betwixt the

eye and the union of the nerves, appears full of small spots or

pimples, which are a little prominent, especially if the nerve be

pressed, or warmed at a candle ; and these shoot into the very

eye, and may be seen within side, where the refrmiyerows to the

nerve ; and they also continue to the very junctuttN|£G H.

But at the juncture they end on a sudden into a more tender

white pap, like the anterior part of the brain : and so the nerve

continues after the juncture into the brain filled with a white

tender pap, in which can be seen no distinction of parts as be

Itwi"xtNothwesaid juncture and the eye.     in  the  retina  of  one eye,
               conceive that every point

hath its correspondent point in the other ; from which two

very slender pipes filled with a most limpid liquor do, without

either interruption or any other unevenness or irregularity in
                                            to the juncture efgh,
qftheir process, go along the optic nerves  fh, and there unite into        j
where they meet either betwixt  or
                                                                           J
uone pipe as big as both of them ; and so continue in one, pass-
ing either betwixt  or h k, into the brain, where they are

terminated perhaps at the next meeting of the nerves betwixt

the cerebrum and cerebellum, in the same order that their ex- 1

NO. VII.                              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  433

tremities were situated in the retina's. And so there are a vast

multitude of these slender pipes which flow from the brain, the

one half through the right side nerve I L, till they come at the
juncture G f, where they are each divided into two branches, the
one passing by g and t to the right side of the right eye a b,

the other half shooting through the space e f, and so passing by

x to the right side of the left eye a            And in like manner the
                                                 /3.
other half shooting through the left side nerve M K, divide them
                                                       c
selves at H, and their branches passing by                       E     to the right
             f                                                      V

                  it
                      y

                            is
eye, and by h to the left, compose that half of the retina in

bot"h   eyes,                 which towards    the left side  d and y  8.
       Hence                        appears,                  images
                                              Why the two              of  both  eyes
                                      .1

                                             is
make but one image abed in the brain.

"2. Why, when one eye                            distorted, objects appear double;

for the image of any object be made upon a in the one eye,
/S if
and in the other, that object shall have two images in the

brain at a and                /3. b.  Therefore the pictures of any object ought

to be made upon the corresponding points of the two retinas                          b, ;

upon a in the right eye, then upon a in the left                           if  upon
\1                                                                     ;

   ifthen also upon                   And so shall the motions concur after they

                          1.vol.                                           2
                                                                             E

434                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               APPENDIX,

have passed the juncture gh, and make one image at a or b

more vivid than one       eye alone could do.       in  two  places  by
   " 3. Why, though        one thing may appear

distorting the eyes, yet two things cannot appear in one place.

If the picture of one thing fall upon a, and of another upon a,

they may both proceed to p, but no farther ; they cannot both

be carried on the same pipes p a into the brain ; that which is
strongest or most helped by phantasy will there prevail, and blot

     the other.

     4. Why,
f fout"          if  one  of the  branches  of the  nerve  beyond    the

juncture, as at g or h, should be cut, that half of both eyes

towards the wounded nerve would be blind, the other half re

maining perfect.

  f" 5. Why the juncture is almost as broad again betwixt g and

h, as between e and ; because all the tubuli of both eyes pass

gilfbetween g and h, and but half of them betwixt e and f.
" 6. Why the nerve                buts not directly upon the nerve
ehiyx e h y, but deviates a little towards t v ; because its tubuli are
to pass only into that side of the nerve            towards e x. The
like of fmk h.

   " 7. Why the marrow of the nerve T v e g grows soft on a

sudden, when it comes at the juncture e f, and more suddenly

ttegonnervtehaet xsiydeh:towFaorrdsitgbtehinagn
                                  towards E. And the like    of the
                                  necessary that the nerve

should be stretched and bended several ways by the motion of

the eye ; therefore the tubuli are involved or wrought up within
the substances of several tough skins, which, being folded up

together, compose the marrow of the nerve pretty solid and

flexible, lest the tubuli should be prejudiced by the several mo

Itions of the nerve. And those small pimples or prominencies

which appear in the nerve cut crosswise, conceive to be made

by the foldings of those crasser skins. But the nerve at the

juncture e g f h, being well guarded from all violence and

motion by the bones into which it is closely adapted ; 'tis not

necessary the said membraneous substance should be continued

any farther than E G ; therefore the tubuli there on a sudden

unsheath themselves, that those on the inner side of the nerves

towards v e and x e may severally cross 'twixt e f, and be united

NO. VII.      LIFE OF SIH ISAAC NEWTON.                                       435

with their correspondents on the other sides y h and t g. Now,

because the inner tubuli must first cross, before they can concur
with the outmost tubuli of the opposite nerve ; hence it that
8.
              g

                                                         a

                              il
                                                                                      e,
                                                                                          is,
                                                                                                                                                      :
the nerves grow soft sooner on the inner side at than on the

outer side at and h.                             second time in the brain

   " Why the two nerves meet

because the two half images carried along                    and m k may be

united in one compleat image, in the sensory. Note, that the

nerves at their meeting, are round about disjoined from the rest

of the brain nor are they so thick there, as little before their
       if                                                aa
meeting. Buta
                      ;                                                  if
                      istheir external figure, they seem as                   the
                         by
                        it
                                              :
                               j
capillamenta concentered like the radii of hemisphere to a

point in the lower part of the uncture. And 'tis probable, that the

visive faculty there for else why do the nerves swell there to

so great bulk, as were preparing for their last office Why
                                                                   ?
                                                                        by
do they run directly cross from either side the brain to meet

there, the design was to have the motions conveyed                            the

shortest cut from the eye to the sensorium, before they grew too
Ifweak.
           they were to proceed farther, they might have gone a

shorter cut, and in less channel. There indeed marrow    is
is it,                                                             if a
                          ;
                                     a                                 it
shoots from under them towards the cerebellum, to which they

are united but the greatest part of their substance, not all of

lies above this marrow, and also shoots cross beyond to the

center of the brain where they meet. Lastly, the substance here

most pure, the situation in the midst of the brain, constituting

the upper part of that small passage 'twixt all the ventricles,

where all superfluous humours have the greatest advantage to

slide   away, that they may not                  incumber that precious organ.
   "   Light seldom strikes upon                 the parts of gross bodies, (as may

be seen in its passing through them its reflection and refrac
                                                 ;)

                                                      ;
tion made by the diversity of aethers and therefore its effectis

upon the retina can only be to make this vibrate which motion
                                                             if :
then must be either carried in the optic nerves to the sensorium,

or produce other motions that are carried thither. Not the

latter, for water too gross for such subtile impressions and
              is                                                           ;

                      it

                     I

                                          a
as for animal spirits, tho' tied piece of the optic nerve at

one end, and warmed in the middle, to see any airy sub

stance by that means would disclose itself in bubbles at the

436  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

Iother end, could not spy the least bubble ; a little moisture

only, and the marrow itself squeezed out. And indeed they
that know how difficultly air enters small pores of bodies, have

reason to suspect that an airy body, tho' much finer than air,

Ican pervade and without violence (as it ought to do) the small

pores of the brain and nerves, should say of water ; because

those pores are filled with water : and if it could, it would be

too subtile to be imprisoned by the dura mater and skull, and
might pass for aether. However, what need of such spirits ?
Much motion is ever lost by communication, especially betwixt
bodies of different constitutions. And therefore it can no way

be conveyed to the sensorium so entirely, as by the aether itself.
Nay, granting me, but that there are pipes filled with a pure

transparent liquor passing from the eye to the sensorium, and
the vibrating motion of the aether will of necessity run along
thither. For nothing interrupts that motion but reflecting sur

faces ; and therefore also that motion cannot stray through the
reflecting surfaces of the pipe, but must run along (like a sound
in a trunk) entire to the sensorium. And that vision thus
made, is very conformable to the sense of hearing, which is made
by like vibrations."

     \

NO. VIII.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      437

                                                 No. VIII.

                   {Referred to in page 308, as No. IX.)

The interesting correspondence between Halley and Newton,

consisting of eight letters, which we give in this Appendix, forms

an essential part of the History of the Principia, and throws

much light on the personal character of Newton. It was first

published, in its entire state, by my late amiable and learned

friend, Professor Eigaud of Oxford, in the Appendix to his in
teresting volume, entitled, Historical Essay on the First Publi

cation of the Principia.1
   During my correspondence with Mr. Eigaud, previous to the

Ipublication of my former Life of Newton, and also since began
Ito collect materials for the present work, received from him
Imuch valuable information, which could not otherwise have
Iobtained. In every difficulty found him willing and able to

help me ; and when he had prepared his Historical Essay, he

declined printing                    as he states in his Preface, till he ascer
it

          I
                                it,
tained that would not regard as interfering with my larger
                                                 it
work, for which he expressed the hope that would supply (as
   could not fail to do) some materials.              a
   The correspondence between Newton and Halley has been
                                                      it        it
preserved in the archives of the Royal Society. The greater                   it

part of had been printed in garbled and imperfect state by
it

the authors of the articles Halley, Hooke, and Newton, in the

General Dictionary and in the Biographia Britannica, and

therefore Mr. Kigaud had carefully copied from the guard-

book of the Eoyal Society, and printed in its entire state. At

the end of each letter he has mentioned the parts that have been

omitted, and the changes that have been made upon                                 in the

different works where has been used. We have adopted these
                                     it

                                              1
important notes of Mr. Eigaud.

                                                 Oxford, 1838.

438                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    APPENDIX,

                   1. -- Halley to Newton.

   " Sir,                                                                         " May 22, 1686.
" Your incomparable
                                   treatise, entitled Philosophiaj Naturalis

Principia Mathematica, was by Dr. Vincent presented to the

Royal Society on the 28th past ; and they were so very sensible

of the great honour you do them by your dedication, that they

immediately ordered you their most hearty thanks, and that a

council should be summoned to consider about the printing

thereof ; but by reason of the president's attendance upon the
King, and the absence of our vice-presidents, whom the good

weather has drawn out of town, there has not since been any

authentic council to resolve what to do in the matter : so that

on Wednesday last the Society, in their meeting, judging that so

excellent a work ought not to have its publication any longer

delayed, resolved to print it at their own charge in a large quarto

of a fair letter ; and that this their resolution should be signified

to you, and your opinion therein be desired, that so it might be
Igone about with all speed.
                                       am intrusted to look after the

printing and will take care that shall be performed as well
     ; it,                             I it

           I
as possible only would first have your directions in what you

shall think necessary for the embellishing thereof, and particu

larly whether you think not better, that the schemes should
                                   it

be enlarged, which the opinion of some here but what you
                 is                                           :
sig"niTfyhearse                is
                 your desire shall be   punctually  observed.                  of,  viz.
                      one thing more   that ought               you
                                                     to inform

that Mr. Hooke has some pretensions upon the invention of the

rule of the decrease of gravity being reciprocally as the squares

of the distances from the centre. He says you had the notion

from him, though he owns the demonstration of the curves ge

nerated thereby to be wholly your own. How much of this
;

            it,

             I

                                                                ;

                             I

                                                            it

                                                 I
                                                                                                     is
so, you know best, as likewise what you have to do in this mat

ter only Mr. Hooke seems to expect you should make some

mention of him in the preface, which 'tis possible you may see

reason to prefix.  must beg your pardon, that 'tis that send

you this ungrateful account but thought my duty to let

you know         that so you might act accordingly, being in myself

NO. VIII.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  439

fully satisfied, that nothing but the greatest candour imaginable
is to be expected from a person, who has of all men the least
need to borrow reputation.

   " This letter was printed from the copy in the Letter Book of
the Royal Society, (Supplement, vol. iv. p. 340,) by Birch, in his

History of the Royal Society, (vol. iv. p. 484.) It is also printed

in the Biographia Britannica, (vol. v. p. 3225.)"

"  " Sir,    to     2. --Newton to H alley.     Mr.  Hooke  and
   In order
                 let you know the case between
Ime, gave you an account of what passed between us in our
Iletters, so far as could remember ; for 'tis long since they were
I I Iwrit, and do not know that have seen them since.
                                                            am

Ialmost confident by circumstances, that Sir Chr. Wren knew the

duplicate proportion when gave him a visit ; and then Mr.

Hooke, (by his book Cometa written afterwards,) will prove the
Ilast of us three that knew it.
                                 intended in this letter to let you
Iunderstand the case fully ; but it being a frivolous business,
Ishall content myself to give you the heads of it in short, viz.

that never extended the duplicate proportion lower than to
Ithe superficies of the earth, and before a certain demonstration

found the last year, have suspected it did not reach accurately

enough down so low ; and therefore in the doctrine of projectiles
never used it nor considered the motions of the heavens ; and

consequently Mr. Hooke could not from my letters, which were

about projectiles and the regions descending hence to the centre,

conclude me ignorant of the theory of the heavens. That what

he told me of the duplicate proportion was erroneous, namely,

that it reached down from hence to the centre of the earth.

That it is not candid to require me now to confess myself, in

print, then ignorant of the duplicate proportion in the heavens ;
for no other reason, but because he had told it me in the case

of projectiles, and so upon mistaken grounds accused me of that

Iignorance. That in my answer to his first letter refused his
Icorrespondence, told him had laid philosophy aside, sent him

440            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  APPENDIX,

only the experiment of projectiles, (rather shortly hinted than
carefully described,) in compliment to sweeten my answer, ex

pected to hear no further from him ; could scarce persuade

myself to answer his second letter ; did not answer his third,

was upon other things ; thought no further of philosophical

matters than his letters put me upon     it,  and therefore may be

allowed not to have had my thoughts of that kind about me so well

at that time. That by the same reason he concludes me then

ignorant of the rest of the duplicate proportion, he may as well

conclude me ignorant of the rest of that theory had read before
                                              I (I I
in his books. That in one of my papers writ cannot say in

what year, but am sure some time before had any corre
               I
spondence with Mr. Oldenburg, and that's) above fifteen years
ago, the proportion of the forces of the planets from the sun,is
                                   a
reciprocally duplicate of their distances from him, expressed,is

and the proportion of our gravity to the moon's conatus rece-

dendi centra terras calculated, though not accurately enough.
a
            aThat when Hugenius put out his Horol. Oscil., copy being
                                                  Ia
presented to me, in my letter of thanks to him, gave those

rules in the end thereof particular commendation for their

usefulness in Philosophy, and added out of my aforesaid paper

an instance of their usefulness, in comparing the forces of the

moon from the earth, and earth from the sun in determining
                                              ;

                                                  a
problem about the moon's phase, and putting limit to the

sun's parallax, which shows that had then my eye upon com
               I

                    it

                               ;

                            iIf I
paring the forces of the planets arising from their circular mo

tion, and understood  so that a while after, when Mr. Hooke

propounded the problem solemnly, in the end of his Attempt to

prove the Motion of the Earth,        had not known the duplicate

proportion before, could not but have found now. Between
                                              it

ten and eleven years ago, there was an hypothesis of mine regis

tered in your books, wherein hinted a cause of gravity towards
                      I

the earth, sun, and planets, with the dependence of the celestial

motions thereon in which the proportion of the decrease of
               ;

gravity from the superficies of the planet (though for brevity's

sake not there expressed) can be no other than reciprocally du

plicate of the distance from the centre. And hope shall not
                                              I
                                                     I

be urged to declare, in print, that understood not the obvious
                                      I

NO. VIII.  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                         441

Imathematical conditions of my own hypothesis. But grant
Ireceived it afterwards from Mr. Hooke, yet have as great a

right to it as to the ellipsis. For as Kepler knew the orb to be

Inot circular but oval, and guessed it to be elliptical, so Mr.

Hooke, without knowing what have found out since his letters

to me, can know no more, but that the proportion was duplicate

quam proxime at great distances from the centre, and only

guessed it to be so accurately, and guessed amiss in extending

that proportion down to the very centre, whereas Kepler guessed
right at the ellipsis. And so Mr. Hooke found less of the pro

portion than Kepler of the ellipsis. There is so strong an ob

jection against the accurateness of this proportion, that without
my demonstrations, to which Mr. Hooke is yet a stranger, it

Icannot be believed by a judicious philosopher to be any where

accurate. And so, in stating this business, do pretend to have

done as much for the proportion as for the ellipsis, and to have

as much right to the one from Mr. Hooke and all men, as to the

other from Kepler ; and therefore on this account also he must

"leaTshtemopdroeorafteyohuis
I Iat
                               pretences.  like  very well.  designed the
                              sent me

whole to consist of three books ; the second was finished last

summer being short, and only wants transcribing, and drawing

Ithe cuts fairly. Some new propositions have since thought
Ion, which can as well let alone. The third wants the theory
Iof comets. In autumn last spent two months in calculations

to no purpose for want of a good method, which made me after
wards return to the first book, and enlarge it with divers propo

Isitions, some relating to comets, others to other things, found

out last winter. The third now design to suppress. Philosophy

is such an impertinently litigious Lady, that a man had as good
Ibe engaged in lawsuits, as have to do with her.
                                                             found it so
Iformerly, and now am no sooner come near her again, but she

gives me warning. The two first books, without the third, will

not so well bear the title of Philosophias Naturalis Principia

IMathematica ; and therefore had altered it to this, De Motu
ICorporum libri duo. But, upon second thoughts, retain the
Iformer title. 'Twill help the sale of the book, which ought

not to diminish now 'tis yours. The articles are, with the largest,

442               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     APPENDIX,

to be called by that name ; if you please you may change the
word to sections, though it be not material ; which is all at

present from      " your affectionate friend,
                             " and humble s"ervIsa.ntN, ewton.

" Cambridge, June 20, 1686.

I" Since my writing this letter, am told by one, who had it

Ifrom another lately present at one of your meetings, how that

Mr. Hooke should there make a great stir, pretending that had

all from him, and desiring they would see that he had justice

Idone him. This carriage towards me is very strange and unde

served ; so that cannot forbear, in stating the point of justice,
to tell you further, that he has published Borell's hypothesis in

his own name ; and the asserting of this to himself, and com
pleting it as his own, seems to me the ground of all the stir he

makes. Borell did something in  and wrote modestly. He
                                it,

                                              a

                                                    if
has done nothing, and yet written in such way, as he knew

and had sufficiently hinted all but what remained to be deter

mined by the drudgery of calculations and observations, excusing

himself from that labour by reason of his other business, whereas

                                by
he should rather have excused himself reason of his inability.
For 'tis plain, by his words, he knew not how to go about it.

Now not this very fine Mathematicians, that find out, settle,
I                            ?
           is
              ifand do all the business, must content themselves with being no

thing but dry calculators and drudges and another, that does
                                ;

nothing but pretend and grasp at all things, must carry away all

the invention, as well of those that were to follow him, as of

those that went before. Much after the same manner were his

letters writ to me, telling me that gravity, in descent from hence

to the centre of the earth, was reciprocally in duplicate ratio
                                I
                                                             ;
                                                          it a
of the altitude, that the figure described by projectiles in this

region would be an ellipsis, and that all the motions of the

heavens were thus to be accounted for and this he did in such

a way, as he had found out all, and knew                        most certainly.

And, upon this information, must now acknowledge, in print,
  had all from him, and so did nothing myself but drudge in

NO. VIII.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       443

calculating, demonstrating, and writing, upon the inventions of

this great man. And yet, after all, the first of those three things

he told of me is false, and very unphilosophical ; the second is

as false ; and the third was more than he knew, or could affirm

Ime ignorant of by any thing, that past between us in our letters.

Nor do understand by what right he claims it as his own ; for

as Borell wrote, long before him, that by a tendency of the

planets towards the sun, like that of gravity or magnetism, the

planets would move in ellipses, so Bullialdus wrote that all force,

respecting the sun as its centre, and depending on matter, must

be reciprocally in a duplicate ratio of the distance from the

centre, and used that very argument for by which you, sir, in
if

                                       ?

                                                               it,

                                                I
the last Transactions, have proved this ratio in gravity. Now

         Mr. Hooke, from this general proposition in Bullialdus, might

learn the proportion in gravity, why must this proportion here

go for his invention My letter to Hugenius, which mentioned

above, was directed to Mr. Oldenburg, who used to keep the
originals. His papers came into Mr. Hooke's possession. Mr.

Hooke, knowing my hand, might have the curiosity to look into

that letter, and thence take the notion of comparing the forces

of the planets arising from their circular motion and so what
                                                I
                                                           ;
                                                                 I
he wrote to me afterwards, about the rate of gravity, might be

nothing but the fruit of my own garden. And it's more than

can affirm, that the duplicate proportion was not expressed in

     that letter. However, he knew  it  not, (as gather from his

books,) till five years after any mathematician could have told

is it    him. For when Hugenius had told how to find the force in

     all cases of circular motion, he had told 'em how to do in this
                                                                    it it
                                                                          it
     as well as in all others. And so the honour of doing in this

         due to Hugenius. For another, five years after, to claim as

his own invention as some mechanic, who had learned the
                    is

                         a if
     art of surveying from master, should afterwards claim the

     surveying of this or that piece of ground for his own invention,

     and keep heavy quarter to be in print for  But what, this
           a                                    t.
                 a                                                   Mr.
                                                               ? if
     surveyor be bungler, and give an erroneous survey

     Hooke has erred in the invention he pretends to, and his error

     is  the cause of all the stir he makes. For his extending the

     duplicate proportion down to the centre, (which do not,) made
                                                I

444          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          APPENDIX,

him correct me, and tell me the rest of his theory as a new thing

to me, and now stand upon that had all from that his letter,
                             it,

                                  it I
notwithstanding that he had told to all the world before,

and had seen in his printed books, all but the proportion.
II
         ?

       I
            I it
And why should record man for an invention, who founds
                             a

his claim upon an error therein, and on that score gives me

trouble   He imagines he obliged me by telling me his theory,

but thought myself disobliged by being, upon his own mistake,

corrected magisterially, and taught a theory, which every body

knew, and had a truer notion of than himself. Should a man

who thinks himself knowing, and loves to show in correcting
                                                        it

and instructing others, come to you, when you are busy, and

notwithstanding your excuse press discourses upon you, and

through his own mistakes correct you, and multiply discourses
          if

                      ;I
                                      it,
                                                             it,
                                                                                            a

                                                                                                                                                    ;
and then make this use of to boast that he taught you all he

spake, and oblige you to acknowledge                    and cry out injury and

injustice you do not         believe you would think him man

of strange unsociable temper. Mr. Hooke's letters in several

respects abounded too much with that humour, which Hevelius

and others complain of and therefore he may do well in time
             :
to consider, whether, after this new provocation, be much more
               '                                        I
                                 a;
                                                                   is
bound, (in doing him that justice he claims,) to make an hon;I
ourable mention of him in print, especially since this the thirdis

time that he has given me trouble in this kind. For your fur

ther satisfaction in this business, beg the favour you would7,
consult your books for paper of mine entitled, An Hypothesis

explaining properties of Light. It was dated Dec. 1675, and

registered in your book about January or February following.

Not far from the beginning there a paragraph ending with

these words  And as the earth, so perhaps may the sun imbibe

this spirit copiously to conserve his shining, and keep the planets
from receding further from him and they that will may also

suppose that this spirit affords or carries thither the solary fuel
and material principle of light. And that the vast ethereal

spaces between us and the stars are for a sufficient repository for

this food of the sun and planets. But this of the constitution of

ethereal   natures by   the  by.'       words you have the common
          these and    the   foregoing
   " In

NO. VIII.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           445

cause of gravity towards the earth, sun, and all the planets, and

that by this cause the planets are kept in their orbs about the

Isun. And this is all the philosophy Mr. Hooke pretends had

from his letters some years after, the duplicate proportion only

excepted. The preceding words contain the cause of the pheno
mena of gravity, as we find it on the surface of the earth, with

out any regard to the various distances from the centre. For at

Ifirst designed to write of nothing more. Afterwards, as my
Imanuscript shews, interlined the words above cited relating to

the heavens ; and in so short and transitory an interlined hint

of things, the expression of the proportion may well be excused.

But if you consider the nature of the hypothesis, you'll find that

gravity decreases upwards, and can be no other from the super

ficies of the planet than reciprocally duplicate of the distance

from the centre, but downwards that proportion does not hold.

IThis was but an hypothesis, and so to be looked upon only as

one of my guesses, which did not rely on ; but it sufficiently

Iexplains to you, why in considering the descent of a body down

to the centre, used not the duplicate proportion. In the small

ascent and descent of projectiles above the earth, the variation

of gravity is so inconsiderable, that Mathematicians neglect
                                                 is

                                                    it
                                                                       it

                                                                                       it.
Hence the vulgar hypothesis with them uniform gravity. And

why might not as a Mathematician, use frequently, without
            I,

                     ?
thinking on the philosophy of the heavens, or believing  to be

philosophically true

" This letter, with the postscript belonging to  it,  was printed

in the General Dictionary by Bernard, Birch, and Lockman,

(vol. vii.  p.                       The writers in the Biographia Britannica
                                     but have separated the different parts, and
                     it

                                  ;
            797.)
likewise adopted

printed one portion twice. They have given the beginning (p. 439

p.to 441, line 19) in the life of Hooke, (vol. iv. 2659 thep.
next part (p. 441) in the life of Newton, (vol. v. 3225,) and thep.
end (p. 441) repeated in the life of Halley, (vol. iv. 2504.)is
The postscript (p. 441 to 445) was added to the part annexed   p.
to the life of Hooke, (vol. iv. 2660.)"                           ;)

                                     p.
                                             p.

446                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   APPENDIX,

                        3. -- Halley to Newton.

                                                                            " London, 29 June, 1686.

   " Sir,

I" am heartily sorry, that in this matter, wherein all mankind

ought to acknowledge their obligations to you, you should meet

with any thing that should give you disquiet ; or that any dis
gust should make you think of desisting in your pretensions to

a Lady, whose favours you have so much reason to boast of.

'Tis not she, but your rivals, envying your happiness, that en

Ideavour to disturb your quiet enjoyment ; which when you con

sider, hope you will see cause to alter your resolution of sup

pressing your third book, there being nothing which you can

have compiled therein, which the learned world will not be

Iconcerned to have concealed. Those gentlemen of the Society,
to whom have communicated   I it,are very much troubled at          a

and that this unlucky business should have happened to give           I it,

trouble, having just sentiment of the author thereof. Accord
     it,
ing to your desire in your former, waited upon Sir Christopher
                  it a
Wren, to inquire of him, he had the first notion of the reciif
procal duplicate proportion from Mr. Hooke. His answer was,

that he himself very many years since had had his thoughts upon

                                     by

                                                                 ;
the making out the planets' motions  a composition of de

scent towards the sun, and an impressed motion but that at

length he gave over, not finding the means of doing it. Since

which time Mr. Hooke had frequently told him, that he had

done and attempted to make out to him but that he never
                            it

                                  I
                                                            ;
was satisfied that his demonstrations were cogent. And this

know to be true, that in January 168f, having, from the con

siderations of the sesquialter proportion of Kepler, concluded

that the centripetal force decreased in the proportion of the

squares of the distances reciprocally, came on Wednesday to
town, where met with Sir Christopher Wren and Mr. Hooke,
     I

                                   ; it,

                                        I
and falling in discourse about Mr. Hooke affirmed, that upon

that principle all the laws of the celestial motions were to be

demonstrated, and that he himself had done it.                      declared the

ill success of my own attempts and Sir Christopher, to encou

NO. VIII.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               447

rage the inquiry, said, that he would give Mr. Hooke, or me,
two months' time, to bring him a convincing demonstration

thereof ; and besides the honour, he of us, that did should
have from him present of book of 40 shillings. Mr. Hooke
                    it a  it,                 it

                                   a               ;

                                   it             it
                                                               it, it,
                                     II
then said, that he had but he would conceal for some time,

that others trying and failing might know how to value when

he should make public. However remember, that Sir Chris

topher was little satisfied that he could do   and though Mr.

Hooke then promised to shew him, do not find, that in that

particular he has been so good as his word. The August follow

ing, when did myself the honour to visit you, then learned
:                                              aa I

 I                                                         it,
the good news, that you had brought this demonstration to per     is
                                                                       of, it,
fection and you were pleased to promise me copy thereof,

which the November following received with great deal of
                          ;

                             I
satisfaction from Mr. Paget and thereupon took another journey

to Cambridge, on purpose to confer with you about                           since

which time has been entered upon the Register Books of the
                it

Society. As all this passed, Mr. Hooke was acquainted with

and according to the philosophically ambitious temper he

he would, had he been master of like demonstration, no longer
                          a
                                 is
have concealed      it,   the reason, he told Sir Christopher and me,

now ceasing. But now he says, this but one small part of an

excellent system of nature, which he has conceived, but has not

yet completely made out, so that he thinks not fit to publish one

part without the other. But have plainly told him, that unless
                          it I
he produce another differing demonstration, and let the world
                                 is it
judge of neither nor any one else can believe it. As to theit,
                    I

manner of Mr. Hooke's claiming the discovery, fear has been
                                           ;                            it

                                             I
represented in worse colours than ought for he neither made

public application to the Society for justice, nor pretended you
had all from him. The truth this Sir John Hoskyns, his
                                        :

particular friend, being in the chair, when Dr. Vincent presented

your book, the Doctor gave its just encomium both as to the

novelty and dignity of the subject. It was replied by another

gentleman, that you had carried the thing so far, that there was

no more to be added. To which the Vice-president replied, that

was so much the more to be prized, for that was both in
it
                                                                    it

vented and perfected at the same time. This gave Mr. Hooke

448           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   APPENDIX,

offence, that Sir John did not, at that time, make mention of

what he had, as he said, discovered to him ; upon which they

two, who till then were the most inseparable cronies, have since

scarce seen one another, and are utterly fallen out. After the

breaking up of that meeting, being adjourned to the coffee-house,

Mr. Hooke did there endeavour to gain belief, that he had some

Isuch thing by him, and that he gave you the first hint of this

invention. But found, that they were all of opinion, that

nothing thereof appearing in print, nor on the books of the So

ciety, you ought to be considered as the inventor. And if in truth

he knew it before you, he ought not to blame any but himself,

for having taken no more care to secure a discovery, which he

I Iputs so much value on. What application he has made in pri

vate, know not ; but am sure that the Society have a very

Igreat satisfaction, in the honour you do them, by the dedication

of so worthy a treatise. Sir, must now again beg you, not to

let your resentments run so high, as to deprive us of your third

book, wherein the application of your mathematical doctrine to

Ithe theory of comets and several curious experiments, which, as
  guess by what you write, ought to compose will undoubtedly
     it

                 I
                                        I it,
render acceptable to those, who will call themselves Philoso

phers without Mathematics, which are much the greater number.

Now you approve of the character and paper, will push on the

edition vigorously.  have sometimes had thoughts of having

the cuts neatly done in wood, so as to stand in the page with
Ifthe demonstrations. It will be more convenient, and not much
more charge.         please you to have so, will try how well
it

                                     ;

                        it

                       I
                                I

                                                      it

                                         I
can be done otherwise will have them in somewhat a larger

size than those "yoYuouhravmeossetnatffuepc.tionataemh, uSmirb, le "seEr.vaHnta, lley.

" This letter was printed in the Gen. Die. (vol. vii.
p.                                                                                                             799.)
             p. is

                     it

                                       2,
                                                                   p.

                                                                                                p.
                                                                                                           p.
In the Biographia Britannica the parts are separated, and some,

as was done for No. are repeated. The beginning (p. 446 to

447) annexed to the life of Newton, (vol. v. 3226,) and
the first part of appears also (to 447) in the life of Halley,
           2504.) The middle (p. 447) will be found in the
(vol. iv.

NO. Till.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                        44.9

life of Hooke, (vol. iv. p. 2661 ;) the end (p. 448) printed in the
life  of Newton,                            p. 3226,) and the latter part also in the
life  of Halley,    (vol. v.                p. 2504.) The words (p. 447) ' as all
this  passed, Mr.  (vol. iv.               was acquainted with and' -- are wholly
                   Hooke                                                     it I I it,

omitted."                                                                             it

                   4.                      --Newton to Halley.                                  2

      " Sir,                                                                               F it is" July 14, 1686

   " have considered your proposal about wooden cuts, and
   II I
believe will be much convenienter for the reader, and may be
         it
Ifsufficiently handsome, but leave to your determination.
          I                                   I  it :
                                                      it
you go this way, then desire you would divide the first figure
                : 1I                                   I
into these two       IIcrowded them into one to save the trouble of       ;

altering the numbers in the schemes you have.                                am very sen

sible of the great kindness of the gentlemen of your Society to

me, far beyond what could ever expect or deserve, and know

how to distinguish between their favour and another's humour.

Now understand he was in some respects misrepresented to

me, wish had spared the postscript to my last. This true,

that his letters occasioned my finding the method of determining

figures, which when had tried in the ellipsis, threw the cal
                   I it, I
culations by, being upon other studies and so                                rested for
                           it
about five years, till upon your request sought for that paper
                                                                                                    I;
and not finding did again, and reduced into the proposi

tions shewed you by Mr. Paget but for the duplicate proportion

I  can affirm that gathered                      from Kepler's theorem about

twenty years ago. And so Sir Christopher Wren's examining

the ellipsis over against the focus shews, that he knew                                           many

years ago, before he left off his enquiry after the figure by an

impressed motion and descent compounded together. There
                                           a

was another thing in Mr. Hooke's letters, which he will think

had from him. He told me, that my proposed experiment about

the descent of falling bodies was not the only way to prove the

motion of the earth and so added the experiment of your pen-
         I.
                                         The figures here are unnecessary.
                                    1
   VOL.                                 ;

450          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      APPENDIX,

dulum clock at St. Helena as an argument of gravity's being

lessened at the equator by the diurnal motion. The experiment

Iwas new to me, but not the notion ; for in that very paper, which

  told you was writ some time above fifteen years ago, and to

Ithe best of my memory was writ eighteen or nineteen years ago,

  calculated the force of ascent at the equator, arising from the

earth's diurnal motion, in order to know what would be the

diminution of gravity thereby. But yet to do this business right,

Iis a thing of far greater difficulty than was aware of. A third
Ithing there was in his letters, which was new to me, and shall

                                            make use of it. 'Twas the deflexion of
Iacknowledge

          it
                       it,

                 iIf

                                                       is

                                        II
                                                   I

                                                        II
falling bodies to the south-east in our latitude. And now having

sincerely told you the case between Mr. Hooke and me, hope

shall be free for the future from the prejudice of his letters.

have considered how best to compose the present dispute, and

think  may be done by the inclosed scholium to the fourth

proposition. In turning over some old papers met with another

demonstration of that proposition, which have added at the

end of this scholium.                       Which all at present from
                                            "
                                               your"  affectionate friend,

                                                      and  humble      servant,
                                                                       Is. Newton.
                                                                    "

" This letter was printed in the Gen. Die. (vol. vii.                       800
                                                                       ('

                                                                               p.
                                                                                          ;)
but the first fourteen lines and the diagrams belonging to them

are omitted. It was reprinted in the Biographia Britannica, (life

of Hooke, vol. iv. 2661,) where the last sentence In turning
          p.
                     is p.
over,' &c. 41) omitted, as well as the beginning, which was
left out in the General Dictionary."

I                                         -- Newton to Halley.

                      of,

              I
                                        5.
   " Sir,    unexpectedly struck upon                           copy of the letter,
                                                           a
" Yesterday                                                           is

told you     to Hugenius. 'Tis in the hand of one Mr. John

Wickins, who was then my chamber-fellow, and now parson

NO. VIII.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           451

of Stoke Edith near Monmouth, [Hereford,] and so is authentic.

It begins thus, being directed to Mr. Oldenburg.

      " ' Sir,

  I" ' receiv'd your letters, with M. Hugens's kind present,
Iwhich have viewed with great satisfaction, finding it full of

Ivery subtile and useful speculations very worthy of the author.

  am glad, that we are to expect another discourse of the Vis

Centrifuga, which speculation may prove of good use in Na

tural Philosophy and Astronomy, as well as Mechanics. Thus,

for instance, if the reason, why the same side of the moon is ever

towards the earth, be the greater conatus of the other side to

recede from  is          will follow, (upon supposition of the earth's
                 it,

                     it
motion about the sun,) that the greatest distance of the sun from

the earth to the greatest distance of the moon from the earth,

not greater than 10000 to 56 and therefore the parallax of the
                                               ;

sun not less than        o  of the parallax of the moon because
                   j                                    is

were the sun's distance less in proportion to that of the moon,                     ;

she would have a greater conatus from the sun than from the

earth. thought also some time that the moon's libration might
it,

  I
      II

                                            a
depend upon her conatus from the sun and earth compared to

gether, till     apprehended better               cause.'                              The rest
   " Thus far     this letter concerning
                                                  the Vis Centrifuga.

of for the most part concerning colours, printed in the Phil.

Trans, of July 21, 1673, No. 96. Now from these words it's

evident, that was at that time versed in the theory of the force

arising from circular motion, and had an eye upon the forces of

the planets, knowing how to compare them by the proportions

of their periodical revolutions and distances from the centre they

move about an instance of which you have here in the compa
I
rison of the forces of the moon arising from her menstrual mo:

tion about the earth, and annual about the sun. So then in this
theory am plainly before Mr. Hooke. For he about a year

after, in his Attempt to prove the Motion of the Earth, declared

                            ;

                                by

                                           ;

                                                   is,
expressly, that the degrees,                      which gravity decreased, he had

not then experimentally verified that                   he knew not how to

gather from phenomena and therefore he there recommends
it
         it
to the prosecution of others.

452                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          APPENDIX,

  I" Now, though do not find the duplicate proportion expressed
Iin this letter, (as hoped it might,) yet if you compare this

passage of it here transcribed, with that hypothesis of mine,

Iregistered by Mr. Oldenburg in your book, you will see, that
Ithen understood it. For there suppose, that the descending

spirit acts upon bodies here on the superficies of the earth with

force proportional to the superficies of their parts ; which cannot

be, unless the diminution of its velocity in acting upon the first

parts of any body it meets with, be recompensed by the increase

of its density arising from that retardation. Whether this be

true is not material. It suffices, that 'twas the hypothesis. Now
if this spirit descend from above with uniform velocity, its den

sity, and consequently its force, will be reciprocally proportional

to the square of its distance from the centre. But if it descend

with accelerated motion, its density will every where diminish as

much as its velocity increases ; and so its force (according to the
hypothesis) will be the same as before, that still reciprocally
                                                        is,
as "thIenssqhuoarrte,  of its distance from the centre.
                       as these things compared together          I
                                                          shew, that              was

before Mr. Hooke in what he pretends to have been my master,

so learned nothing by his letters but this, that bodies fall not
I
  I

                  I

                                 it
only to the east, but also in our latitude to the south. In the

rest his correcting and informing me was to be complain'd of.

And tho' his correcting my spiral occasioned my finding the

theorem, by which afterwards examined the ellipsis yet am
                                                        I

                                                                 if ;

                                                                        it,

                                                                      I
not beholden to him for any light into the business, but only for

the diversion he gave me from my other studies to think on

these things, and for his dogmaticalness in writing, as he had

found the motion in the ellipsis, which inclined me to try after

saw by what method     "             was to be done. Sir, am,
                                     your affe"ctiaonndatehufmribelned, servant,
                                                          " Is. Newton.

" July 27, 1686.

" This letter was printed in the Gen. Diet. (vol. vii.    p.                      800,)

and reprinted in the Biographia Britannica, (life of Hooke, vol.
iv. 2661.) The original letter to Oldenburg, from which an
p.

NO. VIII.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  453

extract is given  here by Newton, is in the guard-book,                    (No. 1,)
and the date of                                                            likewise
                  it is there preserved, ' June 23, 73.' It

contains a passage, in addition to what Newton has quoted, and

which is omitted in the copy that is printed in the Phil. Trans
actions, (vol. viii. p. 6087.) It does not indeed bear upon the
present subject, but still the completion of the letter may be some
                                                       It is as follows :
apo"loIgny  for  inserting it in  this        place.                       descensa
            the                    of         the 8th   proposition de
                 demonstration

gravium, there seems to be an illegitimate supposition, namely,

that the flexures at b and c do not hinder the motion of the

descending body. For in reality they will hinder                           so that a
                                                                   is it,
Ifbody which descends from A shall not acquire so great velocity,                 it
when arrived at d, as one which descends from e.                           this sup

position be made because                      body descending by a curve line
'
meets with no such opposition, and this proposition laid down
 I
in order to the contemplation of motion in curve lines, then
          by a

          I

                    it

                                             a

                                      it,
should have been shewn that though rectilinear flexures do hin

der, yet the infinitely little flexures which are in curves, though

infi"niTteheinrencutimfybinegr,  do not at all hinder the motion.  Mr.     Hugens
                                 curve lines by that way which

calls evolution, have been sometimes considering also, and here

met with way of resolving                       which seems more ready and free
Iffrom the trouble of calculation than that of M. Hugens.
                                                                             he

please, will send him. The problem also capable of beingis

imp"rovCeudrvas  being propounded thus                 more generally.       cum
                 invenire quotascunque,                 quarum longitudines

propositi alicujus curvaa longitudine, vel cum area ejus ad datam

lineam applicata, comparari possunt.'"

                 it              --Newton to Halley.

   " Sir,                 a 6.                  ' of,  the words vel hyperbolae' in
" In the scholium you write                            '
                                                          ^

                                                                I

                                                                        I
the 3d line are to be struck out, and in the 5th and 6th lines the
words quae sit ad gk' should be qua? sit ad gk.'
a                                                                          send you

inclosed the beginning of this scholium with the 63d figure as1

would have them printed.                        thank you heartily for giving
                                  I
                                         I
me notice that was amiss. The ground of the transmutation

of trapezium into parallelogram lay down, pag. 87, in these

454                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            APPENDIX,

words : ' Nam recta? quaevis convergentes transniutantur in par-

allelas, adhibendo pro radio ordinato prirno AO lineam quamvis

rectam, quaa per concursum convergentium transit : id adeo quia

concursus ille hoc pacto abit in infinitum, lineae autem parallels

sunt quaa ad punctum infinite distans tendunt.' In the figure,
pag. 86, conceive the curve hgi to be produced both ways till it

meet and intersect itself any where in the radius ordinatus pri

Imus ao : and when the point g moving up and down in the

curve hi arrives at that intersection point, say the point g

moving in like manner up and down in the curve h i will become

infinitely distant. For the point g falling upon the line OA, the

point D will fall upon the point a, and the line od upon the line
oa ; and so becoming parallel to aB their intersection point d
will become infinitely distant, and consequently the line dg
will become infinitely distant, and so will its point g. q. e. d. So

then if any two lines of the primary figure hgid intersect in the

radius ordinatus primus ao, their intersection in the new figure

hgid shall become infinitely distant ; and therefore, if the two

intersecting lines be right ones, they shall become parallel. For

right lines, which lead to a point infinitely distant, do not inter

sect one another and diverge, but are parallel. Therefore, if in

the primary figure there be any trapezium, whose opposite sides

converge to points in the radius ordinatus primus oa, those sides

in the new figure shall become parallel, and so the trapezium be

Iconverted into a

   " The printed
                       parallelogram.        to look  over.      Mr. Paget, in
                        sheets intend

his stay here, has noted these errata, of which the 3rd is a fault

in  the   copy.
           6, 1.
    " P.          27,  velocitate  ;  p. 8,  1.  19, tur  Sunt.  ;      p.  14, 1. 30,
Ireciproce ut do ; p. 18, 1. 1, recta.
                                                 wish the printer be careful
Ito mend all you note. Sir, am very sensible of the great trouble

you are at in this business, and the great care you take about it.

Pray take your own time. And if you meet with any thing else,

which you think need either correcting or further explaining, be

pleased to signi"fyyiotutro humble    and obliged         serva"ntI,s.
  "Tarn. Coll.
                                                                        NEWTON.

Octob. 18, 1686.

  " My thanks for your note of De la Hire."

NO. vin.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         455

   " Sir,     7. --Newton to Halley.

   I I" have sent you the sheet you want. The second book

made ready for you in autumn, having wrote to you in summer

that it should come out with the first, and be ready against the

time you might need                  and guessing by the rate of the press in
                                     it,

                                        it
summer you might need about November or December. But

not hearing from you, and being told (though not truly) that,

upon some differences in the Royal Society, you had left your

secretary's place, desired my intimate friend Mr. C. Montague1
           I

to enquire of Mr. Paget how things were, and send me word.

He writes, that Dr. Wallis has sent up some things about pro

jectiles pretty like those of mine in the papers Mr. Paget first

shewed you, and that 'twas ordered          should be consulted
   I
                                            have inserted them into the
             if

                         II I
                                 II
whether intend to print mine.

beginning of the second book with divers others of that kind
                                                                             it
                                                                                       :
which therefore, you desire to see, you may command the book

when you please, though otherwise should choose to let lie

by me till you are ready for it.            think have the solution of

your problem about the sun's parallax, but through other occa

sions shall scarce have time to think further on these things                :

and besides, want something of observation, for my notion
          II
                      I

                           I
                                                    4
                                                                      is,
                                                  I if
be right, the sun draws the moon in the quadratures, so that

there needs an equation of about or 4£ minutes to be subduc
ted from her motion in the first quarter and added in the last.

I  hope you received a letter with two corollaries sent you in

autumn.    have eleven sheets already, that to M. When you

have seven more printed off desire you would send them.                      I

thank you for putting forward the press again, being very sensible

of the great trouble give you amidst so much business of
your own, and the Royal Society's. In this, as well as in divers

other things, you w"illymouurchaffoebc"ltiigoaennadtehufmriebnled, servant,
                                               " Is. Newton.
   ., ,,Iuin. C,, oll. Cr,ambridge,

   Feb. 18, 1686. [1686-7.]"

           1  Afterwards thp Karl of Halifax-

456              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

     " Sib,      8. -- Newton to Halley.

I" You'll receive the 2nd book on Thursday night or Friday by
the coach.       have directed it to be left with Mr. Hunt at

Gresham Coll. Pray let me beg the favour of a line or two to
Iknow of the receipt.
                       am obliged to you for pushing on the
Iedition, because of people's expectation, tho' otherwise could
be as well satisfied to let it rest a year or two longer. Tia a

Idouble favour, that you are pleased to double your pains about

it. Dr. Wallis's papers may be long, and would not give you

the trouble of transcribing them all. The heads may suffice.

The resistance, in swift motions, is in a duplicate proportion to

the celerity. The deduction of the sun's parallax from the
Imoon's variation,
                    cannot promise now to consider. When

astronomers have examined whether there be such an inequality

Iof her motion in the quadratures, as mentioned in my last, and
Idetermined the quantity thereof, may take some occasion per

haps to tell     th"emyouthr emroesatsoanf.fectNioonamteorheumatbpleresse"enrIvtsa.fnrNot,mewton.

   " Cambridge,

March 1, 86-7."

NO. IX.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                     457

                                  No. IX.

                            (Referred to in page 312, as No. XI.)

   THE following is a copy of the verses written by Halley, and
prefixed to the First Edition of the Principia. In imitation of
Professor Rigaud, the original verses are printed in the larger
type. The alterations made by Bentley, in the second edition
of 1713, are in a smaller type, and the parts between brackets
are the alterations adopted in the third edition, published by
Pemberton in 1726.

         HALLEY's VERSES PREFIXED TO THE PRINCIPIA.

                                                     In

                viri praestantissimi
               D. ISAACI NEWTONI

                                       opus hocce
                             mathematico-physicum

               saeculi gentisque nostrae decus egregium.

         En tibi norma Poli, et divae libramina Molis,

               [en]                             [et]
         Computus atque Jovis; quas, dum primordia
                                                                                                      rerum

         Conderet, omnipotens sibi                       ipse

         Pangeret, omniparens Leges violare Creator

         DNixoelruiti,t,[aat]euteeronpieqruume  quae fundamenta locarit]

                                                operis fundamina fixit.

         Intima panduntur victi penetralia coeli,

                                                                       circumrotet,

         Nec latet extremos quae Wis circumrotat Orbes.
         Sol solio residens ad se jubet omnia prono

         Tendere descensu, nec recto tramite currus
         Sidereos patitur vastum per inane moveri;

         Sed rapit immotis, se centro, singula Gyris.
         Hinc
                                                qua

         Jam patet horrificis quae via flexa Cometis;
         *

                                                   in sit

                                                                                                  in
         Jam non miramur barbati Phaenomena Astri."

         This line was entirely omitted 1713, and restored                                            1726.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                               APPENDIX

Disciinus hinc tandem qua causa argentea Phoebe

                                                 eat, ct

Passibus haud aequis graditur ; cur subdita nulli
Hactenus Astronomo numeroruin fraena recuset :

remeent                     progrediantur

Cur remeant Nodi, curque Auges progrediuntur.

Discimus et quantis refluum vaga Cynthia Pontum

                impellat ; [fessis dum]

Viribus impellit, dum fractis fluctibus Ulvam

Deserit, ac Nautis suspectas nudat arenas ;

Alternisve ruens spumantia  pulsat.
Alternis vicibus suprema ad littora pulsans.

Quae toties animos vetemm torsere Sophorum,

                                       hodie

Quaeque Scholas frustra rauco certamine vexant

Obvia conspicimus nubem pellente Mathesi.
Jam dubios nulla caligine praegravat error,,1

   Quse superas                                                         Co3li

Queis Superum penetrare domos atque ardua

Newtoni auspiciis, jam dat contingere Templa.

Scandeie sublimis Genii concessit acumen.

Surgite Mortales, terrenas mittite curas ;

                                                            cognoscite

Atque hinc coeligenaa vires dignoscite Mentis,

A pecudum vita longe lateque remotas.

                          primus

Qui scriptis jussit Tabulis compescere Caedes,
Furta et Adulteria, et perjurae crimina Fraudis ;

Quive vagis populis circumdare mcenibus Urbes
Autor erat ; Cererisve beavit munere gentes ;
Vel qui curarum lenimen pressit ab Uva ;
Vel qui Niliaca monstravit arundine pictos

Consociare sonos, oculisque exponere Voces ;

Humanam sortem minus extulit ; utpote pauca

In commune ferenB miserae solatia

                                              [tantum solamina]

Respiciens miseraa solummodo commoda vitae.

Jam vero Superis convivae admittimur, alti

J diae
  ura poli tractare licet, jamque abdita ccecae

1 This line also was omitted in 1713, and restored in 1726.

NO. IX.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  459

                                                  Naturae, et

         Claustra patent Terrae, rerumque immobilis ordo,

                           praeteritis latuere incognita saeclis.

         Et quae praeteriti latuerunt saecula mundi.

                                                        justis

            Talia monstrantem mecum celebrate Camoenis,

                   [o calicolum gaudentes]

         Vos qui coelestigaudetis nectare vesci,
         Newtonum clausi reserantem scrinia Veri

                                                      Carullm

         Newtonum Musis charum, cui pectore puro
         Phoebus adest, totoque incessit Numine mentem:
         Nec fas est propius Mortali attingere Divos.

                                                                          EDM. HALLEY.

   It does not appear on what authority those changes were

introduced into the third edition, which did not exist in the

two first. It is quite certain that they were made without the
authority either of Halley or Newton. It is probable, from the

following anecdote, which we found in Conduit's manuscripts,
that Pemberton was the author of them.

   "Bentley," says Conduit, "altered Halley's verses when he
printed the Principia. Halley told me that Sir Isaac Newton
made him hope that in Pemberton's edition his verses would be
printed from his own copy, but complained they were not, for
he made it--

                                      AEternique operis fundamenta fixit.

And it is printed,

                                      Operumque fundamenta locavit.

IAnd when said that perhaps Sir Isaac Newton did not care

for having anything appear before his book, that seemed to
favour the idea that the world was eternal;--`Yes,' said he,
`that is what Pemberton would fix upon me, but aeternum is

Ionly a viternum, and meant no more.'"--Conduit's MSS.

     que--omitted in 1713, restored in 1726. The parts in italics are alterations,
made in the third, though not in the second edition.

460  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

                                    No. X.

                         (Be/erred to in page 318, as No. XII.)

  It is either a great privilege or a great misfortune to be the

associate of distinguished individuals. The light of the halo
which surrounds them falls brightest on their companions, but
though it generally illustrates and adorns, it sometimes displays
failings and imperfections of character, and transmits them to
posterity. We have already seen how unfortunate for the me
mory of Mr. Paget was his connexion with Newton and Flam-
steed. We shall now see the reverse in the case of Cotes, who,
though justly distinguished by his own talents and acquirements,
has yet derived a considerable portion of his reputation from

being the friend of Newton, and an editor of the Principia. It

is probable, indeed, from the fact that Bentley was the proprietor
of the second edition of the Principia, and a worshipper of
Mammon, that Fame was the only reward which fell to the lot
of Cotes.

   Koger Cotes was born at Burbage, in Leicestershire, on the

10th July 1682. His father, who was rector of the parish,

placed him at Leicester school, where, at the age of twelve, he

displayed a great taste for mathematics. At the house of his
uncle, the Rev. John Smith, and with his assistance, he made
great progress in mathematics, and at St. Paul's School in Lon
don, he made equal progress in classical learning.

   From St. Paul's School he went to Trinity College, Cambridge,
where he was entered pensioner on the 6th April 1699. He was
elected scholar in May 1701, took his degree of B.A. in 1703,
and was sworn minor Fellow of the College, on the 3d of Octo
ber 1705. On the 16th October 1707, he was appointed the
first Plumian Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philo
sophy. In 1713 he took orders, and in the same year undertook
to superintend the second edition of the Principia.

   In 1714 he published in the Philosophical Transactions a pa

per, entitled Logometria, the first part of the treatise on the same

NO. X.                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             461

subject which forms the principal part of his posthumous work,
entitled Harmonia Mensurarum, edited in 1722 by his cousin,

Dr. Robert Smith. In 1716, he communicated to the Society an

account of the great fiery meteor seen on the 6th March of that
year, but it is obvious from his description of it that it was

only an Aurora Borealis.

   In a few weeks after he wrote this communication to the

Society, he was seized with fever, and, after a relapse, accompa

nied with violent diarrhoea and constant delirium, he died on

the 5th June 1716, amid the deep regrets of the University and

the scientific world. When Newton received the sad intelli

        of the  loss  of his friend, he made the memorable  obser
          "     Mr.   Cotes had lived we might have known   some
Ifgence

vation,

thing."

  A short time before his death, when he was only in his thirty-

tshecaotnd"   year, he demonstrated the  beautiful optical theorem,
             the magnitude of the image  of an object seen through

any number of lenses is to that of the object itself, as the dis

tance of the image from the eye is to the apparent distance of

the object."1

   In 1722, there appeared the Epistola ad Amicum de Cotesii

Inventis, addressed to Mr. James Wilson, by Henry Pemberton,

and an Appendix, bearing the date of May 1822. Beside some

tracts in Latin, which have not been published, he left behind
him a course of lectures on Hydrostatics and Pneumatics, which
was published by Dr. Smith in 1738. In Mr. Edleston's Cor

respondence, he has published twenty-four letters from Cotes to

his friends, from one of which it appears that he had anticipated
S'Gravesende in the invention of the Heliostate.2

Cotes was interred in the chapel of Trinity College, and the

following beautiful and much admired inscription on his monu

ment, was written by Dr. Bentley.

   1 See Smith's Optics, vol. i. p. 191, cor. 19 ; and vol. ii., Remarks, p. 76.
   8 Mr. Edleston refers to the Register of the Royal Society for evidence, that

Hooke and Halley had previously invented the Heliostate. The first publication,
however, of the invention, is due to the Dutch philosopher. --See S'Gravesende's

Physical Elem. Math. vol. ii. p. 715, § 2660, Tab. 84, 85. Edit. 1742.

462     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           APPENDix,

                             H. S. E.

     ROGERUs ROBERTI FILIUS COTES,
      Hujus Collegii S. Trinitatis Socius,
      Et Astronomiæ et Experimentalis
      Philosophiæ Professor Plumianus;

         Qui immatura morte præreptus,
             Pauca quidem ingenii sui
                    Pignora reliquit,

            Sed egregia, sed admiranda,

      Ex intimis Matheseos penetralibus
       Felici solertia tum primum eruta;
        Post magnum illum Newtonum,

             Societatis hujus spes altera,

               Et decus gemellum ;

        Cui ad summam doctrinæ laudem

        Omnes morum virtutumque dotes

             In cumulum accesserunt;
        Eo magis spectabilis amabilisque,

               Quod in formoso corpore
                    Gratiores venirent.

                     Natus Burbagii
                In agro Leicestriensi

                Jul. x. MDCLxxxII.
              Obiit Jun. v. MDccxvI.

NO. XI.                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            463

                                              No. XI.

                              {Referred to in page 340, as No. XIII.)

The great interest excited by the Principia even among per

sons who were not qualified by their mathematical knowledge

                              led some individuals of active and powerful
to comprehend                 it,

minds to acquire as much geometrical and analytical knowledge;

as would enable them to understand and appreciate the leading

truths which Newton had discovered. Dr. Bentley, as we have

already seen,                 was anxious to expound the discoveries               of Newton
in popular                                                                         the wisdom
"                             form, and to adduce them as proofs of                '
    1                                                                                                      ;1
and benevolence of the Deity and having resolved to study the
    a

                          is
work which contained them, he applied, through his friend, Mr.

William Wotton,2 to John Craige, an able Scotch mathema-

   Dr. Monk of opinion that Bentley                             had previously attended Newton's lectures.
The true system of the universe," he                            says, " and the proper methods of philoso

phical investigation, had not become public by the writings of Newton, but the

light of the Newtonian discoveries was partially revealed to Cambridge before the

rest of the world by the lectures of the philosopher himself, delivered in the char

acter of the Lucasian Professor.            These Bentley had an opportunity of attending
and that he did not neglect                  am induced to believe, by his selection of the
                              6,
                                         a

                                        iIt,
Newtonian discoveries as prominent subject of his Boyle's Lectures, and his

familiarity with the train of reasoning by which they are established." --Monk's

Life of Bentley, pp. 7.
      William Wotton, the friend of Bentley and of Craige, was a very remarkable
s
        ;        Dr. Monk informs us that he was the only one of Bentley's          contem
person and       whom he maintained friendship in after life. " He was,"           adds Dr.
                 able antagonist of Sir W. Temple on the controversy On            Ancient
poraries   with                               a
Monk,     " the

and Modern Learning.' Ab their combined efforts on that occasion have associated

together the names of Wotton and Bentley,                       right to take some notice of the
                                                                it
                                                                     is

                                                                     I
                                                                                a
former, who, when he entered the University, was child, and presents the best

authenticated instance of a juvenile prodigy that have ever found upon record.is
        ;
It certified by the testimony not of one, but many persons of sense and learning,

that at six years of age he was able to read and translate Latin, Greek, and
Hebrew to which at seven he added some knowledge of the Arabic and Syriac.

On his admission at Catherine Hall, in his tenth year, the Master, Dr. Eachard,

the antagonist of Hobbes, recorded Gulielmus Wotton, infra decern amws, nec'

Hammondo nec Grotio secundus.' This surprising proficiency during his acade

mical career testified by some of the best scholars of that day                    When
                 is

he proceeded Bachelor of Arts, he was acquainted with twelve languages, and, as

464          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             APPENDIX,

tician, for a list of works which should be read in order to under
stand the Principia. Alarmed with the long list of authors sent
him by Craige on the 24th June 1691, Bentley seems to have

applied to Newton himself, from whom he received the following
directions. Mr. Edleston thinks that the date of it is probably

about July 1691 : --

Directions given by Newton to Bentley respecting the books

necessary to be read before studying the Principia.1
   " Next after Euclid's Elements the Elements of ye Conic

sections are to be understood. And for this end you may read

either the first part of ye Elementa Curvarum of John De Witt,

or De la Hire's late treatise of ye conick sections, or Dr Barrow's

Ep"itoFmore  of Apollonius.  first  Barth{ol}in's  introduction,  & then
             Algebra read

peruse such Problems as you will find scattered up & down in
Iye Commentaries on Cartes's Geometry & other Algebraical {sic)
writings of Francis Schooten.       do not mean y' you should

read over all those Commentaries, but only ye solutions of such
Problems as you will here & there meet with. You may meet

with De Witt's Elementa Curvarum & Bartholin's Introduc

tion bound up together w"1 Carte's Geometry & Schooten's

Com" mFoenrtaArsietrso. nomy read first ye short account of ye Copernican
System in the end of Gassendus's Astronomy & then so much

of Mercator's Astronomy as concerns ye same system & the

new discoveries made in the heavens by Telescopes in the

Ap"peTnhdeisxe. are sufficient for understanding my book : but if you

can procure Hugenius's Horologium Oscillatorium, the perusal
of that will make you much more ready.

there was no precedent of granting that degree to a boy of thirteen, Dr. H. Qower,

one of the Caput, thought fit to put upon record a notice of his proficiency in every

species of literature, as a justification of the University." --Monk's Life of Bentley,
pp. 7, 8 ; see also Nichol's Literary Anecdotes, vol. iv. pp. 253-259.

   1 We have given this paper exactly as it is printed in Mr. Edleston's Corre

spondence, &c, pp. 273, 274. It is copied from the original, presented, along with

the original MSS. of Newton's four celebrated letters to Bentley, by his grandson,
Richard Cumberland, to Trinity College. -- Cumberland's Memoirs, vol. i. p. 94.

NO. XI.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                          465

" At ye first perusal of my Book it's enough if you understand

ye Propositions w"1 some of ye Demonstrations wch are easier
then the rest. For when you understand ye easier they will

afterwards give you light into ye harder. When you have read

y8 first 60 pages, pass on to ye 3d Book & when you see the

design of that you may turn back to such Propositions as you

shall have a desire to know, or peruse the whole in order if

you think fit."

   The following memorandum is written upon the                                                MS.                  by
Bentley : --

                         " Directions from Mr Newton by his own Hand."

Directions given by John Graige for understanding thePrincipia

   The course of reading proposed by John Craige for under
standing the Principia, is much more extensive than that of

Newton. It is published in Bentley's Correspondence,1 in a

very interesting letter addressed to William Wotton, which, we
have no doubt, will be gratifying to some of our readers :--

" Sir,                                                 " Windsor,                              24 June, 1691.
                                                                                                had thought
 would                       this line before this, if
I I"
              have sent you

you had returned from Cambridge. You may tell your Friend

that nothing less than a thorough knowledge of all that is yet

known in the most curious parts of Mathematicks can make

Ihim capable to read Mr. Newton's book with that advantage

which believe he proposes to himself. Upon this account,

then, it may justly seem a very undecent piece of vanity to

undertake to give a method for reading a book that involves so
much in and so far above my strength however, in compli
         it,

                     I
                                                                                            ;
ance with your desire, shall give you that which appears to

me to be the  shortest and most proper method for such an end.
              Euclid's Elements, let him apply himself to the
   " Next to
Conick Sections, for which he need only read De Witt's First
Booh Be Elementis Li,nearum Ourvarum; but let him not

meddle with the Second, which treats of the Loca Geometrica.

                 See vol. ii. pp. 736-740 and vol. p. xxxii.
         I.
VOL.
                          1
                                                                            ;
                                                                                    i.
                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                 Q

466               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                    APPENDIX,

IAfter he has made himself Master of the Conick Sections, he

must read some good System of Algebra : know none better

than Jo. Prestet's Siemens des Mathematiques, especially if he

can get the new edition : here it is absolutely necessary to be

constantly exercising himself in the resolving of Problems ; but

let him forbear meddling with any geometrical Problem, until

he be entirely Master of all the precepts of common Algebra ;

afterwards he may look over Wallis, De Beaun, Fer-mott, Hvd-
den, and pick out several things which he will scarcely meet

with in Prestet, or any one System. When this is done, the

great difficulty of the work is over : this is the foundation of all ;

and, therefore, he must not grudge to bestow more time and

                  it,   than, perhaps, he would willingly allow,
application upon                                                                               :I
                       a
he knew how much of both are requisite.                                                     mast not forget toif
                                         ;I
                                                I
desire him to have care not to begin with Kersey's Algebra,

which  is  apt (by its pompous bulk and title) to deceive new

beginners, as sad experience has taught myself.                                                can assure

him there was never duller book writ and, as far as can
                          aa
judge, there was never man who pretended to write of Algebra

that understood the design of less than Mr. Kersey did but,
                              it
to do him justice, he treats the Arithmetical part of Algebra
                                  I
(both as to rational and Surd Quantities) in very plain, full,                              a
and clear method. The prodigious loss of time which this un

lucky book made me sustain, (when had no guide to direct me
in my studies of this kind,) drew this severe character of Mr.

Kersey from me and doubt not but this advertisement will
           ;

               I

be of some use to your friend. When he thus well instructed
                                         is

with the Elements both of Geometry and Algebra, he must

study the use of both, which consists in these two things, viz.

the inventing of Theorems and resolving of Geometrical Prob

lems for which end he must begin with Cartes his Geometry,
     ;

          it

                is
                    is a

                                                                                         ;

                                                      it
reading only the first and third book but let him forbear the

second till such time as he perfectly understands the first and

last, which Cartes his own advice in one of his Letters, and,

indeed, the nature of the thing shows should be so. This

will give him vaster idea of Geometry and of the great use of

Algebra than possible for me to express, or for one that has

not read to imagine. In the next place, let him peruse dili

NO. XI.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                              467

gently De Witt's second book, which treats of the Loca Geome-

trica ; and immediately after that read Cartes his second book,

which treats of the same subject : and because the method of

Tangents is the chief part of this 2nd book, and, indeed, of all

his whole Geometry, (as he himself confesses,) let him read

ISlusius his Method, which he'll find in the Philosophical Trans

actions ; Dr. Barrow's Method, which he'll find (if remember
right) at the end of his 10th Geometrical Lecture; and Mr.

Leibnitz his Method, which he'll find in the Acta Eruditorum,

which is the best of all ; for by these four (not to mention
several others of less note) various methods he will become
master of this famous Problem, which, of all others, is of the

greatest use in the solution of the hardest Problems in Geometry.

Here it will be again necessary to exercise his pen much in the

solving of Geometrical, as before in the solving of Arithmetical

Problems ; which he may furnish himself with out of any books

that are by him, particularly out of Vieta, Reinaldini, Hender

son, Schooten, Kersey, &c. ; but he must keep close to Cartes

his General Method, and make no other use (as yet) of those
                               provide himself with good store of
boo"ksA,nobtuhteor nlgyretaot   Invention, which has extremely     Problems.
                                                                   promoted

Geometry in our Age, is the Method of Indivisibles. Where

fore, in the next place, let him read the famous Cavalerius on

that subject, who              is,   not the Inventor, yet, at least, the great

                                 if

Restorer of that Method. After him must be read Dr. Barrow's

Geometrical Lectures, who has carried that Method further than

any, and who will inform him with more excellent and universal

Theorems than any book that has been written in this Age.

When your friend has gone so far, he needs not be much solicit

ous in what order he read any book of pure Geometry or Alge

bra, but may take them promiscuously as they come to his hand      ;;
for scarce any thing will occur which he will not be able to

overcome but the books that think will be most worthy of
         :                           ;I

his application are, Archimedes and Apollonius his works of Dr.

Barrow's edition Slusius his Mesolabium Vieta Gregorius
            ;                            :      ;

a Sancto Vincentio Mr. James Gregory's Works; Hugenius;;
his Horologium Oscillatorium La Hire his Conich Sections

and Tschirnhaus his Medicina Mentis but in this last, as also

468               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      APPENDIX,

in Archimed and Hugenius, he must pass over all that is not

pur"e   Geometry    or Algebra.  to those parts  that are of a more
       Then he    must advance

compounded nature, and which have a more immediate Relation

to Mr. Newton's book. First, then, he must read with a great

deal of care Galileus his works De Motu ; in reading of which

he will find vast help from Dr. Barrow's five first Lectures.
Then he must read Torricelli's booh De Motu, who carries on

Galileus his design. He will find also much to the same pur
pose in Gassendus, Hugenius, and Mersennus ; after them he

must read Mariot, who treats of the Laws of Motion ; then let
him read what Sir Christopher Wren and Dr. WaUis hath

printed in the Philosophical Transactions concerning the said

Laws ; after this it will not be amiss to read Dr. Wallis his

Mechanicks, but he may pass over all that part De Calculo

Centri gravitatis. There are several things in Mr. Hobbes De

Motu which will be of some use to him : and indeed, without a

good understanding of what these Authors have already written

concerning Motion, it is simply impossible to understand this

unparalleled book of Mr. Newton's, which treats of nothing else

but Motion, but in such a manner as tends to the perfecting of
Philosophy, and particularly that part of it which relates to the

motion of the Stars and Planets. Therefore, in the next place,

your friend must make himself perfect in Astronomy, in study

ing of which let him begin with Tacquet ; for though he follows

Ia false Hypothesis, yet none has treated this matter in so clear

and full a method. But here suppose your friend to be skilled

in Trigonometry, (both plane and spherical, for which Norwood
first, and Ward afterwards, are to be read,) and the use of the

Sphere. When he has done with Tacquet, let him get Kepler,

Bulliald, Seth Ward, Mercator and Gassendus, and Copernicus,

who ought to have been first mentioned : by the help of these

he will have a perfect understanding of the state of Astronomy

as it was before Mr. Newton published his book; which he

might safely now begin with, were it not for some collateral

things which he brings in from the Opticks, Hydrostaticks, &c.

For the Opticks he must read Cartes, Ja. Gregory, Dr. Barrow,
Honoratus Fabri, and Tacquet ; and till he hath read these, he

NO. XI.     LIFE OF 8IR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    469

must pass over what Cartes speaks of his Ovals in the 2nd book

of his Geometry. For Hydrostaticks, he must read Archimed

and BoreUi, and something which he'll find in Dr. WaUis his
Mechanicks. And because much of Master Newton's book refers

to the Quadratures of Figures, he must read what has been
                           by Dr. Wallis    and Mr. David Gregory.
written on   this subject
   " Here,  you see, is a  vast deal to be  done, even enough to dis

courage a man whose inclinations have not a great bias this

Iway ; but he that seriously considers the real pleasure and ad

vantage that arises from this, and (if be not mistaken) only
from this kind of study, will not be disheartened either by the
tediousness or difficulty that attends it ; but my business was

Inot to persuade, but, as far as am able, to instruct your friend
Iin what Order he ought to proceed in this matter ; which

have done with all the care and exactness that was possible.

IAnd if this shall chance to be of no use to him, yet shall not

Ifail entirely in the end for which writ which was to shew
            ;I

                       it

                                       I it,
                                                  I

                                                                                                  is
my readiness, at least, to serve you, for whose sake there

nothing that will refuse to do that lies within the compass of

my power, though           were even to the discovery of my own

weakness and ignorance, which, perhaps,                have sufficiently

done already and, therefore, shall add no more, but that am

and ever s"hYaollubre,most real friend and humble se"rvJoan.t,Oraige.
   " For Mr. William Wotton,
         Chaplain to The Earle of Nottinghame,

                  at Cleveland-House,

                           London."

   The following note in Bentley's handwriting                  written  on the

fourth page or cover of Mr. Craige's letter --
                           la
" Ex                                                   :
                                                           is
         Newtono                                       Conicee
              Cartesii geometria in De Hire Lectionea
              Barthii Introductio in Algebra

              Mercatoris Astronomia
              Hugenii Horologiiun Oscillatorium."

470  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                     APPENDIX,

ciplTe*h,eacmceossstibcloemtpolettheosaendwhsoucacreess"fullittaltetesmkpiltledto  make the Prin

                                                                                   in mathematical

science," has been made by Lord Brougham, in his admirable

analysis of that work, which forms the greater part of the second

volume of his edition of Paley's Natural Theology.1

  " The reader of the Principia" says Lord Brougham, " if he

be a tolerably good mathematician, can follow the whole chain

of demonstration by which the universality of gravitation is de

duced from the fact, that it is a power acting inversely, as the

square of the distance to the centre of attraction. Satisfying

himself of the laws which regulate the motion of bodies in tra

jectories around given centres, he can convince himself of the

sublime truths unfolded in that immortal work, and must yield

his assent to this position, that the moon is deflected from the

tangent of her orbit round the earth, by the same force by which

the satellites of Jupiter are deflected from the tangent of theirs,

the very same force which makes a stone unsupported fall to the

ground. The reader of the Mecanique Celeste, if he be a still

more learned mathematician, and versed in the modern improve

ments of the calculus which Newton discovered, can follow the

chain of demonstration by which the wonderful provision made

for the stability of the universe, is deduced from the fact, that
the direction of all the planetary motions is the same -- the

eccentricity of their orbits small, and the angle formed by the

plane of their orbits with the ecliptic acute. Satisfying him

self of the laws which regulate the mutual actions of these

bodies, he can convince himself of a truth yet more sublime

than Newton's discovery, though flowing from                                       and must
a

   1

                                               of
                                                                                       it,

                                                                                                          a
yield his assent to the marvellous position, that all the irregu

larities occasioned in the system of the universe, by the mutual

attraction of its members, are periodical, and subject to an

eternal law which prevents them from ever exceeding stated

amount, and secures through all time the balanced structure of

universe composed of bodies whose mighty bulk and prodi-

Dissertations on Subjects          Science connected with Natural Theology. By
Henry Lord Brougham, F.R.S., and Member of the National Institute of France.

Vol. ii. pp. 243 480. Lond. 1839.

NO. XI.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      471

gious swiftness of motion, mock the utmost efforts of the human

imagination. All these truths are to the skilful mathematician

as thoroughly known, and their evidence is as clear, as the
simplest proposition of arithmetic is to common understandings.
But how few are those who thus know and comprehend them ?
Of all the millions that thoroughly believe these truths, cer
tainly not a thousand individuals are capable of following even
any considerable portion of the demonstrations upon which they

rest ; and probably not a hundred now living have ever gone
through the whole steps of these demonstrations."1

I have mentioned in page 311, on the authority of Conduitt's

IMSS., the time when different parts of the Principia were
written.  have found, in Sir Isaac's own handwriting, the

following memorandum, which contains some additional in

formation of considerable interest.

   " In the tenth proposition of the second book, there was a

mistake in the first edition, by drawing the tangent of the arch

Igh from the wrong end of the arch, which caused an error in

the conclusion ; but in the second edition rectified the mis
take. And there may have been some other mistakes occasioned

by the shortness of the time in which the book was written, and

Iby its being copied by an amanuensis who understood not what

he copied ; besides the press faults, for wrote it in seventeen

or eighteen months, beginning in the end of December 1684,
and sending it to the Royal Society in May 1686, excepting that

about ten or twelve of the propositions were composed before,

viz., the 1st and 11th in December 1679, the 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th,

          1

                          I.,
10th, 12th, 13th, and 17th, Lib.   and the 1st, 2d, 3d, and 4th,

Lib. II., in June and July 1684."

          Ibid., vol. ii. pp. 172, 173.

472             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          APPENDIX,

                             No. XII.

                    (Continuation of Appendix, No. VIII. p. 456.)

  ISince Appendix No. VIII. was printed, have found among

the Newtonian Manuscripts, in the possession of the Earl of
Portsmouth, other seven letters of the interesting correspondence
between Newton and Halley, respecting the publication of the
Principia. One of these accompanied the first proof-sheet of
the work, and another announced to him the transmission of

Icomplete copies of it to Cambridge for presentation to his

friends. The last of these letters is not given here, as have

introduced it into Chapter XVI. of the next volume.

                           9. --Halley to Newton.

                                                                                  " London, June 7, 1686.

     "Sir,

  I" here send you a proof of the first sheet of your book, which

we think to print on this paper, and in this character ; if you
have any objection, it shall be attended to : and if you approve

we will proceed and care shall be taken that shall not be
it,                                                                it
                                                                                      it,
 I
                                             ;
published before the end of Michaelmas term, since you desire

it. hope you will please to bestow the second part, or what

remains of this, upon us as soon as you shall have finished

for the application of this mathematical part to the system of

the world,  is  what will render                           acceptable to all naturalists,
                                                ;

                                                       it
as well as mathematicians and must advance the sale of the

book. Pray, please to revise this proof, and send me up with
                                                                   I it
                                                                        I
your answer. have already corrected but cannot say have
is                                                         it,
                                                                a
     it

               a

           I

                       it
spied all the faults. When has passed your eye, doubt not
                                                it

                                                      a
but will be clear from errata. The printer begs your excuse

of the diphthongs, which are of character little bigger, but he

has some casting of the just size. This sheet being proof,
                                                                   is
not so clear as ought to be but the letter                                    a

                                                                              I
                                                ;                  new, and

NO. XII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  473

have seen a book of a very fair character, which was the last

Ithing printed from this set of letter ; so that hope the Edition
Imay in that particular be to your satisfaction. -- am, Sir,

                       " Your most affectionate humb"leE.seHrvaalnlet,y.

   " Please to send by the coach, directed to me, to be left with
Mr. Hunt, at Gresham College.

   " To his honoured Friend,
          Mr. Isaac Newton,
            at his Chamber in Trinity College,
                                                        Cambridge."

   Newton replied to this letter on the 20th June, as will be seen
by turning to p. 441.

          10. --Halley to Newton.

" Sir,                    " London, October 14, 1686.

" By reason you are desirous that your book should not be

public before Hilary Term, the impression has not been expedited
Ias it might have been ; but hope that it is the more correct
Ifor proceeding so slow.
                          have sent you by the coach which goes

from hence to-morrow morning, all the sheets that are done, de

siring you would be pleased to mark all the errata you shall

find, that so if there be any material one, the reader may be

Iadvertised thereof, but this at your leisure. At present more

immediately want to be informed concerning your geometrical

effection of the problem xxm, as much as relates to the 63d

figure, for upon trial (there being no demonstration annexed)

Ithere seems to be some mistake committed, wherefore intreat

you would please to send me, revised by yourself, those few lines

that relate thereto, and, if it be not too much trouble, be pre

vailed upon to subjoin something of the Demonstration. In your

474        LIFE OF SIR ISAAO NEtyTON.                          APPENDIX,

transmutation of figures according to the 22d lemma, which
you use in the two following problems, to me it seems that the

Imanner of transmuting a trapezium into a parallelogram needs         it,

some farther explanation ; have printed it as you sent but

pray you please little farther to describe by an example the
I

                             it, a

                        I
manner of doing for am not perfectly master of                 it     a short

                                                                   ;

hint will suffice. Pray, defer the answer hereto as little as may

stand with your convenience, for we are now within sheet of
                                                               if a
the 23d problem, and shall want your amendments,                   there be
Ifoccasion for them.
                         there be any service can do you here in
                                     I

town, pray "coYmoumranmdo, stSiar,ffectionate humble servant,
                                             " Edm. Halley.
        " To his honoured Friend,

           Me. Isaac Newton,
              at Tbinity Colledg, Oambridg,

           These."

        Newton answered this letter, immediately, on the 18th of Oc

tober, as will be seen ; turning to page 453.

           11. --Halley to Newton.I by
                            I
        " Honoured Sir,              " London, Feb. 24, [1686-7.]
                                iIt
        " return you most hearty thanks for the copy you sent me
        I

of the sheet which was lost by the printer's negligence               will
                                             if I
                                                    I

                                                        I I ;I
now do nothing else till the whole be finished, which hope may
be soon after Easter and to redeem the time have lost, will

employ another press to go on with the second part, which am

glad to understand you have perfected, and you please to send

it, itup to me, as soon as have      will set the printer to work on

        and will not be wanting to do my part to let appear to the
                                               it

world to your satisfaction.         am sorry the Society should be re

presented to you so unsteady as to fall so frequently into variance,1

      Mr. Weld, in his History of the Royal Society, does not mention any " vari1
ances" as taking place at this time.

NO. XII.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.   475

IIbut there is no such thing ; and am bold to say, that

serve them to their satisfaction, though six out of thirty-eight

last general election did their endeavour to have put me by. 1

IDr. Wallis his papers will send you ; the result is much the

Isame with yours, and he had the hint from an account gave
Ihim of what you had demonstrated, will send it you with some

more sheets this next week ; it is as yours founded on the hypo

thesis of the opposition being proportionate to the celerity which
you say you find reason to dispute. Your demonstration of the

parallax of the sun from the inequalities of the moon's motions,
is what the Society has commanded me to request of you, it

being the best means of determining the dimensions of the pla

netary system, which all other ways are deficient in ; and they

entreat you not to desist when you are come so near the solution

of so noble a problem. This done, there remains nothing more

to be enquired in this matter, and you will do yourself the honour

Iof perfecting scientifically what all past ages have but blindly
groped after.  have your two propositions you sent me some

Itime "sincaem, a, nSdir,shtaollthineseurttmothset mofinmythpeoirweprr,oper place.

                 " Your most affectionate humble servant,
                                                         " Edm. Halley.

   " To his honoured Friend,

          Mr. Isaac Newton,
            in Trinity Colledg, Cambridg,

               These."

   Newton's answer to this letter is given in page 455, but with
an erroneous date of Feb. 18, 1686, [1686-7.]

               12. -- Halley to Newton.

" Honoured Sir,         " London, March 7, 1686-7.
                          ,
  I" I received yours, and according to it your Second Book,

which this week will put to the press, having agreed with one

1 Halley was at this time Clerk and Assistant Secretary, and continued so till 1698.

476           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             APPENDIX,

that promises me to get it done in seven weeks, it making much
about twenty sheets. The First Book will be about thirty, which
will be finished much about the same time. This week you

shall have the eighteenth sheet according to your directions. You
mention in this Second your Third Book De Systemate Mundi,

which from such firm principles, as in the preceding you have

laid down, cannot choose but give universal satisfaction, if this

Ibe likewise ready, and not too long to get printed at the same

time, and you think fit to send it ; will endeavour by a third
hand, to get it all done together, being resolved to engage in no
other business till such time as all is done, desiring hereby to

Iclear myself from all imputations of negligence in a business

wherein am much rejoiced to be any ways concerned in handing
to the world that that all future ages will admire, and as being,

             " Sir, your most obedient servant,

                                                           " Edm. Halley.
   " To Mr. Isaac Newton,

         at Trinity Colledg Cambridg."

   No answer to this letter, or any of the subsequent letters, has

been preserved.

              13.--Halley to Newton.

     I" Sir,                             " March 14, 1686-7.

" have now sent you the eighteenth sheet of your book, but

could not be as good as my word, by reason of the extraordinary

Itrouble of the last sheet, which was the reason it could not be
finished time enough to send it you the last week.  have not

been wanting to endeavour the clearing it of errata, but am

Isensible that, notwithstanding all my care, some have crept in ;

but hope none of consequence. Pray, please to examine it

yourself, and note what mistakes are committed, that so they

may be noted at the end ; and if they be very material, the

NO. XII.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              477

Isheet shall be done over again, as was forced to do the sheet d ;

Iand half the sheet p must be done, for the figure is turned upside
down by the negligence of the printer, in p. 112.  hope, in a

fortnight more, to send you as many more sheets, and very sud
denly to have the first part finished -- being,

                         " Sir, your most humble servant,

                                                         " Edm. Halley.
" To Mr. Isaac Newton,

           at Trinity Coll.,

            Cambridge.

" Post-p1.  TJiese present --

With a small parcel."

            14. --Halley to Newton.

   " Honoured Sir,                         " London, April 5, 1687.

I" received not the last part of your   divine treatise till yes

terday, though it came to town that day se'ennight, having had

occasion to be out of town the last week. The first part will be

finished within the three weeks, and, considering the shortness

of the third over the second, the same press that did the first

Iwill get it done so soon as the second can be finished by another

press ; but find some difficulty to match the letter justly.

Your method of determining the orb of a comet deserves to be

practised upon more of them, as far as may ascertain whether

any of those that have passed in former times may have returned

again ; for their nodes and perihelia being fixed, will prove it

sufficiently, and, by their periods, the transverse diameters will

Ifbe given, which possibly may render the problem more easy.

you can remove the fault in the comet's latitudes, 'twill be better ;

but as it   the numbers you have laid down do make out the
            is,

                                           I
verity of the hypothesis past dispute.        do not find that you

have touched that notable appearance of comets' tails, and their

opposition to the sun, which seems rather to argue an efflux

478          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                            APPENDIX.

Ifrom the sun than a gravitation towards him.       doubt not but

this may follow from your principles with the like ease as all

the other phenomena ; but a proposition or two concerning these

will add much to the beauty and perfection of your theory of
I Icomets.
     find shall not get the whole complete before Tri
Inity Term, when hope to have it published, when the world

will not be more instructed by the demonstrative doctrine thereof,

than it will pride itself to have a subject capable of penetrating

so far into the abstrusest secrets of nature, and exalting human

Ireason to so sublime a pitch by this utmost effort of the mind.

But least my affection should make me transgress, remain,
                               " Your most obedient servant,

                                                          " Edm. Halley.
   " To Mr. Isaac Newton,

     to be left with Mr. Parish Rector of
        Coulsterworth, in Lincolnshire.

                     These--"

In Halley's letter, dated May 22, 1686, and forming No.
                           it

                                is

                                            it

                                                     is

                                                              it
                                                                             I.,
438, the following termination of          omitted in all the
p.

        I
printed copies. Although       not very important, enables us

to make the   correspondence complete.    The paragraph follows
             borrow reputation."         directions, the printing
the words "
   " When      shall have received your

shall be pushed on with all expedition, which, therefore, en
                                  of,

                                                        I
treat you to send me as soon as may be. You may please to

direct to me, to be left with Mr. Hunt at Gresham College, and

your line will come to the hands
                           " Sir,
             " Your  most                humble     servant,
                           affectionate          "
                                                    Edm. Halley."

                     END OF VOLUME FIRST.

     EDINBURGH T. CONBTABLK, PRINTER TO HUB WAJBSTT.


      MEMOIRS

LIFE, WRITINGS, AND DISCOVERIES

       SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

                  SIR DAVID BREWSTER, E.E,

                 A.M., D.C.L., F.R.H., VICE-PRKH. R a, EDINBURGH AND M.R.I A.,
CsIC OF THE RIGI1T ASSOCIATES Of TBI IMPERIAL INSTITGTE OP PRANCE-- HONORARY OR CORRESPONDING

        MEMBER OP THE ACADEMIES OP sT. PETERSBURG!!, VIENNA, sERLIN, COPENHAGEN, STOCRHOLM.
                  MUNICH, QuTTHtGRN, BRUSSELS, HAERLRM, ERLANGBN. CANTON DB VACD, MODRNA,
                             WASHINGTON, SBW YORR, BOSTON,QUEREC, CAT'RTOWN, ETC., ETC.--
                                  CHEVALIER OP THR PRUSSIAN ORDIR OP MERIT OP FREDERICR
                                      THE GREAT, AND PRINCIPAL OP THE UNITED COLLEGES OP
                                              ST. SAI.VATOR AND ST. LEONARD'S. AT ANDREWS.

                                              Kritovivi'lavli nnimi pervicit,et extra
                                              P'ocewt lonsetlninmantlam>eni*mundt;
                                              Atqueomnetmmentumpvr&tpmvmit 'ut« nnimoqnc.

                                                                                            LucitBTina, Lib. 1.I. 7S.

                                             VOL II.

     EDINBURGH : THOMAS CONSTABLE AND CO.

                        HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO., LONDON.
                                                MDCCCLV.

                                       [THk AOTnoB HRSRRTES TllF RIGHT OF TRANSLATION. J

EDINIllROM : T. CONSTABLE, PBINTER TO HER MAJKSTV.

          CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

                                     CHAPTER XIV.                                 1-35

History of the Infinitesimal Calculus -- Archimedes --Pappus -- Napier -- Ed
   ward Wright --Kepler's Treatise on Stereometry -- Cavalicri's Geometria
   Indivisibilium -- Roberval -- Toricelli -- Fermat -- Wallis's Arithmetica In-
   finitorum --Hudde -- Gregory -- Slusius --Newton's Discovery of Fluxions
   in 1655 -- General Account of the Method, and of its Applications -- His
   Analysis per Equationes, &c. -- His Discoveries communicated to English
   and Foreign Mathematicians --The Method of Fluxions and Quadratures
   -- Account of his other Mathematical writings --He solves the Problems
   proposed by Bernoulli and Leibnitz -- Leibnitz visits London, and corre
   sponds with the English Mathematicians, and with Newton through
   Oldenburg -- He discovers the Differential Calculus, and communicates
   it to Newton -- Notice of Oldenburg -- Celebrated Scholium respecting

......Fluxions in the Principia--Account of the changes upon it-- Leibnitz's

   Manuscripts in Hanover,
          CHAPTER XV.

Nicolas Facio de Duillier attacks Leibnitz-- Leibnitz appeals to Newton --
   He reviews Newton's " Quadrature of Curves," and accuses him of Pla
   giarism -- Newton's opinion of the Review -- Dr. Keill defends Newton as
   the true inventor of Fluxions, and apparently retorts the charge of Pla
   giarism on Leibnitz, who complains to the Royal Society -- Keill explains
   his defence -- The Royal Society approves of his explanation -- Leibnitz
   calls Keill an upstart, and begs the Royal Society to silence him -- the
   Society appoints a Committee to inquire into the Claims of Leibnitz and
   Newton -- The Committee report to the Society, who publish the result in
  the " Commercium Epistolicum" --Instigated by Leibnitz, John Bernoulli

attacks the Report, and asserts, in a private Letter to Leibnitz, that he
was the first inventor of the new Calculus -- Leibnitz circulates this Letter

in a Charta Volans, and gives up Bernoulli as the author of it-- Keill

replies to this Letter, and attacks Bernoulli as its author, who solemnly

VOL. II.                          b

vi CONTENTS.

denies it to Newton-- Leibnitz attacks Newton in a Letter to the Abbe          36-83
Conti -- Newton replies to it -- The Controversy excites great interest
Leibnitz urges Bernoulli to make a public declaration in his favour
Bernoulli sends to Leibnitz the celebrated Letter " Pro Eminente Mathe-

......matico," on condition of his name being kept secret --Leibnitz and Wolf

alter this Letter improperly, and publish it in such a form that Bernoulli
is proved to be its author -- Bernoulli is annoyed by the discovery, and
endeavours, by improper means, to evade the truth -- The Abbe Varignon
reconciles Newton and Bernoulli -- Death of Leibnitz -- Newton writes a
History of the Calculus -- General view of the Controversy, and of the

conduct of the parties,
CHAPTER XVI.

Newton declines taking Orders -- His Rooms in Trinity College -- John
   Wickins his chamber-fellow -- Letter from Mr. Nicolas Wickins, his Son --

Dr. Humphrey Newton his Amanuensis from 1684-1689 -- His two Letters

to Conduitt -- Newton's Speculations on the Theory of the Earth-- James II.

attacks the rights of the Charter-House, and sends an illegal Mandamus
to the University of Cambridge -- Newton one of the Delegates to resist
this encroachment on its privileges -- the Vice-Chancellor deposed the
object of the Deputation gained -- Neglect of the Scottish Universities --

Newton elected Member for Cambridge to the Convention Parliament
His habits of business -- His letters to Dr. Covel -- His acquaintance with
Locke -- His Theological inquiries -- Locke exerts himself to procure for

him some permanent appointment in King's College, the Charter-House,
and the Mint --Failure of that attempt -- Newton's disappointment In
gratitude of his Country --Death of his Mother at Stamford -- Writes an
Account of Fluxions and Fluents for Wallis -- His letter to Locke on
multiplying Gold -- Boyle's Recipes and Belief in Alchemy,
                                                                          . 84-122

CHAPTER XVII.

Newton's health impaired -- The Boyle  Lectures   by Bentley, who requests
  Newton's assistance--Newton's first  Letter to  Bentley on the Formation
of the Sun and Planets-- His second Letter -- Rotation of the Planets the
result of Divine power--His third Letter -- Hypothesis of Matter evenly
diffused -- Letter of Bentley to Newton -- Reply to it by Newton in a
fourth Letter -- Opinion of Plato examined -- Supposed mental Illness of

Newton ascribed to the burning of his MSS. -- Referred to in the Letters
of Huygens and Leibnitz -- Made public by M. Biot -- Mentioned in the
Diary of Mr. De la Pryme -- The story referred to disproved -- Newton's
Papers burnt before 1684 --Newton's Letter to Mr. Pepys -- Letter of Mr.
Pepys to Mr. Millington -- Mr. Millington's reply --Mr. Pepys' second
Letter to Mr. Millington -- Newton solves a Problem in Chances -- His
Letter to Locke -- Reply of Locke -- Newton's Answer, explaining the
cause of his Illness --His Critical Letter to Dr. Mill --His Mind never in

a state of derangement, but fitted for the highest intellectual efforts,    123-150

                                CONTENTS.                                       vii

CHAPTER XVIII.

Newton occupied with the Lunar Theory --His Correspondence with Flam-           Wkam
  steed, the Astronomer-Royal --Newton's Letters to Flamsteed, published
  by Mr. Baily -- Controversy which they occasioned -- Flamsteed's Letter to
  Newton discovered recently -- Character of Flamsteed, in reference to this
  Controversy -- of Newton, and of Halley -- all of them engaged, with dif
  ferent objects, in studying the Lunar Theory -- Newton applies to Flam-
  sleed for Observations on the Moon --and on the Refraction of the Atmos

phere, which Flamsteed transmits to him-- Analysis of their Correspond
ence -- Flamsteed's bitterness against Halley -- Differences between New
.....ton and Flamsteed --Flamsteed's ill health interferes with his supplying

Newton with Observations -- Newton's impatience and expostulation with
Flamsteed-- Justification of Flamsteed -- Biot ascribes Newton's Letter to
mental Illness -- Refutation of this view of the subject -- Newton never
afflicted with any mental disorder,                                             157-186

CHAPTER XIX.

No mark of National Gratitude conferred upon Newton -- Friendship between
   him and Charles Montague, afterwards Earl of Halifax -- Montague ap
  pointed Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1694 -- He resolves upon a Re-
  coinage-- His Letter nominating Newton Warden of the Mint in 1696 --
   Newton appointed Master of the Mint when Montague was First Lord of
  the Treasury -- His Report on the Coinage -- Aneedote of his integrity
  when offered a bribe-- He obtains for Halley the Deputy-Comptrollership
  of the Mint at Chester -- Quarrels among the Officers there-- Disturbances
  in the London Mint -- New misunderstanding with Flamsteed -- Remark
  able Letter to him from Newton -- Newton's conduct defended -- The
  French Academy of Sciences remodelled -- Newton elected one of the
  eight Foreign Associates -- M. Geoffrey describes to Dr. Sloane the change
  in the Academy --Newton resigns his Professorship and Fellowship at

.....Cambridge --Whiston appointed his Successor--Newton elected Member

  for the University in 1701, and President of the Royal Society in 1703 --
  Queen Anne confers upon him the honour of Knighthood in 1705 -- Love-
  letter to Lady Norris -- His Letter to his niece, Miss C. Barton -- Account
  of Sir William and Lady Norris -- Letters of Newton about standing for
  the University in 1705 -- Letters of Halifax to Newton on that occasion--
Newton and Godolphin defeated,                                                  187-218

                                          CHAPTER XX.
Sir Isaac is anxious to have the Greenwich Observations published -- Flam

   steed agrees, provided his expenses are paid-- Prince George offers to pay
   the expense of publishing them -- He appoints Sir Isaac and others
   Referees to manage the matter -- Articles agreed upon between Flamsteed
   and the Referees -- Differences arise, and delays in printing -- The Prince

Vlil CONTENTS.
                                                                                           nan

   offers to publish Tycho's Observations along with Flamsteed's -- Newton
   writes to Olaus Roemer about Tycho's manuscripts -- To prevent delay
   the Referees propose to appoint another Corrector of the Press -- Flam-
   steed opposes this in a Letter to Sir C. Wren-- Prince George dies-- The
   Work is stopped for three years -- Flamsteed's Charges against Newton --
   Sanctioned by Mr. Baily--Defence of Newton -- Flamsteed inserts in his
   Autobiography a false copy of his Letter to Wren -- The Queen appoints
   a Board of Visitors to superintend the Observatory -- Flamsteed's Corre
   spondence with Dr. Arbuthnot -- A Scene between Newton and Flamsteed
  -- Halley publishes the Observations printed at the expense of the Prince
  and the Public --Flamsteed publishes at his own expense the Historia
   Celestis -- Observations on the Controversy, . . . 219-242

                     CHAPTER XXI.

Dissensions in the Royal Society -- Dr. Sloane and Dr. Woodward -- Letter
   to Newton on the subject -- Dr. Woodward removed from the Council --

Second edition of the Principia -- Dr. Bentley's Letter to Newton about
it-- Delay of the work -- Bentley's second Letter -- Newton's Residences

in London-- Bentlcy announces to Newton the completion of the Second
Edition -- The Duke D'Aumont elected F.R.S Deslandes' account of a
Dinner Party at Newton's -- Origin of the Royal Observatory at Green
wich -- Prince Menzikoff elected F.R.S. -- Petition to Parliament for a Bill

......to promote the Discovery of the Longitude --Evidence of Newton -- His

Conduct misrepresented by Whiston and Biot-- The Bill passes both
Houses of Parliament -- Dissensions in the Government -- Orler of a Pen
sion to Newton -- Death of Queen Anne -- Accession of George I.-- Earl of
Halifax Prime Minister --Death of Halifax -- His Will --His affection for

Miss Catherine Barton, Newton's Niece -- Her intimacy with Swift -- Her
Character defended,                                                         243-281

                     CHAPTER XXII.

Leibnitz attacks Newton's philosophy --Newton's Reply -- Leibnitz attacks

the English philosophy as irreligious, in Letters to the Princess of Wales
--The King requests Newton to defend himself -- He claims the invention
of Fluxions -- Dr. Clarke defends the English philosophy -- The dispute
carried on through the Princess of Wales -- Insincerity of Leibnitz -- His

death -- His Eloge by Fontenelle, who apologizes to Chamberlayne for a
mistake adverse to Newton --Newton's observations on the Eloge --

.......Varignon reconciles Newton and John Bernoulli --Newton's correspon

dence with Varignon, whose views are favourable to Leibnitz -- Newton
asks Varignon's opinion on the Commercium -- His Criticisms upon it--
His death -- Correspondence between Newton and John Bernoulli -- Mont-
mort's Views on the Fluxionary Controversy -- Nicolas Bernoulli's Letter
to Newton -- Letters of Dr. Smith, Dr. Derham, and Fontenelle, re
ferred to,                                                                  282-300

                                                                                                 /

                                                                                                Vi

                          CONTENTS.                                                             ix

                          CHAPTER XXIII.                                                        rial

The Princess of Wales obtains from Newton a manuscript abstract of his
   System of Chronology -- The Abbe Conti, at her request, is allowed to
  take a copy of it under promise of secrecy -- He gives a copy to M.

                                                              it,
                                                                 it
Freret of the French Academy, who writes a Refutation of and gives                       by it
to Bookseller, who asks Newton's permission to print --Newton
a

               it
                       It
                                  is
                                                       by
neglects to answer two Letters on the subject -- The Abstract and the
Refutation of printed -- Newton reprobates the conduct of Conti, and
defends his System --
                          attacked                         Father Souciet, and defended
                                                              is

Halley -- Sir Isaac's larger work on Chronology published after his
death, and dedicated to the Queen by Mr. Conduitt -- Pope assists in
writing the Dedication -- Opinions respecting the Chronology -- Sir Isaac's
.Paper on the Form of the most Ancient Year -- His unpublished Papers on
the Julian Year, and the reformation of the Calendar,      .                             301-312

                          CHAPTER XXIV.

Theological Writings of Newton -- Their importance to Christianity --
   Motives to which they have been ascribed -- Biot's opinion disproved --
   The date of Newton's theological writings fixed--His Letters to Locke

on these subjects -- History of his account of two corruptions of the
Scriptures -- His Observations on the Prophecies of Daniel, and on the
Apocalypse -- Abstract of his Historical Account of two corruptions of
Scripture -- His views adopted by the ablest Biblical Critics of modern
times -- His unpublished theological writings -- Paradoxical Questions
concerning Athanasius -- His Irenicum or Ecclesiastical Polity tending to

......Peace--His Views on points of Trinitarian Doctrine --His Articles of

Faith -- His Plan for correcting the Romish tendencies of the Church of
England -- Coincidence of his Opinions with those of Locke -- His Views
on the Future Residence of the Blest -- Opinions of Voltaire and Others
-- Napier, Boyle, Milton, and Locke, Students of the Scriptures --Ana
logy between the Book of Nature and that of Revelation -- Letter of Dr.
Morland to Newton,                                                                              313-359

                          CHAPTER XXV.

Sir Isaac's early study of Chemistry -- And of Alchemy, as shewn his Letter
   to Mr. Aston -- His Experiments on the Metal for Reflecting Telescopes --
                          A

                                                                              a
                                                                                in
His Chemical Pursuits between 1683 and 1687 -- His Researches on the
Quantities and Degrees of Heat, written after his illness in 1693 -- His
......Experiments on the Rarefaction of Air, Water, and Linseed Oil --His
Paper on the nature of Acids-- The Results of his Chemical Researches,
published among his Queries in his Optics -- His Opinion on Fire and
Flame -- On Elective Attractions -- Manuscript Works on Alchemy left
among Sir Isaac's Papers -- belief in Alchemy prevalent in Newton's
time -- Boyle, Locke, and Newton studied Alchemy as
                                                              Science, others

for fraudulent purposes,                                                                        360-37(,

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXVI.                                                                     P&OB

Newton's first attack of ill health, and his recovery -- History of his acquaint

ance with Dr. Pemberton, who superintends the third edition of the
Principia-- Their Correspondence -- Improvements in the third edition --
Change in the celebrated Scholium -- And in the Scholium on the Motion
of the Moon's Nodes-- Demonstration of Machin and Pemherton --Publi
cation of the third edition -- Newton attacked with the Stone-- Conduitt
acts for him in the Mint -- His Letter recommending Colin Maclaurin as
Assistant to Gregory -- His Liberality on this occasion--Maclaurin 's Letter
to Newton --Visit of the Abbe Alari to Newton -- His acquaintance with
Samuel Crell -- He presides at the Royal Society on the 2d March -- His
last illness -- And death on the 20th March 1717 -- His Body lies in State
-- His Burial and Monument in Westminster Abbey -- Statues and Pictures
of him -- His Property -- His Descendants,
                                            ..                                    377--397

CHAPTER XXVII.

Permanence of Newton's Reputation -- Character of his Genius -- His manner        398-422
   of investigation similar to that used by Galileo -- Error in ascribing his     425-426

.......Discoveries to the use of the Methods recommended by Lord Bacon--The

   Pretensions of the Baconian Philosophy examined -- Sir Isaac Newton's
   Social Character-- His great Modesty -- The Simplicity of his Character
  --His Religious and Moral Character -- His Hospitality and Mode of Life
  --His Generosity and Charity -- His Personal Appearance -- Statues and
   Pictures of him -- Memorials and Recollections of him -- His Manuscripts
and Papers,

   ....APPENDIX TO VOLUME II.

No. I. --Draught Copies of the Scholium to Lemma ii. Book ii.,
II.-- Letters from Wallis to Newton,                                              427-430

EL-- 1. Letter from the Abbe Conti to Brook Taylor, .         . 431-433

....2. Letter from the Abbe Conti to Sir Isaac Newton,        . 434-435

IV. -- Letter from John Bernoulli to M. Rcmond do Montmort, .                     436-439
 V. -- Letters from A. B., [James Wilson, M.D.,] to Sir Isaac Newton, 440-446

VI -- Letter from Sir Isaac Newton to Dr. Thomas Burnet, . 447-454
VII. -- Part of a Letter from Sir Isaac Newton on Flamsteed's Specu

lations respecting the Sun, the Action of Heated Magnets,

                 and the Motion of Comets,                .          455-458
                                                          .  . 459-460
VIII.-- Letter from Sir Isaac Newton to Dr. Covel,        .
  IX. -- Letter from John Locke to Mr. Newton,            .          461-462
   X -- Letter from Dr. Bentley to Sir Isaac Newton,         . 463-470
  XI. -- Letter from Samuel Pepys to Mr. Newton,             . 471

XII 1. Letter from Dr. John Mill to Mr. Newton,                        472-473

2. Letter from Mr. Newton to Dr. John Mill,               .  . 473-474
                                                                               475
XIII.--Table of Refractions sent by Flamsteed to Newton,

No. XIV- -Letter from Mr. Flamsteed to Mr. Newton,CONTENTS.                     XI

......XV.- -Articles of Agreement between Churchill, Flamsteed,                             l'AGR

                                                                          . 476-479
                                                                     and the

XVII.-XVI.-       Referees,                                                     430-484
             .Cancelled and substituted paragraphs in a Letter of Flamsteed's,  485-4813
             Account of the Expenses incurred by the Prince's Referees,
             and also of those incurred by the Government in com
             pleting the Hiitoria Ccdestis, as edited by Halley, .
XVIII.-      .Letter from Sir Isaac Newton to Mr. Flamsteed, .                  487-488
  XIX.-                                                              .          489-490
   XX.-
             Loiter from M. Montmort to Brook Taylor,             ..                     491

             Extracts from Swift's Letters to Stella, in which Mrs. Barton
             and Lord Halifax are mentioned,
                                                         . . . 492-495
XXI.-- 1. Letter from Varignon to Newton,
                                                                  . . 496-497
             2. Letter from Newton to Varignon,
XXIII-XXII.- Letter from John Bernoulli to Newton,       .                      497-501

                                                                  .          502-508
                                                                     . 509-510
             1. Letter from Brook Taylor to Sir Isaac Newton,

XXIV-        2, 3. Letters from M. Montmort to Brook Taylor,   .              511-515
  XXV.-                                                        .     . 516-517
XXVI.-       Letter from James Stirling to Sir Isaac Newton,   .     . 518
XXVII.-                                                        .     . 519-520
             Letter from Fontenelle to Sir Isaac Newton,             . 521-522

             .Letter from Dr. Derham to Sir Isaac Newton,

             -Letter from Pope to Mr. Conduitt,          .
XXVIII.- .Letters from Dr. Burgess, Bishop of Salisbury, to Sir David
... ...XXXII.-

XXXIII.-
XXXIV-
XXIX.-       Brewster, on Newton's Religious Opinions,         .          . 523-525
 XXX-                                                                     . 526-531
XXXI.-       .Irenicum ; or Ecclesiastical Polity tending to Peace,
                                                                                   532-534
             -Qiueries regarding the Word ipeirut,       ,     .     et Fun-

             .......Principia,
             .Do Metallo ad Conficiendum Speculum Componendo

             dendo,                                                             535-536

             Observations on the Family of Sir Isaac Newton,         . 537-545

             .Letter from Sir Isaac Newton to a Friend,        .                546-548

             Alterations and Additions made in the Third Edition of the

                                                                                549-556

             Index,                                                             557-564

    J

     ;

i

                 MEMOIRS

                                                      or THE

LIFE AND WRITINGS OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

                    CHAPTER XIV.

HISTORY OF THE INFINITESIMAL CALCULUS -- ARCHIMEDES --PAPPUS --
    NAPIER -- EDWARD WRIGHT -- KEPLER'S TREATISE ON STEREOMETRY --
   CAYALIERl's GEOMETRIA INDIVISIBILIUM -- ROBERVAL -- TORICELLI --
    FERMAT -- WALLIS's ARITHMETICA INFINITORUM -- HUDDE -- GREGORY--
    SLUSIUS -- NEWTON'S DISCOVERY OF FLUXIONS IN 1655 -- GENERAL
    ACCOUNT OF THE METHOD, AND OF ITS APPLICATIONS -- HIS ANALYSIS
    PER EQUATIONES, ETC. -- HIS DISCOVERIES COMMUNICATED TO ENGLISH
    AND FOREIGN MATHEMATICIANS -- THE METHOD OF FLUXIONS AND
    QUADRATURES -- ACCOUNT OF HIS OTHER MATHEMATICAL WRITINGS --
    HE SOLVES THE PROBLEMS PROPOSED BY BERNOULLI AND LEIBNITZ --

    LEIBNITZ VISITS LONDON, AND CORRESPONDS WITH THE ENGLISH MA

    THEMATICIANS, AND WITH NEWTON THROUGH OLDENBURG HE DIS

   COVERS THE DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS, AND COMMUNICATES IT TO
    NEWTON -- NOTICE OF OLDENBURG CELEBRATED SCHOLIUM RESPECTING
    FLUXIONS IN THE PRINCIPIA -- ACCOUNT OF THE CHANGES UPON IT --

    LEIBNITZ'S MANUSCRIPTS IN HANOVER.

In the history of Newton's optical and astronomical

discoveries, which we have given in the preceding chap

ters, we have seen him involved in disputes with his own

countrymen as well as with foreigners, in reference to

the value and the priority of his labours. Such extreme

sensitiveness as that with which he felt the criticisms and

discussed the claims of his opponents, has been seldom

VOL. II.  A

2  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

exhibited in the annals of science ; and so great was his
dread of controversy, and so feeble his love of wealth

and of fame, that, but for the importunities of his friends,

his most important researches would have been withheld
Iffrom the world.
                   he had been warned of the dangers

of a scientific career by the troubled lives of Galileo and

of Kepler, he must have learned from their history that

great truths have never been received with implicit sub

mission, and that in every age and every state of society

the newest and the highest must undergo more than one

ordeal -- the ordeal of the ignorant, whose capacity they
transcend -- the ordeal of philosophy, by which they are

to be tested and confirmed, and the ordeal of personal

jealousy and rival schools, by which they are to be mis

represented and condemned. The discoveries of Newton

were tried by all these tests : they emerged purer and

greater from the opposition of the Dutch savans : they

were placed on a firmer basis by the skilful analysis of

Hooke and of Huygens ; and they were more warmly

received and more widely extended after they had

triumphed over the rival speculations of the followers of

Aristotle and Descartes.

   In the history of Newton's mathematical discoveries,

which the same dread of controversy had induced him to

withhold from the world, we shall find him involved in

more exciting discussions, -- in what may even be called

quarrels, in which both the temper and the character of
the disputants were severely tried. In the controversy

respecting the discovery of fluxions, or of the differential

calculus, Newton took up arms in his own cause, and

though he never placed himself in the front rank of

danger, he yet combated with all the ardour of his

comrades. Hitherto it had been his lot to contend with

212 B.C.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  3

individuals unknown to science, or with the philosophers
of his own country who were occupied with the same
studies ; but interests of a larger kind, and feelings of a
higher class, sprung up around him. National sympathies
mingled themselves with the abstractions of number and
of quantity. The greatest mathematicians of the age
took the field, and statesmen and princes contributed an
auxiliary force to the settlement of questions upon which,
after the lapse of nearly 200 years, a verdict has not yet

been pronounced.
    Painful as the sight must always be when superior

minds are brought into collision, society gains from the
contest more than the parties lose. We are too apt to
regard great men, of the order of Newton and Leibnitz,
as exempt from the common infirmities of our nature,

and to worship them as demigods more than to admire

them as sages. In the history upon which we are about

to enter we shall see distinguished philosophers upon the
stage, superior, doubtless, to their fellows, but partaking
in all the frailties of temper, and exposed to all the
suspicions of injustice, which embitter the controversies
of ordinary life.

    Although the honour of having invented the calculus
of fluxions, or the differential calculus, has been con

ferred upon Newton and Leibnitz, yet, as in every other

great invention, they were but the individuals who com
bined the scattered lights of their predecessors, and gave
a method, a notation, and a name, to the doctrine of

quantities infinitely small.
   By an ingenious attempt to determine the area of

curves the ancients made the first step in this interesting
inquiry. Their principles were sound, but their want of
an organized method of operation prevented them from

4  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

even forming a calculus. The method of exhaustions

which they employed for this purpose consisted in making
the curve a limiting area, to which the inscribed and cir

cumscribed polygonal figures continually approached by
increasing the number of their sides. The area thus
obtained was obviously the area of the curve. In the
case of the parabola Archimedes shewed that its area is
two-thirds of its circumscribing rectangle, or of the pro

duct of the ordinate and the abscissa ; and he proved

that the superficies of the sphere was equal to the con
vex superficies of the circumscribing cylinder, or to four
times one of its great circles, and that the solidity of the
sphere was two-thirds of that of the cylinder. His writ
ings abound in trains of thought, which are strictly con
ducted on the principles of the modern calculus, but in
place of this calculus we have only an imperfect arith

metic.

    Pappus of Alexandria, who flourished about the close
of the fourth century, followed Archimedes in the same
inquiries, and his celebrated theorems on the centre of

gravity1 is the only fruit which sprung from the seed
sown by the Greek geometer till we reach the commence
ment of the seventeenth century. We search in vain the
writings of Cardan, Tartaglia, Vieta, and Stevinus, for any
proof of their power to employ the infinitesimal principle.

    Our countryman, John Napier of Merchiston, and
his contemporary, Edward Wright, were not only the
first to revive the use of the infinitesimal principle, but

the first who applied it in an arithmetical form. They

   1 Guldinus gave this theorem in 1635, and seeing that he was acquainted with
Pappus, Montucla and others were disposed to regard him as a plagiarist. Had
they studied Pappus in Condamine's Latin, in place of that of Halley, they never
would have known the theorem but from Guldinus.

1635.       LIFE OF SIU ISAAC NEWTON.  5

distinctly apprehended the idea of a sufficient approachit,
to the calculation of gradual change by the substitution

of small and discontinuous changes. In this way Napier

arrived at the representation of the results of arithmeti

cal and geometrical progression taking place continuously
in two different magnitudes, and associated the logarithm
of any quantity with its primitive. In this manner, too,

Wright exhibited what we now call an integration by
quadrature, in his celebrated construction of the meri
dional parts. Both of these geometers fully conceived
the idea, as it was embodied in their several problems ;

and though we cannot ascribe to either a distinct concep
tion of we cannot withhold from them the honour of

being the first of modern writers who assisted their suc
cessors in its conception.

   In his treatise on Stereometry, published in 1615,
Kepler made some advances in the doctrine of infinite
simals. In consequence of a dispute with a wine-mer
chant he studied the mensuration of round solids, or

those which are formed by the revolution of the conic
sections round any line whatever within or without the
section. He considered the circle as consisting of an
infinite number of triangles, having their vertices in the

centre, and their infinitely small bases in the circumfer
ence. In like manner, he considered the cone as com

posed of an infinite number of pyramids, and the cylinder
of an infinite number of prisms, and by thus render
ing familiar the idea of quantities infinitely great and
infinitely small, he gave an impulse to this branch of

mathematics.

    The failure of Kepler in solving some of the more
difficult problems which he himself proposed, drew the
attention of geometers to the subject of infinitely small

6  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            CHAP. XIV.

quantities, and seems particularly to have attracted the

attention of Cavalieri. This celebrated mathematician,

who was the friend as well as the disciple of Galileo, was

born at Milan in 1598, and was professor of geometry at
Bologna. Although he had invented his method of

indivisibles so early as 1629, his work entitled Geometria

lndivisibilium did not appear till 1635, nor his Exercita-

tiones, containing his most remarkable results, till 1647.

He considers a line as composed of an infinite number

of points, a surface of an infinite number of lines, and a

solid of an infinite number of surfaces, and he assumes

as an axiom, that the infinite sums of such lines and

surfaces have the same ratio, existing in equal numbers

in different surfaces or solids, as the surfaces or solids to

be determined. As it is not true that an infinite number

of infinitely small points can make a line, nor an infinite

number of infinitely small lines a surface, Pascal pro

posed to return to the idea of Kepler by considering a

lliinnees,a--s caomsuprofsaecde  of an infinite number   of infinitely short
                                 as composed of an      infinite number of

infinitely narrow parallelograms, and a solid of an infinite

number of infinitely thin solids. If Cavalieri had been

more advanced in algebra he might, perhaps, have gone

farther ; but he was undoubtedly the first who applied

the algebraical process to the quadrature of parabolas
of an integer order ; and his chief instrument, as it

was afterwards that of Wallis, was the theorem, that

1" + 2" + . . . of, divided by xn + off. . . x*, is 1 : (n + 1)
when x is infinite.

   Previous to the publication of Cavalieri's work, Roberval

had adopted the same principle, and proved that the area

of the cycloid was equal to three times that of its gene

rating circle. He determined also the centre of gravity

1C33.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

of its area, and the solids formed by its revolution about
its axis or its base. We owe to the same mathemati

cian a general method of drawing tangents to certain
curves, mechanical and geometrical, which was in some
respects similar to that of fluxions. Regarding every

curve as described by a point, Roberval1 considered the
point as influenced by two motions, by the composition of
which it moves in the direction of a tangent ; and had
he possessed the method of fluxions he could have deter
mined in every case the relative velocities of these
motions, which depend on the nature of the curve, and,
consequently, the direction of the tangent, which he
assumed to be the diagonal of a parallelogram whose

sides were as the velocities.

    Without knowing what had been done by Roberval,
Toricelli, a pupil of Galileo, published, in 1644, a solution
of the cycloidal problems ; but though the demonstrations

were so different as to prove that he had not seen those
of Roberval, and though his character and talents might

have protected him from so ungenerous a charge, the
French mathematician did not scruple to accuse him of
plagiarism. Toricelli made much use of the infinitesimal
methods, and was one of those who most clearly foresaw
the approach of a new calculus.

    The methods of Peter Fermat, counsellor of the Par
liament of Toulouse, for obtaining maxima and minima,

and for drawing tangents to curves, had such a striking
resemblance to those of the differential calculus, that La

place, and, in a more qualified manner, Lagrange, have
pronounced Fermat2 to be the inventor. We need not

    1 Roberval's concealment of his discovery, and his forgery of a work of Aris-
tarchns, greatly lower his credit, when he bears testimony in his own favour.

   2 These methods were published in the sixth or supplemental volume of the

8  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              CHAP. XIV.

say that this is an exaggeration : Fermat and others

came so close to the calculus as actually to invent cases

of it ; but none before Newton and Leibnitz ever ima

gined, far less organized, a general method which should

combine the scattered cases of their predecessors into a

uniform and extensible system.

   As the time for the real invention approached, the an

ticipatory cases were multiplied. The Arithmetica Infi-
nitorum of Wallis, (1655), not to speak of any other of

his writings, applied and extended the ideas of Cavalieri,
and produced an ample field of results. It appears, in

/modern              like  a treatise on  fx"dx for all values of
                      on                  for all integer values
n except                    (a2 --x2)"dx
   la--ng1u,agaen,d

of n. It gives the first description of the method of rec

tifying a curve. In the work before cited, Schooten pub

lishes a letter from Henry Van Heuraet, written in 1659,

giving the algebraic rectification of every parabola of the

form y"=aaf +1, except in the case of »=1, which case is

shown to depend on the quadrature of the hyperbola.

This had been completed a year or two before, about the

same time at which William Neile communicated to

Wallis his rectification of the semicubical parabola. Fer

mat also did the same as Neile, under the forms of the

old geometry. Descartes, in 1648, showed that he had
made progress in a method of finding areas, centres of

gravity, and tangents ; and he afterwards determined the

character of a curve by what we should now call a trans

formation of a differential equation.

   In his Commentary on Descartes, Schooten published
two letters of John Hudde, the second of which is dated

second edition of Ilerigon's Cursus, Paris, 1644, 8vo; and an example was given
by Schooten in the second edition of his Commentary on the second Book of Des-
cartes's Geometry, in 1659.

1CT3.                                                                                   9

            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

January 27, 1658. It shows how to make a rationalit,

function integral or fractional, a maximum or minimum,
and even treats the case in which the function and its

variable are connected by an unsolved rational equation.
The rules are, for the first time, extricated from alge
braical process, and presented in calcular form. These
very remarkable results were well known to both Newton
and Leibnitz, and are freely cited by both.

    James Gregory, in 1668, gave two of what we should
now call integrations of trigonometrical functions. He

demonstrated the connexion which had been observed

between Wright's meridional parts and the logarithms of

cotangents.
    The methods of drawing tangents, invented by Barrow

and by Slusius, were published in 1670 and in 1673.
Such methods were then common ; and Barrow, in an

nouncing his, says he scarcely perceives the use of publish
ing because several similar methods were well known.
But both these methods obtained an undue importance
in the great controversy, and this probably arose from
their being both published in England.

    Such are the methods which Newton and Leibnitz re

ceived from their predecessors, and, were we obliged to
describe them in modern terms, we should call them iso

lated instances of differentiation and integration, of cal
cular rules of differentiation, of quadrature, rectification,
and determination of centres of gravity, of determination
of maxima and minima, both of explicit and implicit
functions, &c. But we can hardly permit ourselves to

 invite the reader to look back under general terms, be

cause he can hardly use the general terms without having
 the idea of a general system. Some will almost be in
 clined to ask what was left for Newton and Leibnitz to

10          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     CHAP. XIV.

do 1 The best answer  is,

                                it

                                                   is,

                                                                 it
                      that was left for them to put

the querist in a position to ask the question. Had not

been for Newton and Leibnitz, that     supposing their

place had never been supplied, the close approach of the

investigators to each other, and to a common method,

would never have been visible.

          We have already seen1 that the attention of Newton

had been directed to these subjects so early as 1663
and 1664. Upon reading Dr. Wallis' work in the winter

of 1664-5, he obtained an expression in series for the
area of circular sectors and from the consideration
                      ;
                                                                   ;

                                                        it
that the arch has the same proportion to its sector that

an arch of 90° has to the whole quadrant, he found an

expression for the length of the arch. At the same time

he determined the area of the rectangular hyperbola

intercepted between the curve, its asymptote, and two

ordinates parallel to the other asymptote and was by
this series that he computed the area of the hyperbola to

          fifty-two figures, when the plague had, in the summer of

          1669, driven him from Cambridge to Boothby. At the

          same time he was led, by the happy thought of substi
          tuting indefinite indices of powers for definite ones, to

a         give more general form to the 59th proposition of Dr.
         a
          Wallis's Arithmetic of Infinites. In the beginning of

          1665, he likewise discovered method of tangents similar
                      1
          to those of Hudde, Gregory, and Slusius, and method ofi.
                                          a
                                a
                                                                         ;
          finding the curvature of curve lines at any given point
          and, continuing to pursue the method of interpolation, he
          found the quadrature of all curves whose ordinates are

          the powers of binomials affected with indices whole,
          fractional, or surd, affirmative or negative together with
                                       ;

          rule for reducing any power of a binomial into an

                      Vol. pp. 23-26.

1CC6.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    11

approximating or converging series. In the spring of

the same year he discovered a method of doing the same

thing by the continual division and extraction of roots ;

and he soon after extended the method to the extraction

of the roots of adfected equations in species.

Having met with an example of the method of Fermat,

in Schooten's Commentary on the Second Book of Des

cartes, Newton succeeded in applying it to adfected

equations, and determining the proportion of the incre

ments of indeterminate quantities. These increments

he called moments, and to the velocities with which the

quantities increase he gave the names of motions, velocities

of increase, and fluxions. He considered quantities not
as composed of indivisibles, but as generated by mo

tion ; and as the ancients considered rectangles as

generated by drawing one side into the other, that
it

              by
                                                          is

                                                                                    o,

                                                                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                         is,
by moving one side upon the other to describe the area

of the rectangle, so Newton regarded the areas of curves

as generated by drawing the ordinate into the abscissa,

and all indeterminate quantities as generated by con

tinual increase. Hence, from the flowing of time and

the moments thereof, he gave the name of flowing quan
tities to all quantities which increase in time, that of

fluxions to the velocities of their increase, and that of
moments to their parts generated in moments of time.

He considered time as flowing uniformly, and represented

       by any other quantity, which  regarded as flowing

uniformly, and its fluxion by a unit. These moments

of time, or of its exponent, he considers as equal to one

another, and represents by the letter or by any other

mark multiplied by unity. The other flowing quantities

are represented by any letters or marks, but most com

monly  the letters at the end of the alphabet while

12  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

 their fluxions are represented by any other letters or
 marks, or by the same letters in a different form or size,
 and their moments by their fluxions multiplied by a
 moment of time.

    In a manuscript, dated 13th November 1665, the

direct method of fluxions is described with examples, and

the following problem is resolved :-- " An equation being

given expressing the relation of two or more lines, x, y, z,
&c, described in the same time by two or more moving
bodies, A, B, C, &c., to find the relation of their velocities,
p, q, r, Sec, with which these lines are described." In
the same manuscript we find an application of this
method to the drawing of tangents, by determining the
motion of any point which describes the curve, and also
to the determination of the radius of curvature of any

curve line, by making the perpendicular to the curve
move upon it at right angles, and finding that point of
the perpendicular which is in least motion, for that point
will be the centre of curvature of the curve at that point

upon which the perpendicular stands. On another leaf
of the same book, dated May 20, 1665, the same method
is given, but in different words, and fluxions are repre

sented with dots superfixed. In another leaf, dated May
16, 1666, there is given a general method, consisting of
seven propositions, of solving problems by motion, the

seventh proposition being the same, though differently
expressed, from that in the paper of November 13,

1665.

   In a small tract, written in October 1666, we find the
same method in the same number of propositions ; but

the seventh is improved by shewing how to proceed in

equations involving fractions and surds, and such quantities
as were afterwards called transcendent. To this tract

1666.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                13

there is added an eighth proposition, containing the

inverse method of fluxions, in so far as he had then

attained
       9. 8. 7. 6. 4.namely, by the method of quadratures, and
              it,
by most of the theorems in the Scholium to the tenth
                     it
proposition of his Book of Quadratures, which with many
                                        a
more are contained in this tract. Newton then proceeds
                                                                   ;
to shew the application of the propositions to the solu                         :

tion of the twelve following problems, many of which

were at that time entirely new --
    "1. To draw tangents to curve lines.

    " 2. To find the quantity of the crookedness of lines.
    " 3. To find the points distinguishing between the

concave and convex portions of curved lines.
    " To find the point at which lines are most or least

curved.
    " 5. To find the nature of the curve line whose area
                                                                                   it
expressed by any given equation.
    " The nature of any curve line being given, to find                                           is

other lines whose areas may be compared to the area of                             it

that given line.
    " The nature of any curve line being given, to find

its area when may be done or two curved lines being
given, to find the relation of their areas when may be.

    " To find such curved lines whose lengths may be
found, and also to find their lengths.

    " Any curve line being given, to find other lines

whose lengths may be compared to its length, or to its

area, and to compare them.
    " 10. To find curve lines whose areas shall be equal,

or have any given relations to the length of any given
curve line drawn into given right line.

    "11. To find the length of any curve line when

may be.

14  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                    CHAP. XIV.

    " 1 2. To find the nature of a curve line whose length is
expressed by any given equation when it may be done."

    Such were the improvements in the higher geometry
which Newton had made before the end of 1666. His

analysis, consisting of the method of series and fluxions
combined, was so universal as to apply to almost all kinds
of problems. He had not only invented the method of
fluxions in 1665, in which the motions or velocities of

flowing quantities increase or decrease, but he had con
sidered the increase or decrease of these motions or

velocities themselves, to which he afterwards gave the

name of second fluxions, -- using sometimes letters with

one or two dots, to represent first and second fluxions.

   It does not appear that Newton imparted any of

these methods to his mathematical friends ; but in order

to communicate some of his results, he composed his

treatise entitled Analysis per Equationes Numero Termi-
norum Infinitas, in which the method of fluxions and its

applications are supposed by some to be explained ; while
others are of opinion, that it treats only of moments or

infinitely small increments, and exhibits the algebraical
processes involved in their use. In June 1669, he com
municated this work to Dr. Barrow, who, in letters to

Collins of the 20th June, the 31st July, and the 20th

August, mentionsa       as we have already seen,1 as the
            it,
                                                              young man of great genius.
                    a
production of Newton,

Having taken copy of this treatise, Collins returned

the original to Dr. Barrow, from whom
                                                                            3,   again passed
                                                                                p.

                                                                                    it

                                                                                                                          ;
into the hands of Newton. At the death of Collins, Mr.

William Jones found the copy among his papers and

having compared with the original given him by New
ton, was published, along with some other analytical
    it
                     1 it

                                                    i.
                                                          p.
                  Vol.                                        36, and note  27.

1670.     LIFE OF SIH ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                          15

tracts of the same author, in 1711, nearly fifty years

after it was composed.

Although the discoveries contained in this treatise

were not at first given to the world, yet they were gene

rally known to mathematicians by the correspondence

of Collins, who communicated them to James Gregory

in Scotland ; to M. Bertet, and an English gentleman,

Francis Vernon, secretary to the English ambassador

in Paris ; to Slusius in Holland ; to Borelli in Italy ; and

to Thomas Strode, Oldenburg, Dary, and others in Eng

land, in letters dated between 1669 and 1672.

In the years 1669 and 1670, Newton had prepared for

the press a new and enlarged edition of Kinckhuysen's

Introduction to Algebra.1 He at first proposed to add

       it,
                     a

                                           ;a
                                                                          it, a

                                                                                       of
to as an introduction,               treatise entitled, Method

Fluxions and Quadratures but the fear of being involved
in disputes as annoying as those into which his optical

discoveries had led him, and which were not yet con

cluded, prevented him from giving this treatise to the

world. At later period of our author's life, Dr. Pem-

berton had prevailed upon him to publish                                                         and for this

purpose had examined all the calculations and prepared

the diagrams. The latter part of the treatise, however,

in which he intended to shew the manner of resolving

problems which cannot be reduced to quadratures, was

       This task seems to have been pressed upon him by some friends London.
I                                                                                                I e in
      1                                                                                                   a
                    it is
                                          ;

                                    if
                                            p. it 5,

                                                 I is I
                                                                                             in
In sending to Collins the notes upon the book, in July 1670, he wishes his name to

be suppressed, and suggests that in the title-page, after the words Nunc Belgico
Latine versa, the words et ab alto authore locupletata should be added. In letter
                             1676, he thus speaks of the work: -- " have no
to Collins, dated September

thing in the press, only Kinckhuysen's Algebra would have got printed here, to

satisfy the expectation of some friends in London, but our press cannot do it. This,
          the book Dr. Lloyd means. It
suppose,                                now                                                      the hands of bookseller
                                                                                                 a

here to get printed but      do come out, shall add nothing to it." -- Maccles

field Correspondence, vol. ii. 398.

If,  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

never finished ; and when Newton was about to supply

this defect, his death put a stop to the plan.1 It was

therefore not till the year 1736 that a translation of the
work appeared, with a commentary by Mr. John Colson,
Professor of Mathematics in Cambridge.2

    Between the years 1671 and 1676, Newton did not
pursue his mathematical studies. His optical researches,
and the disputes in which they involved him, occupied
all his time ; and there is reason to believe, that as

soon as these disputes were over, he directed the whole
energy of his mind to those researches which constitute
the Principia.

    Hitherto the method of fluxions was known only to
the friends of Newton and their correspondents ; but in
the first edition of the Principia, which appeared in
1687, he published for the first time one of the most
important rules of the fluxionary calculus, which forms
the Second Lemma of the Second Book, and points out
the method of finding the moment of the products of any

power whatsoever.

   In writing the Principia, Newton made great use of
both the direct and the inverse method of fluxions ; but

though all the difficult propositions in that work were
invented by the aid of the calculus, yet the calculations
were not put down, and the propositions were demon
strated by the method of the ancients, shortened by
the substitution of the doctrine of limits for that of

exhaustions. No information, however, is given in
the Principia respecting the algorithm or notation of
the calculus; and it was not till 1693 that it was

communicated to the mathematical world, in the Second

   1 Pemberton's Account of Sir Isaac Newton's Discoveries, Pref. p. 6.
   » It is entitled Method of Fluxions and Infinite Series. Lond. 1736, 1737. 4to.

1704.            LIFE OP SlH ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                17

Volume of Dr. Wallis's Works, which was published in

that year. The friends of Newton in Holland had in
formed Dr. Wallis that Newton's " Method of Fluxions"

had passed there with great applause by the name of

Leibnitz's Calculus Differ entialis. The Doctor, who was
at that time printing the Preface to his First Volume,

inserted in it a brief notice of Newton's claim to the

discovery of fluxions, and published in his second volume

some extracts from the Quadratura Curvarum, with
which Newton had furnished him.1

    To the first edition of Newton's Optics, which appeared

in 1704, there were added two mathematical treatises,

entitled, Tracted us duo de speciebus et magnitudine figura-

rum curvilinear um, the one bearing the title of Tractatus

de Quadratura Curvarum? and the other Enumeratio linea-
rum tertii ordinis.3 The first contains an explanation of

the doctrine of fluxions, and of its application to the qua

drature of curves ; and the second a classification of

seventy-two curves of the third order, with an account

of their properties. The reason for publishing these two

tracts in  his Optics,   (in the subsequent  editions of which
they are   omitted,) is  thus stated in the
                                             advertisement : --

" In a letter written to M. Leibnitz in the year 1679,
and published by Dr. Wallis, I mentioned a method by
which I had found some general theorems about squaring

curvilinear figures on comparing them with the conic

Isections, or other the simplest figures with which they

might be compared. And some years ago lent out a

manuscript containing such theorems ; and having since

met with some things copied out of
                 it                          have on this
                            i. i.

                                                       2,
                                                           ;3
                                                                 3 in

                                              it,I

                                                                                                    i.
                                                                                                       B
1      Wallisii Opera, tom. Prsef. pp.   and tom. iii. cap. xciv. xcv. See                                also
                                                                                                          &c.,
Letter of Wallis to Newton, April 10, 1695,  Edleston's Correspondence,
    309, and part of in Raphaou's Hilt, of Fluxions, pp. 120, 121.
p.
   *   Newtoni Opera, tom. pp. 333-386.      Ibid. tom. pp. 531- 560.

       VOL. II.

18  LIFE OF Sllt ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

occasion made it public, prefixing to it an introduction,

and joining a scholium concerning that method. And I

have joined with it another small tract concerning the
curvilineal figures of the second kind, which was also
written many years ago, and made known to some
friends, who have solicited the making it public."

   In the year 1707, Mr. Whiston published the alge
braical lectures which Newton had delivered at Cam

bridge, under the title of Arithmetica Universalis, sive

de Compositione et Resolutione Arithmetica Liber} We
are not accurately informed how Mr. Whiston obtained
possession of this work ; 2 but it is stated by one of the
editors of the English edition, " that Mr. Whiston, think
ing it a pity that so noble and useful a work should

be doomed to a college confinement, obtained leave to

make it public." It was soon afterwards translated into

English by Mr. Raphson ; and a second edition of
with improvements by the author, was published at Lon
don in 1712, by Dr. Machin, secretary to the Royal
Society. With the view of stimulating mathematicians
to write annotations on this admirable work, the cele

brated S'Gravesande published tract, entitled, Specimen
Commentarii in Arithmeticam Universalem and Mac-

laurin's Algebra seems to have been drawn up in conse
quence of this appeal.

   Among the mathematical works of Newton we must
not omit to enumerate small tract entitled, Methodus

Di/ferentialis, which was published with his consent in

1711. It consists of six propositions, which contain a

method of drawing a parabolic curve through any given
21
           in

                         i.

                                            a
                                                        a

                                                                        ;
                                                                                                      it,
      Ibid. tom. pp. 1-251.
      He probably discovered them among the Lucasian papers when he succeeded
Newton that chair, and found his manuscript lectures.

1690.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  19

number of points, and which are useful for constructing
tables by the interpolation of series, and for solving pro
blems depending on the quadrature of curves.

    Another mathematical treatise of Newton was pub
lished for the first time in 1799, in Dr. Horsley's edition

of his works. It is entitled, Artis Analyticce Specimina,

vel Qeometria Analytica.1 In editing this work, which
occupies about 130 quarto pages, Dr. Horsley used three
manuscripts, one of which was in the handwriting of the
author ; another, written in an unknown hand, was given
by Mr. William Jones to the Honourable Charles Caven
dish ; and a third, copied from this by Mr. James Wilson,
the editor of Robins's works, was given to Dr. Horsley
by Mr. John Nourse, bookseller to the king. Dr. Horsley
has divided it into twelve chapters, which treat of in
finite series, of the reduction of affected equations, of
the specious resolution of equations, of the doctrine of
fluxions, of maxima and minima, of drawing tangents
to curves, of the radius of curvature, of the quadrature
of curves, of the area of curves which are comparable
with the conic sections ; of the construction of mechanical

problems, and on finding the lengths of curves.

   In enumerating the mathematical works of our author,

we must not overlook his solutions of the celebrated pro

blems proposed by John Bernoulli and Leibnitz. In June
1696, John Bernoulli addressed a letter to the most dis

tinguished mathematicians in Europe,2 challenging them

to solve the two following problems :--

    1. To determine the curve line connecting two given
points which are at different distances from the horizon,
and not in the same vertical line, along which a body

                        1 Nowtoni Opera, tom. i. pp. 388-519.
                     2 '' Acntissimis qui toto orbc florait Mathemalicis."

20  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

passing by its own gravity, and beginning to move at
the upper point, shall descend to the lower point in the

shortest time possible.
    2. To find a curve line of this property that the two

segments of a right line drawn from a given point through

the curve, being raised to any given power, and taken

together, may make everywhere the same sum.1
    This challenge was first made in the Leipsic Acts, for

June 1696.2 Six months were allowed by Bernoulli for
the solution of the problem, and in the event of none
being sent to him he promised to publish his own. The
six months, however, elapsed without any solution being
produced ; but he received a letter from Leibnitz, stat
ing that he had " cut the knot of the most beautiful
of these problems," and requesting that the period for

their solution should be extended to Christmas next,

that the French and Italian mathematicians might have
no reason to complain of the shortness of the period.
Bernoulli adopted the suggestion, and publicly announced
the prorogation for the information of those who might
not see the Leipsic Acts.

    On the 29th January 1696-7, Newton received from
France two copies of the printed paper containing the
problems, and on the following day he transmitted a
solution of them to Charles Montague, Chancellor of the
Exchequer, and then President of the Royal Society.3

    1 John Bernoulli had already published, in the Leipsic Acts for June, p. 266, a
solution of the most simple case in which the exponent of the power was unity.

   " Acta Lipriettsia, in June, p. 269.
   8 The original manuscript of this letter with the solution of the problem is pre
served at the Royal Society ; and one of the two papers, a folio printed half-sheet,
still exists in their archives. At the bottom, in Newton's hand, are the words,
" Ohartam hanc ex Gallia missam accepi, Jan. 29, 1696-7." -- Edleston's Corre-
spontlence, &c., &c., p. Ixviii. For a copy of the document, see Ncwtoni Opera.
tom. iv. pp. 411-118.

1716.        MFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                        21

He announced that the curve required in the first pro
blem must be a cycloid, and he gave a method of deter
mining it. He solved also the second problem, and he

showed that by the same method other curves might be

found which shall cut off three or more segments having
the like properties. Solutions were also obtained from

Leibnitz and the Marquis de l'Hopital ; and although

that   of Newton was anonymous, yet Bernoulli                                                recognised
in it  his powerful mind ; " tanquam," says he,                                              " ex ungue

leonem," as the lion is known by his claw.

One of the last mathematical efforts of our author was

made, with his usual success, in solving a problem which

Leibnitz proposed in 1716, in a letter to the Abbe" Conti,
" for the purpose, as he expressed
                                                            if        of feeling the pulse
                                                              It it,
of the English analysts." The object of this problem was
                                                                    is
to determine the curve which should cut at right angles

an infinity of curves of a given nature, but expressible by
the same equation. Newton received this problem about

five o'clock in the afternoon, as he was returning from

the Mint and though the problem was difficult, and he
a
himself fatigued with business, he reduced to a fluxional
             :                                                                     a it
                    ;equation before he went to bed.

In his reply to Leibnitz,1 Conti does not even mention;

the solution of Newton but as such problem hadI
                                                     ;
                                                  1
been beneath the notice of the English geometers, he

says --" Your problem was very easily resolved, and in

   short time. Several geometers, both in London and

Oxford, have given the solution.                                                   general, and ex

tends to all sorts of curves, whether geometrical or

mechanical. The problem                                 is  proposed somewhat equi

vocally but believe that M. De Moivre not wrong                                          is

when he says that we must fix the idea of a series of

       ,. .                                          l'rtted London, March, 1716.

22               LIFE OF SIR I8AAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

curves, and suppose, for example, that they have the

same sub tangent for the same abscissa, which would cor

respond not only with the conic sections, but with an

infinity of other curves, both geometrical and mechanical."

    Such is a brief account of the mathematical writings of

Sir Isaac Newton, not one of which was voluntarily com

municated to the world by himself. The publication of

his Universal Arithmetic is said to have been made by

Whiston against his will ; and, however this may be, it

was an unfinished work, never designed for the public.

The publication of his Quadrature of Curves, and of his
Enumeration of Curve Lines, was in Newton's opinion
rendered necessary, in consequence of plagiarisms from

the manuscripts of them which he had lent to his friends,

and the rest of his analytical writings did not appear till

after his death. It is not easy to penetrate into the mo
tives by which this great man was actuated. If his object

was to keep possession of his discoveries till he had brought

them to a higher degree of perfection, we may approve

Ifof the propriety, though we cannot admire the prudence,
of such a step.  he wished to retain to himself his own

methods, in order that he alone might have the advan

tage of them, in prosecuting his physical inquiries, we

cannot reconcile so selfish a measure with that openness

and generosity of character which marked the whole of

his life, nor with the communications which he so freely
Ifmade to Barrow, Collins, and others.
                                            he withheld his

labours from the world in order to avoid the disputes

and contentions to which they might give rise, he adopted
the very worst method of securing his tranquillity. That

this was the leading motive under which he acted, there is

little reason to doubt. The early delay in the publication
of his method of fluxions, after the breaking out of the

1673.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                     ·23

plague at Cambridge, was probably owing to his not

having completed the whole of his design ; but no apo

logy    can be made     for the   --imapnruimdepnrcuedenocf ewiwthhhicohldiisngthiet
any    longer from the   public,

more inexplicable, as he was repeatedly urged by Wallis,

Halley, and his other friends, to present it to the world.1

Had he published this noble discovery previous to 1673,

when his great rival had made but little progress in

those studies which led him to the same method, he would

have secured to himself the undivided honour of the in

vention, and Leibnitz could have aspired to no other

fame but that of an improver of the doctrine of fluxions.

But he unfortunately acted otherwise. He announced to

his friends that he possessed a method of great generality

and power : He communicated to them a general account

of its principles and applications ; and the information

which was thus conveyed, might have directed the atten

tion of mathematicians to subjects to which they would

not have otherwise applied their powers. The discove

ries which he had previously made were made subse

quently by others ; and Leibnitz, instead of appearing

on the theatre of science as the disciple and the follower

of Newton, stood forth with all the dignity of a second

inventor ; and, by the early publication of his discoveries,
had nearly placed himself on the throne which Newton

was destined to ascend.

   It would be inconsistent with the nature of this work

to enter into a detailed history of the dispute between

Newton and Leibnitz respecting the invention of fluxions.
A brief and general account of
1                                 however,                                           indis

                                                           it,
                                                                                 is
pensable.

   In the beginning of 1673, when Leibnitz came to

Wallis to Newton, April 10, 1695. Sec Edlcston's Correspondence, pp. 301, 302.

24                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     CHAP. XIV.

London in the suite of the Duke of Hanover, he became

acquainted with the great men who then adorned the
capital of England. Among these was Henry Oldenburg,

a countryman of his own, who was at that time Secretary
to the Royal Society. Leibnitz had not then, as he him
self assures us,1 entered upon the study of the higher

geometry, but he eagerly embraced the opportunity which
was now offered to him of learning the discoveries of the
English mathematician. With this view he kept up a

correspondence with Oldenburg, communicating to him
freely certain arithmetical and analytical methods of his

own, and receiving in return an account of the discove
ries in series made by James Gregory and Newton. In

the two letters2 written in London to Oldenburg, and in

the first four which he addressed to him from Paris,3 he

refers only to certain properties of numbers which he

had discovered ; but in those of a subsequent date, he
mentions a theorem of his own for expressing the area of

a circle, or of any given sector of by an infinite series
                                                   it,
                                                             by
of rational numbers and of deducing,;4                           the same me

thod, the arc of a circle from its sine.5 In reply to these

letters, Oldenburg acquainted him with the previous dis
coveries of Newton, and transmitted to him communi
                                                                 a

cation from Collins, describing several series which had

been sent to him by Gregory on the 15th February 1671.

Leibnitz stated in reply,6 that he was so much distracted
with business, that he had not time to compare these

series with his own and he promises to communicate
                      in
                          ;
a     Two years before this, 1671, Leibnitz presented to the Academy of Sciences
   1
    paper containing the germ of the differential method, so that he must have been

able to appreciate the information he received England. -- Sec page SO.
                                            8,
· *2  Dated February 3d and 20th, 1673.        in

      Mareh 30, April 26, May 26, and June       1673.

      July 15, 1673.  «      October 26, 1673.                   ·  May 20, 1675.

1676.  LIFE OF S1U ISAAC NEWTON.  25

his opinion to Oldenburg as soon as he has made the
comparison. In continuing his correspondence with Old

enburg, Leibnitz requested farther information respecting
the analytical discoveries recently made in England ; and
it was in compliance with this request that Newton, at
the pressing solicitationof Oldenburg and Collins, wrote

                                                                  l be communicated

cwieebfttoaqi,xuiontrucTnttthheaahhseptdi,eiinosteoareexnadsdltnsdesmrdoeatnemtNdceootie,tehnrftsw,of"ittdnbfwnohtrsiehutniohsecam'miosoctmehkfearmiqeGnrinucweedraaaadeta,lthlylsguitoosoeocnidosgsxirnsne,eyteenogt'sshntbftoedypstrlsleoerifkorittnihtbeLetueiesleotenre,istmibva,haanoessolnmnsriostsdieenszoats,tos,laattoinhfnwtfwcienehaeiPfDretlil2ahnnidoor6iotpeipfetusisrhht,oticanbrmJaneifsulbiletqoionnuigmunmnisehtagg,set,e
bieofLnt2oietitMssnontenie4fuaohnbLidrdrgmtdnbeht.euehighonniretiaarseenbouigCgdstO;esnrfcdodztsnuc.ioiilMaro"uasltttbeminhonzcmnhejsfedbeopsatrosmchcve,aevertoaeertninde,anhtfNorasdrrojygurwnoce1irteutsodhiow'6ehnmsrom,f7eerdtifOen6oqfe1Ltrd.tgnulmof6ohohdloe'a6fgameseotrstw5ahttntntI.hremeiistmnbitsirtrfidthst,uihearevslamtrnteteHhmtighshwtsteooettoitmesdaitaydredlhetinlershtuicmlgsattooefhtoaeoteraifedtnhfsntnnncrtteiesgettehasdeth.tlr,oeah,erhasedrfirfebeetirihoteegrrshhuleIfiasraui2eernang,,tborrs7tefghgemeohtdhaeshchforoaeovomenDdfwrenAliteearnsshrGcthu.tteaehatiotiatrcgoncoqBeenhmedhtutnuraeg,mop,seartonttuonropcaohu,reonbcclNteynfaweolOaiiegccuatnttdflwuhaahhdnnodetoeeeeotr,f

26                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       CHAP. XIV.

termination of maxima and minima, and the method of
tangents of Slusius and some others flowed. " This me
thod," he continued, " was not limited to surds, but was

founded upon the following proposition, which he commu

nicated enigmatically in a series of transposed letters,

Data equations quotcunque fiuentes quantitates involvente,

faiudxdieodn,e"s   invenire,   et vice versa.       This--pwj|)osition,"  he
                  facilitated  the quadrature       of curves, anu

ed him infinite series, which broke off and became finite

when the curve was capable of being squared by a finite
equation." In the conclusion of this letter, Newton

stated that his method extended to inverse problems of

tangents, and others more difficult, and that in solving

these he used two methods, one more general than the

other, which he expressed enigmatically in transposed

letters, which formed the following sentence :-- " Una

methodus consistit in extractione fluentis quantitatis ex

equatione simul involvente fluxionem ejus : altera tantum

in assumptione seriei pro quantitate qualibet incognita, ex

qua cetera commode derivari possunt, et in collatione ter-

minorum homologorum aequationis resultantis, ad eruen-

dos terminos assumptie seriei."

   This letter, though dated 24th October, had not been

forwarded to Leibnitz on the 5th March 1677. At the

time Newton was writing                             Leibnitz spent week in
                               it                   a
                                               it,
                                                          ;

                                                                it
London, on his return from Paris to Germany but

must have reached him in the spring of that year, as he
sent an answer to dated June 21, 1677.

    In this remarkable letter he frankly describes his dif

ferential calculus and its algorithm. He says that he

agrees with Newton in the opinion that Slusius's method

of tangents         not absolute, and that he himself had long
    (a
                is
ago multo tempore) treated the subject of tangents

1677.                  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.            '27

much more generally by the differences of ordinates.;
He gives an example of drawing tangents, and shews how
to proceed, as Newton expresses " without sticking atit,
surds." He then expresses the opinion, that the method
of drawing tangents, which Newton wished to conceal,a

does not differ from his and he regards this opinion as     1
confirmed by the statement of Newton, that his method
facilitated the quadrature of curves.                         6

    No answer seems to have been returned to this com                     ;
                                                                            1
munication either by Oldenburg or Newton, and, with the
exception of short letter from Leibnitz to the former,

dated 12th July 1677, no farther correspondence between

them seems to have taken place. This no doubt arose from
the death of Oldenburg in the month of August 78
and the two rival geometers, having through him become
acquainted with each other's labours, were left to pursue
them with all the ardour which the importance of the

subject could not fail to inspire.

1                                                           so intimately associated with the history of
                                                        is
Henry Oldenburg, whose name

Newton's discoveries, was born at Bremen, and was consul from that town to

London during the usurpation of Cromwell. Having lost his office, and been

compelled to seek the means of subsistence, he became tutor to an English noble

man, whom he accompanied to Oxford in 1656. During his residence in that city

he was introduced to the philosophers who established the Royal Society, and,

upon the death of William Crown, the first secretary, he was appointed, in

1663, joint secretary along with Mr. Wilkins. He kept up an extensive corre

spondence with more than seventy philosophers and literary men in all parts of the
world, -- privilege especially given to the Society their charter. The suspicions
       a
         is

                            a
                                                  is

                                                                             in
                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                     i.
of the Government, however, were, somehow or other, excited against him, and he
was committed to the Tower on the 20th June 1667, " for dangerous designs and

practices." Although no evidence was produced to justify so harsh proceeding,
he was kept a close prisoner till the 26th August 1667, when he was discharged.
" This remarkable event," as Mr. Weld remarks, " had so much influence on the

Society as to cause suspension of the meetings from the 30th May to the 3d Octo

ber." It remarkable that there no notice of this fact in the council or journal-

books of the Society.

    Oldenburg was the author of several papers in the Philosophical Transactions,
and of some works which have not acquired much celebrity. He died at Charlton,

near Greenwich, in August 1678. See Weill's History of the Royal Society, vol.

pp. 200 204.

L'fi        LIFE OF Sin ISAAC NEWTON.                                chap, xiv.

      In the hands of Leibnitz, the differential calculus made

rapid progress. In the Acta Eruditorum, which appeared

at Leipsic in October 1684, he describes its algorithm in

the same manner as he had done in his letter to Olden

burg. He points out its application to the drawing of

tangents, and the determination of maxima and minima

and he adds, that these are only the beginnings of a

much more sublime geometry, applicable to the most

difficult and beautiful problems even of mixed mathema

tics, which, without his differential calculus, or one simi

lar to could not be treated with equal facility. The
1
suppression of Newton's name in this reference to a simi;
lar calculus, which was obviously that of Newton, indica
            it,
                in itted in the letters of 1676, was the first false step in the

                                                                  ;fluxionary controversy, and may be regarded as its com

                                             itmencement.

    While Leibnitz was thus making known the principles
of his Calculus, Newton was occupied in preparing his

Principia for the press. In the autumn of 1684, he had

sent the principal propositions of his work to the Royal

Society but would appear from his letter to Halley of
the 20th June, 1686, that the second book of the Prin

cipia had not then been sent to him. He must there

fore have been acquainted with the paper of Leibnitz in

the Acta Eruditorum, before he sent the manuscript of

the second book to press and was doubtless from this

cause that he was led to compose the second lemma of

that book,  which he, for the first time, explains the

fundamental principle of the fluxionary calculus. This
lemma, which occupies only three pages, was terminated

      This article was entitled " Nova methoUus pro maximis ct minimis, ilcinqnp

lancentitms qua? nee fractas noc irrationales moratur, et singular? pro illis calculi

RcnuM, per 0. O. L."--Ada Ertidil. 1684, pp. 472, 173.

           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

with the following scholium, which has been the subject
of such angry discussion.

    " The correspondence which took place about ten years
ago, between that very skilful geometer G. G. Leibnitz

and myself, when I had announced to him that I pos

sessed a method of determining maxima and minima, of
drawing tangents, and of performing similar operations,
which was equally applicable to surds and to rational

quantities, and concealed the same in transposed letters,

involving this sentence, (Data JEquatione quotcun que Flu-

entes quantitates involvente, Fluxiones invenire, et vice
versa,) this illustrious man replied that he also had fallen
on a method of the same kind, and he communicated his

method, which scarcely differed from my own,1 except
in the forms of words and notation, (and in the idea of
the generation of quantities.2) The fundamental prin
ciple of both is contained in this lemma."

    This celebrated scholium has been viewed in different

lights by Leibnitz and his followers. Leibnitz asserts,3
that Newton " has accorded to him in this scholium the

invention of the differential calculus independently of his
own ;" and M. Biot considers the scholium as " eternal

izing the rights of Leibnitz by recognising them in the
Principia." But the scholium has no such meaning, and
it was not the intention of the author that it should be

thus understood. It is a statement of the simple fact, that

Leibnitz communicated to him a method which was nearly

   1 " A meet vix abludentem" -- the same expression which Leibnitz used in his
letter to Oldenburg of June 21, 1677, " ab his non abludere." The similarity of the

Method of Fluxions and the Differential Calculus, may be considered as admitted

both by Newton and Leibnitz.                                                April
   * These words were inserted in the 2d edition of the Principia.
   * Letter to the Abbe Conti, April 9, 1716, and to Madame de Kilmansegg,

18, 1716.

30                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NF.WTON.                    CHAP. XIV.

the same as his own, --a sentiment which he might haveI            A is I
                       I it,                                              a
expressed whether he believed that Leibnitz was an in                    7i
dependent inventor of his calculus, or had derived itit                         it
from his communication and correspondence with his

friend.1
    The manuscripts of Newton furnish us with some

curious information on this subject, and place it beyond
a doubt that he regarded the silence of Leibnitz, in his
communication of 1684, as an aggressive movement,
which he was bound to repel. " After seven years," says
Newton,2 "viz., in October 1684, he published the ele
ments of this method, (the method mentioned to Leibnitz
in his letter of October 24, 1676,) as his own, without

referring to the correspondence which he formerly had
with the English about these matters. He mentioned,
indeed, a methodus similis, but whose that method was,

and what he knew of he did not say, as he should have
done. And thus his silence put me upon a necessity of
writing the scholium upon the second lemma of the second
Book of Principles, lest should be thought that borrowed

that lemma from Mr. Leibnitz. In my letter of 24th

October 1676, when had been speaking of the Method
of Fluxions, added, Fundamentum harum operationum,

satis obvium quidem, quoniam non possum explicationem

ejus prosequi, sic potius celavi 6a;ccdo3 \3eff 31 9n 4o

    We have, fortunately, Newton's own opinions on the subject. " And as for the
21
            ;"

                   ;
                          is,
                                 in is

                                                  ;

                                            it
scholium upon the second lemma of the second book of the Principia Philosophias

Afuthematuxe, which  so much icrested against me,                  was written not to give
                                                         it
                                                               it
away that lemma to Mr. Leibnitz, but, on the contrary, to assert                    to myself.

Whether Mr. Leibnitz invented after me, or had from me,            question of no
consequence for second inventors have no right." -- Raphson's History of Fluxions,
1715, p. 122, see also p. 115 and Newtoni Opera, tom. iv. p. 616.
     In a manuscript of seven closely written pages, entitled, " Supplement to the

Remarks that         to some observations upon Leibnitz's letter to Conti, dated 9th

April 1716, published Raphson's Fluxions, 111.       p.

1724.               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                             31

Aqrr As 9t 12ra. And in the said scholium I opened

this enigma, saying, that it contained the sentence, Data

cequatione quotcunque, fiuentes quantitates involvente,
fluxiones invenire, et vice versa ; and was written in the

year 1676, for I looked upon this as a sufficient security,

without entering into a wrangle ; but Mr. Leibnitz was of

another opinion."

    In 1724, when the third edition of the Principia was
preparing for the press, Newton had resolved to substan
tiate his claims to the first, if not the sole invention, of the

 new calculus, and we have found several rough draughts
of the changes which he intended to have made upon the

scholium. In one of these1 he gives an account of the
fundamental principle of the fluxionary calculus, and dis
tinctly states that it " might have been easily collected even
from the letter which he wrote to Collins on the 10th

December 1 6 72,2 a copy of which was sent to Leibnitz in

1676."3

1 The title of this addition, which occupies more than a folio page,       b,       "In the
                                                                              ;c is,
end of the Scholium in Princip. Philos., p. 227, after the words, Utriustiue funda-
mentum continetur in hoc Lemmate, add, Sunto quantitates data, a,
                                                                                      fluentes

.x, y, «," &c.

       copy of this letter was sent to Tschirnhausen in May 1675, thirteen months
*8

  A
      it

                               by
                                       a
                                           a
before was sent to Leibnitz.
      " Doubts have been expressed," Mr. Edleston remarks, " whether these papers

were actually sent to Leibnitz." That papers were sent and received by Leibnitz,

his own testimony and that of others prove but there some reason to believe,
                                              it            is
as first indicated  Mr. Edleston, and made much more probable by Professor De;in

Morgan, that Newton's letter of the 10th December was sent, without the example of

drawing a tangent to curve, which             actually contained, and which was relied

upon as giving Leibnitz knowledge of the new calculus. In support of this opinion,

we find that what are called the originals, said to have been received by Leibnitz,

and Collins' draught of the papers preserved in the Royal Society, contain merely

an allusion to that method. These originals have been printed Leibnitz's Mathe

matical Works, published at Berlin in 1849, but fac-similes have not been given to

enable us to judge of their genuineness. It difficult to reconcile with these state
                                              is

ments that of Newton himself, who declares that the originals of the letters ques     in

tion were sent to Leibnitz in Paris to be returned, and that these originals were in

32           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIV.

   Iii another folio sheet, we have the scholium in three dif

ferent forms, including the substance of the one previously
published. 1 In all of them it is distinctly stated that New
ton's letter to Collins, of the 10th December 1672, contain

ing the method of drawing tangents, with an example, had
been sent to Leibnitz in June 1676, and that on his return

from France through England to Germany, he had con
sulted Newton's letters in the hands of Collins, and had

not long after this fallen upon a similar method. We
have not succeeded in finding a copy of the scholium, as

the archives of the Royal Society. Leibnitz may have retained imperfect copies of

these originals, which must have contained the method of tangents. If it be true

that the original letters of Newton were sent to Leibnitz, we have nothing to do

with the copies either at Hanover or the Royal Society.
   With regard to the seven " study exercises by Leibnitz, on the use of both the dif

ferential and integral calculus," as Professor De Morgan calls them, dated November

11, 21, 22, 1675, June 26, July, November 1676, which were published by Gerhardt

in 1848, we cannot, without seeing the originals or proper fac-similes of the hand

writing, receive them as evidence. Gerhardt admits that some person had been

turning the 5 of 1675 into a 3, (from an obvious motive ;) and when we recollect how

Leibnitz altered grave documents to give him a priority to Bernoulli, as we shall

presently see, we are entitled to pause before we decide on any writings that have

passed through his hands. But even if we admit these documents to be genuine,

the allegation of Newton's friends that copies of his papers were in circulation before
1675, requires to be considered in the controversy. We recommend to the reader

the careful study of Mr. Edleston's statement in the Correspondence of Sir Isaac

Newton, p. xlvii., and of the very interesting paper by Professor De Morgan, on the

Companion to the Almanac for 1852, p. 8.
   To these observations we may add, that Keill published in the Journal Littfrairc

for May and June, 1713, vol. i. p. 215, the extract from the letter of December 10,
1672, as the chief document upon which the report of the committee of the Royal

Society was founded, and at the same time distinctly stated that this letter was sent

to Leibnitz. Now Leibnitz, as we know, read this letter, and never contradicted the
Ifallegation of Keill.
                        the paper actually sent to him had been merely an abridg

ment of that letter, from which the example was omitted, he would undoubtedly

have come forward, and proved by the production of what he did receive, and what

we know he possessed, that the principal argument used against him had no

foundation.

Three years afterwards, in 1716, when Newton had challenged him to the discus

sion, he had another opportunity which he did not use, of disowning the reception

of the letter
   1 See Appendix, No. I.

\<m.                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

it was published in the first edition of the Principia,1 or
any traces of the grounds upon which he omitted the
historical details in the original draughts of it.

   It would be interesting to know why these contem

plated additions to the scholium were not adopted, and
a single paragraph from the letter of December 10, 1672,

substituted for the original scholium. In the letters of

Pemberton to Newton, in 1724 and 1725, I have found

no reference to this change upon the scholium.

   It appears, therefore, that Newton had resolved to

overlook the aggressive movement of Leibnitz in 1684 ;
and on another occasion, when he believed his rights to
be invaded, he exercised the same forbearance.2 Circum

stances, however, now occurred which induced his friends

to come forward in his cause. Having learned, as we have
seen, that Newton's " notions of Fluxions passed there by
the name of Leibnitz's Differential Calculus," Dr. Wallis

1 On a separate folio sheet I have found the following form of the scholium. The

words in italics  are   not in   the printed    scholium, in  which there is the word eandem
here omitted.            Uteris  quae mihi    cum gcometra    peritissimo G. G. Leibnitio anms
                  " In

abhinc decem intercedebant, cum significarem me compotem esse methodi deter-

minandi maximas et minimas, duceudi tangentes, quad-randi figuras curvdineas,

ct similia peragendi qua? in terminis surdis aeque ac in rationalibus procederet, me-

thodumipie exemplis iUustrarem, ted fundmnentum ejun literis transpositis banc
sententiam involventibus [Data requatione quoteunque fluentes quantitates invol-

vente, fluxiones invenire, et vice versa] celarem : rescripsit vir clarissimus, anno
proximo, se qnoque in ejusmodi methodum incidisse, et methodum suam communi-

cavit a mea vix abludentem, praterquam iu verborum et notarum formulis. Utriusque

fnodamentum continetur in hoc Lemmate." This copy does not contain the few

words added in the second edition of the Principia.

   * In the Acta Eruditorum for January and February 1689, Leibnitz published

two papers, one " On the Motion of Projectiles in a resisting Medium," and the other,
" On the Causes of the Celestial Motions." Newton regarded the propositions in

these papers, and in a third, De Lineis Opticis, as plagiarisms from the Principia,
Leibnitz, as he said, " pretending that he had found them all before that book camo
abroad," and " to make the principal proposition his own, adapting to it an erroneous
demonstration, and thereby discovering that he did not yet understand how to work
in second differences." --See Raphson's Fluxion*, p. 117 ; and Jiccemio Commercii
Epi*tolici; Newtoni Opera, tom iv. p. 481, No. lxxii.

VOL. II.                                                      C

34  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       CHAP. XIV.

stopped the printing of the Preface to the first volume of
his Works, in order to claim for Newton the invention of

Fluxions, as contained in the letters of June and October
1676, which had been sent to Leibnitz. In intimating to
Newton what he had done, he said, " You are not so kind

to your reputation (and that of the nation) as you might
be, when you let things of worth lie by you so long, till

others carry away the reputation which is due to you."1
   Early in the year 1691, the celebrated James Ber

noulli " spoke contemptuously" of the Differential Cal

culus, maintaining that it differed from that of Barrow

only in notation, and in an abridgment of the operation ;2
but it nevertheless " grew into reputation," and made

great progress after the Marquis de l'Hospital had pub

lished, in 1696, his excellent work on the Analysis of

Infinitesimals. The claims of the two rival geometers

increased in value with the stake for which they con

tended, and an event soon occurred which placed them
in open combat. Hitherto neither Newton nor Leibnitz

I1 Sec Appendix, No. I[. " At the request of Dr. Wallis," says Newton, " sent

to him in two letters, dated 27th August and 17th September, 1692, the first pro

position of the Book of Quadratures, copied almost verbatim from the book, and also

the method of extracting fluents out of equations involving fluxions, mentioned in my

letter of 24th October, 1676, and copied from an older paper, and an explication of
the method of fluxions direct and inverse, comprehended in the sentence, Data
equnthne, &c. &c, and the Doctor printed them all the same year, (viz. anno 1692)
in the second volume of his works, pp. 391-396. This volume being then in the

press, and coming abroad the next year, two years before the first volume was printed

off, and this is the first time that the use of letters with pricks, and a rule for finding

second, third, and fourth fluxions, were published, though they were long before in

Imanuscript. When considered only first fluxions, I seldom used letters with a prick ;
I Ibut when considered also second, third, and fourth fluxions, &c., distinguished
them by letters with one, two, or more pricks ; and for fluents I put the fluxions

either included within a square, (as in the aforesaid analysis,) or with a square pre
fixed as in some other papers, or with an oblique line upon it. And these notations

by pricks and oblique lines, are the most compendious yet used, but were not known

to the Marquis de l'Hospital when he recommended the differential   notation, nor

are necessary to the method."-- A Supplement to the Remarks, p. 4.
   * Acta Kritditortnn, Jan. 1691, p. 14.

100C.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       3a

had claimed to himself the merit of being the sole inventor
of the new calculus. Newton was acknowledged even by
his rival as the first inventor, and in his scholium he was

supposed to have allowed Leibnitz in return the merit of

a second inventor. Newton, however, had always believed,

without publicly avowing  that Leibnitz had derived
       ;

                                   it,
                                         it

                                                                                   a
his calculus from the communications made to him by

Oldenburg and Leibnitz, though he had repeatedly de
clared that he and Newton had borrowed nothing from

each other, was yet inclined to consider his rival as

plagiarist.

    This celebrated controversy, rendered interesting by
the transcendent talents of its promoters, and instructive
by the moral frailties with which was stained, will form

the subject of the following chapter.

36  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XV.

                          CHAPTER XV.

NICOLAS FACIO DE DUILLIER ATTACKS LEIBNITZ -- LEIBNITZ APPEALS TO
   NEWTON -- HE REVIEWS NEWTON'S ' QUADRATURE OF CURVES,' AND AC
   CUSES HIM OF PLAGIARISM -- NEWTON'S OPINION OF THE REVIEW --DR.
   KEILL DEFENDS NEWTON AS THE TRUE INVENTOR OF FLUXIONS, AND
    APPARENTLY RETORTS THE CHARGE OF PLAGIARISM ON LEIBNITZ, WHO
   COMPLAINS TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY KEILL EXPLAINS HIS DEFENCE--
   THE ROYAL SOCIETY APPROVES OF HIS EXPLANATION --LEIBNITZ CALLS
    KEILL AN UPSTART, AND BEGS THE ROYAL SOCIETY TO SILENCE HIM--
    THE SOCIETY APPOINTS A COMMITTEE TO INQUIRE INTO THE CLAIMS OF
   LEIBNITZ AND NEWTON -- THE COMMITTEE REPORT TO THE SOCIETY,
   WHO PUBLISH THE RESULT IN THE 'COMMERCIUM EPISTOLICUM' -- INSTI
    GATED BY LEIBNITZ, JOHN BERNOULLI ATTACKS THE REPORT, AND AS
    SERTS, IN A PRIVATE LETTER TO LEIBNITZ, THAT HE WAS THE FIRST
   INVENTOR OF THE NEW CALCULUS-- LEIBNITZ CIRCULATES THIS LETTER

    IN A CHARTA VOLANS, AND GIVES UP BERNOULLI AS THE AUTHOR OF
   IT-- KEILL REPLIES TO THIS LETTER, AND ATTACKS BERNOULLI AS ITS
   AUTHOR, WHO SOLEMNLY DENIES IT TO NEWTON -- LEIBNITZ ATTACKS
    NEWTON IN A LETTER TO THE ABBE CONTI-- NEWTON REPLIES TO IT
   THE CONTROVERSY EXCITES GREAT INTEREST -- LEIBNITZ URGES BER
   NOULLI TO MAKE A PUBLIC DECLARATION IN HIS FAVOUR-- BERNOULLI
    SENDS TO LEIBNITZ THE CELEBRATED LETTER ' PRO EMINENTE MATHE-
   MATICO,' ON CONDITION OF HIS NAME BEING KEPT SECRET -- LEIBNITZ
    AND WOLF ALTER THIS LETTER IMPROPERLY, AND PUBLISH IT IN
    SUCH A FORM, THAT BERNOULLI IS PROVED TO BE ITS AUTHOR --
    BERNOULLI IS ANNOYED BY THE DISCOVERY, AND ENDEAVOURS, BY
    IMPROPER MEANS, TO EVADE THE TRUTH -- THE ABBE VARIGNON RE
    CONCILES NEWTON AND BERNOULLI -- DEATH OF LEIBNITZ -- NEWTON

    WRITES A HISTORY OF THE CALCULUS GENERAL VIEW OF THE CON

    TROVERSY, AND OF THE CONDUCT OF THE PARTIES.

   Nicolas Facio de Duillier, a Geneyese by_MrtLv-camc

to England in the spring of 168 7, and with the exception
of a visit to Switzerland in 1699, 1700, and 1701, re

mm.  LIKE OF SIH ISAAC NEWTON.  37

raaiaed there during the rest of his life. He had become
acquainted with the celebrated Huygens at the Hague in
1 686, and had attained to such a proficiency in mathema
tics, that he was introduced to Sir Isaac Newton, and

visited him at Cambridge in the month of November
1692. Though only in the 28th year of his age, his
health was precarious, and he seems to have consulted
Newton on the subject of his spiritual as well as of his
bodily condition. On his return from Cambridge, he
caught a severe cold, which affected his lungs, and gave
him great alarm. In communicating to Sir Isaac an ac

Icount of his symptoms, he says, " thank God that my

soul is extremely quiet, in which you have had the chief
hand ;" and fearing that his illness would prove fatal, he
expresses the " wish that his eldest brother, a man of an
extraordinary integrity, should succeed him in his friend
ship." Sir Isaac answered this letter in course of post,
making inquiries about his brother, and telling Facio that
he remembered him in his prayers ; and Facio in reply
gave him his most humble thanks, both for his prayers
and his kindness, requesting him thus to remember him

as long as he lived, and assuring him that he always

remembered him in a similar manner.1

   1 Nicolas Facio Duillier, an eminent mathematician, was born at Basleon the
16th February 1664. In 1684 and 1685 he became acquainted with Count Fenil,

a Piedmontese, who, having incurred the displeasure of the Duke of Savoy, took
refuge in France, where he became captain of a troop of horse. Having quarrelled

one day with the commanding officer of his regiment, when drawn upon parade, the
Count shot him dead, and being well mounted, escaped from his pursuers. He fled
to Alsace, where he took refuge in the house of Mr. Facio's maternal grandfather,

but in order to assist him more effectually, he was sent to the house of Facio's father,

who lived at Duillier. When walking alone with young Facio, the Count told
him that he had offered to M. De Louvois to seize the Prince of Orange, and deliver
him into the hands of the King ; and he shewed him the letter of M. Louvois, offer

ing him the King's pardon, approving of the plan, and enclosing an order for money.
The Prince of Orange was in the habit of taking a drive on the sands at Seheveling,

'38                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          CHAP. XV.

    Having been elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in

1687, he took an active part in its proceedings, and com
municated papers to its Transactions. In the year 1699
he published a tract entitled a " Geometrical Investigation

a village three miles from the Hague, and the Count proposed, with the aid of ten

or twelve men, to land in a light ship with Dutch colours, and carry off the Prince

to Dunkirk. The scheme was ripe for execution in 1686 ; but Facio, aware of the

Count's design to take the life of his son, felt it his duty to thwart him in the com

mission of the two crimes which he had in view. He had become acquainted with

Dr. Burnet at Geneva, and knowing that he was going to Holland to visit the Prince

of Orange, he acquainted the Doctor with the Count's scheme, and agreed to accom

pany him to Holland with the view of explaining it to the Prince. The scheme

was accordingly communicated to the Prince and Princess, and, though seconded

by the latter, Monsieur Fagel and others had great difficulty in inducing the

Prince to have the protection of a guard when he went abroad. In return for the

services of Facio, it was resolved, on the strength of testimonials from Huygens, to

create for him a professorship of mathematics for instructing the nobility and gentry

of Holland, with a salary of 1200 florins, and a pension from the Prince.

    Some delay having taken place in completing this arrangement, Facio got leave
to pay a visit to England, where he arrived in 1687; but having been taken ill at

Oxford, elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1687, and treated with much

III.kindness by the English mathematicians, he remained till the accession of William
          When he visited Switzerland in 1699, 1700, and 1701, he learned that Count
Fenil had received from the French Court a situation at Pignerol, a fortified city
not far from Turin ; and that in consequence of having conspired to surrender the

place to the Duke of Savoy, he was condemned to be beheaded. In 1732 Facio

endeavoured, but we believe unsuccessfully, to obtain, through the influence of Mr.

Condnitt, some reward for having saved the life of the Prince of Orange. He assisted

Conduitt in making out the design, and writing the inscription for Newton's monu

ment in Westminster Abbey.
   In 1704, when Facio taught mathematics in Spitalfields, he unfortunately became

secretary to the Camisards, or fanatical prophets from the Cevennes, who pretended

to raise the dead, and perform other miracles. Lord Shaftesbury attacked them in

his Letter on Enthusiasm ; and having been unjustly suspected of some political

scheme, Facio and other two prophets were seized by the police in 1707, and con

demned to the pillory. On the 2d of December 1707, Facio stood on the pillory at
Charing Cross with the following inscription on his hat: " Nicolas Facio convicted

fur abotting Elias Mo or in his wicked and counterfeit prophecies, and causing

them to be printed and published to terrify the Queen's people." It is stated by

Spence, (Observations,  Aneedotes,   &c., 1820, p.  159,) on the   authority of Lockier,
Dean of Peterborough,    " that Sir  Isaac Newton    had a strong  inclination to go and

hear the French prophets, and was restrained from it with difficulty by some of his

friends, who feared he might be infected by them as Facio had been." Facio spent
the rest of his life at Worcester, where he died in 1753, nearly ninety years of age.
Sec Phil. Trans. 1713, and Gentleman's Magazine, 1737. 1738.

           LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                                      o!)

of the Solid of least Resistance," in which he made the
following reference to the history of the new calculus.1

    " The celebrated Leibnitz may perhaps inquire how I

became acquainted with the calculus which I use. About
           of April, and the following months in                          the year
the month                                                                 thought,
1687, and  subsequent years, when nobody, as I
used such a calculus but myself, I invented its fundamental
principles, and several of its rules. Nor would it have
been less known to me if Leibnitz had never been born.

He may, therefore, boast of other disciples, but certainly
not of me. And this would be sufficiently evident if the let

ters which passed between me and the illustrious Huygens
weie given to the public.2 Compelled by the evidence of

facts, I hold Newton to have been the first inventor of the

calculus, and the earliest by several years : And whether
Leibnitz, its second inventor, has borrowed anything from

Ihim, would prefer to my own judgment that of those

who have seen the letters of Newton and copies of his

1 Dr. Guhrauer, in his biography of Leibnitz, published in 1842, has most unjustly
                                                    We have    carefully  inspected all
stated that Newton prompted this attack of Facio.   slightest  evidence   in support of
the manuscripts of Newton, and cannot discover the

a charge which deserves the severest reprobation.
    * These letters do not appear in the Correspondence of Huygens with Leibnitz and

ItfasftLbhddhtsirhienuoc'raeeoaaeyelsbqtlamcdstletspbejuauuedorneiatdtompcltLaiisibiodhtfonne;unuxur2eligtioeencclvobe6reehttinafdtaitedok.hniebcitdi.nndpslrzowwveeterAiiooi;trtrnhntohpoeutrhTeatgahkeisotrh-tvunsapiuLrelititdatmonhsmechrtwhnegheoei1iaUboeednh6tcnydcnem9tsipaecheal,u0nirer"hkitarl,olcsecnmz,tbdtfeubihareLtgtnlisrekensfuuwbepooaroedsmoeeeioimsnobamtkal.woekbfeny,sosyftsehutiftH,thsTEecieizymehnushFnxroo"acsyafeusphargtocdeerahriieirdrcistovenasnenasiisieontctnethxseiane.tlsn,spaeaesdtttcuebMshetrto.wocsueeaaida"von.tbcnaotenrhethttfuieifh.tito,cnrghldwoSeenrehecHmeeeeleeeofle1eiIseanbnf8cnPunrhtrvtoFCwraduhabhieemamdrtjiihn1edsecyhdtp6thhrci,dNssoi8lfMatoit.oi,0,mltnoI,ntamvha,e.tpeeaaeoFwaanonamnattflteniytihnhdnsrdbNeiIdehctnnteJpeitimiloncgsh1ruutwa.ghsaa6absiFtm/att9ol1iatii.fstw0csa/n6oeciuephitt9;,ihrtabo.ii0ethteniwwu.s,hi4dobnsiene1hha,d.uqat,asabthhutwadyw"taeeaeFiUniattlPanHbHAdlocsrectaouausroheisnmupyaFoyefnlpoemFgageehetsvaaesetewwqastectcnnfreuohhiaarlssstocriytreoosis,.l

ii. pp 56, 175. Haga; Comitum, 1833.

40               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. Xv.

other manuscripts. Nor will the silence of the more
modest Newton, or the active exertions of Leibnitz in

everywhere ascribing the invention of this calculus to
himself, impose upon any person who shall examine these

documents as I have done."1

    Strong as these expressions are, they cannot be regarded
as charging Leibnitz with plagiarism. He is styled the
second inventor, the title with which he, on many occasions,
expressed himself satisfied, and he is blamed only for

everywhere ascribing the invention to himself. In reply

ing to Duillier,2 Leibnitz appealed to Newton himself as
having stated in the celebrated scholium, that the new

calculus was common to them both, and that neither had

received any light from the other ;3 and without disputing
or acknowledging the priority of Newton's claim, he as
serted his own right to the discovery of the differential
calculus. Facio sent a reply to the editors of the Acta
Eruditorum, but they refused to print it on the ground of
their aversion to controversy.4 The controversy therefore
terminated for the present, and the contending parties
laid down their arms, ready to resume them on the slightest

provocation.
    When Newton published his Treatise on the Quadrature

of Curves, along with his Optics in 1704, he mentioned
in his introduction that he had gradually found the method

of fluxions in the year 1665 and 1666. A review of this

1 Iitvesti'/atio Geonutrka, &c., p. 18. Loud. 1699.
'' Acta Eruditorum, 1700, p. 203.
· Wre have already proved that Newton did not attach this meaning to his scho
lium ; and in
self distinctly  replying to this  "paascskangoewliendgtheed  liecensio Commerci Epistolici, he him
                 denies having                                that Leibnitz invented his method by

his own genius, unassisted by the letters of Newton." -- Ncwtoni Opera, tom. iv.

,.. 489.

   · Acta Eruditorum, 1701, p. 131.

1705.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                           41

work, by Leibnitz,1 but without his name, was published
in the Acta Eruditorum for January 1705. After giving

an imperfect analysis of its contents, he compared the

method of fluxions with the differential calculus, and, in a

sentence of some ambiguity, he states that Newton em
ployed fluxions in place of the differences of Leibnitz, and
made use of them in his Principia in the same manner

as Honoratus Fabri, in his Synopsis of Geometry, had

substituted progressive motion in place of the indivisibles
of Cavalieri. As Fabri, therefore, was not the inventor of

the method which is here referred to, but borrowed it

from Cavalieri, and only changed the mode of its expres

sion, there can be no doubt that the artful insinuation

contained in the above passage was intended to convey the
impression that Newton had stole his method of fluxions

from Leibnitz. That this was the view of it taken by the

friends of Newton will presently appear. That it was the

view taken by Newton himself we are fortunately able

to prove from the following passage in his own hand
writing, 2 which is so important that we copy it without

any change.

   " In the Acta Eruditorum for 1705,3 an account of

tlihsehedIntrinodtuhcetsioenwotordsth:e--B' oQouk?eo[fIsQaugaodgreanturoers    was pub
                                                                             Preface] ut
melius intelligatur sciendum est cum magnitudo aliqua

continue crescit veluti linea, exempli gratia crescit fluxu

puncti quod eam describit, incrementa ilia momentanea

est producta appellavi differential nempe inter magni-

tudinem qua? antea erat et quae per mutationem momen-

taneam est producta ; atque hinc natum esse calculum

1 Guhrauer, the biographer of Leibnitz, proves that he was the author of the

review, and affirms that Leibnitz constantly denied any knowledge of the author

ship. See Essays from the Edinburgh Review, by Henry Rogers, pp. 226, 227.
8 A Supplement to the Remarks, p.
                                   fi.                                    January, p. 34.
                                                                       3

42                      LIFE OF S1U ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XV.

Differentia loin, eique reciprocum summatorium, ' cujus

elementa ab Inventore D. Godofredo Guillielmo Leib-

nitio in his actis sunt tradita variisque usus tum ab ipso,
tuin a DD. Fratribus Bernoulliis, tuin a D. Marchione

Hospitalio sunt ostensi. Pro Differentiis Igitur Lcib-

nitianis D. Newtonus adhibet, semperque [pro iisdem]
adhibuit fluxiones, iisque tuin in suis Principiis Naturae
Mathematicis, turn in aliis postera editis [pro Differentiis
Leibnitianis] eleganter est usus, Quemadmodum ut Hono-
ratus Fabrius in sua synopsi Geometrica motuus pro-
gressus Cavalleriame methodo Suhstituit.' And all this

is as much as to sav, that I did not invent the method of
fluxions in the years 1665 and 1666, as I affirmed in

this Introduction, but that after Mr. Leibnitz, in his

letter of 21st June 1677, had sent me his differential

method, instead of that method, I began to use, and have

ever since used, the method of fluxions." 2

    That Newton was virtually accused of plagiarism by
the reviewer, cannot, we think, admit of a doubt. The

indirect and ambiguous manner in which the charge is
couched, and the artful reference to the case of Fabri

and Cavalieri, make it doubly reprehensible ; and we are

persuaded that no candid reader can peruse the passage
without a strong conviction that it justifies, in the fullest
manner, the indignant feelings which it excited among

the English philosophers. If Leibnitz, in place of being

the author of the review, had been merely a party to
*1

                          of

                                            by
                                               a
                                                             p.

                                                                                by

                                                                                            by it,
    This was the name given by Leibnitz to the integral calculus, or the inverse

method of fluxions

    The words within brackets are added  Newton, and bring out very distinctly

the meaning of Leibnitz. In his letter to the Abbe Conti, dated 9th April 1716,

Leibnitz virtually admits the authorship of the review, endeavours to give a differ

ent meaning to the words temperque adhibuit, and maintained that Newton allowed

himself to be deceived  man who poisoned his words, and sought a quarrel

the malignant interpretation of them. Newton was himself the interpreter.  See
liuphsou's History Fluxions, 103.

1706.            LIFE OK SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 43

he merited the full measure of rebuke which was dealt

out to him by the friends of Newton, and deserved those

severe reprisals which doubtless embittered the rest of
his days. He who dares to accuse a man like Newton,

or indeed any man holding a fair character in society,
of the odious crime of plagiarism, places himself without
the pale of the ordinary courtesies of life, and deserves

to have the same charge thrown back upon himself. The

man who conceives his fellow to be capable of such intel

lectual felony, avows the possibility of himself committing

       and almost substantiates the weakest evidence of the
it,
                 a
                      H
worst accusers.

Dr. Keill, as the representative of Newton's friends,

could not brook this concealed attack upon his country

man. In letter on the Laws of Centripetal Forces,

addressed to alley, and printed in the Philosophical
Transactions for 1708,1 he stated that Newton was " be

yond all doubt" the first inventor of fluxions and he
asserted " that the same calculus was afterwards pub
                                                 is
                                                                                        ;
lished by Leibnitz, the name and the mode of notation
being changed." If the reader
                                                 disposed to consider

this passage as retorting the charge of plagiarism upon
Leibnitz, he will readily admit that the mode of its ex

pressionis      neither so coarse nor so insidious as that
            is
which         used by the writer in the Acta Eruditorum.

In a letter to Hans Sloane, dated 4th March 1711,

Leibnitz complained to the Royal Society of the treat
ment he had received. " Nobody," says he, " knew

better than Newton that this charge false, for certainly
                                                 p. is                            Fluxions,
never heard of the name of the Calculus
I                                                             of

                                              1
nor saw with these eyes the characters which Newton
used." He expressed his conviction that Keill had erred

                                                 For September and October, 185.

44               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              CHAP. XV.

more from rashness of judgment than from any improper

motive. He did not regard the accusation as a calumny ;
and he requested that the Society would desire Mr. Keill

to disown publicly the injurious sense which his words

might bear. When this letter was read to the Society,
Keill justified himself to Sir Isaac Newton and the other

members, by showing them the obnoxious article on the

Quadrature of Curves in the Acta Eruditorum, and they

all agreed in attaching the same injurious meaning to the

passage in the review. The discussion excited so much

interest, that, on the 5th April 1711, Newton gave, from
the chair of the Society, " a short account of his inven

tion, with the particular time of his first mentioning or

discovering  it   '  upon     which Mr. Keill was desired to

                 ;

draw up an account of the matter in dispute, and set it
in a just light."2 This account, contained in a letter to

Sir Hans Sloane, was read at the Society on the 24th

May 1711, and a copy of it was ordered to be sent to
Leibnitz. In this letter, which is one of considerable

length, Dr. Keill declares that he never meant to state
that Leibnitz knew either the name of Newton's method

or the form of notation, and that the real meaning of the

1 This account was probably given to the Society in consequence of the following

    letter   from Keill        to Newton, written two days before the meeting, that
    April    1711. "            have now sent you the Acta Lipeias, (1705,) where
Iunpublished
                              your book, (on Quadratures,) and I desire you will read
is on the 3d

there is an account given of
from page 34, &c. (namely, the passage which we have given from Newton's MS.

in pages 39, 40.) 1 hold not the volume (1710, p. 78) in which Wolfius has an
Iswered my letter, but have sent you his letter transcribed from thence, and also a
Icopy of my letter to him.
                              wish you would take the pains to read that part of

their supplements, wherein they give an account of Dr. Friend's book, and from

them you may gather how unfairly they deal with you ; but really these things are

trifles, not worth your while, since you can spend your time to much better purpose

than minding any thing such men can say. However, if you would look upon
them so far as to let me hold your sentiments on that matter, you will much oblige
                                                        do. Klili.i..
your most humble servant,

2 Weld's History of the Royal Society, vol. i. p. 110.

1711.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  45

passage was, " that Newton was the first inventor of
fluxions, or of the differential calculus, and that he had
given, in two letters to Oldenburg, and transmitted to
Leibnitz, indications of it sufficiently intelligible to an
acute mind,1 from which Leibnitz derived, or was able to
derive, the principles of his calculus."

    The charge of plagiarism which Leibnitz thought was
implied in the former letter of his antagonist, is here

greatly modified, if not altogether denied. Keill ex

presses only an opinion that the letters seen by Leibnitz
contained intelligible indications of the fluxionary calcu
lus, from which he either derived, or might derive, the

principles of his calculus. Even if this opinion were cor
rect, it is no proof that Leibnitz either saw these indica
tions or availed himself of them ; or if he did perceive

them, it might have been in consequence of his having
previously been in possession of the differential calculus,

or having enjoyed some distant view of it. Leibnitz

should, therefore, have allowed the dispute to terminate

here ; for no ingenuity on his part, and no additional
facts, could affect an opinion which any other person as
well as Keill was entitled to maintain.2

   1 " Indicia perspicacissimi ingenii viro satis obvia, unde Leibnitius principia
illius calculi hausit ant haurire potuit."

    2 These sentiments, which we had formerly expressed, and which we again
repeat, have been singularly misrepresented by Dr. Guhrauer in his Life of Leibnitz.

A distinguished writer, Mr. Henry Rogers, in giving an account of this work, has
defended us better than we could have done ourselves. " Dr. Guhrauer," he re
marks, " is not a little indignant with Sir David Brewster for the supposed injustice
which, in his Life of Newton, he has done to Leibnitz, and to which he frequently

refers with much bitterness. Never was a complaint more unreasonable. Our

distinguished countryman does not question Leibnitz's claim to be regarded as a

true inventor of the calculus ; he merely asserts the undoubted priority of Newton's
discovery. He expressly affirms that there is no reason to believe Leibnitz a pla
giarist; but that if there were any necessity for believing either to be so, it must

be Leibnitz, and not Newtonpwho is open to the charge. Guhrauer angrily replies,

not simply by saying (which is true) that there is no sufficient evidence of Leibnitz's

4(5                     LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             chap. xv.

    Leibnitz, however, took a different view of the subject,
and wrote a letter to Sir Hans Sloane, dated December

29, 1711, which excited new feelings, and involved him

in new embarrassments. Insensible to the mitigation

which had been kindly impressed upon the supposed
charge against his honour, he alleges that Keill had at
tacked his candour and sincerity more openly than be

fore ; --that he acted without any authority from Sir
Isaac Newton, who was the party interested ; -- and that

it was in vain to justify his proceedings by referring to
the provocation in the Acta Eruditorum, because, in that
journal, no injustice had been done to any party, but every
one had received what was his due. He asserts, that he

discovered the calculus some years before he published

that in 1675, or earlier. He brands Keill with the
odious appellation of an upstart, and one little acquainted
with the circumstances of the case;1 and he calls upon
the Society to silence his vain and unjust clamours,2
which, he believed, were disapproved by Newton himself,
     is
                                                                                         it,

having stolen Newton's invention, butin                                    denying the essential identity of the two
                                             by
methods, andisaffirming that they are so different as to be considered unlike
                  by                                                          is,
                                   our judgment, be more uncandid.                                  '
                          ' in
things,' than which nothing can,
   " There
              only one statement which, as respects Leibnitz, Dr. Guhrauer could

fairly find fault with          Sir David Brewster's work and that            that Keill had a
                                                                           ;

' right to express his opinion that the letters of Newton of 1676 gave indications'
from which Leibnitz derived, or might derive,' the principles of his calculus. For

reasons already assigned, we do not think that any man had a right to say this, nor

that any one could say without being of a different opinion from Newton himself,it

who undoubtedly must have thought that he had not disclosed what he designed to
conceal. With no other statement of Sir David Brewster, as regards Leibnitz, are
we disposed to find fault." -- Essays from the Edinburgh Review,
                                                                              byHenry Rogers,
                                                                                                            a
vol. pp. 227, 228. Edin. Review, vol. lxxxiv., pp. 43, 44. Mr. Rogers has certainly
   11
      i.

               a
                                                                        a
misapprehended the meaning of our statement, which amounts to nothing more than
that Dr. Keill, or any other man, had right to express his opinions on any subject
whatever, whether they are sound or unsound. We have already proved that the
opinion of Keill was the opinion of Newton himself, and, as he knew this, he had
right of higher kind to express the same opinion.

     Homo doctus, sed novns, ct parum pcritus rerum anteactarnm cognitor.
     Vanre et injusta? voeiferntiones.

1711.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  47

who was well acquainted with the facts, and who, he was

persuaded, would willingly give his opinion on the matter.
    This unfortunate letter was doubtless the cause of all

the rancour and controversy which so speedily followed,

and it placed his antagonist in a new and a more favour-

ble position. It may be correct, though few will admit

it, that Keill's second letter was more injurious than the
first ; but it was not true that Keill acted without the

authority of Newton, because Keill's letter was approved
of, and transmitted, by the Royal Society, of which New
ton was the president, and therefore became the act of
that body. The obnoxious part, however, of Leibnitz's
letter, consisted in his appropriating to himself the opi
nions of the reviewer in the Leipsic Acts, by declaring
that, in a review which charged Newton with plagiarism,
every person had got what was their due. The whole
character of the controversy was now changed : Leibnitz
places himself in the position of the party who had first
disturbed the tranquillity of science by maligning its

most distinguished ornament ; and the Royal Society
was imperiously called upon to throw all the light they
could upon a transaction which had exposed their vener

able president to so false a charge. The Society, too,
had become a party to the question, by their approbation
and transmission of Keill's second letter, and were on

that account alone bound to vindicate the step which

they had taken.

    When the letter of Leibnitz, therefore, was read, Keill
appealed to the registers of the Society for the proofs of
what he had advanced. Sir Isaac also expressed his dis
pleasure at the obnoxious passage in the Acta Eruditorum,
and at the defence of it by Leibnitz, and he left it to the

Society to act as they thought proper.

48                         LIFE OF SIR I8AAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. XV.

   In this emergency, a committee of the Royal Society
was appointed on the 6th March 1712, " to inspect the

letters and papers relating to the dispute, consisting of

Dr. Arbuthnot, Mr. Hill, Dr. Halley, Mr. Jones, Mr. Ma-

chin, and Mr. Burnet." Mr. Robarts, a contributor to

the Transactions, was added to the committee on the

20th of March, M. Bonet, the Prussian Minister, on the

27th, and Mr. De Moivre, Mr. Aston, and Dr. Brook

Taylor, on the 1 7th of April.1 The committee, thus con

stituted, was instructed to examine the registers of the

Society, and to lay before it such documents as they

might discover, with their own opinions on the subject.

This committee, probably from being called consessus

arbitrorum, has been supposed to have been a judicial

committee ; but, as Professor De Morgan has shewn, and

as Newton himself has asserted, it had no such character,

since none of Leibnitz's friends were placed upon
                                                    a                                   and
                                                                      it
no invitation given him to produce documents in his
                                                                        I
defence. The committee consisted entirely of Newton's                              it,

friends and several of them, though qualified to attest
1
                ;the genuineness of the documents in the report, were not

fitted, by their mathematical acquirements, to give an

opinion on the subject.2

    The additions thus made at different times to the original committee, were

first pointed out by Professor De Morgan, ami wen; unknown to all preceding

writers. The discovery was very important one, as                had been asserted by
                           a
                                 a
Newton that the committee was numerous one, consisting of persons of different

nations, which was certainly not the character of the original committee. As Pro
fessor De Morgan has been led, after an anxious examination of the subject, " to

differ from the general opinion England as to the manner in which Leibnitz wasin

treated," his defence of Newton's veracity was graceful contribution, and cannot
fail to give weight to his other opinions. -- See his paper in the Philosophical

2Transactions, vol. xlvi.  pp. 107-109.  Professor  De  Morgan,  " and  often suspect
      " There may   have    been," says

there was, something of truth in the surmise of Leibnitz, who thought that the

near prospect of the Hanoverian succession created some dislike against the subject

1712.              LIKE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                   49

   On the 24th of April the committee gave in the follow

ing report, which was in the handwriting of Halley :--

    " We have consulted the letters and letter-books in the

custody of the Royal Society, and those found among
the papers of Mr. John Collins, dated between the years

1669 and 1677 inclusive ; and showed them to such as
knew and avouched the hands of Mr. Barrow, Mr. Collins,

Mr. Oldenburg, and Mr. Leibnitz ; and compared those
of Mr. Gregory with one another, and with copies of

some of them taken in the hand of Mr. Collins ; and have

extracted from them what relates to the matter referred

to us ; all which extracts herewith delivered to you, we

believe to be genuine and authentic ; and by these letters

and papers we find, --
   " I. That Mr. Leibnitz was in London in the beginning

of the year 1673 ; and went thence, in or about March,
to Paris ; where he kept a correspondence with Mr. Col
lins, by means of Mr. Oldenburg, till about September

1676, and then returned by London and Amsterdam to

Hanover : and that Mr. Collins was very free in commu

nicating to able mathematicians, what he had received

from     Mr. Newton and Mr. Gregory.                                  was  the  first  time    in

   "    II. That when Mr. Leibnitz

London, he contended for the invention of another differ

ential method, properly so called, and notwithstanding
that he was shown by Dr. Pell, that it was Mouton's me
thod, he persisted in maintaining it to be his own inven
tion, by reason that he had found it by himself, without

and    servant of  th"eAombincouxsiouAsngElluesctoard  on the minds   of the Jacobite portion  of Eng
lish   science."                                        me scribit,"  says Leibnitz, " videri  [eos qui

parum   Domui      Hanoveramc    favent] aliquibns      nontam et Mathematicos et Societatis
Rcgise  Socios     in Socium,  sed ut Toryos in        Whigium quosdam egesse." -- Philoso

phical Transactions, 1846, p. 108. Newton himself was a Whiti, and a friend of

the House of Hanover.

      VOL. II.                                                                         U

30  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XV.

knowing what Mouton had done before, and had much

improved it. And we find no mention of his having any

other differential method than Mouton's, before his letter
of 21st June 1677, which was a year after a copy of Mr.
Newton's letter, of the 10th December 1672, had been

sent to Paris to be communicated to him ; and above

four years after, Mr. Collins began to communicate that
letter to his correspondent ; in which letter the method
of fluxions was sufficiently described to any intelligent

person.

  "III. That by Mr. Newton's letter of the 13th June

1676, it appears that he had the method of Fluxions
above five years before the writing of that letter, and by

his Analysis, per Mquutiones numero Terminorum Infini-
tas, communicated by Dr. Barrow to Mr. Collins in July

1669, we find that he had invented the method before

that time.

   " IV. That the differential method is one and the same

with the method of fluxions, excepting the name and
mode of notation ; Mr. Leibnitz calling those quantities
differences, which Mr. Newton calls moments or fluxions ;
and marking them with the letter d, a mark not used by
Mr. Newton. And therefore we take the proper ques
tion to be, not who invented this or that method, but who
was the first inventor of the method ; and we believe,

that those who have reputed Mr. Leibnitz the first in
ventor, knew little or nothing of his correspondence with
Mr. Collins and Mr. Oldenburg long before ; nor of Mr.
Newton's having that method above fifteen years before
Mr. Leibnitz began to publish it in the Acta Eruditorum
of Leipsic.

   " For which reasons we reckon Mr. Newton the first
inventor ; and are of opinion that Mr. Keill, in asserting

1713.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                          51

the same, has been noways injurious to Mr. Leibnitz.
And we submit to the judgment of the Society, whether

the extracts, and letters, and papers, now presented, to
gether with what is extant to the same purpose, in Dr
Wallis's third volume, may not deserve to be made public."

This report being read and agreed to, the Society

unanimously adopted ordered the collection of letters
                    it, it,
                                              it

                                                                     8
                                                                          a
and manuscripts to be printed, and appointed Dr. Halley,

Mr. Jones, and Mr. Machin, to superintend the press.

Complete copies of                                  under the title of Commercium

Epistolicum D. Johannis Collins et aliorum de analyst

promota, were laid before the Society on the th January
1713; and Sir Isaac Newton, as president, ordered copy

to be delivered to each person of the Committee ap

pointed for that purpose, to examine                      before its publi

cation.1

According to Leibnitz, he received information of the

appearance of the Commercium Epistolicum when he was
at Vienna, and " being satisfied, as he expresses
                                                          a                  that
                                                             it,
must contain malicious falsehoods, did not think pro
it                                                     I
                          it

                                                7,
per to send for by post, but wrote to M. Bernoulli to                              it it
give me his sentiments.2 M. Bernoulli wrote me letter,
dated at Basle, June 1713, in which he said, that

appeared probable that Sir Isaac Newton had formed his    it
calculus after having seen mine."3 This letter was pub
lished in Latin, by Leibnitz, with reflections, in loose     a

sheet, entitled, Charta Volans, dated July 29, 1713, and

      This work was not published for sale, and as the few copies of which were
printed were distributed as presents, became so scarce that Raphson tells us, "

was not to be met with among the booksellers.''

      Newton states that copy of the Commercium was sent to Leibnitz by the
Resident of the Elector of Hanover, above a year before this, and several copies to
Leipsic, one of which was for him. MS.

      Letters to the Count do Hothinarin Pes Maizeanx's liccveil de Diverse* Pieces
&c., tom. ii. 44
* *1
                     p.

                                             a

                                                   it

52          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       CHAP. XV.

was widely circulated, without either the name of the au

thor, printer, or place of publication, and giving the names
            n and L
of N                 z, with their initial and final letters.

    The origin of this letter is curious and instructive. In

writing to Leibnitz on the 28th February, 1713, Ber

noulli says, that he has informed Newton of some of his

mistakes,1 but in a very gentle manner, that he might
not give offence to one who had been very kind to him

in getting him elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and

as shewing much attention to his son when in London.

In Leibnitz's reply of the 16th March, he remarks that

Newton wishes to ingratiate himself with him, and he

adds, we shall see what can be elicited from the corre

spondence with Collins, which, owing to his absence from

home, he may not see so early as he will. Bernoulli had

now received from Paris a copy of the Commercium Epis-

tolicum, and in replying to Leibnitz on the 7th of June

he gives him a general account of the Report of the Com

mittee, and adds in a couple of pages his own opinion of

2 1 by it,which constitutes the celebrated letter of the 7th June
   a
1713, inserted by Leibnitz in the Charta Volans. He
concludes the letter by imploring Leibnitz " to make a

right use of what he has written, and not compromise

him with Newton and his countrymen, as he was unwill
ing to be mixed up with these controversies."2 In spite

of this request, Leibnitz not only gave up Bernoulli as the

author of the letter, but had insidiously inserted in
                                       if

                                          it

                                                                        a
parenthesis, and in the same type, as  had been writ

ten by the author, the words, as was long ago remarked

            certain eminent mathematician, which placed Bernoulli

in the ridiculous position of praising himself.

          See Acta Eruditorum, 1713, Feb., p. 77, and Mart., p. 155.   ii.  pp. 308. 311

          Commcrc. Phil et Math. G. G. Leibnitii ctj. DernouUii, tom.

1713.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  53

    Previous to the publication of the Charta Volans, Dr.
Keill sent to the Journal Litteraire for 1713,1 some re

marks on the controversy, with the Report of the Com
mittee, and Newton's important letter to Collins, dated
10th December, 1672. An anonymous answer,2 but cer
tainly written by Leibnitz, appeared in the same work

for November and December 1713. It contained a

French translation of the Charta Volans, and of the
letter of OAtyery eminent mathematician, dated 7th June
1713, on the subject of the controversy, the same letter
which Leibnitz mentions to Count Bothmar, as the pro
duction of Bernoulli.3 In this letter Bernoulli asserts

that Newton in his researches confesses that he never

even thought of Fluxions, and had not invented them
before the differential calculus. He maintains that he

was ignorant, when he wrote the Principia, of the true
way of taking the fluxions of fluxions, and he accused him
of having deprived Hook and Flamsteed of their just
honours, the one for his hypothesis of the planets, and
the other for the use of his observations.

    Newton was indignant at this new attack upon his
character, which was sent to him in the autumn of 1713,

by Mr. Chamberlayne, who then kept a correspondence
with Leibnitz, and he immediately drew up a sharp

   1 For May and June, pp. 208-217.
   8 llemarques nur le Different entre M. de Leibnitz et M. Newton, November and
December, 1713, pp. 445-153.
   * This letter, in the Latin edition of it in the Charta Volans, referred, as we have

stated, to Bernoulli, in the sentence quemadmodum ab cminente quodam mathema-
tico dudum notatus est. The reference was continued in the French edition ; but in

another edition of the Charta Vulans, which Leibnitz published two years after
wards in the NouveUes Litterairet, December 28, 1715, p. 414, he omitted the above

passage, as if to fix the authorship on Bernoulli ; and in a letter to Madame Kilman-

segg, dated April 18, 1716, he inserted a copy of the obnoxious letter, without the

passage referred to, and without any hesitation ascribed it to Bernoulli.

54       LIKE OK SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       CnAP. XV.

reply,1 which was probably sent to Keill, as the ground   it,                      2, ;
work of his long and elaborate answer, which appeared            it it,

in the Journal Litteraire for July and August 1714.2

Bernoulli was supposed by both to be the very eminent
mathematician3 who wrote the letter of the 7th June

1713, and but for Leibnitz's indiscretion, his name would

never have been known. Never doubting that Bernoulli
was the author, Keill endeavoured to prove and exposed
with great severity the incorrectness and injustice of his

charges against Newton. Notwithstanding the repeated
declarations of Leibnitz, that Bernoulli was the author

of this letter, Bernoulli himself disavowed to M. Des
Maizeaux, to M. Montmort, and to^he Abbe Varignon

and in a letter to Newton, dated 3a^ oYqjhfcwr 1719, he

declared that he was not the author of and that too with

such solemnity that Newton believed him, and would not

21  There are several copies of this paper among Newton's manuscripts.

      This paper, occupying forty-two pages, was drawn up with great care with the
assistance of Sir Isaac, four of whose letters to Keill on tho suhject, dated April

20, May 11, 15, 1714, have been published by Mr. Edleston.        2, I  have now before

me the originals of six letters from Keill to Newton, dated May 17, 19, 21, and
June 29, 1714. In Newton's letter of April he says that Keill " need not set his
                                                 2,

name to it." In Keill's reply of the 2d May, sending part of his answer, he says,a

that " he never saw bad cause defended with so much face and impudence before."
    is
          it
              ;"

                                  a

                               I
He to take Leibnitz " to task for filching of series," and he " for putting his
                                                                  is

         for he adds, " have said nothing but what fully made out, and they
name to                                               it it
                                                           is is
have, on the contrary, thrown all the dirt and scandal they could without proving

anything they have said, and therefore they thought best to conceal their names.

believe Wolfius the author of the Latin letter, for               exactly agreeable to his
I

                      I
                              is

                                             is
caution and honesty, who inferior to nobody but Mr. Leibnitz in prevarication.
Dr. Halley and do often drink your health. He and are both of opinion that
                                                      I

there should be fifty copies of the Commercium sent over to Johnson, (the publisher
of the Journal Litteraire, to whom they were sent,) and that there should be adver

tisements in the foreign Gazettes, that the original letters of the Commercium are in

such a man's hands, to be viewed by gentlemen that are to travel in England, and

particularly the letter with Gregory's quadrature of the circle." In his letters of the
25th and 29th June, he sends " the whole of his answer to Bernoulli and the Leipsic

rogues, for you and Dr. [alley to change or take away what you please."
*
                                          1
    Leibnitz had not at this time written the letter to Bothmar or Madame Kilman-

segg, declaring that Bernoulli was the author of it.

1714.          LIFE OF Sili ISAAC NEWTON.

listen to Keill and his other friends when they expressed

Ian opposite opinion. " beseech you," says he,1 " and
I adjure you, by all that is sacred, that you will firmly

believe that anything published without a name, in which

a sufficiently honourable mention of you has not been
made, has been falsely imputed to me. . . . Far be
it from me to believe that Leibnitz, that truly excellent

man, wished to deceive you by mentioning me. It is

more credible that he was deceived either by his own
conjecture or that of others, and yet he was not altoge
ther blameless, in so far as he rashly and imprudently
committed to writing anything of which he had no know
ledge." The dishonesty of Bernoulli, thus placed beyond

a doubt, is equalled only by the dishonourable conduct of
Leibnitz in betraying his friend.2 Anxious to obtain the
opinion of a great mathematician in favour of his own
claims, and against those of Newton, he asked Bernoulli,

as we have seen, to do him this favour. This request of

his patron and friend was readily granted, but under the
obligation that his name should be concealed. Leibnitz,

however, was not satisfied with this anonymous tribute
to his genius, and did not scruple to obtain for it all its

value by violating his word, and exposing his friend to
the enmity of Newton, and the keen shafts of Keill, of

1 " Fallunt haud dubie qui me tibi dctulerunt tanquam auctorcm quorundam ex

Schedis istis volantibus, in quibus forsan non eatia honorific,!, tni fit mentio. Sed

obsecro te, vir inclyte, atque per omnia humanitatis sacra obtostor nt tibi certo

persuadeas, quicquid hoc modo sine nomine in lucem prodierit, id mihi falso impu-

tari A bait autem ut credam Leibnitium, virum sane optimum me

nominando fucum vobis facere voluisac. Credibile namque potius est ipsum vel

sua vel alionim conjoctura fuissc deceptum  Non tamen omni culpa

vacabit quod tam temere et imprudenter aliquid proscripserit cujus nullum habebat

notitiam."

II I* The late John Bernoulli, speaking of the conduct of Leibnitz to his grand
father, says,  commit indiscretion dele trahir. --Mem. Acad. Berlin, 1799, 1800.

Hist. p. 41.

56                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           CHAP. XV.

which we shall presently see he stood in great alarm.
During the interval between the date of Bernoulli's letter,

namely, the 7th June, and that of the Charta Volans, in

which Leibnitz published namely, the 29th July 1713,

he seems to have felt how little was the value of the
                                       it,

                                                                                        ;
anonymous testimony which he had received he therefore
writes to Bernoulli on the 28th June, " that he expects

from his justice and candour that he will, as soon as pos

sible, declare publicly among his friends, when the oppor

tunity occurs, that the Calculus       Newton was posterior
to his."1 In replying to this letter Bernoulli assures him,of
                                               it,
that he will conceal nothing either among his friends or

publicly, when the occasion demands and he comforts

Leibnitz by saying that his fate was like that of his prince,
the Elector of Hanover, whom the villanous English

wished to deprive of the succession to the kingdom, in
the same manner as they wished to deprive him of the
possession of his calculus. Leibnitz, however, was very
uneasy on the subject. He was anxious to know what

the Parisians thought, for though he had no doubt that

Varignon would be his friend, he feared that others would

take the opportunity of attacking him.2 He expresses
the hope, however,3 in a letter containing some severe
strictures on Newton, that Varignon would take care,

Bernoulli prompting him, that nothing was done in
France of which he might complain.

    The passage
  a1
                            is

                                   ii.
                                              p.

                                                     it
                                                         is
                                                                                           »
                                                                                                                                               a
                 curious, and            obvious that the editor has omitted part of
                                       " Satis apparet Newtonum id egisse suis blan-
the letter unfit for the public eye.

ditiis, ut benevolentiam tuam captaret; conscium sibi quam non recto stent talo

quse molitus est Ego tamen etsi nolim, ut in roci gratiam tibi nogotium facessas,

erpecto tamen ab equiOtte tua etcandore, ut profitearU apud amicos quam primum,
    pMicc
et         data occasione,  calculum   Newtoni nostro potteriorcm tibi videri."                                                                   ..      .
.    ...                     Phil, et                                                                                                             tom.  ii.
           -- Commercium               Math. G. G. Leibnitii <7 /. Bepnoidlii,

pp.313, 314.

    Ibid. Ibid., tom.       314.       Ibid. Ibid., pp. 320, 321.

1714.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.            57

   This extreme sensitiveness, on the part of Leibnitz, we
can readily excuse, but we can find no apology for his
conduct in betraying so ardent a friend as Bernoulli.
On a future occasion we shall find him prompting the

German mathematician to another act of hostility against
Newton and Keill, and a second time divulging the
secret under which the favour was granted. And at
the very close of his career, when his great powers had

been appreciated by the world, and an immortality of
reputation was dazzling his failing sight, he did not scruple
to conspire with Wolf, another German mathematician of
feeble morality, to vitiate a letter of Bernoulli, and leave
a shadow upon his name which the lustre of his genius
will never be able to efface.

    Amid the feelings excited by the letter of the eminent

mathematician, Mr. Chamberlayne, whom we have already
 mentioned as the correspondent of Leibnitz, conceived the

 design of reconciling the two distinguished philosophers ;

 and in a letter, dated April 28th, 1714,1 he addressed
 himself to Leibnitz, who was still at Vienna. In replying

to this letter, Leibnitz declared that he had given no oc
casion for the dispute ; " that Newton procured a book

to be published, which was written purposely to discredit

him, and sent it to Germany, France, and Italy, as in the
                     and he stated, " that there was
name of the Society

great room to doubt whether Newton knew his invention

before he had it from him." Mr. Chamberlayne commu
nicated this letter to Sir Isaac Newton, who replied, that

Leibnitz had attacked his reputation in 1705, by intima

ting that he had borrowed from him the method of flux

ions ; that if Mr. C. could point out to him anything in

which he had injured Mr. Leibnitz, he would endeavour

       1 See Dos Maizcanx, torn ii p. 116.

58                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       CHAP. XV.

to give him satisfaction ; that he would not retract things
which he knew to be true ; and that he believed that the

committee of the Royal Society had done no injustice by
the publication of the Commercium Epistolicum. In an
other letter, Leibnitz expressed his entire disapproba
tion of the Report of the Committee, and of the Com

mercium, declaring, at the same time, more than a year
and a half after two copies had been sent to him, that
he had not yet seen the booh published against him, and
requesting Mr. Chamberlayne to submit his letter to the

Society.
    When the letter was laid before a meeting of the Society

on the 20th of May, 1 71 4, they came to the following

resolution :--
   " It was not judged proper (since this letter was not

directed to them) for the Society to concern themselves

therewith, nor were they desired so to do. But if any

person had any material objection against the Commer
cium, or the Report of the Committee, it might be re

considered at any time."
    This resolution was sent to Leibnitz, who, in a letter to

Chamberlayne, dated 25th August, 1714, justly observes,
that the Society " did not pretend that the Report of the
Committee should pass for a decision of the Society."1

   1 Mr. Weld, in his History of the Royal Society, vol. i. p. 415, and Phil. Mug

IJuly 1847, p. 35, states that Professor De Morgan and have committed a curious

and grave mistake in adopting the opinion of Leibnitz ; and that it was at the request

of some of our most eminent philosophers, that he corrected the mistake by publishing

the resolution of the Society, as, if our views of the resolution were adopted, " a strong

case would be made out against Newton." The Society never adopted the Report,

in the sense of adopting, as a body, the opinion of their committee. They simply
                                                   to be printed. His autem die Aprilis 24, 1712,
             it
                      by it,
                                               it
agreed to receive  and ordered

acceptis, Socklns Iieyia CulUetionem, &c. &c, imprimi jmsit. The cause of Newton

was not affected   the adoption of the Report as their decision, and the resolution to

re consider       can mean nothing more than to express their willingness, which

Newton himself often did, to receive any new information from Leibnitz or his friends,

1714.  UFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  ;,<>

Along with the resolution, Mr. Chamberlayne sent to
Leibnitz, Sir Isaac's letter and Dr. Keill's answer to the
papers inserted in the Journal Litteraire, and after per
using them, he replied, " that Sir Isaac's letter was written
with very little civility, that he considered it non scripta,
as well as the piece printed in French (by Dr. Keill) ;
that he was not in a humour to put himself in a passion

against such people ; that there were other letters among
those of Oldenburg and Collins which should have been
published ; and that on his return to Hanover he would

be able to publish a Commercium Epistolicum, which
would be of service to the history of learning." When
this letter was read to the Royal Society, Sir Isaac re
marked, that the last part of it injuriously accused the
Society of having made a partial selection of papers for
the Commercium Epistolicum ; that he did not interfere
in any way in the publication of that work, and had even
withheld from the committee two letters, one from Leib

nitz in 1693, and another from Wallis in 1695, which were

highly favourable to his cause.1 He stated that he did
not think it right for Mr. Leibnitz himself to publish a

Commercium Epistolicum, but if he had letters to pro

duce in his favour, that they might be published in the

Philosophical Transactions, or in Germany.
    About this time the Abbe" Conti, a noble Venetian,

came to England. He was a correspondent of Leibnitz,

and even to publish it in the Transactions. That Newton himself was of the opinion

which we have been maintaining, is proved by a passage in his Remarks on Leibnitz's

letter to Conti, where he says, in the month of May 1716, " If they (the Royal So

ciety) have not yet given judgment against him, it is because the committee did not

act as a jury, nor the Royal Society as a formal court of justice." . . . "And

it is sufficient that the Society ordered their Report, with the papers upon which it
is grounded, to be published." -- Raphson's Fluxions, p. 112.

   1 Published in Raphson's History of Fluxions, pp. 119, 121, and in the Addita

men' a Com. Epist. , Newtoni Opera, tom. iv. pp. 614, 615.

6O             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                        CHAP. XV.

and in the postscript of a letter which he had received
from him soon after his arrival, 1 and written in November

or December 1715, he enters upon his dispute with Newton.
He charges the English with " wishing to pass for almost
the only inventors." He declares " that Bernoulli has

judged rightly in saying, that Newton did not possess be

fore him the infinitesimal characteristic and algorithm."
He remarks that Newton preceded him only in series ;

and he confesses that during his second visit to England,
" Collins showed him part of his correspondence," or, as
                         he saw " some of the letters
ithe afterwards expresses
       a

                      is
                                           ;
                                          it,
                                                                                    :

                                       I

                                                           is
                                                                         a
of Newton at Mr. Collins's." He represents the meta

physics of the English as narrow, (bornee,) and their ma

thematics as common or superficial. He then attacks Sir

Isaac's philosophy, particularly his opinions about gravity

and vacuum, the intervention of God for the preservation

of his creatures and he accuses him of reviving the occult

qualities of the schools. But the most remarkable passage
               the following " am great friend of
in the letter

experimental philosophy, but Newton deviates much from

when he pretends that all matter heavy, or that each

particle of matter attracts every other particle." The

letter concludes with a  problem, which he                                             requests Conti
to propose, " in order   to feel the pulse                                             of the English

analysts."

   Under these circumstances, and influenced by the ad
vice of Keill, which we have already mentioned, Sir Isaac

became anxious that foreigners of distinction should see

the original papers which had been preserved in the ar
chives of the Society, and compare them with the other
letters of Leibnitz. He therefore requested the Abbe"
Conti to assemble the ambassadors and other foreign

               published Raphson's History Fluxions, 97.
    1

       It

              is
                                       in

                                                              of

                                                                                                            p.

           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                          61

ministers for this purpose, and when they had met in
the apartment of the Society and collated the papers,
the Baron de Kilmansegg, the Hanoverian minister, re

marked that this measure was not a sufficient one, and

that the right way of terminating the dispute was that
Newton himself should write a letter to Leibnitz, stating
to him " his reasons," and demanding a direct answer to
them. All the ministers who were present approved of

this suggestion, and the king, to whom it was mentioned
in the evening, gave it his hearty approbation.

Conti reported these proceedings to Sir Isaac, and in

five or six days he received a letter from him, dated Feb
ruary 26, 1715-16, to be sent to Leibnitz, who was then

in Hanover. As this letter was addressed to Conti, he

enclosed it in one of his own, dated -- March 1716, which

he had previously read to Newton. Mr. Demoivre had

           it,
                 it

                                              it,
                                                              it
                                                                                 a

                                                                          it
corrected  and added the part which related to the

equivocal manner in which Leibnitz had proposed the
problem for the English analysts. The letter of Conti,

with Newton's enclosed, which was to be taken to Hanover

by the Baron de Discau, remained more than month

in London. Madame de Kilmansegg had                       translated

into French. The king read                 and approved of so

highly as to say, that the reasons were very simple and

clear, and that would be difficult to reply to the facts.1

This letter of Newton's was the first occasion on which

he appeared in the controversy in his own person. Re

luctantly driven into the field, he did not hesitate to give

utterance to the opinions which had been maintained by

Keill. In tone of dignified severity he gave brief
1
    is

                  a

                                         in
                                                     a
                                                                        it
                                                                             in

                                                                                           a
These facts are stated  very interesting letter from Conti to Brook Taylor,

III.dated May 21, 1721. It was published in the Memoirs of Brook Taylor, p. 121,
and of such importance that we have given  Appendix, No.

62  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XV.

notice of the controversy, and triumphantly refuted the
allegations of his adversary. " Finding it impossible," he
says, " to reply to matter of fact, Leibnitz invoked the
opinion of a mathematician or pretended mathematicians,
dated 7th June 1713, and inserted it in an anonymous
defamatory letter of the 29th July, which he circulated

in Germany,"-- a letter which had been answered by Keill,

and to which no reply had been returned. He charges

Leibnitz with trying to engage him in philosophical dis
putes, and challenging him to the solution of problems
which have no relation whatever to the question in dis

pute ; and he makes some severe observations on Leib
nitz's doctrine of the Pre-established Harmony, which he
pronounces a true miracle, and contrary to all experience.
He cites a passage from Leibnitz's letter to himself, dated

March 7, 1693, in which he acknowledges the value of
Newton's discoveries ; and he makes the following obser
vations on that branch of the dispute which relates to
Leibnitz's having seen part of Newton's letters to Mr. Col
lins. " He (Leibnitz) complains of the committee of the

Royal Society, as if they had acted partially in omitting

what made against me ; but he fails in proving the accu
sation. He quotes a passage concerning my ignorance,
pretending that it was omitted in the Commercium Epis-

Itolicum, and yet you will find it there in p. 74, lines 10,

1 1, and am not ashamed of avowing it. He says that he
saw this paragraph in the hands of Mr. Collins when he
was in London the second time, that is in October 1676 ;

and as this is in my letter of the 24th of October 1676,
he therefore then saw that letter. And in that and some

Iother letters writ before that time, described my method

of fluxions ; and in the same letter I described also two

general methods of series, one of which is now claimed

1716.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            63

from me by Mr. Leibnitz." The letter concludes with the
following paragraph : " But as he has lately attacked me

with an accusation which amounts to plagiary ; if he

goes on to accuse me, it lies upon him by the laws of all

nations to prove his accusations, on pain of being accounted

guilty of calumny. He hath hitherto written letters to his

correspondents full of affirmations, complaints, and reflec

tions, without proving any thing. But he is the aggressor,

and it lies upon him to prove the charge."

In transmitting this letter to Leibnitz, the Abbe" Conti

informed him that he himself had read with great atten

tion, and without the least prejudice, the Commercium

Epistolicum, and the little piece1 that contains the extract ;

that he had also seen at the Royal Society the original

papers of the Commercium Epistolicum, and some other
original pieces relating to it. " From all this," says he,

I" infer, that, if all the digressions are cut off, the only

       whether Sir Isaac Newton had the method of
itpoint

          is
             is,

               it
                                                 in

                                                it
                                                            it

                                                                               is

                                                                                                                                      ?

                                                                                                         is
fluxions or infinitesimals before you, or whether you had

before him. You published first,            true, but you

have owned also that Sir Isaac Newton had given many

hints of in his letters to Mr. Oldenburg and others.

This proved very largely the Commercium, and in

the extract of it. What answer do you give  This

still wanting to the public, in order to form an exact

judgment of the affair." The Abbe adds, that Mr. Leib

nitz's own friends waited for his answer with great impa

tience, and that they thought he could not dispense with

This the lieeeiisio Commercii EiiistoUci, or an abstract or review of it. It oc
1
             is
                                a
                                            p.
                                                        in
                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                     in
cupies forty-one quarto pages, and has preface Ad Lectorcm. Tt was written by

Sir Isaac Newton, fact which Professor De Morgan had deduced from variety of

evidence. It was first published  the Phil. Trims. 1715, and was reprinted

Newtoni Opera, tom. iv. 445, and in the Journal Litteraire, tom. vii. pp. 113, 345.

See Phi!. Mag. June 1852.

64                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                CHAP. XV.

answering, if not Dr. Keill, at least Sir Isaac Newton

himself, who had given him a defiance in express terms.

In the close of his letter he informs Leibnitz that several

geometers in London and Oxford have solved his problem,
and he tells him that he will take some other opportunity
of speaking to him of Newton's philosophy, which has

been greatly misapprehended.
    Leibnitz was not long in replying to the request of the

Abbe" Conti, and the defiance of Newton. He addressed

a letter to the former on the 9th of April 1716, but he
sent it through M. Itemond de Montmort, to be com
municated to the mathematicians1 in Paris, as neutral

and intelligent witnesses, and then transmitted to Conti.
In the letter to the Abbe", which was dated 1 4th April, he
tells him that he may judge from all this, if " the wicked
chicanery of his new friends has greatly embarrassed

him," and he closes his letter with a reference to the pro

   1 A few days after this letter was written, April 13, Leibnitz wrote to Bernoulli
that the " English dispute was renewed, and that Newton, when he saw that Keill

"watshartecNkeownteodn  unworthy of  an   answer, had descended into the arena." He tells him
                         knows that  the  letter (of June 7, 1713) was his, and that he had de

scribed it ' as written by a mathematician, or a pretended mathematician,' as if he

were ignorant of your merits, calling the whole Chait (the Charta Volans) defama
tory, as if it were more calumnious than the additions to the Commercium Episto-
licum." In replying to this letter, on the 20th May 1716, Bernoulli considers it

fortunate that Newton has descended into the arena to fight in his own name, and

without a mask. He expresses much confidence in his candour, and hopes that the

                        will now                  The luostflfrious part of the
                        passage:                 how Newton could know that
I Ihistorical truth

is the following
                                  be  elicited.                                  letter, however,
                                  "    wonder                                    was the author

Iof that letter which you inserted in the Cluirta published against Newton, since no

mortal knew that wrote it except yourself to whom it was written, and I, by whom

it was written." He then refers to Leibnitz's interpretation of the phrase pretended
mathematician, as if it accused him of ignorance, and he shews very satisfactorily

that it bore another meaning, (the real meaning of Newton as avowed in his remarks
on Leibnitz's letter,) in no way derogatory from his mathematical knowledge. In

Leibnitz's next letter of the 7th June, he makes no reference to Bernoulli's expres
sion of wonder, and has not the honesty to tell him that he had himself communi

cated the sccretto Count Bothmar, and published it. See the Commercium Ejtittolicum
Phil, et Math. Leilmilii et BemouUii, tom. ii. pp. 375, 377, 378.

17 16.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           65

blem, " for feeling the pulse of the English analysts,"
which he tells him was proposed by Bernoulli. 1

   The letter of Leibnitz of the 9th April is bold and in
genious. He defends the statements in the anonymous
attacks upon Newton as if they were his own. He gives
an account of his two visits to London, and mentions what

he there saw and learned. He charges Newton with re
tracting his admission in the scholium, and thus considers
himself entitled to retract his admission in favour of New

ton. He introduces again his metaphysical opinions as

having been misrepresented by Newton, and he concludes
by denying that he was the aggressor, and had accused
Newton of plagiarism.

    On the very day when Leibnitz was writing this letter,
Bernoulli was engaged in composing his famous Epistola

pro Eminente Mathematico, which has formed so curious

1 Some time after this M. Remond de Montmort seems to have remonstrated

with John Bernoulli, on the subject of defying the English analysts to the solution

of problems. We do not know where this letter is to be seen, but we have found

among Newton's papers Bernoulli's reply to it written after the death of Leibnitz,

and dated 8th April 1717. In this reply, which he requested Remond to send to

Newton, he protests that he had neither the inclination nor the leisure to enter

into disputes with the English, or to defy them. It was Leibnitz, he says, who

asked him for some problem which could be proposed to the English, and particu

larly to Keill, and of such a nature that it required a knowledge of their methods to

         Leibnitz asked him    to keep this a secret, in order that it might  some day be
        to them against those   who wished to defy them. " imagined,"         he says, " a
Isolve.

of use
problem which seemed to have the qualities he desired, and I sent him two solutions
Ithat he might propose it to the English under his own name.
                                                              had reason, there
Ifore, to be astonished when saw that he had given me up as the author, and pro

posed the problem in spite of me, and even as if it had been done at my instigation.

Have the goodness then to disabuse Mr. Newton of his opinion on this matter, and
assure him from me that I never had the intention of trying the English by these
Isort of defiances, and that desire nothing so much as to live in friendship with
him, and to find an opportunity of showing him how much I esteem his rare merit.
I never speak of him, indeed, without much praise. It
                                                       however, greatly to be
                                                       is,

                                                                         E
desired that he would take the trouble of inspiring his friend Mr. Keill with senti

ments of kindness and equity towards foreigners, and leave such in possession of

what really belongs to them. For to desire to exclude us from every pretension
would be a crying injustice." -- See Appehdix, No. IV.

VOL. II.

66  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       CHAP. XV.

and instructive an episode in the fluxionary controversy.
He had been stung by the poignancy of Keill's reply to
the Charta Volans, and the severity of its animadversions
on the letter of his own which it contained ; and, as will

be seen from his own acknowledgment, he was afraid to
encounter without a mask so bold and uncompromising an
antagonist. He therefore resolved to attack Keill in an
anonymous letter, addressed to Christian Wolf, one of
the editors of the Acta Eruditorum. This letter, dated

April 8, 1716,1 which Bernoulli, the grandson, admits was
particularly directed against Newton, was sent to Wolf on
condition of the most inviolable secrecy. It was to be
first communicated to Leibnitz with power to change or

omit what was necessary, and to print it as a letter from

an anonymous person, or as if it were written by some

other person with a real or a feigned name ; but in what
ever way this was done, Wolf was directed to manage the
whole matter with his usual skill, lest Keill should suspect
Bernoulli to be the author ; " for," he adds, " it would be

very disagreeable to me to be irritated and contumeliously

treated by his bile, as his antagonists usually are, after he

has hitherto treated me with sufficient politeness." Wolf
expressed his great satisfaction with the attack upon " that
trifler Keill," and promised to communicate it to Leib

nitz, and decide according to his opinion on the form and

manner in which it was to be published. The two critics,
Wolf and Leibnitz, made such changes in the epistle as

were agreeable to the latter, and every means were taken
to keep the secret. Herman suspected that Bernoulli
was the author of and, when he mentioned his suspi
1

                               it,
     It was entitled Epitto'a pro Eminente Mathematico, Do. Joanne Bernoullio
contra quendam ex Anglia antagonistam scripta, and was published in the Acta
Eruditorum for July 1716, pp. 296-315.

1716.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                            (57

cion, Wolf denied
       a                             as he declares he always did but
         a                                                                                   it
                                it,                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                      it
though every precaution was taken to keep the secret,

was discovered by means of the phrase meam formulam,

which had been either heedlessly overlooked, or, as we

believe, willingly left, in order to fix upon Bernoulli,

whose public declaration against Newton, and in favour

of himself, Leibnitz had expressed his anxiety to obtain.

The changes made on the letter were very considerable.

M. Bernoulli, the grandson, who had copy of the ori
                                                                                             It a
ginal, has published the two in opposite columns,1 and,
                                                                                                 is

                                                                                                                                   ;
after  careful comparison of them, he observes, " that

not single disobliging expression against Newton and

Keill had been omitted or softened.                                                          true," he con
tinues, " with respect to Keill, who was the more ill-

treated, that his name was everywhere suppressed and

when Wolf (and Leibnitz, too,) calls him an audacious
antagonist in one place, where the letter only called him
Keill, he did worse than mention him by his name." With

out noticing the fulsome praise of Leibnitz and Bernoulli,

inserted in the letter, Bernoulli, the grandson, calls our

attention to another point, --" to a species of fraud which

Leibnitz and Wolf committed against their friend by

interpolations, which they ought not to have made with

out his consent, seeing that they were to his disadvan

tage, and had principally for their object to claim for
Leibnitz discoveries which Bernoulli attributed to him

self. There can be no doubt that these interpolations

were made by Leibnitz alone, for Wolf would not of his

own accord have permitted them but he was too much
*1
                             is

                                                                      p.
                                                                                          ;
devoted to Leibnitz not to adopt what was done by his

great patron."2

      Mem. de Berlin, 1802, Hist, pp. 60-65.                                                 interpolation here referred to as
      Mem. Acad. Berlin, 1799, 1800, 47. The                                                 Bernoulli, in his letter to Wolf,

an act of Leibnitz, one of singular dishonesty.

68  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. XV.

    Although this letter was published in July 1716, yet
Bernoulli was not aware, even in the month of March

1 71 7, of the trick that had been played him, or of the

injurious interpolations which had been made in;                           or,
                   ;

                            It

                                                                      it,
of the worst fact of all, that the words meam formulam
                                              was not till he heard of
proved him to be the author.
Herman's conjecture that he was the author, that he was

induced to read the letter, and discover these unfortunate

words. He immediately saw the use which would be made

of them. His friends had already been laughing at the

mistake, and his enemies accusing him of being the author
of the letter and he expressed his dread that Keill would

seize every opportunity of cutting him up, and employing

the matter against him for his own purposes. He, there
fore, implored Wolf to think of some method of correcting

the blunder in the errata, and he suggested that meam

should be read earn but seeing that this would not an

swer the purpose, he begged Wolf to think of some better

method, by which the mistake should be laid upon the
printer. Wolf did not obey the mandate of his friend,
and, on the advice of Montmort, Bernoulli was induced to

avow the letter through his son Nicolas, and to make the

best apology he could by throwing much of the blame

upon the friends who had deceived him. The avowal,

which forms the appendix to a mathematical paper,
    by

            a
                                                        it

                                                                                    ;

                                                                                        it it

                                                                                       is
written in good spirit, and concludes by expressing the

ardent wish of his father, that the disputants would be

come good friends, and unite their powers, as citizens of

the republic of mathematics, in labouring to extend its

states that he first taught the exponential calculus but in place of this statement,

they make Bernoulli say that he was only the first who taught publicly, and
then they add what he never said, " Far be
known Leibnitz," -- thus making Bernoulli      for me to deny that was first made
                                              himself surrender his discovery to his

rival.--Mem. Acad. Berlin, 1802, pp. 57, 58.

1716.              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                 (ID

domains.1 In concluding this strange history, in which

Leibnitz performs the least creditable part, we are scarcely

surprised at the fact stated by Bernoulli's grandson, that
Wolf had the effrontery, in a history of his life and writ

ings, to claim for himself the authorship of the letter
Pro Eminente Mathematico !2

This celebrated letter, as might have been expected,

excited the indignation of Newton and his friends. They

had no difficulty in discovering its author ;3 and a long

and elaborate reply to in the form of letter to Ber
                                              it,
                                                                               a

                                                                         It

                                                                                      is
noulli, was immediately prepared by Dr. Keill, and sub

mitted to Newton, who proposed numerous alterations,

and made many important additions to it.                                                          written

with Keill's    :usual boldness, and ends with the                                                following
observation                                                                                       you have
                 --" If any person shall think that

been treated too severely, request them to take the
                                              I

                                                          if

                                                                                               *
trouble of reading your letter, a worthy effort of your

genius, and then let them consider you have not well

deserved it.

                           " Si pergis dicere quae vis, audies quae non vis."

After the death of Leibnitz, which took place on the

14th November 1716, the controversy to a considerable

De Trajectoriis, &c, Sec., in the Acta Eruditorum, 1718, pp. 261, 262.
*»1
          aMem. Acad. Berlin, 1799, 1800, pp. 41, 42.                                             --"        friend
           In letter to Newton, dated May 17, 1717, Keill thus speaks of                          a :it
                                                                                                         in
of mine brought me the Acta the other day, and was amazed at the impudence of
                                                 I                                                        A

                                                           is
Bernoulli.   I  believe there was never such a piece for falsehood, malice, envy, and

ill-nature, published by a mathematician before. It                    certainly wrote by himself,

for though he speaks of Bernoulli always in the third person, yet towards the

latter end of his paper, he forgot himself, and says that nobody but the antagonist

can persuade himself that my formula was taken from Newton's."                                     In letter from
Newton to Keill, May 1718, he says that the meam solutionem                                       " lays the letter
4

               It

                       is a
                                          2,
upon Bernoulli." -- See Edleston's Correspondence, Lett, xciii. p. 186.

We have found among Newton's papers a fair copy of this answer in French

in the form of   letter to Bernoulli and also Newton's annotations                                     separate
folio sheets.                                 ;
                                                                   in
                   doubtless another copy of the same piece, which Mr. Edleston

found among the Lucasian papers, and which he justly supposes to be the lihcllvm

editum out non editum to which Bernoulli refers                        the Acta Eruditorum for May

70                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         CHAP. XV.

extent ceased.1 His champion Bernoulli withdrew from

the field, when no longer influenced by his patron and

friend ; and though Newton has been charged with

having made an improper attack upon Leibnitz after his

death, he did nothing more than publish an answer,

which had been previously in circulation among his

friends, in the form of Remarks on the letter of Leibnitz

to the Abbe* Conti.'- This paper, which is erroneously

characterized by Biot as a bitter refutation, on the con
                                            in
                                                                is,
trary, an argumentative defence of his claims,-- an inter
                            own mathematical discoveries, -- a
esting       notice of his  Society and of Dr. Keill, --and a
defence       of the Royal

frank expression of his feelings            reference to the con

duct both of Leibnitz and Bernoulli.

    Although Bernoulli felt the severity of Newton's cen

sure, he was now more anxious to explain his own con

duct than to retaliate upon his adversaries, and a few

months had scarcely elapsed after the death of Leibnitz,

before he sent messages of kindness to Newton. We

have already seen that in April 1717, he not only threw

the blame of the pulse-feeling problems upon Leibnitz,

1719, p. 218, containing some vulgar and impertinent abuse of Keill as his antago-
nista Scotus -- homo quidem natione Scotus, qui apud suos inclaruit moribut, ita
apud cxteros jam passim notus odio plusquam vatiniano quo fiagrat, &c.--See
Edleston's Correspondence, &c., p. 178 see also Newton's letter to Keill in p. 185,
                                  ;
and note, 186, of the same Correspondence.                                     p.
1
               p.                                                                       y
                                                                                                     a

                                                                                  I
    The death of Leibnitz was notified to Newton by the Abbe Conti, who was
then at Hanover, in a letter dated November 1716. " M. Leibnitz," he says,
" est mort, et la dispute est finie." After mentioning the manuscripts of Leibnitz,
which he hopes the King will shew him, he adds, " Je remarquerai s^l
                                                                      quelque

chose touchant votre dispute, mais peut-etre qu'on cachera ce qui fait point d'bon-

ncur a me.moire do M. Leibnitz."
8
         la
    These remarks, without a date, but written on the receipt of Leibnitz's letter of

the 9th April, were first printed in Raphson's Fluxions,  111. They were

afterwards translated into French, and published in Des Maizeaux's Becueil.

have found in the Portsmouth Papers the French proof, containing, in Newton's own

hand, numerous corrections and several small additions to the Remarks, one of which

mentions the month of May 1716, as the date when they were written.

1718.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  71

but blamed him highly for betraying the secret under
which they were sent to him. In a subsequent letter from
Montmort to Newton, dated 7th March 1718, he con

veys similar messages from Bernoulli and his son Nicolas,
expressing their fears that their disputes with Keill had
deprived them of his friendship. In replying to Bernoulli,
Montmort pointed out to him the inconsistency of these
expressions with the Epistola pro Eminente Mathematico,
and seems to have suggested to him the propriety of dis
owning it. Bernoulli, however, took a middle course. He
acknowledges that he had, at Leibnitz's request, sent him
the facts necessary to defend himself against Keill, and
was not answerable either for the praise given to himself,

or the harsh language applied to his antagonists.
    When Sir Isaac received Montmort's letter, he enclosed

it to Keill,1 requesting " his sense upon this matter." In
his reply,2 Keill observes that Bernoulli " is sensible that

he had burnt his frngers ; that he should beg Newton's

pardon for saying that he did not understand second

differences, -- that no notice should be taken of these

letters," and that " it lay on Bernoulli to clear himself,
and produce the author of the scurrilous paper."

   The celebrated Abbe" Varignon had been long desirous
of reconciling Newton and Bernoulli, and at last suc
ceeded in the attempt. Sir Isaac had in 1718 sent Va
rignon three copies of the English edition of his Optics,
and in 1719, as many of the Latin edition, to be pre
sented to his friends. Varignon sent a copy of each to
Bernoulli in the name of Newton,3 and it was in Ber

   1 This letter, dated May 2, 1718, has been published by Mr. Edleston, in his
Correspondence, &c. in pp. 185, 186.

   1 In an unpublished letter, dated May 23, 1718.
   3 Newton had, in 1717, sent to Nicolas Bernoulli a copy of the second edition ofthe
Principia. Bernoulli's letter of thanks, datedPavia, 31st May 1717, has been preserved.

72  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                                    CHAP. XV.

noulli's reply, dated 3d JpovcmbTii 1719, thanking him
for these presents, that he gave the solemn denial which
we have already quoted, that he was not the author of
the celebrated letter to Leibnitz of 7th June 1713. In
answering this letter,1 Newton thus expressed himself,

" When I first received your letters, through the media

tion of the Abbe" Varignon, and understood from them
that you were not the author of a certain letter to Mr.

Leibnitz, dated 7th June 1713, I at once resolved not

only to forget the mathematical disputes which had lately
taken place, but to cultivate your friendship, and to esti

mate highly your great mathematical merits. I have
never grasped at fame among foreign nations, but I am

very desirous to preserve my character for honesty, which

the author of that epistle, as if by the authority of a cer

tain great judge, had endeavoured to wrest from me.

Now that I am old I have little pleasure in mathematical
studies, and I have never tried to propagate my opinions

over the world, but have rather taken care not to involve

myself in disputes on account of them."
    The dignified tone of this letter could not fail to dis

turb the tranquillity of Bernoulli. Conscious of having
written the letter which Newton condemns as an attack

upon his honesty, he could hardly avoid referring to it in
his reply, and we cannot but regret that the terms in which
he again denies it are essentially different from those

Iwhich he had used only a month before.2 " am not aware,"

says he, " of the nature of the letter to Leibnitz, dated

7th June 1713, of which you speak. I do not remember
that I wrote to him on that day, nor do I altogether deny

    as do not keep copies of my letters. But perhaps,
1 it,

    I

                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                             p.

                                                                                      if,
    We quote from tho Latin scroll, which has no dale, and of which there- ate two

copies among the Portsmouth Papers.  See 56.

1716.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                              73

among the innumerable letters which I have written to

him, one should be found to which the said day and year

is prefixed, I dare solemnly assure you, that nothing could

be contained in it which in any way could injure your

Icharacter, and that never gave him leave to publish any

of my letters, and especially one which would not be agree

able to you. I implore you, therefore, to be persuaded,
that I never intended to speak of you otherwise than as a

great man, and never to attack your character and probity."

The letter of Newton, to which this was the reply, was

enclosed in one to Varignon,1 in which he thanks him for

having reconciled him to Bernoulli, and mentions as the

ground of his embracing him as a friend, his denial of

having written the obnoxious letter to Leibnitz. Varig

non was much gratified at having brought about this

reconciliation,    but  fietwwianstearchreacnognecsiliaotifoncivimliteyr.e--ly Bneormnoinualll,i
and led only     to a

sought an explanation through Varignon, of the charge

of knight errantry which Newton had made against Leib
nitz and his " army of disciples," for challenging the

English to the solution of mathematical problems. New

ton explained that the phrase was used in a jocular sense,

and applied to Leibnitz ;2 and we believe that no farther

communication took place between them till 1 723, when

Newton sent Bernoulli a copy of the French edition of

his Optics.3 In returning thanks for this present, Ber

1 This letter, of which an imperfect scroll has been published in the Macclesfield

Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 436, as a letter from Newton to  , is supposed by Mr.
Edleston to have been addressed to Montmort. The copy which I have found is a
fuller and more perfect scroll than the one published by Mr. Rigaud. -- See Edle

ston 's Correspondence, &c. p. 187, note.
   s Letter of Varignon to Newton, Dec. 13, 1722, and the scroll of Newton's answer.
   * This work was translated by M. Coste and corrected by the Abbe Varignon,

whose correspondence with Newton relates principally to certain difficulties which

arose with the publisher, and to Newton's reconciliation to Bernoulli.

74  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XV.

noulli takes occasion to introduce for the third time the

subject of the celebrated letter of the 7th June 1713.

Hartsoecker, a Dutch philosopher, had attacked Newton's

Theory of Colours, and had referred to him as his autho

rity for charging Bernoulli with having called himself
" an excellent mathematician" in the Charta Volans.

After directing the attention of Newton to the attack

upon his Theory of Colours, Bernoulli denies the truth of

the charge against himself without distinctly denying, as

he formerly did, the authorship of the letter, and seems to

expect that Newton should take some step in the matter.
" Although the fellow," says he, " is unworthy of any

answer from me, yet one thing irritates me greatly,

namely, that he exposes me to the laughter of every

person, and impudently maintains that I took to myself

the title of an excellent mathematician ; and in order

that the crime of calumny should not attach to himself,

he makes you the author of it by citing the passage in

which you speak of that letter of 7th June 1713, which

Leibnitz maintained was written by me, and in which

that eulogium, within parentheses, was ascribed to me.

....Hence the calumniator maliciously concludes that you

Iwished to insinuate that had been so arrogant as to
assume this title to myself.   In the mean

time, whatever be the calumny of Hartsoecker, it applies

more to you than to me, for he malignantly endeavours

to draw it from your express words. What you think

should be done therefore, that my innocence may be

protected among those who do not see the Collection of

Des Maizeaux,1 1 would willingly learn from yourself, if you
are disposed to honour me with an answer."2 It does not

1 " Des Maizeaux. llccwil dc Diverses Pieces, &c. tom. ii. p. 125, line 32."

2 Dated Basle, Feb. 6, 1723.

1716.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           75

appear that Newton answered this letter, or that any fur
ther correspondence took place between him and Bernoulli.

   In the year 1 725, a new edition of the Commercium

Epistolicum was published, with notes, a general review of

it,1 and a preface of some length. A question has arisen

respecting the authorship of the review and the preface,
some ascribing them to Keill, and others to Newton. From
similarity of style, but chiefly on the authority of Dr. James
Wilson, the friend of Pemberton, Professor De Morgan had
made it highly probable that both the review and the pre
face were written by Newton.2 Of the correctness of this

Iopinion have found ample evidence in the manuscripts

at Hurtsbourne Park ;3 and it is due to historical truth to

state, that Newton supplied all the materials for the Com
mercium Epistolicum, and that, though Keill was its editor,
and the committee of the Royal Society the authors of the
Report, Newton was virtually responsible for its contents.

    The share which Newton took in the fluxionary con
troversy either directly or through Dr. Keill, who did
nothing without his approbation, and the mass of papers

which he has left behind him on the subject, shew the

great anxiety which he felt not only to be considered
 the first inventor of the calculus, but the only inventor
 who had a right to the reputation which it gave. He

firmly believed, not only that Leibnitz might have derived

 the differential calculus from the papers actually commu
 nicated to him, but that he did derive it from that source,

 or from his ideas either oral or written, which were in cir

 culation at the time of his visit to London.4 That these

   1 This review is the Recensio, &c, mentioned in page 63, note.          and five or
   2 Phil. Mag. June 1852, vol. iii. p. 440.                               to Newton
   3 1 find among these MSS. scrolls of almost the whole of the Krccnsio,
rue copies in his own hand of the Ad Tjeciorem.
   ' In reference to this subject, 1 fmd (wo remarkable letters addressed

76                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         CHAP. XV.

were the views of Newton, and, we may add, of all his

friends in England, is evident from the new form given

to the celebrated scholium in the third edition of the

Principia, which appeared in 1 725, under the editorship
of Pemberton. The reference to Leibnitz and his method

was wholly omitted, and replaced by a quotation from a

letter to Collins in December 1672, containing, or supposed
to contain, the Germ of Fluxions. This step was perhaps

unwise. The statement in the two first editions granted

nothing to Leibnitz, and even if it had, the truth which it

embodied was not cancelled by its omission from the

third ; but viewing the matter as Newton did, we think he
was justified in omitting the scholium. He had stated

it,

           ;

                                         a
                                                       a

                                                                 a
                                                              a
    as he himself has said, as mere historical fact, that

Leibnitz had sent him method which was similar to his

own and when he found that the German mathematician

had regarded this simple statement as recognition of his
independent discovery of the calculus, he was not only

entitled but constrained to cancel passage which had

been so erroneously interpreted, and so improperly used.

    Some time after the death of Leibnitz, Newton drew up

History the Method Fluxions, the Preface to which
a

                of
                                     in

                                      of

                                      I

                                                              it
has been found among his papers.                                          am disposed to think

that this Preface was intended as an Introduction to the

new edition of the Commercium Epistolicum and Recensio,

which was published                  1725, and that had not been

thought advisable to enter into any fresh discussions on

the subject. In the first paragraph of the Preface, Sir
Isaac remarks, that as only few copies of the Commer-
                        II

                                               a

                                                             in
                                                                      in
in 1720, by Dr. James Wilson, mentioning to him that he possessed several of his
                                                                             general circulation. " Among
manuscripts,  and had   seen others  which had been                     were some which deduced even the
the papers,"  he says,  " likewise   observed there

first principles of geometry from the fluxion of points." These letters seem to me
of such importance, that have given them
                                          the Ati-exdix, No. V.

1716.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  77

ciutn had been published and sent to those only who could
judge in such matters, that work and the Recensio should
be again printed, in order that a true history of the cal
culus, drawn from ancient documents, might descend to
posterity, without any disputes, and " put an end to a
controversy which was no longer necessary after the
charge of plagiarism had been repelled." He then pro
ceeds to enumerate by their dates seventeen letters from
Leibnitz to Oldenburg, written between the 3d February

 1673, and the 12th July 1677 ; and, after establishing his

 claim to the invention of the new calculus, he concludes
 with these words : " These things being premised, the
 Recensio of the Commercium Epistolicum should be read,

 and the Commercium itself consulted, if any doubt be en

 tertained respecting the facts."
     The following is an exact copy of the title-page of the

 manuscript --: 1

                   HISTORIA METHODI ANALYSEOS

           QUAM NEWTONUS METHODUM FLUXIONUM

                  LEIBNITIUS METHODUM DIFFERENTIALEM

                                                                  TOCAVIT

                       IN COMMERCIO EPISTOUCO COLLINII ET ALIORUM

                                         ET RECENSIONE COMMERCII

                                                                           CONTENTA

          QUORUM PRIUS EX ANTIQUIS UTERIS JUSSU REGI/E SOCIETATI3

                                        COLLECTUM FUIT ET EDITUM
                                                      ANNO 1712

                   ALTERA IN ACTIS PHILOSOI'HICIS EJUSDEM SOCIUTATIS
                                                      ANNO 1715

                 (ANNO ET ALIQUOT MENSIBUS ANTE OBITUM LEIBNITIl)
                                                    LUCEM VIDIT.

       1 In the first copy of this manuscript the word Prefatio is not inserted after the
   title nistoria, &c. In the second it is inserted, and the title erased ; and in the
   third the title is omitted, and the word Prefatio alone inserted. Newton seems

78        LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.        CHAP. XV.

    In studying this controversy, after the lapse of nearly

a century and a half, when personal feelings have been

extinguished, and national jealousies allayed, it is not

difficult, we think, to form a correct estimate of the claims

of the two rival analysts, and of the spirit and temper
with which they were maintained. The following are the

results at which we have arrived :--

    1. That Newton was the first inventor of the Method

of Fluxions ; that the method was incomplete in its nota
tion ; and that the fundamental principle of it was not
published to the world till 1687, twenty years after he
had invented it.

    2. That Leibnitz communicated to Newton, in 1677, his

Differential Calculus, with a complete system of notation,
and that he published it in 1684, three years before the
publication of Newton's Method.

    The admission of these two facts ought to satisfy the

most ardent friends of the rival inventors ; but in appor

tioning to each the laurels which they merit, new con

siderations have been introduced into the controversy.

Conscious of his priority, Newton persisted in maintaining

that the  only question was,   who  was     the first inventor,
and that  " second inventors  have  little
                                            or no honour, and

no rights." 1 Upon this principle, which we cannot admit,

to have had much difficulty in fixing upon a title. Upon a separate folio which

I have found, occupying a page and a half, there are no fewer than twelve forms

of it. The first is Introductio ad Jiicensionem Libri, &c., but all the rest are

Historia Methodi, &c., with eleven variations. In the second, third, and fourth, it is
Jfistoria Methodi Analyseos, &c. In the fifth and sixth the names of both the ma
thematicians are omitted. In the seventh it is Historia Methodi Differentialis, with
both names omitted. In the eighth the change is remarkable. The title is Historia

Methodi Analyseos per Fluxiones et Momenta a D. Newtom inventce, a D. Leib-
nitio Differentiate nominatce, ex Uteris antiquis deducta. In the ninth, tenth, and
eleventh, it is Hist. Meth. Fluxionum, &c. ; and in the twelfth Differentialis is
placed above Fluxionum.

    1 " Secundis Inventoribus, etiam revera talibus, vel exiguus vel nullus honor,
tituli vel juris nihil est." -- Hecensio, Newtoni Opera, tom. iv. p. 487.

171&         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                           79

the whole merit of the new calculus must be given to
Newton, and he undoubtedly claimed it. But at variance
with this, there is another principle maintained in modern

times, and by distinguished men, which transfers all the
merit of an invention or discovery to the person who first
gives it to the world. Upon this principle the merit of

the new calculus must be adjudged to Leibnitz. These

two extreme principles have not in the present case been

adopted bythe mathematical world. No writer has

urged the -first against the claims of Newton, or the/feeeenrr-
against those of Leibnitz. Priority of invention may be
established otherwise than by publication ; and the merit
of a second inventor, when really such, is intellectually
as great as the first. 1 There is a merit, however, of a
peculiar kind which must ever attach to the first inventor

who freely gives his invention to the public. While society
concedes to him a high niche in the temple of fame, it
cherishes also a feeling of gratitude for the gift it has re
ceived. To a second inventor society owes no obligation.

    Hitherto we have taken it for granted that Newton

and Leibnitz had borrowed nothing from each other ;

and, in stating the result of our inquiry, we have suppo

sed this to be true. A very different opinion, however,

has been maintained during the controversy. The un
questioned priority of Newton's discoveries has preserved
him from the charge of having borrowed any thing from
Leibnitz, excepting his ideas of notation ; but a variety
of circumstances, which it is necessary to mention, have

given a certain degree of plausibility to the opinion that
Leibnitz may have derived assistance, even of the highest

1 We cannot here discuss this important subject. Such of our readers as take an

             are referred to the North British Review, vol. vii. 233, Sec, where
it
   is

                  it,
                                                                                                                             p.
interest in

      treated in reference to the rival claims of Adams and Leverrier.

so  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XV.

kind, from the previous labours of his rival. At an early

period Newton had communicated to his friends, orally
and in writing, the elements, or the germ of his method
of fluxions, but certainly his discoveries in series. His

manuscripts were copied, and, to a considerable extent,
circulated in England. The letters and extracts, actually
communicated to Leibnitz, may, or may not, have con
tained the information which Newton and his friends
considered as sufficient to convey to him a knowledge of
the method of fluxions ; but the fact that he was twice

in England in 1673 and 1676, and was in communication
with the mathematicians who then adorned the metropolis
of England, justified the idea that either orally, or from
the circulated manuscripts1 of Newton casually seen, or

actually communicated to him, he might have derived

that information.2

    Had Leibnitz been an ordinary man, these views might

have had much weight ; but his powerful intellect, his
knowledge of the subject, and the great improvements
which he made in the new calculus, place it beyond a
doubt that he was capable of inventing the differential
method without any extraneous aid. His Theoria Motus
Abstracti, dedicated to the Academy of Sciences in Paris
in 1671, before he visited England, contains, according to
Dr. William Hales,3 " no obscure seeds of his differential

method ;" and shows, in the opinion of Professor De
 Morgan, " that in 1671 it was working in Leibnitz's mind,
 that in the doctrine of infinitely small quantities lay the

    1 Sec Appendix, No. V.
    * We have made no reference to the singular opinion of Raphson and of Dr.
 James Wilson, that Leibnitz may have deciphered the anagram in which Newton
 concealed his method. See Appendix, No. V., -- P.S. to letter of January 21,
 1720-1. See also Professor De Morgan's paper in the Companion to the Almanac
for 1852, p. 10.
    * Analysis Fluxionum, p. 2, § 5.

1716.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    81

true foundation of that approach to the differential calculus
which Cavalieri presented."1 Another argument in fa
vour of Leibnitz is deduced by Professor De Morgan from
seven MSS. of his, bearing the dates of November 11, 21,

22, 1675 ; and June 26, July and November 1676, one

bearing no date, and recently published by M. Gerhardt
from the originals in the Royal Library at Hanover.2
These MSS., of which Professor De Morgan has given a
specimen, are, as he says, " study exercises in the use of

both the differential and integral calculus,"3 and, if genuine,

and correct in their dates, possess a historical interest.
   In adjudicating on a great question like the present,

surrounded as it has been with national sympathies, we
are compelled to look into the character of the parties at
our bar. We cannot commend the conduct of Newton in

concealing from Leibnitz, in transposed letters, the disco

veries which he had made, nor can we justify his personal
retreat from the battle-field, and his return under the

vizor of an accomplished champion.4 His representatives,
however, were men of station and character, who gave

their names, and staked their reputation in the contest ;
while Leibnitz and his disciples wielded the anonymous
shafts of the slanderer, denied what they had written, and
were publicly exposed through the very rents which they
had left in their masks.

   Instead of striving to prove that he was the inventor

1 Professor De Morgan, ut supra.                            Von der C. G. Ger
* Die Entdeckung tier Differentialrechnung durch Leibnitz.

hardt, 4to. Halle, 1848. See Professor De Morgan, Companion to the Almanac for

1852, pp. 17, 18.

   · Ibid., p. 17. See p. 30, noto.
   4 Dr. Keill, Newton's principal champion, and who so nobly fought his battles,

has been ungenerously treated by some of the historians of science. With his

private letters to Newton before us, we have formed a high opinion both of his

talents and character. Everything he did was open and manly, and he did nothing

without the instruction and approbation of Newton and his friends.

VOL. II.                                                            F

82                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XV.

of the new calculus, Leibnitz evaded the discussion by

attacking the philosophy of Newton, which he did not

understand, and challenging the English to the solution
of mathematical problems. Nor were these problems his

own. He obtained them, as we have seen, under the

pledge of secrecy, from a friend whose name he did not

scruple to betray ; and, when the controversy was at its
crisis, he tried to substitute authority for argument, by

imploring the most distinguished mathematician on the

Continent to declare that he was the first and the sole in

ventor of the new calculus. Bernoulli rashly yielded to the

urgency of his patron, but, in the anonymous testimonial

which he gave, Leibnitz inserted a parenthetic eulogy on

the writer, which had the effect of removing his mask,

and exposing him to the ridicule and laughter of the

scientific world. Nor is it difficult to discover, or uncha

ritable to expose, the motive for the interpolation. It was

intended to prove that the " eminent mathematician" was

John Bernoulli, and, lest the proof should not be thought

sufficient, Leibnitz publicly declared, while Bernoulli as

publicly denied, that he was the author. Thus, to a

certain extent, baffled in his schemes, Leibnitz, as we

formerly stated, implored Bernoulli, when an opportunity
should present itself, to make an early and public decla

ration that the method of fluxions was posterior to his
calculus -- that
                           that Newton was a plagiarist. An op
                           is,

                                     it
portunity soon occurred for the perpetration of this fresh

act of injustice. Bernoulli unscrupulously prepared the

document,1 and, when came into the hands of Leibnitz,

1     His celebrated letter of the 9th April 1716, already described. See 64, andp.
Appendix, No. IV. An instructive account of an instance of bad faith towards

Leibnitz, on the part of Bernoulli, given
                           is                   his own grandson in the Mem. Acad.
                                            by

Berlin, 1802, pp. 51-5fi.

1716.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  83

he imparted to it new elements of bitterness, -- interpola
ting passages in praise of himself and Bernoulli,--alter

ing other passages, so as to give to himself a discovery

which belonged to his friend. -- and, finally, leaving the
words meam formulam to prove, as it did prove, to the

world, that the testimony in the letter was the testimony
of John Bernoulli. We have found nothing in the records
of science so dishonest as this. As a portion of scientific

history, closely connected with the fluxionary contro
versy, we have submitted it to the reader ; but we have

not allowed it to influence the decision which we have

ventured to pronounce.

   In charging Newton with plagiarism, and in persuading

others to repeat and enforce the charge, we may find
some apology in the excited feelings of Leibnitz, and in
the insinuations which were occasionally thrown out
against the originality of his discovery ; but for other
parts of his conduct, we seek in vain for an excuse.

When he assailed the philosophy of Newton in his letters

to the Abbe" Conti, he exhibited only the petty feelings
of a rival ; but when he dared to calumniate that great
and good man in his correspondence with the Princess of

Wales, by whom Newton was respected and loved, -- when

he ventured to denounce his philosophy as physically false

and dangerous to religion, -- and when he founded these

accusations on passages in the Principia and Optics, glow
ing with all the fervour of genuine piety, he cast a blot
upon his name which all his talents as a philosopher will

never be able to efface.1

   1 TLis aneedote is given in still stronger language by M. Biot in his Life of

Xeicton, Biog. Univert., tom. xxxi. p. 178.

84  UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

                    CHAPTER XVI.

newton declines taking orders --his rooms in trinity college --
   john wickins his chamber-fellow-- letter from mr. nicolas

   wickins his son -- dr. humphrey newton his amanuensis from

   1684-1689 -- his two letters to conduitt-- newton's specula

   tions ON THE THEORY OF THE EARTH --JAMES II. ATTACKS THE
    RIGHTS OF THE CHARTER-HOUSE, AND SENDS AN ILLEGAL MANDAMUS
   TO THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE -- NEWTON ONE OF THE DELEGATES
   TO RESIST THIS ENCROACHMENT ON ITS PRIVILEGES --THE VICE-CHAN
   CELLOR DEPOSED --THE OBJECT OF THE DEPUTATION GAINED -- NEGLECT
    OF THE SCOTTISH UNIVERSITIES -- NEWTON ELECTED MEMBER FOR CAM
   BRIDGE TO THE CONVENTION PARLIAMENT -- HIS HABITS OF BUSINESS --
    HIS LETTERS TO DR. COVEL --HIS ACQUAINTANCE WITH LOCKE -- HIS
   THEOLOGICAL INQUIRIES --LOCKE EXERTS HIMSELF TO PROCURE FOR
    HIM SOME PERMANENT APPOINTMENT IN KING'S COLLEGE, THE CHARTER
   HOUSE, AND THE MINT --FAILURE OF THAT ATTEMPT -- NEWTON'S DIS
   APPOINTMENT --INGRATITUDE OF HIS COUNTRY -- DEATH OF HIS MOTHER
   AT STAMFORD -- WRITES AN ACCOUNT OF FLUXIONS AND FLUENTS FOR
    WALLIS --HIS LETTER TO LOCKE ON MULTIPLYING GOLD --BOYLE's
    RECIPES AND BELIEF IN ALCHEMY.

   In the early chapters of this work we have brought

down the personal history of Newton to the year 1675,
when he was permitted by the Crown to retain the Luca-

sian Chair without going into orders. At a future period

of his life, he was urged by some of the highest dignitaries
in the Church to enter its pale, but feeling that his opinions
were not in accordance with its Articles, he invariably
declined, assigning as a reason that he could do more
good to religion as a layman.

                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                85

    During the first twenty years of his residence at Cam

bridge, from 1667 to 1687, when the Principia was pub
lished, he was wholly occupied with those profound re
searches, of which we have given a full account, and tra
dition has preserved but a few anecdotes of a life so quiet

and unvaried. Having outlived almost all his companions
at school and at college, it became difficult, even at the
time of his death, to obtain authentic materials for an

account of his early and middle life, and his successors
in Trinity College have therefore not been able to dis
cover the locality of his early apartments. The chamber
which was allotted to him as a Fellow in October 1667,
was called the " Spiritual Chamber," which Mr. Edleston
conjectures may have been " the ground room next the
chapel in the north-east corner of the great court," but,
as he adds, " it does not follow that he actually dwelt
there," as it might have been occupied by a tenant. The
rooms in which Newton lived from the year 1682 till he
left Cambridge, are in the north-east corner of the great
court. They are on the first floor of the staircase, on the

right hand, or to the north of the gateway or principal

entrance to the College, the outward door fronting the
staircase, and the rooms being to the right. 1 His labora
tory, as Dr. Humphrey Newton tells us, was " on the left
end of the garden, near the east end of the chapel," and

his telescope, which, according to the same authority,
was five feet long,2 was placed at the head of the stairs

going down into the garden looking towards the east.3

   1 Memorandum sent to me by the late Rev. Mr. Tumor, and Edleston'a Corru-

pondence, &c. p. xliii.
   8 This must have been a refracting telescope.
   * In the Memorandum
"                            by the late Rev. Mr. Turnor above    mentioned, he says,
   I have some recollection  that Mr. Jones the tutor mentioned,  in one of his lectures

on optics, that the reflecting telescope belonging to Sir Isaac Newton was then

86             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

The east side of Newton's rooms has been altered within

the last fifty years. The wooden room, which projects

into the garden, as seen inLoggan's engraving, is supported

on pillars forming an arcade, and Professor Sedgwick,

who came up to college in 1804, recollects it in that state.

The arcade is now replaced by a wooden wall and brick

chimney. The drawing on the next page is a view of

Newton's rooms copied from Loggan's Plate.

   Mr. John Wickins, a Fellow of Trinity College, two

years junior to Newton, was one of his earliest and most

esteemed friends, a similar dislike to their disorderly

companions having induced them to live together so early

as 1665. Wickins continued to be Newton's chamber-

fellow till he left college, and on the 4th April 1684, he

was presented to the living of Stoke Edith, near Mon

mouth, by Paul Foley, Esq., afterwards Speaker of the

House of Commons.1 While Wickins retained his Fellow

ship, Newton drew for him his dividends and chamber

rent, and when Newton himself quitted Trinity College,

he left to his friend the whole furniture of his chamber,

with a wooden pint flagon, and other articles, which were

preserved in his family so recently as 1802. 2 Nicolas

Wickins, the son of John, succeeded to the living at Stoke

Edith ; and having been requested by Professor Smith of

Trinity College to furnish him with some particulars of

Newton's college life, he addressed to him the following
                       --3
interesting    letter
                       :

I Ilodged in the observatory over the gateway ; and am inclined to think once saw» 1 it,a
           i.
    and that finder was affixed to it."
*
       Turner's Newtoniana, in the possession of the Royal Society.
      Wickins, (Ds. Wickins,) to whom Newton had frequently lent money, as we havea
stated in vol. p. 32, note, died on the 19th April 1719. See Gentleman's Maga
zine, April 1802.

     We have given this and the two following letters verbatim, as possessing higher
degree of interest than any abstract of them that could be made.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                          87

THE ROOMS OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON, TRINITY COLLEGE.

            Coped from I.origun'a " Cantdbrigla IUustrntn" in the
                                Ijbrary of the College.

88  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

                                                                  " Stoke Edith, Jan. Wh, 1727-8.

   " Dear Sir, -- It was an unspeakable pleasure to me to

see the hand of my old acquaintance ; and I wish, in
Ireturn, could send something considerable to give you

a pleasure relating to the great man you write about,

but I am so unhappy as to find very little under Sir

Isaac's own hand of what passed between him and my

father.

  I" I guess from a small book found among my father's

papers, that he had a design to collect into one all that
he had of Sir Isaac's writing, but he went no farther than

transcribing three short letters he received from him, and

a Common Place, of his part of which I find under Sir

Isaac's own hand ; the rest, with the original of these
three letters, is lost. Besides these transcribed letters

and the Common Place, I can meet with nothing but four

or five letters under Sir Isaac's own hand, very short, and
relating to dividends and chamber rent, which he was so
kind as to receive for my father when at Monmouth, where
he was most part of the time he continued Fellow. There

being so little in these letters, I do not now send them,
Ibut wait for your commands ; for whatever can meet

with of this worthy man, shall be at your service.
   " My father's intimacy with him came by mere acci

dent. My father's first chamber-fellow being very dis

agreeable to him, he retired one day into the walks, where
he found Mr. Newton solitary and dejected. Upon enter
ing into discourse, they found their cause of retirement
the same, and thereupon agreed to shake off their present
disorderly companions and chum together, which they did
as soon as conveniently they could, and so continued as

long as my father staid at college.

   I" have heard my father often say that he has been a

                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 89

witness of what the world has so often heard of Sir Isaac's
forgetfulness of his food when intent upon his studies ;
and of his rising in a pleasant manner with the satisfac

tion of having found out some proposition without any
concern for a seeming want of his night's sleep, which he

was sensible he had lost thereby.

   " He was turning grey, I think, at thirty, and when my

father observed that to him as the effect of his deep atten
tion of mind, he would jest with the experiments he made

so often with quicksilver, as if from hence he took so soon

that colour.
    " He sometimes suspected himself to be inclining to a

consumption, and the medicine he made use of was the

Leucatello's Balsam,1 which, when he had composed him
self, he would now and then melt in quantity about a
quarter of a pint, and so drink it.

  I1 The following method of making the Leucatello's Balsam have found in Sir

Isaac's own hand : " Put Venus turpentine one pound into a pint of the best damask

rose water ; beat these together till it look white, then take four ounces of bees-wax,

red sanders half an ounce, oil of olives of the best a pint, one ounce of oil of St.

John's wort, and half a pint of sack. Set it (the sack) on the fire in a new pipkin,
add to it the oil and wax, let it stand on a soft fire where it must not boil, but melt

till it be scalding hot. Then take it off. When it is cold, take out the cake, and

scrape off the dirt from the bottom. Take out the sack, wipe the pipkin, put in the

cake again, set it on the fire, let them melt together, and then put in also the tur

Ifpentine and sanders ; let them not boil, but be well melted and mixed together ; take
it off and stir it now and then till it is cold.    you would have it to take inwardly,

add to it when it is off from the fire, half an ounce of powder of scuchineal (cochi

nea"l)Foanr dthae  little natural balsam.           a half  an  ounce  in  a little  broth,  take  it
                    measell, plague, or small-pox,

warm, and sweat after it. And against poison and the biting of a mad dog ; for the
last you must dip lint and lay it upon the wound, besides taking it inwardly. There
are other virtues of it ; for wind, cholic, anoint the stomach, and so for bruises."

    Mrs. Vincent    told Dr.  Stukely that Sir      Isaac was a great Simpler.          The  Doctor
says that " his    breakfast  was orange-peel       boiled in water, which he        drank   as tea,

sweetened with sugar, and with bread and butter. He thinks this dissolves phlegm."

Lord Pembroke told the Doctor that when Newton " got a cold, he lay in bed till it

was gone, though for two or three days' continuance, and thus came off the illness

by perspiration."

9U               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. XVI.

    " It is now eight years since my father's death, in which

time many things my father used to relate of him are

slipped out of my memory ; but being mostly of such a

nature as I have now mentioned, I suspect would be of
no service could I recollect any more.

   " But there is one thing, upon account of which not

only my father, but myself also, shall always pay a peculiar

regard to his memory, which was a charitable benefaction

which has privately passed from him through my father's,

and since his death through my own hands. We have

been the dispensers of many dozens of bibles sent by him

Ifor poor people, and have now many by me sent from

him for the same purpose, which, as it shows the great

regard he had for religion, I cannot but desire that by you

it  m" aDyeabre  made public to the world.
                 Sir, my thoughts dwell with
                                              wonderful  delight

upon the memory of this great and good man, and there

fore I have troubled you with so long a letter, which I now

beg pardon for, and in hope of again hearing soon from

Iyou, conclude with my brother's hearty service and re
spects to you.   beg my humble service to all my old

acquaintance, and am,
       " Dear Sir, your much obliged humble servant,

    " To Mr. Professor Smith, at              " NlC. WlCKIXS.
          Trinity College, Cambridge."

   In the year 1683, Newton requested Mr. Walker, who

was then schoolmaster at Grantham, to engage Mr. Hum
phrey Newton of that town as an assistant and amanuensis.
Mr. Newton willingly accepted of the offer, and remained
with Sir Isaac nearly five years, from the end of 1683
to 1689, that interesting period during which the Prin

1684-69.  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                               91

cipia was written and published. When Mr. Conduitt

was in search of materials for the life of his relative, he

naturally applied to Dr. Newton for information, and he

obtained from him the two following letters, which throw
much light on the " life and actions"
                                                               of the great philo
sopher :--

I" Sir,--Receiving yours, return as perfect and faithful

an account of my deceased friend's transactions, as possi

Ibly does at this time occur to my memory. Had had

the least thought of gratifying after this manner Sir

Isaac's friends, I should have taken a much stricter view

of his life and actions.
   " In the last year of King Charles II., Sir Isaac was

pleased, through the mediation of Mr. Walker, (then
schoolmaster at Grantham,) to send for me up to Cam

bridge, of whom I had the opportunity, as well as honour,

to wait of for about five years.1 In such time he wrote

his Principia Mathematica, which stupendous work, by

Ihis order, copied out before it went to the press. After

the printing, Sir Isaac was pleased to send me with seve

ral of them in presents to some of the heads of Colleges,

and others of his acquaintance, some of which (particu

larly Dr. Babington of Trinity) said that they might study

seven years before they understood any thing of it. His

carriage then was very meek, sedate, and humble, never

seemingly angry, of profound thought, his countenance

Imild, pleasant, and comely. I cannot say ever saw him

laugh but once, which was at that passage which Dr

Stukely mentioned in his letter to your honour,2 which

1 Dr. Stukely says, that " Mr. Newton of this town was five years under Sir

Isaac's tuition at Cambridge."                                 letter was the following :-- When
                                                               asking a friend, to whom he had
Isa*acThonecepaslsaauggeheadl,lu"de'dtwtaos  in Dr. Stukely's                                      Sir
                                             upon occasion of                                     lent

92  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. Xvi.

put me in mind of the Ephesian philosopher, who laughed
only once in his lifetime, to see an ass eating thistles

when plenty of grass was by. He always kept close to his

studies, very rarely went a visiting, and had as few visitors,

excepting two or three persons, Mr. Ellis,1 Mr. Laughton of

Trinity,2 and Mr. Vigani,3 a chemist, in whose company

he took much delight and pleasure at an evening when
Ihe came to wait upon him.
                            never knew him to take

any recreation or pastime either in riding out to take

the air, walking, bowling, or any other exercise whatever,

thinking all hours lost that was not spent in his studies,

to which he kept so close that he seldom left his chamber

except at term time, when he read in the schools as

being Lucasianus Professor, where so few went to hear

him, and fewer that understood him, that ofttimes he

did in a manner, for want of hearers, read to the walls.

Foreigners he received with a great deal of freedom,

candour, and respect. When invited to a treat, which

was very seldom, he used to return it very handsomely,
and with much satisfaction to himself. So intent, so

serious upon his studies, that he ate very sparingly,

nay, ofttimes he has forgot to eat at all, so that, going

into his chamber, I have found his mess untouched, of
which, when I have reminded him, he would reply, --
I' Have !' and then making to the table, would eat a bit
or two standing, for I cannot say I ever saw him sit at

Euclid to read, what progress he had made in that author, and how he liked him ?

He answered by desiring to know what use and benefit in life that study would be
to him. Upon which Sir Isaac was very merry." --Stukely's Letter to Dr. Mead.

   1 Afterwards Sir John Ellis, Master of Caius.
   3 See Charles Montague's letter to Newton in Chap, xix., and Monk's Life of
Bentley, pp. 224, 226, 346, 360.
   * John Francis Vigani, a native of Verona, after having taught chemistry at

Cambridge for twenty years, was invested by the University with the title of Pro
fessor of Chemistry. Dr. Bentley fitted up for him in Trinity College an old lumber

1684-89.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                        93

table by himself.1 At some seldom entertainments, the

Masters of Colleges were chiefly his guests. He very
rarely went to bed till two or three of the clock,2 some

times not till Jive or six, lying about four or five hours,
especially at spring and fall of the leaf, at which times he
used to employ about six weeks in his elaboratory, the

fire scarcely going out either night or day, he sitting up

one night and I another, till he had finished his chemical

experiments, in       the performances of which                                          he was the
most accurate,       strict, exact. What his aim
                                                                                         might be I

was not able to penetrate into, but his pains, his diligence

at these set times made me think he aimed at something

beyond the reach of human art and industry. I cannot
Isay ever saw him drink either wine, ale, or beer, ex

cepting at meals, and then but very sparingly. He very

rarely went to dine in the hall, except on some public

days, and then if he has not been minded, would go very

house, as an elegant chemical laboratory, in which he lectured for some years. --
Monk's Life of Bentley, p. 159. His lectures still exist in manuscript in the

IUniversity library.                            find the following relative to this
   Among the anecdotes collected by Conduitt,
chemist. It is signed C. C, (Catherine Conduitt,) Sir Isaac's niece. " Upon

Vigani's (with whom he was very intimate, and took great pleasure in discoursing

with him on chemistry) telling him a loose story about a nun, he broke off all
acquaintance with him." -- C. C.
   1 Dr. Stukely mentions some other anecdotes  of Newton's  absence :--" When he

had friends to entertain, if he went into his study to fetch a bottle of wine, there was

danger of   his forgetting them.    He  "wgoouilndgsohmomeetimtoesCpoulstteorwn orhtihs  surplice to go to
St. Mary's  church." When he      was                                                    from Grantham,

he once led his horse up Spittlegate Hill, at the town-end. When he designed to

remount, his horse had slipped the bridle and gone away without his perceiving
and he had only the bridle in his hand all the while." -- Letter to Conduitt.

    " Newton formerly would go the length of street before he came to himself and
if

    *
                                                           a

                                                         it

                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                    i.,
                                                                                                                         p.
                                                                                                           by 2.
                                                                                                                                       a it,
saw that he was not dressed, and therefore had to hasten back to his house quite
ashamed." -- Krausen's UnistSndliche Biicher Historie,
      Dr. Stukely informs us, " that he heard him say,  part                                Leipsic,  1715.
                                                        that during                      the course   of his

most intense studies, he learned to go to bed at twelve, finding,                        experience, that

he exceeded that hour but little,       did him more harm in his health than

whole day's study."

94          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

carelessly, with shoes down at heels, stockings untied,

surplice on, and his head scarcely combed.

  I" As for his Optics being burned, knew nothing of it
but as I had heard from others, that accident happening

before he writ his Principia.1 He was very curious in
his garden, which was never out of order, in which he
would at some seldome time take a short walk or two, not

enduring to see a weed in it. On the left end of the
garden was his elaboratory, near the east end of the
chapel, where he at these set times employed himself in
with a great deal of satisfaction and delight. Nothing

Iextraordinary, as can remember, happened in making

his experiments ; which, if there did, he was of so sedate

Iand even temper, that could not in the least discover it.

He very seldom went to the chapel, that being the time
he chiefly took his repose ; and, as for the afternoon, his

earnest and indefatigable studies retained him, so that he

scarcely knew the house of prayer. Very frequently, on

Sundays, he went to St. Mary's church, especially in the
Iforenoon.
            knew nothing of the writings2 which your
Ihonour sent, only that it is his own hand, am very cer

tain of, believing he might write them at some leisure

hours, before he set upon his more serious and weighty
matters. Sir Isaac at that time had no pupils nor any

chamber-fellow, for that, I would presume to think, would

not have been agreeable to his studies. He was only

   1 Dr. Stukely says, that " he wrote a piece of chemistry, explaining the principles
of that mysterious art upon experimental and mathematical proof, and ho valued it
much ; but it was unluckily burned in his laboratory, which casually took fire. He
would never undertake that work again, -- a Iors much to be regretted. Mr. Newton,
of this town, tells mc likewise, that several sheets of his Optics were burnt by a

Icandle left in his room, but suppose he could recover them again.'' Dr. Newton,

Ias we see above, gives this only as a report.

   s have not been able to discover what writings are here alluded to. They may
have been his theological writings, such as bis Irenicum, or " Doctrines tending to
peace," which will be afterwards noticed.

1081-89.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  95

once disordered with pains at the stomach, which con

fined him for some days to his bed, which he bore with a

great deal of patience and magnanimity, seemingly indif

ferent either to live or die. He seeing me much con
cerned at his illness, bid me not trouble myself ; ' For if,'

IIsaid he, ' die, shall leave you an estate,' which he

then mentioned.

   " Sir, this is what I can at present recollect, hoping it

may in some measure satisfy your queries.
" My wife at this time is brought to bed of a son,
Iwhom
          intend to nominate after my dear deceased

friend. Would you please to honour me so far as to sub

Istitute Dr. Stewkely to stand as witness. should take it

as a very singular favour, and would very much oblige,

Sir, your most humble and obedient servant,

" Ghastham, January 17, -- 2J."  " Humphrey Newton.

   After trying, for a month nearly, to recollect some other

particulars respecting Newton, which he had been re

fqouleloswteidngtoletdtoerby:--Mr. Conduitt, he addressed to him the

  I" Sir,-- return yr honour a great many thanks for ye

favour you have done me in deputing Dr. Stewkley to

stand in y* stead as witness to my son. It is out of my

sphere to make any grateful return, therefore doubt not
but yr goodness will in that point excuse my deficiency.

I have bethought myself about Sir Isaac's life as much as
Ipossibly can. About 6 weeks at spring, and 6 at ye fall,

ye fire in the elaboratory scarcely went out, which was
well furnished with chymical materials as bodyes, receivers,
heads, crucibles, &c, which was made very little use of,

9G         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

ye crucibles excepted, in which he fused his metals ; he

Iwould sometimes, tho' very seldom, look into an old mouldy

book w* lay in his elaboratory, think it was titled

Agricola de Metallis, the transmuting of metals being

his chief design, for which purpose antimony was a great

ingredient. Near his elaboratory was his garden, wch was
Ikept in order by a gardiner.
                               scarcely ever saw him do

anything as pruning, &c. at it himself. When he has

sometimes taken a turn or two has made a sudden stand,

turn'd himself about, run up ye stairs like another Archi

medes, with an evprjica, fall to write on his desk standing,

without giving himself the leisure to draw a chair to sit
down on. At some seldom times when he designed to

dine in ye hall, would turn to tbe left hand and go out

into the street, when making a stop when he found his

mistake, would hastily turn back, and then sometimes

instead of going into ye hall, would return to his chamber

again. When he read in ye schools he usually staid about

half an hour, when he had no auditors, he commonly re

turned in a 4th part of that time or less. Mr. Laughton

Iwho was then ye library keeper of Trin. Coll. resorted

much to his chamber ; if he commenced Dr. afterwards

know not. His telescope, w* was at that time, as near as

I could guess, was near 5 foot long, wch he placed at ye

head of y° stairs going down into ye garden, buting to

wards ye east. What observations he might make I know

not, but several of his observations about comets and ye

planets may be found scattered here and there in a book

intitled The Elements of Astronomy, by Dr. David Gre
gory. He would with great acuteness answer a question,

but would very seldom start one. Dr. Boerhaave (I think

it Prof. Lips, in some of his writings, speaking of Sir
    : is)
Is. That man, says he, comprehends as much as all man

1084-89.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                    97

kind besides. In his chamber he walked so very much

y' you might have thought him to be educated at Athens

among ye Aristotelian sect. His brick furnaces, pro re

nata, he made and altered himself without troubling a

bricklayer. He very seldom sat by the fire in his chamber

excepting y* long frosty winter,1 which made him creep to

it against his will. I can't say I ever saw him wear a

night gown, but his wearing clothes that he put off at

Inight, at night do say, yea, rather towards ye morning,

he put on again at his rising. He never slept in y° day

Itime y* I ever perceived ; believe he grudged ye short

time he spent in eating and sleeping. 'Aviyav ical airexov
may well and truly be said of him, he always thinking

with Bishop Saunderson, temperance to be the best phy-
sick. In a morning he seemed to be as much refreshed

with his few hours' sleep as though he had taken a whole

night's rest. He kept neither dog nor cat in his chamber,

whch made well for ye old woman his bedmaker, she faring

much ye better for for in morning she has sometimes
             it,
                           a

                             I
                                                                                        ye
found both dinner and supper scarcely tasted of, wch

old woman has very pleasantly and mumpingly gone away

with. As for his private prayers can say nothing of

them am apt to believe his intense studies deprived him
ye

 ;I
of better part. His behaviour was mild and meek,

without anger, peevishness, or passion, so free from that,

that you might take him for stoick.                     have seen smal
             a

                       aI
                                        ye
                                                      a

                                                      it
past-board box in his study set against open window,

no less as one might suppose than 1000 guin. in

crowded edgeways, whether this was suspicion or careless

ness cannot say perhaps to try the fidelity of those
about him. In winter time he was lover of apples, and
1         ;

  I                                                   a
      This was the famous frost of 1683-4, which began
tinued without intermission till the 5th of February.                               G
                                                        early in December, and         con
    VOL. II.

98  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

sometimes at a night would eat a small roasted quince.
His thoughts were his books ; tho' he had a large study
seldom consulted with them. When he was about 30

years of age his grey hairs was very comely, and his

smiling countenance made him so much ye more graceful.
He was very charitable, few went empty handed from
him. Mr. Pilkinton, who lived at Market Overton, died

in a mean condition, (tho' formerly he had a plentiful
estate,) whose widow with 5 or 6 children Sir Is. main

tained several years together. He comonly gave his poor

relations, (for no family so rich but there is some poor
among them,) when they apply'd themselves to him, no
less than 5 guineas, as they themselves have told me. He

has given the porters many a shilling not for leting him

(in ?) at ye gates at unreasonable hours, for that he ab
horred, never knowing him out of his chamber at such
times. No way litigious, not given to law or vexatious

suits, taking patience to be ye best law, and a good con

science ye best divinity. Says Seneca, somebody will

demonstrate which way comets wander, why they go so
far from ye rest of ye celestial bodies, how big, and what
sort of bodies they are, wcb had he been contempory with
Sir Is. he might have seen this prophecy of his fulfilled
by ye wonder of his age. Could y* Hon' pick some
things out of this indigested mass worthy to be inserted
into ye life of so great, so good, and so illustrious a person
as Sir Isaac Newton ! it would be of infinite satisfaction to

him, Sir, who is yr Hon''' most humb. and most obedient

SerVt»                         THT. XISTEWTON.
   "Feb. 14, 172J, GRanThaM."

    After Newton had completed his optical researches,
and brought to a close his controversy with the Duteh

1680-81.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    99

philosophers, he was called upon to direct his attention
to a less congenial subject. His friend, Dr. Thomas Bur

net, who had been Senior Proctor when Newton took his
degree in 1668, and who, as we shall presently see, set
him the noble example of resisting arbitrary power, had
printed, in 1680, his Theoria Telluris Sacra,1 an eloquent

physico-theological romance, which not only received the
warm approbation of the King, but was applauded by the

poets, and, to a certain extent, adopted even by Newton.
Abandoning, as some of the fathers had done, the hexa-
emeron, or six days of Moses, as a physical reality, and
having no knowledge of geological phenomena, he gives
loose reins to his imagination, combining passages of
Scripture with those of ancient authors, and presumptu

ously describing the future catastrophes to which the
earth is to be exposed. Previous to its publication, Bur
net presented a copy of his book to Newton, and requested

his opinion of the theory which it expounded. In a letter
dated 24th December 1680, Newton sent him " some

exceptions to particular passages," which elicited expla
nations from their author, and led him to propose new
questions of a theological as well as of a scientific nature.
To this letter of Burnet's, which was of great length, and

dated January 13, 1680-81, Newton replied in one nearly
as long,2 and possessing a very considerable degree of
interest. He treats of the formation of the earth, and

the other planets, out of a general chaos, --of the figure

1 " The Sacred Theory of the Earth, containing an account of the original of the

Earth, and of all the general changes which it hath already undergone, or is to

undergo, till the consummation of all things." The Latin edition was published in

4to in 1681, and, at the King's request, it was translated into English, the first

part, in folio, appearing in 1684, and the second in 1689.

  I* The copy of this letter, which have found along with the last of Burnet's,

Iamong the Portsmouth papers, is in Newton's own hand, but has no date or signa
ture. The two first letters of the correspondence  have not met with.

100          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    CHAP. XVI.

assumed by the earth, -- of  the length of the primitive
days, --of the formation of
                             hills and seas, --and of the

creation of the two ruling lights as the result of the clear

ing up of the atmosphere. He considers the account of

the creation in Genesis as adapted to the judgment of
the vulgar. " Had Moses," he says, " described the pro

cesses of creation as distinctly as they were in themselves,

he would have made the narrative tedious and confused

amongst the  Avfutlegrarr,eafenrdrinbegctoomseevaerpahl il"oscoapusheesr   more than
a prophet."                                                               of meteors,

such as the breaking out of vapours from below, before

the earth was well hardened, the settling and shrinking

of the whole globe after the upper regions or surface

began to be hard," Newton closes his letter with an apology
for its being tedious, which, he says, " he has the more

reason to do, as he has not set down any thing he has

well considered, or will undertake to defend."1

   The primitive condition of the earth, and its prepara
tion for man, was a subject of general speculation at the
close of the seventeenth century. Leibnitz, like his great
rival, attempted to explain the formation of the earth,
and of the different substances which composed it ; and
he had the advantage of possessing some knowledge of
geological phenomena. The earth he regarded as having

been originally a burning mass, whose temperature gra
dually diminished till the vapours were condensed into
a universal ocean which covered the highest mountains,
and gradually flowed into vacuities and subterranean ca
vities, produced by the consolidation of the earth's crust.
He regarded fossils as the real remains of plants and
animals which had been buried in the strata ; and, in

speculating on the formation of mineral substances, he

I1 As this letter is very interesting, have given it in the Appendix, No. VI.

1680.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NKWTON.  101

speaks of crystals as the geometry of inanimate na

ture.1

    While Newton was thus speculating on geology, we
find him in communication with Flamsteed, through their
mutual friend, Mr. Crompton of Cambridge, on the sub
ject of the comet of 1680, and, in so far as we are informed
by the two letters of Newton, published in the General
Dictionary, we have, in a preceding chapter,2 given an
account of the object and results of their correspondence.

Since that chapter was printed, however, we have obtained
the originals and draughts of these letters, and of other
three, which passed between Newton and Flamsteed on

the same subject.3 In an unpublished memorandum,

dated the Observatory, December 15, 1680, Flamsteed
mentions that he had not seen the comet before sunrise

in November, but that it was seen by Cuthbert ; and that

by what he learned from others, he concluded, that having

passed the sun, it would appear in December after sunset.
He accordingly discovered it on the Friday before the
11th of December ; and, in another memorandum, dated

January 3d, he sends to his correspondent (Crompton
probably) the observation he has made. He tells him
that the tail, which was 35° long., is a little curved and

best defined on the left hand, and he asks his opinion

   1 These views of Leibnitz are contained in his Protogcea, an Essay which he
published in the Leipsic Journal for 1683. It was published separately at Gottingeu
by Scheidius in 1749. See the Acta Eruditorum, 1717.

    * See vol. i. chap. xii. p. 301. One of these letters is addressed to Crompton, and
the other to Flamsteed. This last letter is dated 1680 in place of 1681, in the

General Dictionary, vol. vii. p. 791.

  I* find among these papers a table showing the R. ascension, declination, and

culmination of the comet, from December 16, 1680, to February 1, 1681, as made
in Maryland, America, in west longitude 75°, and north latitude 38" 30' by Mr.
Arthur Storer, a nephew of Dr. Babington, at the river Patuxant, near Hunting
Creek. See Newtoni Opera, tom. iii. p. 145; PrinciIna, lib. iii. prop, xli-

   102                                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             CHAP. XVI.

   on a conjecture, that the comet may be " a consuming

   substance, much decayed, and the fuel spent which nour

   ished its blaze." In the first of these unpublished letters

   addressed toCrompton,1 Flamsteed transmits, for Newton's

   information, the observations made by Gallet at Rome,

   which Cassini had sent to Halley, others made at Rome

   by Maria Antonio Cellio, sent also by Halley from Paris,

   and an observation made at Canterbury by one Hill,2 an

   artificer, with an instrument four feet radius ; and, from

   a comparison of these, he proves, in opposition to the

   opinions of Newton and Cassini, that there were not two

   comets.3 We have already seen4 that Newton at one

   time believed that comets moved in straight lines. This

   opinion seems to have been adopted from Flamsteed, who

   says, in the continuation of his letter, " By this indented

   figure Mr. Newton will see that the comet ran up towards

   the sun nearly in a straight line, and returned from him

   in a like one, for the places of these lines, however altered,

   Iwill not remove far from where have designed them,

   except he will suppose the acceleration of its motion in

   Iits progress, and retardation in its return, to be much
   different from what have made
                                                inwhich also am apt

                                                 in I
                                                           I
                                                               it,
                                                                                     is
                                                                                                   3,
                                                                        I
                                                                                                               3, in
                                                                                                                         i.
   to think he will find not likely." He then proceeds to

   give the following views respecting comets, and the struc
   ture of the sun --
        " Hence             it
                                     :should seem that the comet was attracted

   and repelled by the sun, as imagined and proposed in

   p.     March    1. 7,1681.         This  is  the letter which have said  not extant,  vol.
        302, note
    I2 1
          found half of Hill's letter to Flamsteed, dated Canterbury, Dec. 29, 1681,
   containing observations on the comet
                                                Nov. 11, 1680, and Jan. and Feb. 1681.
   8    Newton afterwards acknowledged,
                                                the Principia, the correctness of Flam-
   steed's opinion.

.  ;i   See vol.   i.       303, note.
                        p.

1684-87.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            103

my last letter. Mr. Newton brings an experiment of a

red-hot magnet not attracting iron, or a cold magnet, or

red-hot iron, against which I have this to assume, that

the attraction of the sun may be of a different nature,

Iand that even suppose the sun to be not like a mass of

red-hot iron, but a solid globe of gross matter, encom

passed with a spirituous liquid, which, by its violent mo

tion, striking the particles of the air, causes the heat we

feel from him sometimes so intolerable ; for, if I remember
right, I have read in the journals of travellers, that when

they have travelled over high mountains in hot countries,

they have found the heat far less than in the valleys, and

that the substance of the sun is terrestrial matter, his light
but the liquid menstruum encompassing him, the pheno

mena of the spots I think will prove. Admit this, and it

will still follow that he may attract the comet and swell

as the observations evidence he did. Mr. Halley thinks
it,
                it

               I
                 I
the comet to be a body that has lost its principle of gra

vitation, and yet perceive would have attracted by
                                          I it
the sun, which cannot assent to, for then see no rea

son why its mass should not dissipate, and the atoms

composing      separate themselves and scatter over the

wide aether."

In the conclusion of this long letter, Flamsteed answers

very fully the queries of Newton respecting the state
through which the tail of the comet passed every day,

and the alterations he observed in its head and he sends
                    5, ;
him the observations made by Cellio, and by himself at

Greenwich, from Dec. 12, 1680, to Feb. 1681.

In Newton's published reply to this letter,1 he endea

vours to reconcile the various observations with his idea

of two comets, and transmits some of his own, made

          1  April 16, 1681. General Dictionary, vol. vii. p. 791.

104        LIKE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

with a three-feet perspective, having a great magnifying

power ; but he takes no notice whatever of Flamsteed's

speculations on the sun, and on the action of heated
Imagnets.
           found, however, the original scroll of the

letter, which is quite different from the one actually sent,

and which contains, on a separate sheet, a long discussion

of Flamsteed's hypothesis, which possesses considerable
interest.1 The other letters of Flamsteed were addressed

to Newton while he was writing and printing the Prin

ciple/,, and contain many instructive details. They com
plete the interesting correspondence, a part of which had
been long ago published in the General Dictionary.2

    When Newton was engaged in writing the second and
third book of the Principia, an event occurred at Cam

bridge which drew him from his seclusion, and placed him

in a noble position on the theatre of public life. Desirous

of re-establishing the Catholic religion in its former su

premacy, James II. had begun to tamper with the rights

and privileges of his Protestant subjects, and to sap the
foundations of the Established Church. He had in 1686,

and in open violation of the laws, conferred the Deanery
of Christchurch, an office of the highest dignity in Oxford,

upon John Massey, a person who had no other qualifica
tion than that of being a member of the Church of Rome ;

and boasting of this exercise of power, he told the Pope's
nuncio, that " what he had done at Oxford would very soon

be done at Cambridge."

   1 This portion of the letter seems to have been intended to be sent to Flamsteed

through Crompton. See Appendix, No. VII.
   · All the published letters except one are from Newton to Flamsteed ; and this

one from Flamsteed to Newton, dated Sept. 25, 1685, is very different from the
one published, which must have been printed from a scroll, and greatly altered by
Flamsteed. The unpublished letters, six in number, were written between Decem
ber 1684 sr.d October 1«86.

1637.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            105

    Before making this attempt, however, he tried his ap
prentice hand upon an inferior institution, which was more
likely to comply with a royal demand. He sent a man
damus to the Masters and Governors of the Charterhouse,

requiring them to admit as a pensioner into the hospital

under their care, an old Catholic gentleman of the name
of Popham. The Board of Governors, before whom this
mandate was laid, consisted of the Lord Chancellor Jeff-

rys, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop of Win
chester, the Earl of Danby, the Earl of Rochester, the
Earl of Mulgrave, and Mr. Thomas Burnet, the Master.
By the rule of election, in giving their votes, the Master,
as the humblest of the electors, speaks first. In the exer
cise of this privilege, Mr. Burnet, a clergyman of high

character, stated to the Board, that the mandate to elect

a Catholic was contrary both to the will of the founder
and an Act of Parliament. " What is that to the pur
pose V said one of the Governors. " It is very much to
the purpose, I think," replied a voice feeble with age,1
" an Act of Parliament
A                                               in my judgment, no light thing."

                                           is,
    vote was then taken, which stood thus --
                                                           1.
        AGAINST THE MANDATE.                    FOR THE MANDATE.:

        Thomas Burnet, Master.                  Chancellor Jcffrys.a
                                                Earl of Rochester.
        Archbishop of Canterbury.                                                  a
        Bishop of Winchester.                   Earl of Mulgrave.
        Earl of Danby.

    On the rejection of the royal candidate, Jeffrys de

camped  a in     rage, and being followed by others of the
            a
minority, quorum was not left to make formal reply

to the royal mandate.2

'1  Mr. Macaulay says, and no doubt on good authority, that this was the venerable

Duke of Ormond.  have followed, in the list of governors present, manuscript
                 I

                            of
account of the meeting, which was sent to Sir Isaac Newton, and which contains

the names of those who voted for and against the mandate.

    See Macanlay's Hist. England, vol. ii. pp. 293, 20

106  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

   This defeat of the king might have induced him to
pause in his threatened attack upon the University of
Cambridge. He had supposed, however, that the heads
of colleges, and the other members of the senate, would
submit more readily to his power than the Peers and
Bishops who governed the Charterhouse, and he accord
ingly issued a mandate in February 1687, directing that
Father Alban Francis, a Benedictine monk, should be
admitted a Master of Arts without taking the oaths of

allegiance and supremacy. Upon receiving the mandamus,
Dr. Pechel, Master of Magdalen College, who was then
Vice-chancellor, sent a messenger to the Duke of Albe

marle the Chancellor, to request him to get the mandamus

recalled ; and the registrary and bedells waited upon

Francis to offer him instant admission, if he took the

necessary oaths. The king and the monk were equally
inexorable. The Chancellor was received coldly and un
graciously ; and Francis, after refusing to subscribe the
oaths, took horse and hastened to the palace to make

known his disappointment.
    Thus placed in open collision, the Court and the Univer

sity used every means to support their cause. The royal
commands had hitherto been obeyed ; and when foreign
princes or their ambassadors visited the Universities,
the honour of a degree was invariably conferred upon
them : Even the ambassador of the Emperor of Morocco,
though a Mahometan, had received this distinction. On
the part of the University the difference between honorary
degrees to foreigners, and ordinary degrees to residents,
was strongly urged. As every Master of Arts has a vote
in the Senate, a majority in that court might be obtained
by the admission of Catholic priests, and the Protestant
character of the University overturned. Influenced by

1687.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  107

views like these, and fortified by charters and statutes,

and by the best legal opinions, the Senate unanimously

refused to obey the king. A menacing letter from Sun

derland was despatched to shake the firmness of the

University ; but though humble and respectful expla
nations were sent in reply, no hope of compliance was
breathed, and no compromise proffered to the Crown.
In consequence of these proceedings, the Vice-chancellor
and deputies from the senate were summoned before the
new High Commission at Westminster on the 21st of

April.
    The deputation appointed by the senate consisted of

Mr. Newton, Mr. Stanhope, the Chancellor of Ely, and
other six deputies ; but before they went to London,
they held a previous meeting, in order to prepare their
explanations and defence for the Court. " Some feeble
or false men," as Burnet calls them, " had proposed to
grant the degree on the condition that it should not be
drawn into a precedent, and this contemptible proposal
had recommended itself to the Chancellor of Ely." He

accordingly produced a paper, which he hoped the other
deputies would sign, and in which this measure was pre

sented in the most plausible form. A disposition to ap

prove of it was manifested by the other deputies ; but
Newton seeing the character of the compromise, rose from
his chair, took two or three turns round the room, and

addressing the University bedell, then standing at the
fire, said to him, " this is giving up the question." " So
it is," replied the bedell, " why didn't you go and speak

to it V Upon which Newton went to the table, expressed

 his opinion, and proposed that the paper should be shown
 to counsel. This suggestion was adopted. The paper
 was submitted " to Mr. Finch, afterwards solicitor to Lord

108                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVI.

Guernsey," and when he had given the same opinion as

Newton, the Chancellor of Ely and the rest of the deputies

concurred.1

On the 21st of April the Council-chamber was filled

with a large assemblage. Jeffrys presided at the board,
and the Earl of Mulgrave, the sceptic and the hypocrite,

sat there, a worthy companion to the judge. The depu

tation appeared as a matter of form before the Commis
sioners, and were dismissed. On the 27th of April they
gave in their plea. On the 7th of May it was discussed

and feebly defended by their incompetent Vice-chancellor.
The deputies maintained, that in the late reign several
royal mandates had been withdrawn, and that no degree
had ever been conferred without the oaths of supremacy

and obedience being taken. JefFrys let loose his inso

lence against the timid Vice-chancellor, silenced the other

deputies when they offered to speak, and without a hearing
ordered them out of Court. When recalled the deputies

were reprimanded. Pechel was deprived of his office as
Vice-chancellor, and of his emoluments as Master of Mag

odaf leJenffCryoslleg:--e,   and the following words  closed the address
                                                      to you what the
                            " Therefore I shall say

Scripture says, and rather because most of you are di
vines, ' Go your way and sin no more, lest a worse thing

come unto you.'"2
    Under this rebuke, and in front of such a judge, the

vilest and most ferocious that ever sat upon the judgment

1 This interesting aneedote I found in a manuscript of Mr. Conduitt, intended

for insertion in his proposed Life of Newton.       " alluded twice to his having
   » " The Chancellor Jeffrys," says Mr. Edleston,  Until some other College can

himself formerly been a member of the University.

establish a claim to him, Trinity College is liable to the suspicion of having had him
for an alumnus. A ' Georgius Jeffreys' was admitted pensioner there March l",th,
1661-2, under Mr. Hill, and he would therefore be a year junior to Newton." --

Correspondence, &c. p. lviii. note 90.

1667.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                     109

seat, stood the immortal author of the Principia, who had
risen from the invention of its problems to defend the

religion which he professed, and the University which he

loved and adorned. The mandate which he resisted --a
diploma to a monk -- was in one sense an abuse of trivial

magnitude, unworthy of the intellectual sacrifice which it
occasioned ; but the spark is no measure of the conflagra
tion which it kindles, and the arm of a Titan may be
required to crush what the touch of an infant might have

destroyed.
    Deprived of their Vice-chancellor, the University chose

for his successor John Balderston, Master of Emanuel
College, " a man of much spirit," who promised to his

constituents at his election, that while he held office

neither religion nor the rights of the body should, through
his means, be invaded.1 Thus unanimously and nobly
defended, Protestantism was now firmly established, the
rights of the University protected, and the Court taught
a lesson by which it had not the wisdom to profit.2 The
University of Oxford, however, drew instruction from the
wisdom of its younger sister, and in the noble stand which,
in the case of Magdalen College,3 she made against a
similar abuse of power, she triumphed over the tyrant that

assailed her, and contributed to his fall.

    Under their Protestant constitution, the Universities

of England have risen to a distinguished place among the
literary and scientific institutions of Europe ; and though

1 See Burnet's Hist, of his Times, vol. ii. p. 697, or 8vo edit. vol. iii. p. 149. --
Macatilay's Hist, of England, vol.
**                                  180.                                                                             " After the
                                                       ii.

                                                           p. p.
                                                                                                                  ;
       Dr. Pechel was restored to his offices on the 24th of October 1688.

Revolution he starved himself to death, in consequence of having been rebuked by

Archbishop Sancroft for drunkenness and other loose habits and after four days'
abstinence, would have eaten, but could not."' -- Note of Lord Dartmouth upon Bur

net's Hist. vol. ii. p. 698, or vol. iii. 8vo, p. 150.

       See Macaulay'n Hist. &c. vol. ii. 287, &c.

110  LIKE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        CHAP. XVI.

attempts have been recently made in Oxford to tamper
with the national faith, we trust that the new system of
government which Parliament has provided, will protect
her youth against religious innovation, and obtain for
them a course of instruction in which science as well as

literature shall be taught.

   In our Scottish Universities, once favoured by the

Sovereign, and honoured by distinguished names, we
would desire to see some approximation, in character and

endowment, to our English Institutions. Although the
Scottish Commissioners provided, in the Treaty of Union,
for the maintenance of their Colleges, their endowments

have been permitted to decay --their rights and privileges,

protected by ancient charters, have been invaded by the

Crown--incompetent Professors, the creatures of political

subserviency, have, by royal and private patronage, been

appointed to their most important chairs ; and the sons
of the nobility and gentry of the land have been driven
to complete their education in the schools and universities
of England.

    From the precincts of the High Court of Commission,
Newton returned to Trinity College to complete the
Principia, and in the course of six weeks, in the month
of June 1687, this great work was given to the public.1

   At the time when Flamsteed was supplying Newton

with observations for the Principia, Halley was carrying
on that interesting correspondence, of which we have

published all the letters that had at that time been found.2

I have been so fortunate, however, as to discover all the

1 When the Duke of Somerset, as his Grace informed me, visited the Marquis

de Laplace at Arcueil, he found him in his study dressed in a sort of uniform, pre

pared to go to the Senate. Having in his hand the first edition of the Principia,
he said to the Duke, " This is the best book that was ever written."
                                               No. VIII.
* See vol. i. p. 308, and Appendix, vol.  i.,

1687.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                111

letters of Halley which were wanting, and which add
greatly to the value of the collection.1 The last of them

possesses a peculiar interest, from being the one in which

Halley announces to Newton the completion of the Prin-
cipia, and gives him notice of the copies of the work which

he despatched to Cambridge.

       Sir,--                              " London, July 5, 1687.
I" Honoured
               have at length brought your book

to an end, and hope it will please you. The last errata

came just in time to be inserted. I will present from

you the book you desire to the Royal Society, Mr. Boyle,

Mr. Paget, Mr. Flamsteed, and if there be any else in

town that you design to gratify that way ; and I have

sent you to bestow on your friends in the University

I20 copies, which entreat you to accept. In the same

parcel you will receive 40 more, which having no acquaint

ance in Cambridge, I must entreat you to put into the

hands of one or more of your ablest booksellers to dispose

of them. I intend the price of them, bound in calves' lea
Ither, and lettered, to be 9 shillings here. Those send
you I value in quires at 6 shillings, to take my money as

they are sold, or at 5,h- for ready, or else at some short

Itime ; for am satisfied there is no dealing in books
without interesting Ithe booksellers ; and am contented

to let them go halves with me, rather than have your

excellent work smothered by their combinations. I hope

you will not repent you of the pains you have taken in

so laudable a piece, so much to your own and the nation's

credit, but rather, after you shall have a little diverted

yourself with other studies, that you will resume those

contemplations wherein you had so great success, and

attempt the perfection of the lunar theory, which will be

       1 The other letters are given in vol.  Appendix, No. XU., 46ii.
                                              i.,
                                                                                            p.

112                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        CHAP. XVI.

of prodigious use in navigation, as well as of profound

and public speculation. Sir, I shall be glad to hear that

you have received the books, and to know what farther

presents you would wish in town, which shall be accord

ingly done. You will receive a box from me on Thurs

day next by the waggon, that starts from town to-mor
Irow.
       am your most obliged humble servant,

                                               " Edm. Halley.

" To Mr. Isaac Newton,
      In Trinity Colledg. Cambridg.-- These."

The active and influential part which Newton had taken

in defending the privileges of the University, more than his

high scientific attainments, not yet sufficiently appreciated

even at Cambridge, induced his friends to bring him for

ward as a candidate for a seat in the Convention Parlia

ment. The other candidates were Sir Robert Sawyer and

Mr. Finch. Newton was elected by a majority of five

over Mr. Finch,1 and he sat in Parliament from January
1689 till its dissolution in February 1690.

Thus launched into public life from the seclusion of a

college, and residing in London away from his books and

instruments, Newton abandoned for a time his scientific

researches, devoting himself, when free from parliamentary

duty, to theological studies, and looking forward to some

higher station in the University, or some permanent ap

pointment from the Government. As a member of the
......Legislature at an eventful epoch in the history of England,
   1 The votes stood thus :--
       Sir Robert Sawyer,                      125

       Mr. Newton,                             122

       Mr. Finch,                              117

   In some of the voting papers he is called prfeclarus vir, and in others, doctissimus,
; ijilegerrimus, venerabilis et reverendus. -- Edleston dorrespondencr, &c, p. lix.

1689.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             113

 he conducted himself with firmness and moderation, main

 taining the principles of civil and religious liberty,1 and
 exhibiting a capacity for business which could scarcely have
been expected from a philosopher who had mixed so little
with society. During the thirteen months that he sat in
 the House of Commons, he seems to have taken no share in

the debates or in the business of the House. On the 30th
April 1689, he moved for leave to bring in a bill to settle
the charters and privileges of the University of Cambridge,
and Sir Thomas Clarges did the same for Oxford, yet
neither of them seems to have made any speech on the
occasion. But though a silent he was an active member,
and it appears from his letters to Dr. Covel,2 the Vice-
chancellor, that he had an onerous duty to perform to his
constituents as well as to the Government. The friends

of James were still numerous at Cambridge. Disturbances
had broken out at the end of the year, and so " many
scholars were in arms," that the Vice-chancellor was ob

liged to address the heads of Colleges on the subject.
Considering the effect of these disturbances " as very
dangerous to the University, as well as destructive to all
good manners, he conceived that the best course to re
duce them would be to convene the students in some

place of the College next morning, if they returned, and

gravely but calmly advise them to all civil behaviour,
believing all severity at this juncture might rather tend
to exasperate them more, and bring the unruly people's
fury upon us all."3

1 In referring to the publication of the Principia, Laplace remarks " that the

principles of the social system were laid in the following year, and that Newton
concurred in their establishment." -- Systime du Monde, p. 372. Edit. 1824.

  * Thirteen Le'iers from Sir Isaac Newton to Dr. Covel, printed in 1848 by
Dawson Turner, Esq., from the originals in his possession.
   3 Thirteen Jitters, &c., pp. 0, 10.                          ;

VOL. II.                                                    II

114                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.    CHAP. XVI.

Some of the members of the University, who had lately

sworn allegiance to the exiled king, had some difficulty

in vowing fidelity to his successor, and it required more
sagacity to deal with conscientious scruples than with
positive discontent. On the 12th of February, the day
after King William and Queen Mary were proclaimed at
Whitehall, Newton intimated to the Vice-chancellor that

he would soon receive an order to proclaim them at Cam
bridge. He enclosed a form of the proclamation, and
" heartily" expresses " the wish that the University would
so compose themselves as to perform the solemnity with

Ia reasonable decorum ; because take it to be their in

terest to set the best face upon things they can, after the
example of the London Divines." He advises Dr. Covel
to grant no degrees till he is authorized to administer the

new oaths, and when they are administered, to administer
them in English.

   In replying to this letter, Dr. Covel seems to have

suggested some arguments that might be employed to

remove the scruples of " the dissatisfied part of the Uni
versity," and in order that he might " have a fuller argu
ment for convincing them," Newton sends him his views
upon the subject, as " he cannot do the University better
service than by removing the scruples of as many as have
sense enough to be convinced with reason." He then
lays down three propositions, the illustrations of which
will be found in the letter itself, which we cannot withhold

from the reader. 1 Faith and allegiance, he says, are due
to the king by the law of the land, and were it " more

than what the law requires, we should swear ourselves

    1 See   Appendix,    No. VIII. In    the library   of Queen's College, Oxford, (cclxxxiv.
fol. 143,)   there is a                  " Reasons    given for the taking the oaths of alle
                         paper entitled

giance to King William, by I. N." This is doubtless an extract from Newton's

letter to Covel.

1689.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       115

..."slaves, and the king absolute, whereas by the law we are
freemen, notwithstanding these oaths."                        Allegiance

and protection are always mutual, and therefore when

King James ceased to protect us, we ceased to owe him

allegiance by the law of the land. And when King

... "IfWilliam began to protect us, we began to owe him alle
giance."      the dissatisfied party accuse the con

vention for making the Prince of Orange king, 'tis not

Imy duty to judge those above me, and therefore shall

only say that if they have done ill, Quod fieri non debuit,
factum valet. And those at Cambridge ought not to

judge and censure their superiors, but to obey and honour

them according to the law, and the doctrine of passive

obedience."1

During his residence in London, Newton became ac

quainted early in 1689 with John Locke, whom he doubt

less met at  "thfeorwteheeklpyurppaorsteiesof  given by his   friend Lord
Pembroke,                                       conversation
                                                               and discus

sion." Locke had taken a great interest, as we have
already seen,2 in the sublime truths demonstrated in the

Principia, and lived on the most affectionate terms with
its author till the time of his own death. In the summer

of the same year, Newton had the gratification of be

coming personally acquainted with Christian Huygens,

one of the most illustrious of his contemporaries. At the

meeting of the Royal Society on the 12th of June, each

of them addressed the members, -- Huygens on the subject

of gravity, of which he knew little compared with New

ton, and Newton on the subject of the double refraction

   1 Newton appears not to have enjoyed good health during his residence in Lon
don. He was confined to his room for some days in the middle of March, and in
May he was attacked by " a cold and bastard pleurisy." His address was " at Mr.

More's house, in the broad century at the west end of Westminster Abbey."
   » See vol. i. pp. 339, 340.

116                      LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.    CHAP. XVI.

and polarisation of Iceland crystal, of which he knew
little compared with Huygens.1

    We have already mentioned that Newton and his
friends were looking out for some public situation worthy
of his acceptance. While living in London he no doubt
experienced the unsuitableness of his income to the new
position in which he was placed. He had made nothing
by his writings ; and with a generous disposition, to which
frequent appeals were made by some of his less wealthy
relatives, he must have felt unselfishly the bitterness of

poverty, nor was that feeling diminished by the consider
ation that his academical contemporaries, whom he had
outstripped in talent, were occupying the highest positions
in the Church or at the Bar, or basking in the more genial
sunshine of official ease.

    The death of the Provost of King's College, Cambridge,
gave his friends an opportunity, not wisely embraced, of
showing their disposition to serve him. The King had

issued a mandamus commanding the College to choose
Mr. Upman, Fellow of Eton, but an outcry having been

raised against him for having preached in favour of King
James's Declaration of Indulgence, a new mandamus was
issued in favour of Mr. Newton. The College, however,

resisted his appointment, as it was required by the sta
tutes that the Provost should be in priest's orders, and
chosen from among the Fellows of the Society.2 His

appointment, therefore, would have been contrary to law ;
and when, on the 29th of August 1689, the case was
heard before the King and Council, he was found to be
disqualified for the office.3 In consequence of this dis
appointment the friends of Newton were more solicitous

: 2 See vol. i. p. 215.  2 Cole's MSS., vol. xvi. folio 3j0.
" ? Edleston's Correspondence, &c., p. lix, note 96.

1690.      LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.                          117

to serve him. The Parliament was dissolved on the 6th

of February, and at the new election Newton was not

returned.

On his way to Cambridge, he had spent some time,

along with Locke, at Sir Francis and Lady Masham's at
Oates, and as he had then no occupation but that of the

Lucasian Chair, a public provision for him must have been

there a topic of discussion. Locke had interested in his
favour Lord and Lady Monmouth, and in a letter to him,

dated October 28, 1690, he requests Locke to thank them

for their kind remembrance of him, and speaks of his obli
gations to them " whether their design succeeded or not."
The office which they had in view was probably that of

Comptroller of the Mint, for we find him in the following
year thanking Locke " heartily for being so mindful of

him, and ready to assist him with his interest," and asking
him for the " scheme he has laid of managing the Comp

troller's place of the Mint." 1
   In the same year an attempt was made to obtain for

Newton the Mastership of the Charterhouse, but he disliked

the project, and seems to have been inactive in the mat

ter. Locke put him in mind of     a         and drew from him
                                       it,
the reply, " that he saw nothing in the situation worth
making bustle for. Besides coach," he adds, " which
I
                 a
                               a
consider not, 'tis but £200 per annum, with confine
                                                      a
ment to the London air, and to such a way of living as   is a  ;I

am not in love with, neither do think advisable to
                                  I            if

enter into such competition as that would be for betterit

place."2 After these repeated failures, he seems to have

thought that his friends were inactive, not insincere
and he does not scruple to tell Locke " that he
                                                               fully

convinced that Mr. Montague, upon an old grudge which

       1   June 30th, 1691.                 >  Dec. 13, 1691.

118                 L1FK OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           CHAP. XVI.

he thought had been worn out, was false to him, and that
he had done with him, intending to sit still unless my
Lord Monmouth was still his friend."1 Though assured
by Locke, in reply, that Lord Monmouth was still his
friend, he expressed his happiness at the intelligence, and
stated in his answer2 that " his inclinations were to sit
still," and that he intended not to give his Lordship and
him any farther trouble.3

    We do not envy the reader who peruses these simple
details without a blush of shame for his country. That
Locke, and Lord Monmouth, and Charles Montague, could
not obtain an appointment for the author of the Principia,
will hardly be believed in any country but our own. Had
he been ambitious of honours, to which the philosophers
of other lands have since his time attained, or had he

aimed at those official positions to which merit has no

claim in England, we might have felt a modified sympathy
in his failure ; but in aspiring only to the presidency of
a college, to the mastership of a school, or to an inferior
office in the Mint, and obtaining none of them, we parti
cipate in that depth of feeling which the language we
have quoted so clearly indicates. The ingratitude of his
country disturbed, as we shall see, the tranquillity of a

mind sensitively organized, and intellectually overwrought.

At the age of fifty, the high priest of science found him

self the inmate of a college, and, but for the generous
patronage of a friend, he would have died within its

walls.

   While Newton was discharging his duties in Parlia

1 Jan. 26, 1691-2.                  ' Feb. 16, 1691 2.

· In these letters, which are published in Lord King's Life of Locke, Edit.
1830, vol. i. pp. 400-414, there are interesting details about Newton's Historical

account of two notable corruptions of Scripture, to which we shall return when we
treat of his theological writings.

1601.      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       119

ment, he experienced a severe domestic affliction in the

loss of his mother. The anxious and tender care with

which she had watched over his helpless infancy, and

reared to a vigorous manhood her only and sickly child,

had produced, on his part, an attachment more than

filial, while she had followed, with a mother's pride, the
rising reputation of her son. In 1689, Benjamin Smith,

the half-brother of Newton, had been seized, while at

Stamford, with a malignant fever. His mother, who had
hastened to attend his sick-bed, was taken ill with the

same complaint, and Newton left his duties and his stu

dies to watch at her couch. He sat up with her whole

nights, administered with his own hands the necessary

medicines, and prepared and dressed her blisters with all

the dexterity of a practitioner. His skill, however, was

unavailing. She sank under the disease, and her remains

were carried to Colsterworth, and deposited in the north

aisle of the church, where the family had generally been

interred.

After the dissolution of the Convention Parliament,

Newton had resumed his philosophical and mathematical

studies. In July 1691, he drew up the directions to Dr.
Bentley to enable him to understand the Principia.1 In

introducing to Flamsteed Mr. David Gregory, whom he

had recently recommended to the vacant chair of astro

nomy at Oxford, he mentions his anxiety to have his

observations on Jupiter and Saturn for the next twelve
Ifor fifteen years, adding, "  you and I live not long

enough, Mr. Gregory and Mr. Halley are young men ;"

and he expressed an anxiety to know " if in long teles

copes the light of Jupiter's satellites, before they disappear,

incline either to red or blue, or become more ruddy or

           1 See vol.  Appendix,                     I63.
                       i.,
                                                 p.

120      LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. XVI.

more pale than before."1 One of his occupations at this
time, was drawing up for Wallis his explanation of fluxions
and fluents, in two problems, with illustrations, being the
first account of the new calculus published by himself.2

Wallis had requested him to give an explanation of the
two methods, namely, of finding fluxions and fluents, which

he concealed in transposed letters in his epistle to Olden

burg ; and it was in obedience to this request that he sent
him his account of fluxions. While Wallis's volume was in

the press, Leibnitz had addressed a letter to Newton,3
in which he mentioned his expectation of receiving from
him something great on the subjects of tangents and
quadratures ; but especially, what he particularly wished,
his method of reducing quadratures to the rectifications
of curves. In consequence, however, of having mislaid
this letter, Newton wrote to him the day after he found

it,4 apologizing for the delay, and transmitting the method
he requested. He mentions to him also that he had sent
to Wallis a brief explanation of his method of fluxions,

which he had previously concealed, and expressed the
hope that he had written nothing which would be dis

pleasing to him. " But," he added, " if he found in it

any thing worthy of reprehension, he hoped he would
signify it to him in writing, as he valued friends more
 than mathematical inventions."

    While Newton was corresponding with Locke in 1692,
the process of Boyle for " multiplying gold," by combining
a certain red earth with mercury, became the subject of

1 Baily's Flamsteed, p. 129.
8 Wallisii Opera, vol. ii. pp. 391-396. This communication was contained in two

letters, dated August 27, and September 17, 1692.
3 Dated
4

             ,',

                          is

                             JJ

                                                                              p
                                                                                                           is
                                                                                                                 in
         March 1693, published in Raphson's Fluxlon*, pp. 119,                                                     120.
This letter dated Cambridge,                                                                                          Edleston's
                              October 1693, and published
Correspondence, &c, Appendix, No. xxiv. 276.

1692.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  121

discussion. Mr. Boyle having " left the inspection of his
papers" to Locke, Dr. Dickison, and Dr. Cox, Mr. Locke
became acquainted with the particulars of the process we

have referred to. Boyle had, before his death, communi
cated this process both to Locke and Newton, and pro

cured some of the red earth for his friends. Having

received some of this earth from Locke, Newton tells him,
that though he has " no inclination to prosecute the pro
cess," yet, as he had " a mind to prosecute it," he would
" be glad to assist him," though " he feared he had lost
the first and third of the process out of his pocket." He
goes on to thank Locke for " what he communicated to
him out of his own notes about it," and adds in a postscript,
that " when the hot weather is over, he intends to try the
beginning, (that is the first of the three parts of the recipe,)
though the success seems improbable." 1 In Locke's answer
of the 26th July,2 he sends to Newton a transcript of two
of Boyle's papers, as he knew he wished it ; and, it is ob
vious from their letters, that both of them were desirous of

"multiplying gold." In Newton's very interesting reply3
to this communication, he " dissuades Locke against in

curring any expense by a too hasty trial of the recipe."
He says, that several chemists were engaged in trying
the process, and that Mr. Boyle, in communicating it to
himself, " had reserved a part of it from my knowledge,

though I knew more of it than he has told me." This

mystery on the part of Boyle is very remarkable. In
" offering his secret" to Newton and Locke, he imposed
conditions upon them, while in the case of Newton at
least, he did not perform his own part in the arrange

    1 This letter, of which there is only a fragment, is dated Cambridge, July 7, 1692,
 and is published in Edleston's Correspondence, &c., Appendix, No. xxiii. p. 275.

   2 I have given this unpublished letter in the Appendix, No. IX.

    * August 2, 1692, published in King's Life of Locke, vol. ii. pp. 410-414.

122  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. XVI.

ment. On another occasion, when he communicated two
experiments in return for one, " he cumbered them," says
Newton, " with such circumstances as startled me, and

made me afraid of any more." It is a curious fact, as

appears from this letter, that there was then a Company

established in London to multiply gold by this recipe,
which Newton " takes to be the thing for the sake of
which Mr. Boyle procured the repeal of the Act of Par

liament against multipliers." The pretended truths in

alchemy were received by men like Boyle on the same

kind of evidence as that by which the phrenology and
clairvoyance of modern times have been supported. Al

though Boyle possessed the golden recipe for twenty
years, yet Newton could not find that he had " either

tried it himself, or got it tried successfully by any bodyit,

Ielse ; for," he says, " when spoke doubtingly about

he confessed that he had not seen  it     tried, but added,

                                       it,
that a certain gentleman was now about and succeeded
                                            it

very well so far as he had gone, and that all the signs ap

peared, so that needed not doubt it."
     I  of

1692-3.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               123

                    CHAPTER XVII.

NEWTON'8 HEALTH IMPAIRED -- THE BOYLE LECTURES BY BENTLEY,
WHO REQUESTS NEWTON's ASSISTANCE -- NEWTON's FIRST LETTER

TO BENTLEY ON THE FORMATION OF THE SUN AND PLANETS -- HIS
SECOND LETTER --ROTATION OF THE PLANETS THE RESULT OF DIVINE
                    LETTER -- HYPOTHESIS
POWER-- HIS THIRD   BENTLEY TO NEWTON--   OF MATTER EVENL^ DIF
FUSED -- LETTER OF                        REPLY TO IT BY NEWTON
IN A FOURTH LETTER --OPINION OF PLATO EXAMINED -- SUPPOSED MEN

TAL ILLNESS OF NEWTON ASCRIBED TO THE BURNING OF HIS MSS. --

REFERRED TO IN THE LETTERS OF HUYGENS AND LEIBNITZ -- MADE

PUBLIC BY M. BIOT-- MENTIONED IN THE DIARY OF MR DE LA PRYME --

THE STORY REFERRED TO DISPROVED -- NEWTON'S PAPERS BURNT
BEFORE 1684 --NEWTON'S LETTER TO MR. PEPY8 -- LETTER OF MR.
PEPYS TO MR. MILLINGTON --MR. MILLINGTON's REPLY -- MR. PEPYS'
SECOND LETTER TO MR. MILLINGTON -- NEWTON SOLVES A PROBLEM IN
CHANCES -- HIS LETTER TO LOCKE --REPLY OF LOCKE--NEWTON's AN
SWER, EXPLAINING THE CAUSE OF HIS ILLNESS -- HIS CRITICAL LETTER
TO DR. MILL --HIS MIND NEVER IN A STATE OF DERANGEMENT, BUT

FITTED FOR THE HIGHEST INTELLECTUAL EFFORTS.

In the autumn of 1692, when Newton had finished his

letters on fluxions, he did not enjoy that degree of health

with which he had so long been favoured. The loss of

appetite and want of sleep, of which he now complained,

and which continued for nearly a twelvemonth, could not
fail to diminish that mental vigour, and that " consistency

of mind," as he himself callsa which he had hitherto
                                   it,

                                                 it

                                                             is
displayed. How far this ailment may have arisen from

the disappointment which he experienced in the applica

tion of his friends for permanent situation for him, we

have not the means of ascertaining, but                          impossible

124  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVII.

to read his letters to Locke, and other letters from his

friends, without perceiving that a painful impression
had been left upon his mind, as well as upon theirs.
This state of his health, however, did not unfit him for

studies that required perhaps more profound thought
than his letters on fluxions and fluents, for it was at the

close of 1 692, and during the first two months of 1 693, that
he composed his four celebrated letters to Dr. Bentley.1

    Upon the death of the celebrated Robert Boyle, who
died on the 30th December 1691, it was found that, in a

codicil to his will, he had left £50 per annum to esta
blish a lectureship, in which eight discourses were to be
preached annually in one of the churches of the metro
polis, in illustration of the evidences of Christianity, and
in opposition to the principles of infidelity. Dr. Bentley,
then chaplain to the Bishop of Worcester, and a very young
man, was appointed to preach the first course of sermons,
and the manner in which he discharged this important
 duty gave the highest satisfaction not only to the trus
tees of the lectureship, but to the public in general. In
 the first six lectures Bentley exposed the folly of atheism
 even in reference to the present life, and derived power
 ful arguments for the existence of a Deity from the facul
 ties of the soul, and the structure and functions of the
 human frame. In order to complete his plan, he proposed
 to devote his seventh and eighth lectures to the demon
 stration of a Divine Providence from the physical consti
 tution of the universe, as established in the Principia.

      1 These letters, which were first printed by Richard Cumberland in 1756, and
  reviewed by Dr. Samuel Johnson in the Literary Magazine, vol. i. p. 89, have
  been reprinted in Dr. Horsley's Newtoni Opera, vol. iv. pp. 429-442 ; and in
  Nichol's Illustrations of the Literary History of the Eighteenth Century, vol. iv.
  pp. 50-60; but in both these works, the third and fourth letters are transposed,
  as their dates will shew.

1692.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    125

To qualify himself for this task, he received from Sir

Isaac Newton directions respecting a list of books neces
sary to be perused previous to the study of that work ; 1
and having made himself master of the system which it
contained, he applied it with irresistible force of argument
to establish the existence of an overruling mind. Previous

to the publication of these lectures, Bentley encountered

a difficulty which he was not able to solve, and he trans

mitted to Sir Isaac, during 1692, a series of queries on
the subject. This difficulty occurred in an argument
urged by Lucretius, to prove the eternity of the world
from a hypothesis of deriving the frame of by mecha
* 1 it
                       i.,nical principles, from matter endowed with an innate
                      it
                                     of 1

                                                      p.

                                         a

                                                                           is

                                                   I
                                                       if it,

                                                   iIf

                                                                                 it
                                                                                              is
power of gravity, and evenly scattered throughout the
heavens. Sir Isaac willingly entered upon the considera
tion of the subject, and transmitted his sentiments to Dr.

Bentley in the four letters which we have mentioned.
   In the First2 of these letters Sir Isaac informs him,

that when he wrote his treatise about our system, viz.,

the Third Book of the Principia, " he had an eye upon

such principles as might work, with considering men, for

the belief of a Deity," and he expresses his happiness that
has been found useful for that purpose. " But
done," he adds, " the public any service this way,  have

due to nothing but industry and patient thought." In

answering the first query of Dr. Bentley, the exact import

of which we do not know, he states, that, matter were

evenly diffused through finite space, and endowed with
innate gravity, would fall down into the middle of the

       See vol. Appendix,  463.                   indorsed in Bentley's hand. -- " Mr.

       Dated December 10, 692. This letter

Newton's answer to some queries sent by me after  had preached my two last
sermons." -- Monk's Life
                           Bentley, p. 34, note.

126  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           CHAP. XVII.

space, and form one great spherical mass ; but if it were   is,

diffused through an infinite space, some of it would collectit

into one mass, and some into another, so as to form anis
                        ;
infinite number of great masses. In this manner the sun
and stars might be formed if the matter were of a lucid;
nature. But he thinks it inexplicable by natural causes,;
and to be ascribed to the counsel and contrivance of a
                               a
voluntary agent, that the matter should divide itself intoa
two sorts, part of it composing a shining body like the
sun, and part an opaque body like the planets. Had a

natural and blind cause, without contrivance and design,
placed the earth in the centre of the moon's orbit, and

Jupiter in the centre of his system of satellites, and the
sun in the centre of the planetary system, the sun would
have been a body like Jupiter and the earth, that
without light and heat and consequently, he knows no

reason why there only one body qualified to give light
and heat to all the rest, but because the Author of the

system thought convenient, and because one was suffi
cient to warm and enlighten all the rest.

    To the second query of Dr. Bentley, he replies that the

motions which the planets now have could not spring from
any natural cause alone, but were impressed by an intel
ligent agent. " To make such system with all its mo
tions, required a cause which understood, and compared
together the quantities of matter in the several bodies of
the sun and planets, and the gravitating powers resulting
from thence the several distances of the primary planets
from the sun, and of the secondary ones from Saturn,
Jupiter, and the earth, and the velocities with which those
planets could revolve about those quantities of matter in

the central bodies and to compare and adjust all these
things together in so great variety of bodies, argues that

1692-3.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  127

cause to be not blind and fortuitous, but very well skilled
in mechanics and geometry." In his answer to the third

query, he expresses the opinion that the interior parts of
all the planets are " as much heated, concocted, and coag
ulated by interior fermentation as our earth is," and that
the exterior planets, Jupiter and Saturn, have a smaller

density than the rest, not because they are at a greater

distance from the sun, but because if their density had

been greater they would " have caused a considerable

disturbance in the whole system."

   In answering the fourth query, he says that, in the
system of vortices, even if " the sun could, by his rays,

carry about the planets, yet he does not see how he
could thereby effect their diurnal motion."

   In the Second letter,1 he admits that the spherical mass
formed by the aggregation of particles would affect the
figure of the space in which the matter was diffused, pro
vided the matter descends directly downwards to that
body, and the body has no diurnal rotation ; but he states,
that by earthquakes loosening the parts of this solid, the
protuberances might sink a little by their weight, and the
mass by degrees approach a spherical figure. He then
proceeds to correct an error of Dr. Bentley's in supposing
that all infinites are equal, and refers him for information
to Dr. Wallis's Arithmetic of Infinites. He admits that

gravity might put the planets in motion, but he maintains
that, without the Divine power, it could never give them
such a circulating motion as they have about the sun,
because a proper quantity of a transverse motion is ne
cessary for this purpose ; and he concludes that he is
compelled to ascribe the frame of this system to an intel

ligent agent.

                                           1 Dated Jan. 17, 16K2-3.

128               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      CHAP. XVII.

In the Third letter,1 he states, that the hypothesis that

matter is at first evenly diffused through the universe, is

in his opinion inconsistent with the hypothesis of innate

gravity without a supernatural    po"wFeorr  to  reconcile   them,
and therefore it infers a Deity.                 there be   innate
                                             if

gravity, it is impossible now for the matter of the earth

and all the planets and stars to fly up from them, and

become evenly spread throughout all the heavens without

a supernatural power ; and certainly that which can never

be hereafter without a supernatural power, could never

be heretofore without the same power."

Having learned from his bookseller that the publication

of his sermons might be delayed, Bentley, upon the receipt

of the preceding letter, wrote to Newton a long letter,2
containing " an abstract, and thread of his first unpub
lished sermon," and requested him, in order to make " his
mind at ease," to " acquaint him with what he found in
it not conformable to truth and his hypothesis." In

citing, in his abstract, Newton's opinions on gravity, he

gives the full passage in his sermon, and adds in a par

enthesis, " I have written these words at large that you
may see if I am tender Ienough how engage your name

in this matter."

To this letter Newton replied in a few days by a fourth

letter3 of great interest, and touching on all the points to

which his correspondent had called his attention.

The Fourth letter contains opinions confirming or

correcting several positions which Dr. Bentley had laid
down, and closes with a curious examination of the

opinion of Plato, that the motion of the planets is such as

   1 Dated February 11, 169J.

  " Dated February 19, 1691, aQd printed in Appendix, No. X. This is the only
letter of Bentley's on this subject which I have found among the Portsmouth l'apers.

   » Dated February 25, 169j.

1693.                 LIFE OF SIR ISxUC NEWTON.                                129

if they had been all created by God in some region very

remote from our system, and let fall from thence towards

the sun, their falling motion being turned aside into a

transverse one whenever they arrived at their several

orbits. Sir Isaac shows that there is no common place

such as that conjectured by Plato, provided the gravitat

ing power of the sun remains constant ; but that Plato's

affirmation is true if we suppose the gravitating power of

the sun to be doubled at that moment of time when they
                         several orbits. " If we suppose," says
all    arrive  at their
he,            gravity   of all the planets towards the sun to be
       " the

of such a quantity as it really and that the motions of
                            ;
the planets are turned upwards, every planet will ascend
                                is,
                                             is
                                                         is,

                                                                            ;
to twice its height from the sun. Saturn will ascend till

he be twice as high from the sun as he at present, and

no higher Jupiter will ascend as high again as at pre
               ;

                 is,
sent, that a little above the orb of Saturn Mercury

will ascend to twice his present height, that to the orb

of Venus and so of the rest and then, by falling down
               ;

again from the places to which they ascended, they will

arrive again at their several orbs with the same velocities

they had at first, and with which they now revolve.
   " But so soon as their motions by which they revolve
       if

                        is
are turned upwards, the gravitating power of the sun, by

which their ascent perpetually retarded, be diminished

by one-half, they will now ascend perpetually, and all of

them, at all equal distances from the sun, will be equally
swift. Mercury, when he arrives at the orb of Venus,

will be as swift as Venus and he and Venus, when they
       ;
                                                             ;

                                                                       I
arrive at the orb of the earth, will be as swift as the

earth and so of the rest. If they begin all of them to

ascend at once, and ascend in the same line, they will

constantly, in ascending, become nearer and nearer to-

     VOL. II.

130                   LIFK OK SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       CHAP. XTii.

gether, and their motions will constantly approach to an
equality, and become at length slower than any motion
assignable. Suppose, therefore, that they ascended till

they were almost contiguous, and their motions inconsid
erably little, and that all their motions were at the same
moment of time turned back again, or which comes almost
to the same thing, that they were only deprived of their

motions, and let fall at that time, they would all at once
arrive at their several orbs, each with the velocity it had

at first ; and if their motions were then turned sideways,

and at the same time the gravitating power of the sun

doubled, that it might be strong enough to retain them
in their orbs, they would revolve in them as before their
ascent. But if the gravitating power of the sun was not
doubled, they would go away from their orbs into the

highest heavens in parabolical lines."1
    These letters, of which we have endeavoured to give a

brief summary, will well repay the most attentive perusal

by the philosopher as well as the divine. They are written
with much perspicuity of language, and great power of

thought, and contain results which incontestably prove
that their author was fully master of his noblest faculties,
and comprehended the profoundest parts of his own writ

ings.2 In the present day they possess a peculiar in

1  " These tilings,"  says   he, "follow from   my   Principia Math.   lib. i. prop. 33-36."
8  The originals of   these    four letters "  were   given by Dr.    Richard Bentley to

Richard Cumberland, his nephew and executor, while a student at Trinity College,

and were printed by him in a separate pamphlet in 1756. This publication was

reviewed by Dr. Samuel Johnson in the Literary Magazine, vol. i. p. 89. See
Johnson's Works, vol. ii. p. 328 In one or two cases Newton acknowledges that

he had not before considered some of the conclusions from his own discoveries, and

that some of the queries proposed by Bentley were new to him. Whence Dr. Johnson
beautifully remarks " how even the mind of Newton gains ground gradually upon

darkness." Dr.     Monk, who notices this remark, justly observes, that          as Bentley
" availed himself  of all the suggestions of his illustrious correspondent, his  reasonings

and conclusions appear with the highest of all human sanctions, and this department

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NKYVTON.  131

terest. They show that the Nebulm-JnipQihesi^ the dull
and dangej^ms_Jiej^y^fJJia age, is incompatible with the
established laws of the material universe, and that an

omnipotent arm was required to give the planets their
position and motions in space, and a presiding intelligence

to assign to them the different functions they had to per

form. 1

    The illness of Newton, which increased till the autumn

of 1693, was singularly misrepresented by foreign con
temporary authors, to whom an erroneous account of it
had been communicated. During the century and a half
which has elapsed since that event, it has never been
mentioned by any of his biographers ; and it was not till
1822 that it was brought before the public as a remark
able event in the life of Newton. The celebrated Dutch

philosopher, Van Swinden, made the following communi
cation to M. Biot, who published it,2 with comments, that
gave great offence to the friends of Newton :--

    " There is among the manuscripts of the celebrated
Huygens," says Van Swinden, " a small journal in folio,

in which he used to note down different occurrences. It

is note £ No. 8, in the Catalogue of the Library of Ley-
den, p. 112. The following extract is written by Huygens

himself, with whose handwriting I am well acquainted,

having had occasion to peruse several of his manuscript
and autograph letters :--

   " ' On the 29th May, 1694, M. Colin,3 a Scotchman, in

of natural theology has perhaps never yet been so satisfactorily illustrated." -- Life of
Bentley, p. 34.

    1 The views of Newton and Bentley, so distinctive of the College which they
adorned, have been maintained and illustrated, with all the lights of modern science,

by Professor Sedgwick in his noble Discourse on the Studies of the University.
   * Life of Newton, Bioq. UniverseUe, tom. xxxi. p. 168.
   * It appears from a letter of Newton to Flamsteed, that he had proposed Sir Collins,

of " this University," as one of the candidates for the vacancy in Christ Hospital,

132            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  CHAP. XVIT.

formed me, that eighteen months ago the illustrious geome
ter, Isaac Newton, had become insane, either in consequence
of his too intense application to his studies, or from exces
sive grief at having lost, by fire, his chemical laboratory
and several manuscripts. When he came to the Archbishop

of Cambridge, he made some observations which indicated
an alienation of mind. He was immediately taken care of
by his friends, who confined him to his house and applied

remedies, by means of which he had now so far recovered

his health that he began to understand the Principia.'"1
Huygens mentioned this circumstance in a letter to Leib

occasioned by the resignation of Mr. Paget. He thought that he had mathematics

enough, though young and inexperienced. From Flamsteed's unpublished reply to
                                                          Sir Collins was a son of John
tghriesatleatntder,eaitrlywforuieldnda. ppe"aYr otuhnagt   Collins," he says, " may live  Collins, Newton's

                                                                                          to restore  it,   (the

                                                                                                         I
Hospital,) whom, therefore, you may do well to encourage to mind these studies.
doubt not he will be good algebra; that was his father's talent. Astronomy will
          I
                               in
be most useful in the school. Our teachers town understand little of it. Pray
                                                          in
1advise him to study the theory of the planets, and to make himself expert in calcu?

lation. Though never saw him, yet for his father's sake, my good friend, and his

own good report, he shall find me always ready to serve him." -- April 27, 1695.
      M. Uylenbroek, the editor of the correspondence between Huygens and Leib

nitz, has given in an appendix the correct text of this passage, with his own obser:it

vations upon --
   " 29 Maj. 1694. -- Narravit mihi D. Colm (not Colin) Scotus virum celebcrrimum

ac summum geometram Is. Neutonum in phrenesin incidisse abhinc anno et sex

mensibus. An ex nimia studii assiduitate, an dolore infortunii, quod incendio labo-

ratorium chymicum et scripta qusedam amiserat Cum ad Archiepiscopum Canta-
brigiensem (Cantuariensem, as Mr. Edleston conjectures) venisset, ea locutum, qua!
alienationem mentis indicareut. Deindo ab amicis cura ejus susceptam, domoque

clauso remedia volenti nolenti adhibita, quibus jam sanitatem recuperavit, ut jam

rursus librum suum Principiorum Philosophias Mathematicorum intelligere in-

cipiat."

M. Uylenbroek adds his own opinion of the matter, as explained                            my former
Life of Newton -- " Hrec Colmi narratio, quam ex his ipsis MSS., Hugeniensis              in
          :                                                                                             p.
                                          e
petitam, quondam evulgaverat Biotus, nnperrime Brewstero ansnm pra;buit inqui-

remli utrum revera Newtonus mentis morbo correptus fuerit ncene. Testimonia, quae
attulit vir CI. ea esse videntur quibus probabiliter efficias Newtonum, currente
anno 1692, solita mentis, corpurisquc vah,tudine non fuissc usum, at non ita eum
morbo decubuisse nt eo impeditus fuerit quo minus studiis suis vacaret." -- Chris-

tiani Hugenii firerrikttionrs Matlwmndrir. I'd. P. J. Uylenbroek, fascic. ii. 171.

Hag. An. 183.1.

1693.      LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.                                                      133

nitz, dated 8th June 1694,1 in the following terms :-- " I

do not know if you are acquainted with the accident

which has happened to the good Mr. Newton, namely, that

he has had an attack of phrenitis, which lasted eighteen
months, and of which they say that his friends have cured

him by means of remedies, and keeping him shut up."

To which    Leibnitz  replied in             a letter, dated the 2 2d
                       glad that
June :--"  I am very                         I received information of

the cure of Mr. Newton at the same time that I first

heard of his illness, which doubtless must have been very

alarming. ' It is to men like you and him, sir, that I

wish a long life and much health, more than others,

whose loss, comparatively speaking, would not be so

great.'"2

The first publication of the preceding statement pro

duced a strong sensation among the friends and admirers

of Newton. They could not easily believe in the prostra

tion of that intellectual strength which had unbarred the

strongholds of the universe. The unbroken equanimity

of Newton's mind, the purity of his moral character, his

temperate and abstemious life, his ardent and unaffected

piety, and the weakness of his imaginative powers, all

indicated a mind which was not likely to be overset by

any affliction to which it could be exposed. The loss of

a few experimental records could never have disturbed

the equilibrium of a mind like his. If they were the

records of discoveries, the discoveries, themselves inde

structible, would have been afterwards given to the world.

If they were merely the details of experimental results, a

little time could have easily reproduced them. Had these
records contained the first-fruits of youthful genius -- ol

1 lie made the same communication to the Marquis L'Hospital on the 16th Jun
-- Ch. Hug. Exercit. Math., fnscic. i. 318.  MJ. fascic.
                      i>.                                                                  I>. 182
                                                           »
                                                                                       i.

134  LIFE OF SUi ISAAC NEWTON.                       CHAP. XVII.

obscure talent, on which fame had not yet shed its rays,

we might have supposed that the first blight of early am

bition would have unsettled the stability of a mind unan-

nealed by the world. But Newton was satiated with

fame. His mightiest discoveries were completed, and

diffused over all Europe, and he must have felt himself

placed on the loftiest pinnacle of earthly ambition. The

incredulity which such views could not fail to encourage,

was increased by the novelty of the information. No

English biographer had ever alluded to such an event.

History and tradition were equally silent, and it was not

easy to believe that the Lucasian Professor of Mathema

tics at Cambridge, recently a Member of the English

Parliament, and the first philosopher and mathematician
in Europe, could have lost his reason without the dread

ful fact being known to his countrymen.
   But if the friends of Newton were surprised by the

nature of the intelligence, they were distressed at the
view which was taken of it by foreign philosophers. " The
fact," says M. Biot, " of the derangement of his intellect,

whatever may have been the cause of will explain why,
after the publication of the Principia in 1687, Newton,
                                       1
though only forty-five years old, never more published a
new work on any branch of science, but contented himself; it,
with giving to the world those which he had composed

long before that epoch, confining himself to the completion
of those parts which might require development. We

may also remark, that even these developments appear
always to be derived from experiments and observations

formerly made, such as the additions to the second edition
of the Principia, published in 1713,
thick plates, those on diffraction, and            the experiments on
                                                   the chemical queries
placed at the end of the Optics in 704 for in giving an

1714.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 13.5

account of these experiments Newton distinctly says, that

they were taken from ancient manuscripts which he had

formerly composed ; and he adds, that though he felt the

necessity of extending them, or rendering them more

perfect, he was not able to resolve to do this, these mat

ters being no longer in his way. Thus it appears that

though he had recovered his health sufficiently to under

stand all his researches, and even in some cases to make

additions to them, and useful alterations, as appears from

the second edition of the Principia, for which he kept up

a very active mathematical correspondence with Mr.

Cotes, yet he did not wish to undertake new labours in

those departments of science where he had done so much,

and where he so distinctly saw what remained to be

done." Under the influence of the same opinion, M. Biot
finds " it extremely probable that his dissertation on the

scale of heat was written before the fire in his laboratory ;"

and he describes Newton's conduct about the longitude

b" ilsl oaspueexrihleibiftoinr gsoansoilneemxpnlicaanbloeccatismioind,ittyhaotf  mind, and as
                                                                                 it might lead
to the strangest conclusions, particularly if we refer it to

the fatal accident which befell him in 1695."

   The illness of Newton was viewed in a light still more

painful to his friends. It was maintained that he never

recovered the vigour of his intellect, and that his theolo

gical inquiries did not commence till after that afflicting
epoch of his life. In reply to this groundless assertion, it
may be sufficient to state, in the words of his friend
John Craig,1 that his theological writings were compo
sed " while his understanding was in its greatest per

fection, lest the infidels might pretend that his apply

       1 Unpublished letter to Conduitt, April 7, 1727.

136       LIFE OF Silt ISAAC KEWTON.  CHAP. XVII.

ing himself to the study of religion was the effect of

dotage."

    Such having been the consequences of the disclosure of

INewton's illness by the manuscript of Huygens, felt it

to be a sacred duty to the memory of that great man,
and to the feelings of his countrymen, to inquire into the
nature and history of that indisposition which seems to

have been so much misrepresented and misapplied. From

the ignorance of so extraordinary an event which has

prevailed for such a long period in England, it might have
been urged with some plausibility, that Huygens had

mistaken the real import of the information that was

conveyed to him ; or that the person from whom he re

ceived it had propagated an idle and a groundless rumour.

But we are fortunately not confined to this very reason

able mode of defence. There exists at Cambridge a

manuscript journal written by Mr. Abraham de la Pryme,

who was a student in the University while Newton was a
Fellow of Trinity. This manuscript is entitled " Ephemeris

Vital, or Diary of my own Life, containing an account
likewise of the most observable and remarkable things

that I have taken notice of from my youth up hitherto."

Mr. A. de la Pryme was born in 1671, and begins the
Diary in 1685. This manuscript is in the possession of

his collateral descendant, George Pryme, Esq., Professor

Iof Political Economy at Cambridge, to whom have been

indebted for the following extract, which is given verba

tim, and occurs during the period when Mr. de la Pryme
was a student in St. John's College, Cambridge :--
I" 1692, February 3d. -- What I heard to-day
                                                    must
relate. There is one Mr. Newton, (whom I have very oft
seen,) Fellow of Trinity College, that is mighty famous

for his learning, being a most excellent mathematician,

1714.  LIFE OF S1R ISAAC NEWTON.  137

philosopher, divine, &c. He has been Fellow of the Royal

Society these many years ; and amongst other very
learned books and tracts he's written one upon the ma
thematical principles of philosophy, which has got him a
mighty name, he having received, especially from Scotland,
abundance of congratulatory letters for the same ; but of
all the books that he ever wrote, there was one of colours

and light, established upon thousands of experiments, which
he had been twenty years of making, and which had cost
him many hundred of pounds. This book, which he
valued so much, and which was so much talked of, had
the ill luck to perish, and be utterly lost, just when the

learned author was almost at putting a conclusion at the

same, after this manner : -- In a winter's morning, leaving

it amongst his other papers on his study table whilst he
went to chapel, the candle, which he had unfortunately
left burning there too, catched hold by some means of

other papers, and they fired the aforesaid book, and
utterly consumed it and several other valuable writings ;
and, which is most wonderful, did no further mischief.

But when Mr. Newton came from chapel, and had seen

what was done, every one thought he would have run

mad, he was so troubled thereat that he was not himself

for a month after. A long account of this his system of

light and colours you may find in the Transactions of the

Royal Society, which he had sent up to them long before

this sad mischance happened unto him."
    The story of the burning of Newton's laboratory and

papers, as stated by Mr. de la Pryme, has been greatly
exaggerated and misrepresented, and there can be no
doubt that it was entirely unconnected with Newton's
illness. Mr. Edleston1 has placed it beyond a doubt

                                   1 Correspondence, &c. pp. lxii. lxiii.

138  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.    CHAP. XVH.

that the burning of the manuscripts took place be

tween 1677 and 1683, and I have found ample con

firmation of the fact from other sources of information.

Dr. H. Newton, as we have seen, tells us that he had

heard a report that Newton's Optics had been burnt be
fore he wrote his Principia, and we know that no such
accident took place during the five years that Dr. Newton
lived with him at Cambridge. The following memoran
dum of Mr. Conduitt's, written after conversing on the
subject with Newton himself, appears to place the event

at an early period :-- " When he was in the warmest pur

suit of his discoveries, he going out, left a candle upon his

table amongst his papers, he went down into the bowling-
green, and meeting somebody who diverted him from
returning as he intended, the candle set fire to his papers,

(and he could never recover them.1) Upon my asking
him whether they related to his Optics or the Method of
Fluxions, he said he believed there was some relating to
both, and that he was obliged to work them all over again."
The version of the burnt papers in which " Diamond"
is made the perpetrator, and in which the scene of the
story is laid in London, and in Newton's later years, we
may consign to a note, with the remark of Dr. Humphrey
Newton, that Sir Isaac never had any communion with

dogs or cats.2

   1 This observation, which is in another edition of the manuscript, is not inconsistent
with the statement of Newton's having " worked them over again."

   » " Newton's temper was so mild and equal, that scarce any accident disturbed him.

One instance in particular, which is authenticated by a person now living (1780,)

brings this assertion to a proof. Sir Isaac being called out of his study to a conti

guous room, a little dog called Diamond, the constant but incurious attendant of

his master's researches, happened to be left among the papers, and by a fatality not

to be retrieved, ns it was in the latter part of Sir Isaac's days, threw down a lighted

candle, which consumed the almost finished labours of some years. Sir Isaac return

ing too late but to behold the dreadful wreck, rebuked the author of it with an ex
"0clamation, [ad sijera pnlmat,)
                                  Diamond! Diamond! thou little knowest the

1714.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          139

   By means of this extract from Mr. de la Pryme's
Diary, we are enabled to fix the latest date of the ac
cident by which Newton lost his papers. It must have

been previous to the 3d January 1692, a month before

the date of the extract ; but if we fix it by the dates

in Huygens's manuscript, we should place it about the
29th November 1692, eighteen months previous to the
conversation between Colin and Huygens. The man
ner in which Mr. Pryme refers to Newton's state of

mind is that which is used every day when we speak
of the loss of tranquillity which arises from the ordinary
afflictions of life ; and the meaning of the passage amounts
to nothing more than that Newton was very much troubled
by the destruction of his papers, and did not recover his
serenity, and return to Ins usual occupations, for a month.
The very phrase, that every person thought he would
have ruu mad, is in itself a proof that no such effect was
produced ; and, whatever degree of indisposition may be
implied in the phrase, " he was not himself for a month
after," we are entitled to infer that one month was the

period of its duration, and that previous to the 3d February
1692, the date of Mr. Pryme's memorandum, " Newton
was himself again." 1

mischief done !' without adding a single stripe." -- Notes to Maude's Wensleydale,

p. 102, fourth edit. 1816. M. Biot gives this piece of fiction as a true story, which
happened in some year after the publication of the Principia, and he characterizes

the accident as having deprived the sciences for ever of the fruit of so much of

Newton's labours. Dr. Wallis received another edition of the story from his corres
                                       " Sturm sends me word of a rumour
pondent Sturm, a Professor at Altorf.
amongst them concerning Mr. Newton, as if his house and boohs, and all his goods

Iwere burnt, and himself so disturbed in mind thereupon as to be reduced to very ill

circumstances ; which being all false, thought fit presently to rectify that ground

less mistake."-- Letter to Waller, Secretary to the Royal Society, quoted by Mr.

Edleston from the Letter-book of the Royal Society. See pp. 93 and 97.
   1 We entirely concur with Mr. Edleston in his opinion that this story refers to an

antecedent period. It is obviously a repetition of the story referred to by Dr.

Newton respecting the burning of the Optics before 1684.

140  LIFE OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVII.

    These facts and dates cannot be reconciled with those

in Huygens's manuscript.1 It appears from that docu
ment, that, so late as May 1694, Newton had only so far

recovered his health as to begin to again understand the
Principia. His supposed malady, therefore, was in force
from the 3d of January 1692, till the month of May 1694,

--a period of more than two years. Now, it is a most

important circumstance, which M. Biot ought to have
known, that in the very middle of this period, Newton
wrote his four celebrated letters to Dr. Bentley on the

Existence of a Deity,--letters which evince a power of

thought and a serenity of mind absolutely incompatible
even with the slightest obscuration of his faculties. No

man can peruse these letters without the conviction that

their author then possessed the full vigour of his reason,

and was capable of understanding the most profound parts
of his writings. The first of these letters was written on

the 10th December 1692, the second on the 17th January
1693, the third on the 11th February, and the fourth on

the 25th February 1693. His mind was, therefore, strong
and vigorous on these four occasions ; and as the letters
were written at the express request of Dr. Bentley, to
assist him in preparing his lectures for publication, we

must consider such a request as showing his opinion of

the strength and freshness of his friend's mental powers.
   In August and September 1692, as we have already

seen, Newton transmitted to Dr. Wallis the first proposi
tion of his book on quadratures, with examples of it in

   1 In the Journal des Savam, 1832, p. 325, M. Biot has tried to reconcile these
facts and dates by arguments which have been so ably exposed and refuted by Mr.
Edleston, who entirely concurs with the view I have taken of the subject, that any
further controversy is unnecessary. The evidence of Dr. Humphrey Newton leaves
no doubt whatever that the fire in Sir Isaac's room took place before 1684j -- Sec

Correspondence, &c. pp. Ix.-lxii.

16<»3.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                               141

first, second, and third fluxions.1 These examples were
written at the request of his friend : and the author of
the review of the Commercium Epistolicum, in which this
fact is quoted, draws the conclusion, that he had not at

that time forgotten his method of second fluxions. It

appears, also, from the second book of the Optics? that
in the month of June 1692, he had been occupied with
the subject of haloes, and had made accurate observations
both on the colours and the diameters of the rings in a
halo which he had then seen around the sun. We find

also from his manuscripts, that he was deeply engaged
in chemical experiments in the months of December

1692 and January 1693 ; and on the 26th October 1693,
he wrote a letter to Leibnitz, giving him, at his request,
an account of his method of reducing quadratures to the
rectification of curves, and, three months afterwards, an
other letter to Dr. Mill at Oxford.3 In addition to these

facts, it may be useful to mention that Facio Duillier
visited Newton at Cambridge in the middle of November

1692 ;4 and it is evident from Facio's letter to him, dated
November 1 7, and from a letter of Newton's to Facio of
the 14th March 1693,5 that he was in comparatively

good health.
    But though these facts stand in direct contradiction to

the statement recorded by Huygens, the reader will be
naturally anxious to know the real nature and extent of
the indisposition to which it probably refers. The fol
lowing letters, written by Newton himself to Mr. Pepys,

Secretary to the Admiralty, and Mr. Millington of Mag

   1 See Newtoni Opera, tom. iv. p. 480;      and Wallisii Opera, 1693, tom.
                                                     Optics, part iv. obs. 13.
391-396.
      Dated January 29, 1694.                        See p. 37.
       Gentleman's Magazine, tom, lxxxiv. p.      1814.
6"                                                                                                                pp.
                                                                                  3,

                                                                                     4"

                                                                                                             ii.

142  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     CHAP. XVir

dalene College, Cambridge, for which I have been indebted

to the kindness of Lord Braybrooke, will throw much

light upon the subject.

Newton, as will be presently seen, had fallen into a

bad state of health in the autumn of 1692, in consequence

of which both his sleep and his appetite were greatly

affected. About the middle of September 1 693, he had

been kept awake for five nights by this nervous disorder,

and in this condition he wrote the following letter to Mr.

Pepys :--
                                                                                              " September 13, 1693.
   " Sik,-- Some time after Mr. Millington had delivered

your message, he pressed me to see you the next time I
went to London. I was averse ; but upon his pressing
consented, before I considered what I did, for I am ex
tremely troubled at the embroilment I am in, and have

neither ate nor slept well this twelvemonth, nor have my

former consistency of mind. I never designed to get any

thing by your interest, nor by King James's favour, but

am now sensible that I must withdraw from your acquaint

ance, and see neither you nor the rest of my friends any

more, if I may but leave them quietly. I beg your par
don for saying I would see you again, and rest your most

humble and most obedient servant,  " Is. Newton."

   From this letter we learn, on his own authority, that

his complaint had lasted for a twelvemonth, and that

during that period he neither ate nor slept well nor

enjoyed his former consistency of mind. It is not easy

to understand exactly what is meant by not enjoying his
former consistency of mind ; but whatever be its import,
it is obvious that he must have been in a state of mind

1093.                     LIFE OF SIR I9AAC NEWTON.                       143

which enabled him to compose the four letters to Bentley,
and the other productions we have mentioned.

    On the receipt of this letter, his friend, Mr. Pepys,
seems to have written to Mr. Millington, to inquire after
Mr. Newton's health ; but the inquiry having been made
in a vague manner, an answer equally vague was returned.
Mr. Pepys, however, who seems to have been deeply
anxious about Newton's health, addressed the following

more explicit letter to Mr. Millington :--

                                                   " September 26, 1693.

" Sir,-- After acknowledging your many old favours,

give me leave to do it a little more particularly upon

occasion of the new one conveyed to me by my nephew

Jackson. Though, at the same time, I must acknowledge
myself not at the ease I would be glad to be at in refer

ence to the excellent Mr. Newton ; concerning whom

(methinks) your answer labours under the same kind of

Irestraint which            (to tell you    the    truth)   my    asking did.
                          at first dash   to tell    you   that
For was loth                                                     I had lately

received a letter from him so surprising to me for the

inconsistency of every part of            it,

                                                I
                                                          II

                                                                                       a
                                                   as to be put into great

it

                     it,
disorder by from the concernment have for him, lest

    should arise from that which of all mankind should

least dread from him and most lament for, -- mean

discomposure in head, or mind, or both. Let me, there

fore, beg you, Sir, having now told you the true ground

of the trouble lately gave you, to let me know the very
       I
               I

                       a

                   I
truth of the matter, as far at least as comes within your
knowledge. For own too great an esteem for Mr.

Newton, as for public good, to be able to let any doubt

in me of this kind concerning him lie moment uncleared,

where can have any hopes of helping it. -- am, with
                                                   a

                                                             I

144  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVII.

great truth and respect, dear Sir, your most humble and

most affectionate servant,      " S. Pepys."

    To this letter Mr. Millington made the following re
ply :--

                                             " Coll. Maod. Camb., Sept. the 30, 1693.

   " Honor'd Sir,-- Coming home from a journey on the

I28th instant at night, met with your letter which you
were pleased to honour me with of the 26th. I am much
I Itroubled was not at home in time for the post, that

might as soon as possible put you out of your generous

payne that you are in for the worthy Mr. Newton. I
Iwas, must confess, very much surprised at the inquiry

you were pleased to make by your nephew about the
message that Mr. Newton made the ground of his letter

to you, for I was very sure I never either received from
Iyou or delivered to him any such ; and therefore went

immediately to wayt upon him, with a design to discourse
him about the matter, but he was out of town, and since

I have not seen him, till upon the 28th I met him at
IHuntingdon, where, upon his own accord, and before

had time to ask him any question, he told me that he had
writt to you a very odd letter, at which he was much
concerned ; added, that it was in a distemper that much

seized his head, and that kept him awake for above five

Inights together, which upon occasion he desired would

represent to you, and beg your pardon, he being very
much ashamed he should be so rude to a person for
whom he hath so great an honour. He is now very well,

Iand, though fear he is under some small degree of me
lancholy, yet I think there is no reason to suspect it hath
at all touched his understanding, and I hope never will ;

1693.           UFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       145

Iand so am sure all ought to wish that love learning or

the honour of our nation, which it is a sign how much it
is looked after, when such a person as Mr. Newton lyes so

neglected by those in power. And thus, honoured Sir, I
Ihave made you acquainted with all know of the cause

Iof such inconsistencys in the letter of so excellent a per

son ; and hope it will remove the doubts and fears you

are, with so much compassion and publickness of spirit,

Ipleased to entertain about Mr. Newton ; but if should

have been wanting in any thing tending to the more full

Isatisfaction, shall, upon the least notice, endeavour to

amend it with all gratitude and truth. Honored Sir, your

most faithfull and most obedient servant,
                                                          " JOH. MlLLINGTON."

    Mr. Pepys was perfectly satisfied with this answer, as

appears from the following letter :--

                                                                                                      " October 3d, 1693.

   " Sir, -- You have delivered me from a fear that indeed

gave me much trouble, and from my very heart I thank

you for an evil to Mr. Newton being what every good
       it
man must feel for his own sake as well as his. God
           it,
grant may stopp here. And for the kind reflection hee

has since made upon his letter to mee, dare not take
                ;
                                                               I it,
                         I
                                  I

                                                      it, it,
upon mee to judge what answer should make him to

or whether any or no and therefore pray that you will

bee pleased either to bestow on mee what directions you

see fitt for my own guidance towards him in or to say

to him in my name, but your own pleasure, whatever you

think may be most welcome to him upon                        and most

expressive of my regard and affectionate esteem of him,

and concernment for him. have debt to acknowledge
                I

                              a
                                        by
to you, (but was prevented in my last,      the thoughts
   VOL. II.                                          K

146             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           CHAP. XVII.

was then overborne with in this matter,) from the great

satisfaction you was pleased to give me by your pupil

(on whose behalf I have lasting thanks also to pay you)

to my enquiries about Mr. Pyets, beseeching you to make
the same scruplelesse use of me in whatever relation you

can think me capable of rendering you any service, for I

would do it with great pleasure, remaining, dear Sir,
your most humble and most faithful servant,

                                                                  " S. Pepys."

It does not appear from the Memoirs of Mr. Pepys

that he returned any answer to the letter of Mr. Newton,

which occasioned this correspondence ; but we find,

that in less than two months after the date of the pre

ceding letter, an opportunity occurred of introducing to

him a Mr. Smith, who took a journey to Cambridge to

obtain his opinion on a problem in the doctrine of chances.
This problem related to " the project of Mr. Neale, the
                                                    Newton " can
groom-porter's    lottery,"  which   Pepys    says    extinguished,
not but have    heard of,"   as it  " has   almost

for some time, at all places of public conversation, espe

cially among men of numbers, every other talk but what

relates to the doctrine of determining between the true

proportion of the hazards incident to this or that given
chance or lot." " Mr. Smith," he says, " was concerned

(more than in jest) to compass a solution, that may be
relied on beyond what his modesty will suffer him to

think his own alone, or any less than Mr. Newton's to be."

Mr. Pepys's introductory letter was dated November

22, 1693, and Newton returned an answer on the 26th,

in which he explains the ambiguity of the question as

bper,o--posed to him. He takes the question, however, to

1693.                   LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.                                              147

" What is the expectation of a to throw every time one

six at least with six dice ?
    " What is the expectation of B to throw every time two

sixes at least with twelve dice ?
    " What is the expectation of c to throw every time three

sixes at least with eighteen dice ?
   " And whether has not B and c as great an expectation

to hit every time what they throw for ?

  If" the question be thus stated, it appears by an easy

computation that          the                expectation  of a is greater than that
                                             the task of
of b and c, --that        a is,                               the easiest, --and the
                                                        BB a
                                            ;                is

                                                                  c
reason  is  because has all the chances in sixes on his

dice for his expectation but and have not all the

chances upon theirs, for, when throws a single six, or
                                                                                                a
but one or two sixes, they miss of their expectations."                                                   c
   In his reply, which have not found among the Ports
                                             I

mouth papers, Pepys concurred in this statement of the

question, and desired to have the "easy computation."

Newton accordingly sent, on the 6th December, table       1
of eight progressions for making it. In returning thanks
for the " easy computation," Pepys confessed that he did

not understand how to make the full use of the table of

progressions, and therefore put the question in a different
form. This letter dated December 21, 1693,1 but New
                        it is
ton's answer to has not been found. In perusing this

correspondence, the mathematical reader will have no

doubt of the consistency of Newton's                                 mind, and of its
fitness for the most profound research.                              to Pepys, of the

   It obvious from Newton's letter
1
                                                          ii.
       is                                                           in
         I
                                                                                            by
                                         in
The three first letters above-mentioned have been published                                     Lord Bray-

brooke in his Memoirs of Samuel Pepys, vol.               pp. 131-135: Lond. 1825. The
                                             the Appendix, No. XI.,
fourth letter have given                                             order to complete the pub

lished correspondence.

148    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVII.

13th September, that the subject of his receiving some

favour from the Government had been a matter of anxiety

with himself, and of discussion among his friends. Mr.

Millington was no doubt referring to this anxiety, when

he represents Newton as an honour to the nation, and
expresses his surprise " that such a person should lye so

neglected by those in power." We have already shown
that the same subject was alluded to in his letters to
Locke in 1692. In all these letters Newton no doubt

referred to some appointment in London which he was

solicitous to obtain, and which Mr. Montague and his

other friends may have failed in procuring. This opinion

is confirmed by the letter of Mr. Montague, announcing

to him his appointment to the wardenship of the Mint, in

which he says that he is very glad he can at last give him

good proof of his friendship.

   In the same month in which Newton wrote to Mr.

Pepys, we find him in correspondence with Mr. Locke.

Displeased with his opinions respecting innate ideas, he

had rashly stated that they struck at the root of all mo

rality, and that he regarded the author of such doctrines

as a Hobbist. Upon reconsidering these opinions, he

addressed the following remarkable letter to Locke,

written three days after his letter to Mr. Pepys, and

consequently during the illness under which he then

laboured : --
   " Sir, --Being of opinion that you endeavoured to em

Ibroil me with women, and by other means, was so much

affected with as that when one told me you were sickly
II
    I

                   it,

                  I
                                                    if

                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                                                         ;
and would not live, answered, 'twere better you were

dead.  desire you to forgive me this uncharitableness

for am now satisfied that what you have done just,

and beg your pardon for my having hard thoughts of

1603.                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                       149

you for and for representing that you struck at the
            it,
                      a

                                 a

                              II
                                                        a
root of morality, in principle you laid in your book of

ideas, and designed to pursue in another book, and that                                                   I

took you for Hobbist.1                          beg your pardon also for

saying or thinking that there was design to sell me an

office, or to embroil me. -- am your most humble and

unfortunate servant,                                                                     " Is. Newton.
  " At the Bull, Shoreditch, London,
            in

            Sept. 16<A, 1693."

       To this letter, characterized by Dugald Stewart as in

     genuous and infantine in its simplicity, Locke returned

     the following answer, which, as the same author justly
     remarks, " written with the magnanimity of philoso
            a                                                                                    a
                 is                                                                                    a
     pher, and with the good-humoured forbearance of man

     of the world, breathing throughout so tender and un

affected veneration for the good as well as great quali

     ties of the excellent person to whom                                                it      addressed, as
                                                                                             is

     demonstrates at once the conscious integrity of the writer,

and the superiority of his mind to little passions."2

in     The  system of Hobbes   was at this      time very prevalent. According to                          Dr.
   »1Bentley," the taverns and  coffee-houses,     nay, Westminster-Hall, and the                         very

churches, were full of         and he was convinced, from personal observation, that
                          it
                              ;"

                                   a
                                                                                      a
     " not one English infidel in hundred was other than Hobbist." -- Monk's Life of

Bendey, p. 31.

     Newton and Locke occasionally corresponded on theological subjects. In the

autumn of 1702, Newton visited Locke at Oates, and having read his Essay on the

Corinthians, he promised to give him his observations and opinion upon after
                                                                                                 it

                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                a
more careful perusal. Locke accordingly sent to him before Christmas 1702 but
                                a
                                                    it
     consequence of receiving no answer, he wrote to him again on the 30th April 1703,

and received his observations in letter dated May 15, 1703, published by Lord

King. In this letter Newton tells him that he had purposed to pay him visit at                   a
Oates, on his way to Cambridge, in summer, but was " now uncertain of this

journey." We believe they never met again. Locke died on the 28th October

     1704, in the seventy-third year of his age and has been stated that Newton
                                                ;

                                                          it

     visited his tomb at High Laver, in Essex, in all probability when he paid his next

     visit to Cambridge.

150  LIFE OK SlH ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVII.

                                                                                        " Oaths, Oct. bth, 1693.

" Sir, -- I have been, ever since I first knew you, so

entirely and sincerely your friend, and thought you so

much mine, that I could not have believed what you tell
me of yourself, had I had it from any body else. And,
though I cannot but be mightily troubled that you should

have had so many wrong and unjust thoughts of me, yet

next to the return of good offices, such as from a sincere

I Igood will have ever done you, receive your acknow

ledgment of the contrary as the kindest thing you have

done me, since it gives me hopes I have not lost a friend
I Iso much valued. After what your letter expresses,

shall not need to say any thing to justify myself to you.

I shall always think your own reflection on my carriage,

both to you and all mankind, will sufficiently do that.

Instead of that, give me leave to assure you that I am

more ready to forgive you than you can be to desire it ;

and I do it so freely and fully, that I wish for nothing
more than the opportunity to convince you that I truly
love and esteem you, and that I have the same good will

for you as if nothing of this had happened. To confirm

this to you more fully, I should be glad to meet you any

where, and the rather, because the conclusion of your

letter makes me apprehend it would not be wholly useless

Ito you. But whether you think it fit or not, leave

wholly to you. I shall always be ready to serve you to

my utmost, in any way you shall like, and shall only need

your commands or permission to do it.
   " My book is going to press for a second edition ; and,

though I can answer for the design with which I write
                       iIt,

                                                   it
                                                                a

                                                                if it,
yet, since you have so opportunely given me notice of

what you have said of  should take as favour

you would point out to me the places that gave occasion

1693.                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                      151

Ito that censure, that, by explaining myself better, may

avoid being mistaken by others, or unawares doing the

least prejudice to truth or virtue. I am sure you are so

much a friend to them both, that, were you none to me,

I could expect this from you. But I cannot doubt but

you would do a great deal more than this for my sake,
who, after all, have all the concern of a friend for you,
wish you extremely well, and am, without compli

ment, &C."1

   To this letter Newton made the following reply :--

   " Sir,--The last winter, by sleeping too often by my fire,
I got an habit of sleeping and a distemper, which this
it a                                     I;
summer has been epidemical, put me farther out of order,
  iIf a
so that when wrote to you, had not slept an hour a
              ill

             I II I
night for a fortnight together, and for five days together

not wink.            remember wrote to you, but what said
                     I                                           I

Ifof your book remember not.                 you please to send me

transcript of that passage, will give you an account ofI

      can. -- am your most humble servant,

                                                            " Is. Newton.

" Cambridoe, Oct. Ibth, 1693."

   Although the first of these letters evinces the existence

of a nervous irritability which could not fail to arise from

want of appetite and of rest, yet            is it       obvious that its
                                                 is
author was in the full possession of his mental powers.

The answer of Mr. Locke, indeed,                   written upon the

supposition that Newton was then qualified to point out

the objectionable passages in his Book, that they might

be corrected and better explained and deserves to be
                     i«

                                 J.

                                                I. ;

                                                    it

                                                              I
1    "The draft of this letter indorsed  L. to Newton."          have not found the
original among Newton's Papcre.

162                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   CHAP. XVII.

remarked, that Mr. Dugald Stewart, who first published a

portion of these letters, never imagined that Newton

was labouring under any mental alienation.

   In the autumn of 1693, when Newton was suffering

most severely from want of appetite and sleep, we find
                enogf athgeedNeinwbTibelsictaaml erenste--arcchr--iticcisoilnlagtintgheamncaineunt
him deeply
manuscripts

script works of Dr. John Mill of Edmund Hall, Oxford,

and communicating to him the results of his labours.

Only two letters of this correspondence have been found,
the letter from Dr. Mill to Newton, requesting the return

of his manuscript with his observations, and Newton's

reply, showing how busily he had been occupied in the

task assigned to him by his friend.1

Among the other evidences of Newton's consistency of

mind, in May 1694, when he is said to have been only

beginning to understand the Principia, we may mention

the visit paid to him in the beginning of that month by

David Gregory, who went to Cambridge for the purpose
of " consulting the divine author of the Principia," on cer

tain errors which appeared to have crept into that work.2

On the 7th of the same month, probably when Gregory

was at Cambridge, we find Newton denouncing the im

posture of the haunted house, and scolding the Fellows

I1 The letter of Dr. Mill, dated Nov. 7, 1693,     found among Newton's papers.

That of Newton, dated Jan. 29, 169f, is preserved in the library of Queen's

College, Oxford, and is No. 26 of the printed Catalogue. Having been kindly

favoured with a copy of this letter by Dr. Fox, 1 have given both of them in the
                XII., as they possess a peculiar
Appendix, No.                                      interest.    2)  irrepsisse,  illos  omnes
   2 " Quoniam  varii errores in propositiones 37  et 38 (Lib.

restitutos hie apponam, prout in auctoris exemplari inveni, incunte Maio 1694, dum
Cantahrigice hsererem, consulendi divini auctoris gratia." -- MS. of David Gregory,
Rigaud, Hist. Essay, p. 100. Mr. Rigaud adds, that this is " the place in which

Fatio says he convinced Newton of his mistakes." Sec Edinburgh Transactions,

1829, vol. xii. p. 71.

1694.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                               153

of Trinity and several of the scholars for their cre

dulity.1
    The erroneous opinion that Newton devoted his atten

tion to theology only in the latter part of his life, may be

considered as deriving some countenance from the fact,
that the celebrated general scholium, at the end of the

second edition of the Principia, published in 1713, did
not appear in the first edition of that work. This argu

ment has been ably controverted by the late Dr. J. C.

Gregory of Edinburgh, on the authority of a manuscript
of Newton, which seems to have been transmitted to his

ancestor, Dr. David Gregory, between the years 1687 and
1698. This manuscript, which consists of twelve folio
pages in Newton's handwriting, contains, in the form of
additions, and scholia to some propositions in the third
book of the Principia, an account of the opinions of the
ancient philosophers on gravitation and motion, and on
natural theology, with various quotations from their works.

Attached to this manuscript are three very curious para
graphs. The two first appear to have been the original
draught of the general scholium already referred to ; and
the third relates to the subject of an ethereal medium,

respecting which he maintains an opinion diametrically

opposite to that which he afterwards published at the end

   1 The following account of this affair is given by Mr. Edleston from De la Pryme's
Diary: -- " On {the} Monday {night} likewise, there being a great number of
people at the door {of the haunted house, -- it was a house opposite St. John's Col
lege, in the occupation of Valentine Austin,} there chanced to come by Mr. Newton,

Fellow of Trinity College, a very learned man, and perceiving our Fellows to have

gone in {three Fellows of St. John's, with a Fellow Commoner of that College, had
rushed in armed with pistols,} and seeing several scholars ab' y6 door, ' Oh ye
fools !' says he, ' will ye never have any wit ? know ye not that all such things

are mere cheats and impostures ? fie, fie ! go home for shame,' and so he left them,

scorning to go in." In this Diary,  to which    we have already referred, there is a full
account of the proceedings of the   " spirit,"  which the writer of the Diary had re
ceived in a letter from Cambridge. -- Edleston's Correspondence, &c. p. lxiv.

154  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             CHAP. XVII.

of his Optics.1 The first paragraph expresses nearly the

same idea as some sentences in the scholium beginning
" Deus summus est ens aeternum, infinitum, absolute per-
fectum ;"2 and it is remarkable that the second paragraph
is found only in the third edition of the Principia, which
appeared in 1 726, the year before Newton's death.

   In reviewing the details which we have now given re
specting the health and occupations of Newton from the
beginning of 1692 to 1694, it is impossible to draw any

other conclusion than that he possessed a sound mind,
and was perfectly capable of carrying on his mathema
tical, his physical, and his theological inquiries. His friend
and admirer, Mr. Pepys, residing within fifty miles of
Cambridge, had never heard of his being attacked with
any illness till he inferred it from the letter to himself
written in September 1693. Mr. Millington, who lived

in the same University, had been equally unacquainted
with any such attack, and, after a personal interview
with Newton, for the express purpose of ascertaining the
state of his health, he assures Mr. Pepys, " that he is very

well --that he fears he is under some small degree of mel

   1 Dr. Gregory concludes his account of this manuscript, which he kindly lent me,
in the following words :-- " I do not know whether it is true, as stated by Huygens,
' Newtonum incidisse in Phrenitim ;' but I think every gentleman who examines

this manuscript will be of opinion that he must have thoroughly recovered from his

phrenitis before he wrote either the Commentary on the Opinions of the Ancients,

or the Sketch of his own Theological and Philosophical Opinions which it contains."
J.An account of this manuscript, by Dr.
                                         Gregory, has been published in the Edin
burgh Transactions for 1829, vol. xii. pp. 64 67. -- See Rigaud's Hist. Essay, p. 99.
* This paragraph is as follows :-- " Deum esse ens summe perfectum concedunt

omues. Entis autem summe perfecti Idea est ut sit substantia una, simplex, indi-

visibilis, viva et vivifica, ubique semper necessario existens, summe intelligens omnia,

libere volens bona, voluntate efficiens possibilia, effectibus nobilioribus similitudinem

propriam quantum fieri potest communicans, omnia in se continens tanquam eorum

principium et locus, omnia per prcsentiain substantialem ecrnens et regeus, et cum

rebus omnibus, secundum leges accuratas ut natunv totius fundament um ct causa

constantcr co opcrans, nisi ubi aliter agcrc bonuin est."

1692-94.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  155

ancholy, but that there is no reason to suspect that it hath
at all touched his understanding."

    During this period of bodily indisposition, his mind,
though in a state of nervous irritability, and disturbed by
want of rest, was capable of putting forth its highest

powers. At the request of Dr. Wallis he drew up examples

of one of his propositions on the quadrature of curves in
second fluxions. He composed, at the desire of Dr. Bent-

ley, his profound and beautiful letters on the existence of
the Deity. He was requested by Locke to reconsider his
opinions on the subject of innate ideas. Dr. Mill engaged
him in profound biblical researches, and we shall pre
sently find him grappling with the difficulties of the lunar

theory.
    But with all these proofs of a vigorous mind, a diminu

tion of his mental powers has been rashly inferred from
the cessation of his great discoveries, and from his unwil

lingness to enter upon new investigations. The facts,

however, here assumed, are as incorrect as the inference

which is drawn from them. The ambition of fame is a

youthful passion, which is softened, if not subdued, by age.

 Success diminishes its ardour, and early pre-eminence
 often extinguishes it. Before the middle period of his life
 Newton was invested with all the insignia of immortality ;
but endowed with a native humility of mind, and animated
 with those hopes which teach us to form a humble esti
 mate of human greatness, he was satisfied with the laurels

 which he had won, and he sought only to perfect and

 complete his labours. Although his mind was principally
 bent on the improvement of the Principia, yet he occa

sionally diverged into new fields of scientific research -- he

 created, as we shall see, his fine theory of astronomical
 refractions -- he made great improvements on the lunar

156  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVII.

theory --he solved difficult problems, which had been pro
posed to try his strength, -- he wrote a profound letter to
Leibnitz, -- he made valuable additions to his " Opticks,"--
he continued his chemical experiments, -- and he devoted

much of his time to profound inquiries in chronology and

theological literature.
    The powers of his mind were therefore in full requisi

tion ; and, when we consider that he was called to the

discharge of high official functions which forced him into

public life, and compelled him to direct his genius into
new channels, we can scarcely be surprised that he ceased
to produce any very original works on abstract science.

In the direction of the affairs of the Mint, and of the Royal

Society, to which we shall now follow him, he found ample
occupation for his time ; while the leisure of his declining
years was devoted to those exalted studies in which phi
losophy yields to the supremacy of faith, and hope ad
ministers to the aspirations of genius.

1692.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                               157

                  CHAPTER XVIII.

newton occupied with the lunar theory -- his correspondence
   with flamsteed, the astronomer-royal --newton 's letters to
   flamsteed, published by mr. baily --controversy which they
  occasioned -- flamsteed's letter to newton discovered recently
      character of flamsteed, in reference to this controversy

  of newton, and of halley -- all of them engaged, with dif

   ferent objects, in studying the lunar theory -- newton applies
   to flamsteed fob observations on the moon-- and on the re

fraction of the atmosphere, which flamsteed transmits to
him --analysis of their correspondence-- flamsteed's bitter
illness against halley -- differences between newton and flam
steed -- flamsteed's  health interferes with his supplying

newton with observations -- newton's impatience and expos
tulation with flamsteed-- justification of flamsteed -- biot

ascribes newton's letter to mental illness --refutation of
this view of the subject -- newton never afflicted with any

mental disorder.

Whlle Newton was supposed to be incapable of under

standing his Principia, we find him occupied with the

difficult and profound subject of the lunar irregularities.

He had resumed this inquiry in 1692,1 and it was pro

bably from the intense application of his mental powers

which that subject demanded, that he was deprived of

his appetite and sleep during that and the subsequent

year. When Mr. Machin long afterwards was compli

menting him upon his successful treatment of
                  1                                                            Sir
                                                    ;

                                                                  p.

                                                                          it,
Isaac told him that his head had never ached but when

he was studying that subject and Dr. Halley told Con

                      Rigaud, Hist Essay, 104.

158          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           CHAP. XVIII

duitt that he often pressed him to complete his theory of

the moon, and that he always replied that it made his

head ache, and kept him awake so often, that he would

think of it no more. On a future occasion, however, he

stated to Conduitt, that if he lived till Halley made six

years' observations, " he would have another stroke at

the moon."1

In order to verify the equations which he had deduced

from the theory of gravity, accurate observations on

the moon were required ; and, for the purpose of ob

taining them, Newton had arranged, in the month of

July 1691, to pay a visit to Flamsteed at the Royal

Observatory of Greenwich. Learning, however, that

Flamsteed was at that time from home, he postponed his

visit, and intimated what had been his intention, in a

letter of introduction which David Gregory delivered to

the Astronomer-Royal in August 1691.2 During this

visit Gregory introduced the subject of the lunar irregu

larities, and, in a letter to Newton, gives him an account

of the conversation which arose on this and other sub
jects. " Flamsteed," he says, " remembered you very
kindly ;" and, among other things, he said, " that he did

not believe the irregularity of the moon's motions in

summer and winter is of that quantity your system
would make it."3 In the letter delivered by Gregory,

Newton had advised Flamsteed to publish a catalogue of
the correct places of such fixed stars of the first six

magnitudes, as had been observed by others, and after

wards, by way of an appendix,  those observed by himself
                                causes perhaps not then
alone,--an advice which, from

     1 Conduitt's Manuscript notes.                  Flamsteed,  p. 129.
     · Dated 10th August 1691, published in Baily's
     * August 27, 1691, unpublished.

1604.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       159

known to Newton, struck a discordant key in the mind

of Flamsteed. He believed that this advice was suggested

by Halley, whom he considered as an enemy, who had
misrepresented him to his friends as unwilling to print
his observations. He enters, therefore, in a long letter,1
into an explanation of his reasons, for not printing his
observations, and he concludes the letter with the severest

animadversions upon Halley, which it is impossible to

Ijustify. " have no esteem," he says, " of a man who

has lost his reputation, both for skill, candour, and inge
nuity, by silly tricks, ingratitude, and foolish prate ; and

Ithat value not all, or any of the shame of him and

his infidel companions; being very well satisfied, that if

Christ and his Apostles were to walk again upon the

earth, they should not escape free from the calumnies of

their venomous tongues. But I hate his ill manners,

not the man. Were he either honest or but civil, there

Iis none in whose company could rather desire to be."

Newton's reply to this letter, if he did reply, has not
been found either among his own papers or those of

Flamsteed.

    Newton seems to have had no farther communication
with Flamsteed till 1694,2 when a correspondence took
place between them, which was continued with little in
termission for nearly two years, and with the nature of
which the public was not till lately acquainted. The late

1 February 24, 1692. B.iily's Flamsteed, pp. 129-133.

» In sending a copy of an unpublished letter on Earthquakes to a mutual friend,
dated April 10, 1693, Flamsteed says, " Give my humble service to Mr. Newton,
and let him know I owe him another concerning the present state of my labours,
Iwhich shall not fail to pay him now in a short time. It may satisfy him, that
Ithey go on successfully, and tend towards what they were designed for.
                                                                         have

thirty maps of the constellations drawn, having observed 2200 fixed stars visible by

the naked eye, and having about as many left to observe, as will make them above

3000, which is above double of the old catalogues."

160  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVIII.

Mr. Francis Baily having obtained access to the manu
scripts of Flamsteed, in the possession of a private indivi
dual, and to other manuscripts and books of his which
had been left in the Royal Observatory, found that they
contained materials which he considered of inestimable

value in the history of astronomy, and, through the in
fluence of the Duke of Sussex, the Lords Commissioners

of the Admiralty were induced to print them at the

public expense.1

    The general effect of this publication, and of the senti
ments expressed by Mr. Baily, was injurious to the me
mory of Newton ; and as the work excited a high degree
of interest in every part of the globe where science was
cultivated, the friends of the injured philosopher were
roused in his defence, and the scientific world is still
divided on the subject. In justifying himself for publish
ing certain parts of the correspondence, Mr. Baily re
marks, " that the personal motives for withholding them
have long passed away, and now cease to exist ; and how
ever unpleasant and painful it must be to an enlightened
mind to find such eminent characters as Newton and

Halley mixed up with subjects of the kind to which I

shall presently allude, and pursuing a line of conduct
towards Flamsteed which tends to make them appear
less amiable in our eyes, yet a proper regard for truth and
justice prevents any suppressions at the present day of
the many curious and important (though often at the

same time lamentable) facts which these manuscripts

   1 This work, with a preface and notes by the editor, is entitled An Account of the
Rev. John Flamsteed, the first Astronomer- Royal, compiled from his own MSS.,

and other authentic Documen's, never before published; to which is added, his
British Catalogue of Stars. By Francis Baily, Esq. : Lond. 1835. 4to. Pp.671.

A Supplement appeared in January 1837, in reply to criticisms by the friends of

Newton.

1C94.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                             161

have, for the first time, brought to light. I have indeed,"

he continues, " in justice to the parties here alluded to,
endeavoured to procure information of a contrary ten
dency from various sources, and sought for documents
which might tend either to extenuate or explain the con
duct of Newton and Halley in these proceedings, or to
throw new light on the origin and nature of the quarrel
that at a certain period of this history existed between

Flamsteed and his two distinguished contemporaries, but,

notwithstanding all my researches, I regret that it has

been hitherto without success."1
    In enumerating the repositories to which his researches

extended in quest of information favourable to Newton
and Halley, Mr. Baily mentions " the valuable collection
of Newton's MSS. belonging to the Earl of Portsmouth,"
and states that he " found nothing in it to throw any light

Ion the special object of his inquiries." From causes

which cannot explain, Mr. Baily had not lighted upon
the letters of Flamsteed to Newton, which had been care

fully preserved, and of which I have now before me nearly

forty, which complete the correspondence2 between these
two distinguished individuals, and enable us to form a

more correct judgment on those delicate questions to

which this controversy has given rise. Before proceed
ing, however, to give a general account of its history, the
reader requires to have some knowledge of the position
and character of the three distinguished men whose repu

 tation is so deeply at stake.
    Flamsteed, who was four years younger than Newton,

held the high position of Astronomer-Royal, along with

   1 Baily's Flanisteed, pref., pp. xix. xx.    of Flamsteeil's  letters to  Newton,
   2 Mr. Baily was able to publish only eleven
and these not correct copies of the originals.                         L

    VOL. II.

162  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  OHAP. XVIII.

 the small living of Burstow, in Surrey. His salary
 was only £100 a year, and he was allowed nothing from
 Government, either to provide or repair instruments, or

 to pay the expenses of a computer for reducing his ob
 servations. He was, therefore, obliged to purchase, or to
 construct with his own hands, the instruments which he
 used, and to pay the expenses of a servant capable of
 making the calculations whicb he required. His observa
 tions, consequently, were his own property, and no private
 individual was entitled to demand them. Flamsteed was,
 from his infancy, a person with a feeble constitution, and,
 when Astronomer-Royal, was afflicted with severe head

 aches, and with the stone and other painful distempers ;
 but he bore these with Christian resignation, and never
 failed to exhibit in his conduct, and to express in his writ
 ings, the humblest submission to the Divine will. But with
 all his piety and virtues, there was a defect of character
 which it is necessary to state. He was prone to take an
 unfavourable view of the motives, as well as the conduct

. of those with whom he differed ; and when such impres
 sions were once made upon his mind, it was almost im

 possible to dislodge them. The following anecdote from

 the autobiography of William Molyneux, Esq., the friend
 of Locke, gives a view of Flamsteed, which is in every re
 spect consistent with that which he displayed in his con

 troversy with Newton and Halley :-- " Mr. John Flam

 steed, the King's astronomer at Greenwich, was formerly
  my constant correspondent for many years,1 but upon
  publication of my Dioptrics, he took such offence at my
  placing a solution of his, of the 16, 17, and 18 proposi

   1 Eighteen letters from William Molyneux to Flamsteed, written in the most
affectionate terms, and dated between September 17, 1681, and May 17, 1690, in
clusive, were published in the General Dictionary, Art. MoLTNErx, vol. vii. p. 613.

                               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        163

tions thereof, after, and not before, the solution I myself

gave of the said propositions,1 that he broke his friend

ship with me, and that, too, with so much inveteracy,

Ithat could never bring him to a reconciliation, though

I have often endeavoured so that at last slighted the

friendship of man of so much ill nature and irreligion,
                           a
                                                it,

                                                           I

how ingenious and learned soever."2

    Mr. Newton was at this time Fellow of Trinity College,

and Lucasian Professor at Cambridge, and though his

Principia had been for six or seven years before the

public, its value was known but to few, and his great
                                             a

talents not sufficiently appreciated. He had been long

acquainted with Flamsteed, and, in a correspondence which

he had with him about the comet of 1680, Flamsteed
had considered him as " magisterially ridiculing an unan

swerable opinion of his," which turned out to be true.3 In

Newton's controversies with Hooke,4 too, we have noticed

some traces of personal feeling which might have been

spared but                     in his relations with Locke that some of
          a;
                   it
                        is
those little imperfections of character are seen which

slightly reappear in his communications with Flamsteed.

We do not refer to the opinions which he expressed when
under nervous irritation, but to those occurrences which

induced Locke, in 1703, to state confidentially to his
cousin, Lord Chancellor King, " that Newton was nice
                                             '

                                                                i.
                                                                         p.

                                                                                            7,

                                                                            a
man to deal with, and little too apt to raise in himself
                               is a
suspicions where there no ground."5

    Dr. Edmund Halley, who was twelve years younger

*1  These propositions are referred to in his letter to Flamsteed, May 1690.

    Molyneux's Dioptrics was published in 1692, and the Life, addressed to his
          1694. He died in 1698, at the age of forty-two. See An Account of the
brother,  in
                 i.
                    of p.
Family and Descendants of Sir Thomas Molyneux, Bart. Evesham, 1820. 4to.
    See Vol.                                 Sec Vol.
**                       301.                             146.

    King's Life Locke, vol.    ii.      38.
                                    p.

164  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.             cnAP. xviii.

than Flamsteed, was resident in London, and clerk and

assistant secretary to the Royal Society during the cor
respondence between Newton and Flamsteed. He was a
man of the world, much esteemed in society, but was

generally supposed to entertain infidel opinions. Under

this impression, Bishop Stillingfleet refused to recommend

him to the Savilian Chair of Geometry in Oxford, when

he was a candidate along with David Gregory ; and Bishop

Berkeley, on very imperfect information, rashly ventured
to dedicate the Analyst to him as an " infidel mathemati
cian." " Mr. Addison," as has been stated,1 " had given

Bishop Berkeley an account of their common friend Dr.

Garth's behaviour in his last illness, which was equally

unpleasing to both these advocates of revealed religion.
For when Mr. Addison went to see the Doctor, and began

to discourse with him seriously about preparing for his
approaching dissolution, the other made answer, ' Surely,

Addison, I have a good reason not to believe these trifles,

since my friend Dr. Halley, who has dealt so much in

demonstration, has assured me that the doctrines of

Christianity are  incomprehensible, and the religion itself
an imposture.' "     Flamsteed never scrupled to denounce

Halley as a libertine and an infidel ; and we regret to see

that a modern writer has ventured to say that Halley

was low and loose in his moral conduct, and an avowed and

shameless infidel.2 Had such been his character, he never

would have been the friend and companion of Newton.

It is quite true that Halley was sometimes checked by

INewton

spectful
     when he had said                      maniyldthrienpgrotohfa, t"appheaavreedstduidsireed
     to religion, by the

   1 Biog. Brit. vol. ii. p. 256, or, The  Works of Gkorge Beiikeley,  D. D., Bishop

of Cloyne, p. viii. Lond. 1837.
    * Quarterly Review, vol. lv. p. 112.

1094.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  165

these things --you have not ;" and I have found a memor

andum signed by Mrs. Conduitt, in which she says that
Newton " could not bear to hear any one talk ludicrously
of religion, and that he was often angry with Dr. Halley
on that score, and lessened his affection for Bentley."
Thus placed in the same category with Dr. Bentley, we
have no doubt that Halley's speaking ludicrously of reli

gion amounted to nothing more than his maintaining
certain opinions about the existence of a pre-Adamite

earth, and ridiculing vulgar errors which have been too
frequently associated with religious truth.1

    These three eminent individuals were, in the years 1694

and 1695, engaged in nearly the same researches. They
were all intently studying the irregularities of the moon's

orbit, 2 and had Halley not been a party, there is reason to

believe that no difference would have arisen between

Newton and Flamsteed. We have failed, like Mr. Baily,
to discover the ground of Flamsteed's virulent antipathy
to Halley, evincing a degree of hatred which no Christian
could rightly cherish, and which no honourable man could
avow, and still less record. The charge of infidelity and

libertinism was, we fear, but the mask under which per

sonal feelings were too readily expressed ; and if David

Gregory's memorandum of him be true, we have a satis
factory explanation of the origin of Flamsteed's enmity to
Halley, in what Mr. Rigaud calls " his detected act of
dishonesty." " Newton," says Gregory, " often told me,
but especially in December 1698, that these tables
(Flamsteed's lunar ones) were first made and computed

  J.1 We recommend to the reader the able Defence of Halley against the Charge

of Religious Infidelity, by the Rev. S. Rigaud, M. A., of Ipswich, Oxford, 1844.

Professor Rigaud, the author's distinguished father, a man of genuine piety, enter

tained the same opinion of Halley.
    * We owe to Halley the discovery of the secular equation of the moon.

166                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      CHAP. XVIII.

by Edmund Halley, and communicated to Flamsteed, and
published by him without the knowledge of Halley, and
that this theft was the origin of the eternal quarrels be
tween Halley and Flamsteed. Newton said that he had
seen the handwriting of Halley." 1

    Under these circumstances, Newton and Halley were
desirous of receiving from Flamsteed his observations on

the moon,-- observations of such value, that without them

they could not proceed in their researches, and of such

rarity that they could not obtain them from any other
observatory in the world. In order to procure the obser
vations which he required, Newton paid a visit to the

Royal Observatory on the 1st of September 1 694. Flam

steed shewed him 150 places of the moon calculated from
his own observations, either by himself or " his hired ser
vants," with the differences, in three synopses, between
these places and those in the common tables of the moon,
" in order to correct the theory of her motions." These
observations were given to Newton on two conditions,
which he accepted, 1st, that he would not, without Flam-

steed's consent, communicate them to anybody, and 2dly,
that he would not, in the first instance, impart the result
of what he derived from them to anybody but himself.2

1 " The following curious memorandum," says Mr. Rigaud, " is written by Dr.

Gregory in the margin of his annotations on the Principia, p. 162. The subject to

»which he has annexed
     p.
                                    it,
                                        is
                                                               p.
                                                                                                                            '

                                                                                                              it

                                                                            I
                       the mention of Flamsteed's lunar tables, derived from

the hypothesis of Horrox, (Schol. 462, first edit, of Principia,) Newtonus mihi

saepe dixit, nominatim Decembri 1698, Londini, tabulas hasce fuisse ab Ed. Hallcio

primum factas et supputatas, et cum Joh. Flamstedio conmiunicatas, et ab illo, insrio

Nalleio, editas,  et propter hoc factum seternas natas esse inter Halleium et Flam-
stedium rixas.     Newtonus dixit se vidisse autographum Halleii." --Defence of Hal

ley, 20.

       Flamsteed, who  makes this statement in his autobiography, concludes  by
                       (Newton) approved, and by a letter of his dated
saying, "All this he

confessed. Nevertheless he imparted what he derived from them both to Dr.

Gregory and Dr. Halley, contra dulam fidem. The first of these conditions
believe he kept. The latter he ha* forgot or broke."

1694.                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             167

   In a few days after this visit, Flamsteed addressed a

letter1 to him, acknowledging the return of the two
synopses of the moon's places, offering him more when
he signifies his having occasion for them, and informing
him that he " intends hereafter to cause his man to cal

culate them both from the observations and tables as soon

as observed, whereby it will be soon evident whether the
heavens will allow these new equations you introduce,

In defence of Newton, we may state, that in a few days after Flamsteed exacted

the first of these conditions, he not only showed the same observations to Halley,
but suffered him to take notes of part of them. With regard to the second condition,

which he is said to have broken, we shall presently see, from an unpublished letter

of Flamsteed, that he asks Newton certain questions about the moon's theory, and

that Newton imparted to him his remarkable equation of the menstrual parallax.

We shall find also that he imparted to him, in return for his observations, his theory
and table of refractions, one of the finest productions of his genius, and of essential

value to Flamsteed in the reduction of his observations, and subsequently his valu

able tables of the moon's parallax, and the equations of the moon's apogee and the

eccentricity of her orbit. It appears, too, from a letter of Newton of the 17th No

vember 1694, that he asks Flamsteed to have but a little patience, and he will be

the first man to whom it will be imparted, when the theory is fit to be communicated
without danger of error. In consequence of the delay in getting Flamsteed's ob

servations, he was not able to proceed any farther with the lunar theory, and his

appointment to the Mint necessarily interfered with his scientific researches. His

connexion with Flamsteed had ceased for many years, and therefore the brief notice

of the lunar theory which he communicated to Gregory in June 1702, could uot bo

considered as a breach of the condition under which Flamsteed brought him.

That the reader may be sufficiently aware of the rash charges which Flamsteed

never scrupled to make against those who displeased him, we quote the following
example contained in his own letters, which Mr. Rigaud has observed. " In 1705,

Abraham Sharpe communicated to the Royal Society his quadrature of the circle;

and Flamsteed writes him an account in which Halley is accused of acting most

unfairly, and with a view to his own credit, about printing the papers. This was on

the 20th August, and on the 11th of the following month, Flamsteed found himself

obliged to retract what he said on the subject, and yet in April 1715 he had for

gotten every thing but what accorded with his hostile feeling, and writes to the very
                      ' you
same    man to say,   usage,  remember how he served you about the    quadrature of the
circle  ; after such           you ought to be very cautious how you
                                                                      treat him.'" --De

fence of Halley, pp. 20, 21, and Baily's Flamsteed, pp. 244, 246, and 313.
    1 Newton seems to have been unwell at the time of his visit to Greenwich, for

Flamsteed begins this unpublished letter, dated September 7, 1694, with the in

timation that he had sent him a receipt which Mr. Stanhope's sister makes use of

with good effect, and wished he might find the same benefit from it.  In his reply,
Newton " thanks him heartily for the receipt.''

168  LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.          CHAP. XVIII.

and if they will, how they are to be limited." During

his visit to the observatory, Newton must have expressed
a wish for observations to test his theory of atmospherical

refractions, for Flamsteed mentions that he has set him

self to inquire what refractions can be got from his ob

servations, and promises that whatever he gathers from

them shall be freely imparted to him. " I shall never,"

he says, " refuse to impart either the observations them
selves, or my deductions from them, to any person that

will receive them with the same candour as you do. If
I desire to have them withheld from others who make it

their business to pick faults in them, and censure them,

and asperse me no less unjustly than ungratefully, you

will not blame me for so doing. When H. (Halley)
Ishews himself as candid as other men, shall be as free
Ito him as was the first seven years of our acquaint
IIance, when refused him nothing that he desired.
                                                                                                                                                      am

told by a friend of his that he is very busy calculating

the moon's places on a sudden. Perhaps some hints

he has got from you have set him to work anew, but

Iexcept you have been as plain with him as you were with

me, am satisfied he will never be able to find out the
parallactic equation,1 nor limit it without a bigger store
of observations than he is possessed of, though he have
many of mine made between 1675 and 1682.

  " Since you went home, I examined the observations I

employed for determining the greatest equations of the

earth's orbit, and considering the moon's places at the
Itimes of . . . , find that
1

                    it,
                                    y*
                                it

                                                                   is

                                              (if,
                                                               1° is)

                                                                                                                                                  by
                                         as you intimate, the earth

inclines on that side the moon then      you may abate

ab' 20" from say                         may be only 56' 00"."

      The coefficient for this equation  the Sine of the sun's parallax divided                                                                       that
of tht moon's.

1694-  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                169

    Flamsteed concludes this curious letter, the first of the
series, with a request that Newton would acquaint him
how the observations agree with his conception, and with
an offer of more observations upon due notice.

    To this letter1 Newton returned an answer which must
have been very agreeable to Flamsteed. After comparing
the observations with his " conception," he was satisfied

that by both together the moon's theory might be reduced
to the exactness of 2 or 3 minutes, and that he believed

he would be able to set it right this winter. For this

purpose, however, he requested certain observations which

he specified.

    In a few days Flamsteed replied in a long letter of
October 11, 1694, in which he mentions that Halley had
applied for a sight of the lunar observations, and that he

had come to Greenwich and taken notes from the synopses

of the moon's places, which Newton had received, --an

act of kindness which Flamsteed did not grant without
" minding him of his disingenuous behaviour in several

particulars."2

    For the table of refractions near the horizon, Newton

was particularly thankful.3 He ascribed the differences of

refraction at the same altitude to the different tempera
tures of the air, and suggested that Flamsteed should in
all his observations note the state of the barometer and

thermometer. He told him that he had dined with

    1 Dated October 7, 1694.
   * The original of this letter differs from that published by Mr. Baily in two
points. The " empirical small table of the differences of refraction of the sun and

Venus in height" has been omitted in the published copy, and also the following
postscript. " Mr. Halley is busy about the moon, has promised me his corrections,

Iintends to print something about her system ere long, and affirms the moon's mo
tion different in the times of Albategni from what it is now."  have given this
table in the ArpeNdix, No.XIlI., in order to justify the references to it in the letters

of October 11 and 24, 1694.  3 October 24, 1634.

170          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVIII.

1 1 alley, and had much discourse with him about the moon ;

that Halley had asked for a sight of the observations

which made the parallactic equation between 8' and 10',

but that he had refused            on account of the engagement   to
communicate them to               nobody without his consent.
                                                                 "I
am glad," he adds, " that there is like to be a new corre

spondence between you, and hope it will end in friendship."

Flamsteed in his reply,1 is delighted to hear of the

agreement between his observations and the theory. He

offers to re-calculate any of the observations that may

appear incorrect, and promises a new synopsis of the

moon's places, along with one of all the observations from

which he drew the small empirical table of the refractions.

I" Yesterday at London," he says, " had a great deal of

talk with Mr. Halley about the moon's motion. He

affirmed the moon's motion to have been swifter in the

time of Albategni than at present, and that the cause of

it was by reason that the bulk of the planets continually
Iincreased.
             gave him the hearing, and at last told him

that his notion was yours, he answered ' in truth you helpt

him with that.'2 He affirms farther, that the moon's apogee

moves swifter in winter than in summer, and that the

greatest equations of it are biggest when the sun is in

perigee. That they are as big as Copernicus makes them,
Ithat is 13° 9'. This smells too, of your theories.
                                                                 re

member that you affirm all the equations biggest when the
Iearth is nearest the sun.
                                  should be glad to hear that you

had found in what proportion the equations of the apogee

and the eccentricity alter, and what are their greatest

differences in the last, the quantity of the first, how the

variations alter, and that you would please to impart it to

me, that so hereafter I may calculate on sure grounds,

1 October 25, 1694, unpublished.  » Sec Principia, 2d Edit. p. 481.

1C94.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  171

and compare not an apparently erroneous, but a true
theory with my observations, whereby its faults may be
corrected."

   In Newton's reply of the 1st November, he answers

Flamsteed's questions, and explains to him the menstrual
parallax of the sun, which he estimates at 1 6" or 20", an
equation depending on the ratio of the masses of the
earth and moon, and which, as M. Biot remarks, is one

of the most delicate corrections in our modern tables,

amounting only to 8".
    " Perceiving1 that Newton was as yet only trying how

his observations would consist with ye emendations, and
that he had not as yet limited them to his mind," Flam-
steed would not urge him any farther for them, but trusts
that when he has " determined what corrections or addi
tions are to be made to that theory which it was his good
fortune to meet with, and usher into the world, he doubts

not but you will impart them as freely as he did the ob
servations, whereby you limit or confirm them, to you."2

    On the 17th November, Newton sends to Flamsteed

his table of refractions, computed by applying a certain
theorem to his observations ; and he explains to him his
plan of first obtaining a general notion of the lunar equa
tions to be determined, and then by accurate observations
to determine them, seeing " that there is a complication
of small equations, which can never be determined till one
sees the way of distinguishing them, and attributing to
each their proper phenomena." He asks Flamsteed to
have a little patience with him till he has brought the

   1 November 3, 1694, unpublished.

   2 In this letter Flamsteed says, that the parallactic equation does not exceed a

single vibration of the pendulum, and cannot be determined by the largest instru

ments.

172             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      CHAP. XVIII.

theory he ushered into the world to competent perfection,
fit to be communicated to him ; and he promises " to
gratify him to his satisfaction for the trouble he is at in
this business."

   In replying to this letter, Flamsteed1 says that " he

    1 This letter of Flamsteed's, as published by Mr. Baily, differs entirely from the

letter actually sent to Newton, and must have been a scroll, which he greatly

altered and enlarged. We cannot, therefore, place confidence in the abstracts of
hi* Utters to Newton, as printed by Mr. Baily- The date of the letter is Decem
ber 16th, not the 6th. In the original copy of this letter, and also in the scroll,

IFlamsteed introduces a new charge against Halley in the following words :--"

desired you in my last to let me know if you had not been presented some years

agone with a geometrical tract of Viviani's, in quarto, Latin. You have given me no

Ianswer. Pray, be free with me, and let me have one, it will much oblige." In his

letter of the 27th, he had said, -- " desire you to let me know whether Mr. Halley

did not, five or six years ago, present you with a geometrical piece of Viviani's in
quarto?" Newton made no reply to these requests. On the 31st December, Flam

Isteed thus recurs to the subject :-- " must beg your pardon for having urged you
twice about Viviani's book. I shall tell you the occasion, and give you no farther

trouble. Mr. Rook being in Italy, received one of them directed to me by the

Iauthor's own hand, which he sent to E. H. (Edmund Halley) with other things,

who, am told, presented it to you ; and himself denies not that he sent it you.

INow, am not concerned for the book at all. If you had one from him, keep it
Ieither as his gift or mine ; but because have great reason to suspect a book of

much greater value, directed to me, has been disposed of for advantage by a friend

and acquaintance of his this last summer, and if the first had been brought to light,
the latter might have been made evident ; but I desire to concern you no farther

with   it,  and therefore shall move you no more, nor expect any answer in this parti

cular, being ever desirous to make my friends as easy as can." To these appliI
cations Newton replied on the 26th Jan. 169J, -- " About three or four months

before Dr. Gregory was made Professor of Astronomy at Oxford, an Oxford gentle

man, student mathematics, think his name was Rook,) called on me on hisin
      a         ;

                    it                                                  Viviani. He offered to
                       (I

                             I
way from London, and showed me a new book published            I it,
                                                                    by
leave with me to peruse whereupon turned over the leaves, and then returned
       it

it  to him again, and he took away with him, think, to Oxford and saw no
                                                    I                      I;  I

more.       forbore to answer your first inquiries about                            it
                                                                                         it
    if                                                                because feared  might

      it I
tend to widen the breach between you and Mr. Halley, which would rather recon
                                                                        I

cile were in my power. And now hope that what have told you will not be
                                      it                       me an injury." -- See Baily's
made use of to that purpose, lest           should   also do
Flamsteed, pp. 144, 145, 148, 149.       II" am     very well   satisfied," replies Flamsteed

on the 29th January, " in what you tell me about Viviani's book; and you may

conclude what you are to think of Mr. Halley from this, that he told me before
                                                    a
club of the Society that you had it.
                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                     a
                                      I    find you understand him not so well as do.

I  have had some years' experience of him, and very fresh instance of his inge

1694.               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         1 73

was displeased with him not a little for the offer, and
ascribes it to the suggestion of some malicious friend,

and assures Newton that he never did, and would scorn

to, receive money for any such service." Newton makes

an apology1 for the mistake he committed, and requests
that Flamsteed will let it pass, and concur with him in

the promotion of astronomy ; and, in order to appease

his  friend, he     sends him the beautiful    --thaeotrheemorebmy  which
he   computed       his table of refractions,                       which

M. Biot justly characterizes as giving the true analytical

expression of the differential of refraction, such as it is

now employed, and which cannot but be regarded as one

of the highest efforts of Newton's genius.2
   In answering this letter on the 31st December, Flam-

steed enlarges on the subject of refractions, and transmits

a table of morning and evening refractions observed in

June 1678, from 79° to 89° 50' of zenith distance. He

sends him two lunar observations, and explains why he

has not sent him others that he had made. Newton

informs him in return,3 that the theorem on refractions

which he had sent him was defective in making the re

fractive power of the atmosphere as great at the top as

at the bottom, and that he had found another theorem

I I Inuity, with which shall not trouble you. 'Tis enough, that suffer by him.

would not that my friends should, and therefore shall say no more, but that there

needs nothing but that he show himself an honest man to make him and me perfect

Ifriends ; so that if he were candid, there is nobody living in whose acquaintance

would take more pleasure ; but his conversation is such that no modest man can
bear and no good man but will shun it." The four obnoxious paragraphs in
*1
      it,

                        of

                                        by
                                                                 !

                                                   of
                                                          '

                                                                                                  of
the draught of this letter, at the bottom of p. 150 of Baily's Flamsteed, do not

exist in the original sent to Newton

       December 20, 1694.

     See Biot's interesting observations on this theorem, and his admirable and

elaborate Analysis  Newton's Tables   Befraction, with an indication                                  the

Numerical Processes which he computed them, in the Journal des Savans, 1836,

pp. 642, 735.                         January 15, 1695.

174                UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                        CHAP. XVIII.

which required consideration. " In the former theorem,"

he continues, " the areas are to be determined by the

fifth lemma of the third book of the Principia." He then
explains to him how the air being colder and more dense

at sunrise, the refractions are then greater, and how from
its being rarer in the evening, the refractive power is
diminished. Flamsteed admits, in his reply,1 that the
change of temperature is the principal, but not the sole
cause of the alterations in the morning and evening re
fractions. Sir Jonas Moore told him often, that when he
lived in the fens, he often saw " the beasts raised to his

sight very much by the fogs that lay betwixt him and
them ; and he has heard the late King Charles and old

sea-captains talking together about the sea-air, and rela
ting how, standing upon Dover beach at high- water, they
saw the streets of Calais very plain, but whilst they stood,
as the water sunk, these objects sunk and at last disap

peared."
    Considering a table of refractions as the foundation of

astronomy, and very necessary for Flamsteed's great
work, Newton2 is anxious to present him with one in

return for his observations, and, as he has found a new

theorem which makes the calculation easy, he hopes, when

he has recovered from a slight indisposition, to finish it.
" Supposing," he says, " the atmosphere3 to be of such a
constitution as is described in the 22d Prop, of my second

IBook, (which certainly is the truth,) have found, that

if the horizontal refraction be 34', the refraction in the ap
parent altitude of 3° will be 13' 3"; and if the refraction

in this apparent altitude of 3° be 1 the horizontal refrac
tion will be little more than 37'." On the 15th March,

Newton sends him his table of refractions, in which, at 3°
1
                                                      4

                                                               4',

                                                                                                                "
January 18, 1695.  January 26, 1695.                                                                               February 16, 1695.

1694.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    175

of altitude, the refraction is 13' 20", so that the table is

the same as that published by Halley in the Phil. Trans.
for 1721. " Newton," as M. Biot remarks, " is therefore

the creator of the theory of astronomical refractions, as he

is of that of the theory of gravity. But the first of these

titles was hitherto unknown to us ; and we can now see,
that it is not one of his works which has given him the

least trouble, on account of the number, the variety, and

the dispersion of the physical elements which he re

quired to discover, to collect, and to combine in its esta

blishment."1

 In his  letter of the 23d   April 1695,       Newton says,
         set myself wholly                      (as did for
when I                       to calculations,
I"

a time last autumn, and again since Christmas, in making
Ithe table of refractions,)
                                 can endure them, and go
through them well enough. But when I am about other
Ithings, (as at present,)
                           can neither fix to them with

patience, nor do them without errors, which makes me

let the moon's theory alone at present, with a design to

set to it again, and go through it at once. When I have
Iyour materials, reckon it will prove a work of about
I Ithree or four months ; and when have done it once,

would have done with it for ever."

After writing other two letters, in one of which he ex

presses his desire to get the naked observations on the R.

ascension and meridional altitude of the moon, and have
them calculated by " his servant Sir Collins," he addresses
                                               --"

                                              :2
IFlamsteed
              in the  following  manner             After  had

helped you where you had stuck in your three great
works, that of the theory of Jupiter's satellites, that of your
catalogue of the fixed stars, and that of calculating the
moon's places from observations, and in all these things

1 Journal des Savans, November 1836, p. 655.        » July 9, 1695.

176  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. XVIII.

freely communicated to you what was perfect in its kinds,

I(so far as could make it,) and of more value than many
Iobservations, and what (in one of them) contains more than

two months' hard labour, which should never have un

Idertaken but upon your account, and which told you I
undertook that I might have something to return you for

the observations you then gave me hopes of, and yet

I Iwhen had done, saw no prospect of obtaining them, or of

getting your synopses rectified,1 despaired of compassing
the moon's theory, and had thought of giving it over as a

thing impracticable, and occasionally told a friend so, who

then made me a visit. But now you offer me these ob

servations which you made before the year 1690, 1 thank

fully accept of your offer, and will get as many of them

computed as are sufficient for my purpose."

We cannot find in the seven unpublished letters which

Flamsteed wrote to Newton from February 7th to July

2d 1695, inclusive, any thing to justify this letter. Flam-

steed begins his letter of February 7th with a long tirade

against Halley, and promises that when they meet he will

tell him his history, which is too foul and large for a letter :

He mentions two different reports from London of New

ton's death, which he was able to contradict : He tells him

that his servant, his computer, has run away, and that he

is teaching another : He sends him observations on refrac

tions and on the eclipses of the moon in 1678 and 1682,

and he complains of a report which, at his request, New

ton succeeds in putting down, that Flamsteed refused to

impart his observations to him. This request is preferred

Iin the following manner :2 " You see how willing am to

      you with        sims anlel caesresaturyrnfordeclseiraer,in--g ththaet
     moon, and
Iaccommodate    what
                how
motion of the

1 These passages were underlined hy Flamsteed.  2 July 2, 1695.

1696.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              177

is only to know what equations you use at present in the

Imoon, and what limitations you give them. Not that

have any desire or design to meddle with the restitution

of her motions myself, but only to satisfy my own

curiosity, and not to be ignorant of the use you have made

of what you imparted to me, as I told you before. Only

I Imust desire you to acquaint Mr. Bentley, (whom know
Inot,) but who, am told, complains that the second edi

tion of the Principia will come out without the moon,

I Ibecause do not impart my observations to you, that

I Ishall furnish you to your satisfaction in that particular. *

Had heard of it from yourself, had told you the con

tents of this letter some days since, and assured you the

fault should not be laid to my charge." And he adds in
a postscript, " what one friend may justly expect from

another, you shall ever command from yours, J. F."
   In his very short letter of July 13, 1695, Flamsteed

takes no notice of the attack of Newton. He promises

places of the fixed stars and the nonagesimal table, and

Iadds, " a report is industriously spread in town that
have refused to impart any more observations to you. I
Iheard that he who spreads it intends you a visit ere long.

  hope you will take notice of his disingenuity in this par

Iticular, since 'tis only my violent distemper and your own
silence that were the cause of mine.          shall answer yours

more fully next week."

On the 18 th Flamsteed replies, as might have been

Iexpected, to the charge which had been made against

him. " have just cause," says he, " to complain of

the style and expression of your last letter. They are

not friendly, but that you may know me not to be

of that quarrelsome humour I am represented by the

          1 The italics are in the original.

VOL. II.                                      M

1 78            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. XVIII.

IClerk of the Society, (Halley,) shall wave all save this

            that  what      you communicated to          mite--wasasthoef
            than  many
Iexpression,                                      grant

more value
                            observations.

wire is of more worth than the gold from which it was
Idrawn.1
               gathered the gold matter, and fined and pre
Isented it to you sometimes washed.
                                                  hope you value

not my pains the less because they became yours so easily.

II allow you to value your own as high as you please, and

require no other reward for what assistance sometimes

afford you, but that I may now and then see some of the
Iworkmanship ; and if that be not ready when desire

or you think not fit to favour me with                    iIt,
I it,                   it                                       can

        ifeasily be contented. Nor do take        amiss that you
                             iIf I
often take no notice of some small particulars whereon               II
                                         it
have desired to know what you have determined.           it    Since
  know very well that in things of their nature              is diffi

cult to determine, and we often change what at first we

thought would need no alteration or towards none.

have altered my solar numbers five times, and would not
                                                  saw reason for it. If
be ashamed to change again

you answer me that you have not determined whether

any other than the usual equations are to be used in the

Syzigies,is    you are not resolved how the moon's mean

           if
motion to be corrected, you may say it.           III    shall urge

you no farther, and nevertheless whenever you let me

know that lies in my power to serve you, shall do                    it
            it

freely. But you will not complain of me to others with

out cause, and thereby add to the affliction suffer from

my obstinate distempers, and the calumnies of disingenu

ous and impudent people,     you have any value for your
                            if
friend and humble servant."
                                             '

                                          if
1     " Machin told me," says Conduitt, " that Flamsteed said Sir Isaac worked with
                                                  '
the ore he had dug,' to which Sir Isaac replied,
                                                       I
                                                  he dug the ore, made the gold

ring.' "--CmduiU's MSS

1C96.                           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                              1 79

     This earnest remonstrance is acknowledged by New

ton on the 20th of July, the day that he received it.
" The report," he says, " was against his mind, and he has

written to put a stop to it. . . . Such expostulations or

expressions in your last and some other letters, as tend to

Ia difference, pass by. Pray take care of your health.

Dr. Battely (chaplain to Archbishop Sancroft) was much
troubled with violent headaches, and found it a certain

cure to bind his head straight with a garter till the crown

of his head was numbed ; for thereby his head was cooled

by retarding the circulation of the blood. 'Tis an easy

remedy, if your pain be of the same kind."

     Flamsteed was gratified with this letter. He thanked
Newton1 for Dr. Battely 's remedy, as it " shews your
                                for my welfare." " Your letter," he says,
Ifriendly concern

" sets all right
                                betwixt us.          have as great a stock of
Ipatience, and as good an one as have of observations,

and 'tis all ways drawn out on every occasion to serve

my friends. My indisposition hindered me from serving

Iyou as 1 desired. You mistook the reason of my silence.
  hope you will have the patience on my account that

Iyou demand of me on yours                                 The next week
am going to my parsonage, but I shall take care to have

you furnished with another sheet of observations before.
If you would rather have any other than the remains of
I1677, let me know it.
                                shall fit you according to your

desires."2 In replying to this letter in the following

1 July 23d, 1695.               " presents him before he demands it," with             " a nona-
8 In this letter, Flamsteed
Igesimary table" for every degree of right ascension, " as would not have you want

any   thing   that  :  lies in  my power to save     you the trouble of calculation,"  and he closes
his  letter  thus       " By    frequent trials and  alterations of his contrivances,  Kepler found

out the true theory of the planetary motions. You must not be ashamed to own that

you follow his example. When the inequalities are found, you will more easily find the

reason of them than he could do when but little of the doctrine of gravity was known."

       180                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                  CHAP. XVIII.

       week,1 Newton tells Flamsteed " that he had an excuse

       sent him (from Bentley or Halley) for what was said at
       London about your not communicating, and that the re

       port should proceed no farther." He is glad all misunder

       standings are composed. He thanks him for the nona-
       gesimal table, " which he designed to make himself, as it
       saves him labour." And he adds, " that as the transcribing

       of these things gives your servant trouble, and, for en

       Icouraging him, shall order Will. Martin, the Cambridge

       carrier, to pay him two guineas if you please to let him
       call for   or to pay to his or your order in London,
               is                                                                                                                         I if
                     it,

                    is I

                                  it
                                        it, it
       you please to let me know where."2

            Flamsteed was annoyed by this proposal to pay his
       servant. " take                              very kindly," he says,3 " that you

       acquainted me with your intent to gratify him for his

       pains before you did                         but must entreat you to for
                                                                                                 AI
       bear.      He paid all ready.                                                                 superfluity of moneys,
       find,      all ways injurious to my servants. It makes them

       run into company, and waste their time idly, or worse.
          Iftake care he wants nothing.
I                                                                                                    you send him verbal

        11acknowledgments of his pains, and commendations for his

            July 27th, 1695.
            In the copy of this
                                 letter             in the British Museum, the                       words two shillings                   appear
       here with the following   note.                " Mr. Flamsteed altered                           so for the word                   guineas
                                                                                                     it

                                                                                                                            if
       which in the original, as evident from the erasure." Profes6or Bigaud, at Mr.
              is
                                      it

                                                is
       Baily's desire, examined the original letter, and found the words two guineas

       you please to call for crossed out with the pen, but no substitution of guineas for
       shillings. Mr. Edleston, however, who has examined the original, observes that all
       othuetFiwlnaomtrhdsetseefmodla.lonwusinTcghriep"t,wpaoayrnddhsimtahfe"tew(rino"rtdfhoe"r
                                                                                                 passage given in the text   in italics)  are crossed
                                                                                                 guineas" altered into "    shillings"    apparently
                                                                                                                                          are conjec
· in by                                                                                          them" to the end of the passage

       tural, the original writing being most skilfully blotted out.                                                        . What motive
                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                         .

                                                                                                                I
       Flamsteed could have had for disguising any part of the above sentence, do not

       pretend to divine. It curious that Mr. Rigaud, who examined the manuscript
           reference to this very point, should have overlooked the original " guineas." --

       Edleston's Correspondence, &c. p. lxviii. note 125.
                  4,
          August                     is
                  1695.

1696.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            181

care and fidelity in copying, it will be a reward for him,

Iand encouragement the best you can give him, and fur
ther cannot allow   Pray say nothing to anybody

of your proposal."

   In another letter on the 6th of August, he says, that
during the last six years " he has done more towards the

restitution of astronomy than has been done in some ages

before ;" and, after mentioning what he has accomplished

I Iainddtsh, e--n"inetweerinteyethairss
                    that he has   been                   at Greenwich, he
                    purposely to  you,                   because know a
Isparke (Halley) is with you, that complains much have
lived here twenty years and printed nothing. I do not

intend to print a St. Helena catalogue, and for that reason

I Idefer the printing of anything thus long, that when do

print it may be perfect, as by the grace of God it shall."

   Newton closes this correspondence with a short letter,

dated September 14, in which he intimates that Halley's

determination of the orbit of the comet of 1683, by his
theory, " answers all your observations and his own to a
minute ;" that he has just returned from a journey into
Lincolnshire, and is going on another ; and that " he has
not got any time to think of the theory of the moon, or

have leisure for for month or above."
       it,
                 a

                                                                         1
    Flamsteed answered this letter on the 9th September,1

complains of his ill health, considers the theory of gravity
confirmed by its giving the orbit of the comet conformable

to observation, and hopes, by travelling, to have some

small share of health left wherewith to serve his friends,
" and to supply you with what
                               I is                  wanting to finish the

theory of the lunar motions, which hear you doubt not

now but to render very nearly agreeable to the heavens."

1  Not on the 17th, as stated in Baily's Flamsteed,  p.  160. Flarnstecil's notes of

his answer to Newton's letter, as usual, misrepresent its contents.

182         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              CHAP. XVIII.

Having heard nothing from Newton for four months,

Flamsteed writes him on the 11th January 1696, and,
             " further observations of the moon,"

            use to him, he says,--" But if what
Iafter offering him

which may be of
Ihear be true, you will have little need of them, for have
Ibeen told, ever since came out of Surrey, that you have

finished the theory of the moon on incontestable principles ;

that you have determined six general inequalities not

formerly known ; and that nevertheless the calculations will

not be much more troublesome or difficult than formerly.

I am heartily glad to hear this, and should be more so to
Ihave it from yourself, for in truth suspect you are scarce
so forward ; and I flatter myself with the opinion, that if

you were, you would have acquainted me with as you
                                                   it,
promised both when imparted the three synopses of
            I                                                             1

                            if
lunar calculations, and observed places to you, and in your

letters since. Pray let me know how far you are pro

ceeded, you will oblige me, and, you please, the true

reason why have had no lettersfrom you this fourmonths."
Newton does not seem to have answered this letter. His
         I

appointment to the Mint, though not officially communi

cated to him, was well known and all his time must have
            ;

been occupied in preparing for the discharge of its duties.
   In reviewing the remarkable correspondence which

terminates with the preceding letter, and which has been

regarded in such different lights, we have no hesitation

     In this letter, Flamsteed tells him that " some friends of his who live at dis
I
      1
              is
                    a
                                                                                                             9,
                                                                                                                                                        4, a
tance in the country, have made new tables for representing the motions of the two
superior planets, Jupiter and Saturn," within ten or twelve minutes of observation.

find other four letters from Flamsteed to Newton, dated September                                                                                             De

cember 10, 1697, December 29, 1698, and January    1699. The last of these

letters  long and curious reply to Newton on the subject of his letter of the 6th

January 1699, blaming Flamsteed for mentioning his theory of the moon in a letter
on the parallax of the fixed stars, sent to Dr. Wallis to be printed. The considera

tion of these letters belongs to another Chapter.

1696.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  183

in saying, that the two charges against Flamsteed of

ignorance of the importance of the theory of gravity, and

of unwillingness to supply Newton with the observations

he required for his lunar theory, have no sufficient foun

dation. With the exception of those occasional bursts of

spleen against   leHtatellresy,towNheicwhtomnu--st thhoauvgehbeseonmeatnimnoeysinogf  to
his friend, his                                                                       an

irritating tendency, are yet respectful, and even affection

ate, and exhibit not only a willingness, but an anxious

desire to supply him with every observation he posses

sed, and even to make and to reduce new observations

expressly for his use. His ill health, which often required
him to travel for its recovery --his severe headaches, a

pulmonary affection, and sharp attacks of the stone and

gravel, frequently unfitted him for observing and redu

cing his observations, while the want of computers, for

whose labours he was obliged to pay, and the necessity

of visiting his living at Burstow, often prevented him

from communicating his observations as quickly as New

ton wished, and as he himself desired. When his letters

are published, and read along with those of his corre

spondent, his good name will not, from this cause, greatly

suffer in the estimation of posterity. Flamsteed was not
the less a great man that he has been confronted with

the greatest.

   But while we thus justify the Astronomer-Royal, we

must make some apology for the philosopher. Newton
was not in good health during the correspondence which

we have been examining. The depths of his mind were
stirred with the difficulties of the lunar problem. The

new views which burst upon him in its solution could be

tested only by observation ; and they who have felt the
impatience of spirit when a speculation waits for the

184  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.            CHAP. XVIII.

verdict of an experiment or a fact, or who have started

from their midnight couch to submit a happy idea to the

ordeal of observation, will understand the sensitiveness

of Newton when he waited whole weeks for the precious

numbers which the Observatory of Greenwich only could

supply. Newton certainly thought, as his letter of the

9th July shews, that the Astronomer-Royal had not been

sufficiently active in his cause ; and though he knew that

he had no other right but that of courtesy to the obser

vations he required, yet he had  established another ground
of right which he was entitled
                                 to urge, --the social right

of reciprocal obligation. He had given Flamsteed for his

use his valuable tables of refraction, and had computed

for him, by months of labour, the equations for the apogee

and eccentricity, and important tables of horizontal pa

rallaxes, for the express purpose of making some return

for the observations which he required. He was, there

fore, entitled to press these grounds of claim upon Flam-
steed when he thought " he saw so little prospect of ob
taining what he wanted," as to make him " despair of
compassing the lunar theory," and " giving it over as a

thing impracticable."

Regarding the letter of Newton in this light, we have

been greatly surprised at the view taken of and indeed
of all his letters, by M. Biot. No philosopher, either of
     a

                   ;
                                    ;

                                                 is it,
                                                                     is
our own or of Newton's day, has done more justice to his

labours, or shown deeper affection for his memory, than

that distinguished philosopher and there  no living

writer, whose appreciation of the feats of science

more valuable than his but the view which he has taken

of the idle story of M. Colin and the dog Diamond,

charged with fire-raising among Newton's manuscripts,
and of the influence of this accident upon the mind of

1695.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  185

their author, is to us, and, we believe, to every English
man, utterly incomprehensible. The story of the burning
of the papers about 1691 or 1692, is entirely fabulous ;*

but even if it were true, it produced no effect upon New

ton's mind. His illness at that time, the want of his
usual consistency of mind, a condition which every deep-
thinker must have experienced, arose, as he himself dis
tinctly declares, from want of sleep and appetite during
the preceding year.

    " Is it then," says M. Biot, " going too far to see in
the incoherence of these letters (the letters to Flamsteed)
a fatal resemblance to those which Newton wrote to

Pepys and Locke two years before, and almost in the
same months ? Do we not equally discover in them the
morbid irritability of a mind fatigued by the continuity
of its meditations, and which, according to the avowal of
Newton himself, could no longer sustain such great efforts ?2

And if it be true that, at the end of 1692, the fire which

destroyed a part of his works had already produced in
him moral symptoms of the same kind, still more distress
ing, why should we be surprised to see him brought back
to it by the renewal of researches as profound and as
fatiguing on account of the vagueness of the data at his
command, as were those which he executed and attempted
on refractions and the lunar theory, from the months of

October 1694 to September 1695, as we have already
related. This was his last spark."*

    M. Biot has expressed his surprise at the sensitiveness
of Englishmen, on the allegation that Newton " had

   1 We have already shewn that this accident happened before 1684.
   5 Newton has made no such avowal. Biot quotes, in support of his allega
tion, Newton's declaration to Locke, that " he had not his former consistency of
mind," -- a mere temporary state, from which he completely recovered.
   3 Journal dei Savant, November 1836, p. 657.

186  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XVIII.

fallen into phrenitis," -- that was insane in 1692 but,!

however great that surprise may be, cannot be equalis,
to that which they feel at his persisting in the statement,it,
and at the offensive aggravation of which contained
                                               it
in the preceding extract. Before M. Biot had read the           is
letters to Flamsteed, he had declared that Newton's in
                                                                                                                        ;
tellect was permanently weakened by his illness of 1692,

and yet he now finds, by the perusal of these letters, that
Newton had put forth his highest powers two years after
that event But what surprises and offends us, and what
must offend every friend^of truth and of genius, at his
new allegation, that Newton's great intellectual efforts in
1694 and 1695 brought him back into his phrenitis of
1692, from which he never recovered his usual powers of
invention and discovery. His letters to Flamsteed exhi

bit no such symptoms, --no incoherence of mind, and no
failure of a mental or moral nature. In 1696, when he

exchanged the daily pursuit of science for the active and
engrossing duties of official life, he was capable of deve
loping the highest powers of his genius. He displayed
them in the preparation of the second edition of the
Principia, and in his Optics. They appeared fresh and

vigorous during the fluxionary controversy. They shone
with more subdued light in the discharge of his duties
at the Mint and no period of his life can be named

when his intellectual arm was shortened, or his mental

eye was dim. Even in extreme old age, his robust frame
protected from decay the bright spirit which inclosed,
and, ripe for the spiritual world which he had ever con
templated as his home, he adorned the last years of his
long and honoured life with the humility of the sage and
the graces of the Christian.
     a

                        ;

                                                              it

1695.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  187

                    CHAPTER XIX.

NO MARK OF NATIONAL GRATITUDE CONFERRED UPON NEWTON-- FRIEND
    SHIP BETWEEN HIM AND CHARLES MONTAGUE, AFTERWARDS EARL OF
   HALIFAX--MONTAGUE APPOINTED CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER IN
   1694 --HE RESOLVES UPON A RE-COINAGE -- HIS LETTER NOMINATING
   NEWTON WARDEN OF THE MINT IN 1696 -- NEWTON APPOINTED MASTER
   OF THE MINT WHEN MONTAGUE WAS FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY --
   HIS REPORT ON THE COINAGE--ANECDOTE OF HIS INTEGRITY WHEN
    OFFERED A BRIBE -- HE OBTAINS FOR HALLEY THE DEPUTY-COMPTROL-
   LERSHIP OF THE MINT AT CHESTER --QUARRELS AMONG THE OFFICERS
   THERE --DISTURBANCES IN THE LONDON MINT -- NEW MISUNDERSTAND
   ING WITH FLAMSTEED --REMARKABLE LETTER TO HIM FROM NEWTON
   --NEWTON's CONDUCT DEFENDED -- THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES
   REMODELLED --NEWTON ELECTED ONE OF THE EIGHT FOREIGN ASSO
   CIATES --M. GEOFFROY DESCRIBES TO DR. SLOANE THE CHANGE IN THE
    ACADEMY -- NEWTON RESIGNS HIS PROFESSORSHIP AND FELLOWSHIP AT
   CAMBRIDGE--WHISTON APPOINTED HIS SUCCESSOR -- NEWTON ELECTED
    MEMBER FOR THE UNIVERSITY IN 1701, AND PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL
   SOCIETY IN 1703 --QUEEN ANNE CONFERS UPON HIM THE HONOUR OF
   KNIGHTHOOD IN 1705 --LOVE-LETTER TO LADY NORRIS -- HIS LETTER
    TO HIS NIECE, MISS C. BARTON -- ACCOUNT OF SIR WILLIAM AND LADY
    NORRIS -- LETTERS OF NEWTON ABOUT STANDING FOR THE UNIVERSITY
    IN 1705 -- LETTERS OF HALIFAX TO NEWTON ON THAT OCCASION

    NEWTON AND GODOLPHIN DEFEATED.

   Hitherto we have viewed Newton chiefly as a philo

sopher, leading a life of seclusion within the walls of a
college, and either engaged in the duties of the Lucasian
Chair, or constantly occupied in mathematical and scien
tific inquiries. He had now reached the fifty-third year
of his age, and though his friends had exerted themselves
to procure him some permanent appointment, they had
failed in the attempt. An event, however, now occurred

188  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       CHAP. XIX.

which relieved him from his labours at Cambridge, and
placed him in a situation of affluence and honour.

    Among his friends at Cambridge, Newton had the good
fortune to number Charles Montague, fourth son of George
Montague, Esq. of Harton in Northamptonshire, whose
father was Henry, first Earl of Manchester. He was born
on the 16th April 1661, and exhibited early indications
of genius and talent. From Westminster school, where
he was elected King's Scholar, he entered Trinity College,
Cambridge, as a Fellow Commoner on the 19 th November
1679, and received the degree of M. A. by royal mandate
on the 6th October 1681. Here he became acquainted

with Newton, and though devoted to literary pursuits, an

ardent friendship arose between them which various causes

contributed to strengthen and maintain. In the year

1685, when Montague was only twenty-three years of
age, we find him co-operating with Newton and others in

establishing a Philosophical Society at Cambridge ; but
though both of them had made personal application to

different individuals to become members, yet the plan
failed from the want of persons willing to try experiments,
and from the refusal of one individual on whom they
relied for that species of assistance.

    While yet at college, Mr. Montague was brought into

notice by a poem which he wrote on the death of Charles II.
in 1685. The Earl of Dorset, who happened to admire

     invited him to London, where an incident occurred
which " led him on to fortune." Having, in conjunction
with Matthew Prior, published poem entitled " The Hind

and the Panther, transversed to the Story of the Country
Mouse, and the City Mouse," his patron the Earl of
Dorset introduced him to King William in the following
manner " May please your Majesty, have brought
it,

                    :

                            it
                                                  a

                                          I

1696.  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.  189

a mouse to have the honour of kissing your hand," and
having learned the reason why Mr. Montague was so called,
he smiled and replied, " you will do well to put me in the
way of making a man of him," and he immediately gave
orders that a pension of five hundred pounds per annum
should be paid to him out of the privy purse till an oppor
tunity should occur of giving him an appointment. When
Prior learned the good fortune of the more favoured

mouse, he wittily exclaimed --

                         " My friend Charles Montague's preferred,

                    Nor could I have it long observed

                           That one mouse eats, while t'other's starved.''

   In 1687, when Newton was occupied with the com
pletion of his Principia, he was in correspondence with

Montague, whom he characterizes as his " intimate
friend,"1 and notwithstanding the contrariety of their pur
suits, and the great difference of their age, the young
statesman cherished for the philosopher all the venera
tion of a disciple, and his affection for him gathered new
strength as he rose to the highest offices and honours of
the state.

    Mr. Montague sat along with Newton in the Convention
Parliament, and such were his habits of business, and the

powers which he displayed as a public speaker, that he
was appointed a Commissioner of the Treasury, and soon

afterwards a Privy Councillor. In 1694 he was elevated
to the Chancellorship of the Exchequer ; and as the cur
rent coin of the realm had been adulterated and debased,
one of his earliest designs was to re-coin it and restore it
to its original value. In 1698 he was appointed First

Commissioner of the Treasury, and one of the Lords Jus

                                  1 See Vol. I. Appendix, p. 455.

190                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIX.

tices of England during the absence of the king in Holland ;
and in 1700 he was raised to the peerage with the title
of Baron of Halifax, in the county of York.

    The scheme of the re-coinage, like all measures of re

form, encountered great opposition. It was characterized
as a wild project, unsuitable to a period of war--as highly

injurious to the interests of commerce, and as likely to

sap the foundation of the government. The Chancellor of

the Exchequer, however, was not influenced by the cries

of faction. He had studied the subject with the deepest
attention, and had entrenched himself behind opinions too

impartial and too well-founded, to be driven from a mea
sure which the best interests of his country seemed to

require. Having consulted Newton, Locke, and Halley,

he immediately took measures to carry his plan into effect.
The advantage of having proper officers for superintending
the re-coinage must have presented itself to the minds of
his advisers, and we have no doubt that Locke and Halley
warmly seconded his own desire to place Newton in one
of the principal offices in the Mint. We have already

seen that the Comptrollership had been, some years before,

mentioned as a suitable office for Newton, and so early
as November 1695, Dr. Wallis, in a letter to Halley,1
mentions a rumour at Oxford that he had been actually
appointed to the Mastership of the Mint. This, however,

was a mistake, as there was no vacancy in the Mint till
the beginning of 169£. Mr. Overton, the Warden, was
then made a Commissioner of Customs, and Mr. Montague
embraced the opportunity thus offered to him of serving

his friend and his country by recommending Newton to
that important situation. This appointment was notified

    1 November 26th.  See Edleston's Correspondence, &c. Ixviii., note 126, and p.
302, Appendix.

1696.                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                191

to him  :--by  the      following  letter addressed to him at Cam
bridge
                                                                        " 19th March, 1695.1

I" Sir, --I am very glad that at last can give you a good

proof of my friendship, and the esteem the king has of
your merits. Mr. Overton, the Warden of the Mint, is

made one of the Commissioners of the Customs, and the

king has promised me to make Mr. Newton Warden of the
Mint. The office is the most proper for you. 'Tis the

chief officer in the Mint. 'Tis worth five or six hundred

pounds per annum, and has not too much business to
Irequire more attendance than you may spare.
                                                                 desire
you will come up as soon as you can, and I will take care

of your warrant in the meantime. Pray give my humble

services to John Lawton.2 I Iam sorry have not been
able to assist him hitherto, but I hope he will be provided

I Ifor ere long, and tell him that the session is near ending,

and expect to have his company when am able to en

I Ijoy it. Let me see you as soon as you come to town,
that      may carry you to kiss    tmhee.3k--ingI'samh,anSdir.,       believe
you    may have a lodging near                                   your most
                                   " Chas. Montague."
obedient servant,

    This letter must have been the occasion of much sur

prise to Newton and his friends ; for only five days
previous to its date, namely, on the 14th of March, he

had intimated to Halley that " if the rumour of prefer
ment for me in the Mint should hereafter, upon the death

of Mr. Hoare, or any other occasion, be revived, I pray that

1 The date of this letter should have been 169|.
8 Mr. Lawton, or Laughton, was a great personal friend of Sir Isaac Newton and

Charles Montague. He was afterwards Librarian and Chaplain of Trinity. He

subsequently became Canon of Worcester and Lichfield, and gave to the Library

of Trinity College a valuable collection of books. See p. 92, and Monk's Life of
                                   * Copied from the original.
Beniley, pp. 226, 246.

192  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. XIX.

you would endeavour to obviate it by acquainting your

friends that I neither put in for any place in the Mint,

nor would meddle with Mr. Hoare's place 1 were it offered

me." About three months before Newton's appointment,

Mr. Montague had been placed at the head of the Royal
Society,2 and it must have been very gratifying to the
Fellows, that their most distinguished member had been
promoted by their new president. When it was stated
" that Mr. Montague gave Newton employment before he
wanted it or asked it," either Montague or some one else
replied, " that he would not suffer the lamp which gave so
much light to want oil."3

    Thus refreshed, the lamp continued to burn, and with
no flickering light. Its asbestos torch, though kept at a
high temperature for a quarter of a century, was uncon-
sumed, and required only the gaseous material to make it

continue its brilliant though chastened light ; and, as if to

give a prophetic reply to the allegation that his mind had

been injuriously overwrought by study and enervated by
office, he solved, about a year after his appointment, the
celebrated problems with which John Bernoulli challenged
" the acutest mathematicians in the world." When the

great geometer of Basle saw the anonymous solution, he
recognised the intellectual lion by the grandeur of his
claw ; and in their future contests on the fluxionary con
troversy, both he and Leibnitz had reason to feel that the
sovereign of the forest, though assailed by invisible marks

men, had neither lost a tooth nor broken a claw.

   In the new and responsible situation to which Newton

was elevated, his chemical knowledge was of great use to

   1 Mr. Hoare was Comptroller of the Mint.   1695, and resigned at the same  date
   8 He was elected on the 30th of November,          3 Conduitt's MSS.

in 1699.

1C95.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       193

the country ; and, in effecting the re-coinage, which was
completed towards the close of 1699, his services were
so highly appreciated, that the Chancellor of the Ex

chequer declared that he could not have carried it on with
out his assistance. In the year 1699, when the situation
of master and worker of the Mint became vacant, Mr.
Montague was First Lord of the Treasury, and through
his influence Newton was promoted to that high office,
which was worth from twelve to fifteen hundred pounds

per annum, and which he held during the remainder of

his life.1 In this situation he drew up an official report

on the coinage in 1717, and Mr. Conduitt says, " that he
behaved himself with an universal character of integrity
and disinterestedness, and had frequent opportunities of
employing his skill in numbers, particularly in his Table
of Assays of Foreign Coins, which is printed in the Book
of Coins lately published by Dr. Arbuthnot." 2

   A very remarkable proof of Newton's integrity is

given in the following interesting extract of a letter from

the Rev. Dr. Derham to Mr. Conduitt :8--" The last thing,

I I1 Among Newton's papers, found the following list of his securities, which,

presume, must be those which were required when he was elevated to the Master

ship of the Mint :--

          Mr. Newton,                           £2000

       ....And Bondsmen,                     .  1000
                 Rt. Honble Charles Montague,   1000
                 Thomas Hall, Esq.,             1000
                                                1000
                            Flayer, Esq.,
          Thos. Pilkington, gent.,

                                                £6000

   * Conduitt's MSS. Dr. Arbuthnot's work was published in 4to, in 1727, under

the title of Tables of Ancient Coins, Weights, and Measures, Explained and Exem

plified in several Dissertations. It was reprinted in 1754, with Observations by

Dr. Benjamin Langworth.
   · This letter, dated Upminster, 18th July 1733, was written when Mr. Conduitt

requested information regarding Newton from Dr. Derham, who had been intimately

acquainted with him for about thirty years.

VOL. II.                                               N

194  LIFE OF SIU ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIX.

ISir, that shall trouble you with, shall be a passage rela

ting to the coinage of the copper money some years ago,
which pleased me much in setting forth the integrity of
my friend Sir Isaac. The occasion of our discourse was,

the great inconveniences which many underwent by the
delay of the coinage of this sort of money. The occasion
of which delay, Sir Isaac told me, was from the numerous
petitions that were presented to them, in most of which
some person or other of quality was concerned. Amongst
others, he told me that an agent of one had made him an
offer of above £6000, which Sir Isaac refusing on account
of its being a bribe, the agent said he saw no dishonesty
in the acceptance of the offer, and that Sir Isaac under
stood not his own interest. To which Sir Isaac replied,
that he knew well enough what was his duty, and that
no bribes should corrupt him. The agent then told him,
that he came from a great Dutchesse, and pleaded her
quality and interest. To which Sir Isaac roughly answer

Ied, ' desire you to tell the lady, that if she was here
herself, and had made me this offer, I would have desired
her to go out of my house ; and so I desire you, or you

shall be turned out.' Afterwards he learned who the

Dutchesse was."

    The elevation of Newton to the Mint led to the promo
tion of his friend, Dr. Halley, to an office in the same
establishment. He was made Deputy-Comptroller of the
Mint at Chester, in 1696, the office of Comptroller being
at that time held by Mr. Thomas Molyneux. Soon after
his appointment, disturbances of a very serious kind arose
among the officers. Mr. Halley, and Mr. Woodall the
Warden, feeling it their duty to see the King's business

well and faithfully performed, had insisted upon correct
ing certain irregularities in the proceedings of Bowles and

1697.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   195

Lewis, two clerks in the establishment. The Master of

the Mint, a Mr. Clark, espoused the cause of the clerks,
and, " pretending to take offence at something that no
body else had observed in the company, went and bor

rowed Bowles his sword, to waylay the Warden as he

went home." He did not, however, fulfil his threat, but

some time after he sent a challenge to the Warden, which
                 " He
was accepted.   before  appeared,            however, on the ground,"
says Halley, "          the hour,            with his man and horses,

I                                  by which means they fought not,

                      a
                              it,
and staid not after

and demonstrated the folly of such decisions that went
no farther."1 In the same spirit, Lewis, the clerk of the

Warden, threw standish at Mr. Woodall, and he and

the Master brought forward all sorts of charges against

Halley and Woodall. Halley was accused of showing
preference to individuals in the purchase of silver, and of
                                             *
committing professional blunders in adding an alloy to
                                                 I
what   called schissell, and thus diminishing the purity
       is                                                         2,

                  ;                                         I if a

                                a
of the coin while the Warden was charged with having

used expressions of treasonable nature, dangerous to

the Government. Halley was at first greatly annoyed

by these dissensions, and, in requesting Newton to inter
fere for his protection, he expressed the hope " that his

potent friend, Mr. Montague, would not forget him,

there should be occasion."2 When Parliament had voted

the continuance of the five country mints, Halley re
quests " that Lewis may appear face to face with him

before the Lords, there to answer to his throwing the

standish at Mr. Woodall, the giving the undue preference

to Palford, and some other accusations of that nature,

am prepared to lay before their Lordships.           came to

town purposely to charge that proud, insolent fellow,

1      Letter to Molyneui, August 25, 1697.  August  1697.

196        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              CHAP. XIX.

whom I humbly beg you to believe the principal author
of all the disturbance we have had at our mint, whom if

you please to see removed all will be easy ; and on that

condition I am content to submit to all you shall prescribe
Ito me. Nevertheless, as I have often wrote you, would

urge you to nothing but what your great prudence shall

Ithink proper, since it is to your particular favour owe

this post, which it is my chiefest ambition to maintain

worthily, and next to that to approve myself in all

things." 1 In the same letter he speaks of his resignation,
but as he is unwilling " that Lewis and Clark should inter

pret it to be any other than a voluntary cession," he thinks

it necessary to prosecute the charges against them.2

Before these dissensions had come to this crisis, New

ton had offered, in February 1697, to procure for Halley
an " engineer's place," through a Mr. Samuel Newton.

Halley3 expressed his willingness to accept of this kind

offer, provided Sir Martin Beckman was of opinion that

the post was likely to be durable ; but two days before

the date of Halley's letter, Newton4 had offered him a

situation worth ten shillings a week, to teach the mathe

matical grounds of engineering two hours a day to the

engineers and officers of the army ; but he seems to have

declined both these situations. When the five country

mints were discontinued in 1698, Halley, at his own

desire, was appointed by the King to the command of
the Paramour Pink, which sailed in November 1698, in

order that he might study the variation of the needle in

different parts of the globe.5

1 Letter to Newton, dated December 30, 1697.

* These facts are gleaned from four unpublished letters to Newton, and three to

Molyneux.                       8 February 1697.

4 Macclesfield Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 420

5 Halley was one of the most distinguished and accomplished philosophers of the

seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. On the death of Dr. Wallis, in 1703, he was

1697.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          197

    While Newton was thus disturbed by the quarrels of
the Chester Mint, in which he had personally no share,
his tranquillity was more seriously compromised by dis
putes which arose under his own eye, and in which his

character was concerned.

   In the year 1697, a person of the name of William

Chaloner, who is stated to have made experiments con
nected with the Mint " for the Parliament," pretended
that he had discovered certain abuses in that establish

ment, and was sent for by a committee of the House of

Commons to give information on the subject. Dreading,
however, the personal consequences to which he might
be exposed, he obtained a promise of protection from
the committee, and he then disclosed several abuses

alleged to have been committed in that department,
and pointed out the methods by which false money
was coined, and the mode of effectually preventing it.
Some of the functionaries of the Mint having heard of
these disclosures, and of Chaloner's having promised to
" write a book on the present state of the Mint," are
said to have threatened to take away his life before the
next sitting of Parliament. Hearing of this threat, a
Member of the House was, by its direction, appointed to
represent his case to the King, who promised " that he
should suffer no damage for the discoveries he had made,
and that he would provide for him for the service he had

appointed Savilian Professor of Geometry in Oxford. In 1703, he was chosen

Secretary to the Royal Society, and, in 1719, in the sixty-third year of his age, he

succeeded Flamsteed as Astronomer-Royal.  In 1729, he was elected a correspond

ing Member of the Academy of Sciences at Paris, and he died on the 14th January

1742, in the eighty-sixth year of his age. In his Eloge upon Halley, M. Mairan
thus speaks of him :-- " While we thought the eulogium of an astronomer, a natural

ist, a scholar, and a philosopher, comprehended our whole subject, we have been

insensibly surprised with the history of an excellent mariner, an illustrious traveller,
an able engineer, and almost a statesman." -- Mem. Acad. Par. 1742.

198  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIX.

rendered." Notwithstanding these proceedings, the officers
of the Mint, as Chaloner states, committed him to Newgate,
and, after keeping him in irons for seven weeks, they pre
ferred against him a Bill of Indictment ; but having no
evidence to produce, they laid a plot to induce him " to

coin false money," and thus to destroy his testimony

against themselves. With this view Richard Morris, a
messenger of the Mint, having apprehended for high
treason John Peers, a clockmaker in the city, together
with his wife, kept them prisoners in his own house, and
told them that they were in great danger of being hanged,
" unless they would undertake to do service to the Govern
ment." This service, according to the affidavit of Peers,
was to engage Chaloner " to be concerned in coining
with them." Peers undertook the task, and arranged
with Captain Harris, the Mint engraver, that a place in
the establishment would be the reward of his success.
Peers and his wife were with this view " bailed before

Mr. Justice Negus." But though they used every means
in their power, they could not succeed in alluring Mr.
Chaloner. Peers then renewed the attempt with Holloway,
a turner, and one Prince. For this purpose they went
to the country provided with tools, and coined several

plated shillings ; but before they had applied to Chaloner,
they availed themselves of their position, and circulated
some of these shillings as legal coin.

   In this state of matters, Sir Isaac, as Warden of the

Mint, granted a warrant for the apprehension of Peers,
but having sent for him, and learned that he was at work
with Holloway and Prince, " to get Mr. Chaloner to be
concerned in coining with them," Sir Isaac is said to have
highly approved of the plan as one well-contrived, and to

have given Peers five shillings and liberty to coin money,

1697.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  199

in order to promote the object they had in view. Upon
being questioned by Sir Isaac concerning Chaloner, " whom
he had assisted in experiments for Parliament," Peers told
him that he knew nothing against Chaloner, excepting
that one Moore had prevailed upon himself to make for
him a tool to edge or mill money, when he was working
with Chaloner ; that Chaloner told him he would be

hanged if he did such a thing, and was indignant at the

idea of its being done with his tools. Chaloner, however,

afterwards told Peers, that if Moore should force him to
make the tool by threats, " he should make it of iron,

that it might not answer the end to mill money with it."
When Sir Isaac heard the amount of this charge against
Chaloner, he is said to have told Peers " that these advices

were not material against him ;" and to have given through
Morris, four pounds, to carry on the design of entrapping

Chaloner. Holloway, however, having heard that Peers had
been with the Warden, suspected that he himself would be
taken up, and gave Peers and Prince in charge to a con
stable, who committed them to Newgate for high-treason.
Sir Isaac hearing of this, went to Newgate, and, having
been assured by Peers that he had done nothing in coin
ing excepting what he had been told to do by himself
and Captain Harris and Morris, " in order to draw in Mr.

Chaloner," he agreed to admit him to bail the next day.
    Holloway also made an affidavit, and swore " that he

heard Isaac Newton, Esq., Warden of the Mint, and his
clerk and Morris, all say, that the said Chaloner should
not be tried until the last day of the Sessions, for then
he was sure to be tried by the Recorder, they being sen
sible that the Recorder was Chaloner 's enemy ;" or, as
Peers expressed it in his affidavit, " that as the Recorder

had a prejudice against Chaloner, he would certainly do

                                                              /"

200  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIX.

his business." By the evidence of Morris, and the story
of the tool made for Moore, a bill for high treason was

found by the grand jury against Chaloner.
    Under these circumstances, Chaloner presented a peti

tion to Parliament on the 18th July 1697-8, " praying

that his sufferings and ruined condition might be consi
dered and redressed." The petition was referred to a
large committee, one of whom was Charles Montague,
with instructions to send for any information against
Chaloner, and report to the House. New members were
added to the committee on the 2d of March : The com

mittee got leave to sit on the 8th, and other members
were added on the 28 th, but it does not appear from the
journals of the House that any report was given in, or
any farther proceedings taken in the matter.1

   As this singular story involves charges deeply affecting
the character of Sir Isaac, and as these are contained in

printed papers, and probably in unpublished records of
the House of Commons, which might some day come to
light when there was no opportunity of defending him, and

perhaps no means of defence, I felt it a sacred duty to

inquire into their origin and history. Had they rested on
any foundation, and been the subject of public or private
discussion, Charles Montague, then Chancellor of the
Exchequer, against whom the spirit of party ran high,
would doubtless have been questioned in the House of
Commons ; and Flamsteed, in his private correspondence
with Abraham Sharpe, would not have failed to record

the failings of his friend. It was therefore probable, both

from the character of Newton and the silence of his

    1 The preceding statement is taken from a printed copy of the petition of Chaloner,
with which Mr. Edleston has kindly favoured me. The affidavits of Holloway and

Peers, annexed to the petition, are dated in November and December 1697.

1097.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  201

contemporaries, that some palliation of his conduct, or
some exposure of the calumny, might yet be discovered.

  IThrough the kindness of Lord Brougham, to whom

submitted the case, inquiries were made in the House of
Commons, the Mint, and the British Museum ; but it is
only from the latter that any useful information has
been obtained. Mr. Panizzi found three printed papers
by Chaloner, one of which was a proposal, dated February
11, 1694, and addressed to the House of Commons, that

they should pass an act to prevent the clipping and
counterfeiting of money ; another containing reasons
against the resolutions of the committee appointed to re
vise these proposals ; and a third, pointing out the defects
in the constitution of the Mint. Mr. Panizzi likewise

found a tract, containing an account of the life and
execution of Chaloner, which completely exculpates New
ton from the charges brought forward in the petition to
the House of Commons.1 Chaloner seems to have been

a man of extraordinary talent, who, in order to conceal

his own criminality, brought false accusations against the
officers of the Mint. " He scorned," says his biographer,
" to fly at low matters. He pretended his commitment
to be malicious, and accused that worthy gentleman,
Isaac Newton, Esq., Warden of His Majesty's Mint, with

several other officers thereof, as connivers (at least) at
many abuses and cheats there committed. This accusa

tion he impudently put into Parliament, and a committee
was appointed to examine the same, who upon a full
hearing of the matter, dismissed the same gentleman with

1 Entitled, Ouzmanus fiedivivus. A Short View of the Life of William Chal
lidoner, the Notorious Coyner, who was executed at Tyburn, on Wednesday, the  of

J.March 169|, with a brief Account of his Tryal, Behaviour, and Last Speech.

London : Haynes. 12mo, 1700; pp. 12.

202  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            eHAP. XIX.

the honour due to his merit, and Chaloner with the cha

racter he deserved."1

   While Newton was thus distracted by the quarrel among
the functionaries of the Mint at Chester, and by the

charges against himself, his tranquillity was disturbed by
another misunderstanding with Flamsteed. He had now
resumed his inquiry into the lunar irregularities ; and " on
Sunday the 4th December 1698, in the time of evening

service," he went to Greenwich to obtain twelve computed
places of the moon, which Flamsteed had corrected for

him, in consequence of the places formerly given him not

having been correct. On the 29 th December, Flamsteed
sent him a correction of the time in one of the observa

tions ; and having afterwards discovered that the results

required to be still farther improved, he waited upon

Newton on the 30th or 31st December, to acquaint him

with the fact. According to Flamsteed, Newton was
" reserved to him contrary to his promise ;" that
                                                    it,                           he

                                                                               ;

                                                                            is,
was reserved, as Mr. Baily interprets in not impart

ing to him the particulars of his lunar theory or, as

Mr. Edleston thinks, reserved in his manner from being

at that time displeased with Flamsteed.
    When Dr. Wallis was preparing the third volume of

his works, he requested from the Astronomer-Royal his

observations on the parallax of the earth's annual orbit.

Flamsteed complied with his request but without sup
                                                    ;

                                                        I
fpoolsloinwgintgharteferewnocueldtobehiosffleunnsaivrethteooNrye. wto"n,  he made the
1                                                                          had become

              it

                                                 n
intimate with Mr. Newton, then the most learned man of

       Chaloner had been three times under prosecution before he petitioned the House;
of Commons. He was finally apprehended for forging Malt Tickets but when
tried for coining, he feigned madness to avoid pleading. He was however found
guilty of high treason by " cloud of witnesses," and executed, -- abusing the Judge
and the Jury, and declaring to the last that the witnesses, particularly Holloway,

had perjured themselves.

1099.  LIFE OK SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                            203

the day, and Professor of Mathematics in the University of

Cambridge, to whom I had given 150 places of the moon

deduced from my observations, and at the same time her

places as computed from my tables, and 1 promised him

similar ones in future as I obtained them, along with the

elements of my calculations for the improvement of the

Horroxian theory of the moon, in which matter I hope he

will have all the success which he expects."1 Dr. Gregory

having heard from Wallis of this allusion to the lunar

theory, mentioned it to Newton, who took it very much

amiss, and begged that Gregory would request Wallis to

suppress the clause. When Flamsteed heard of this re

quest from Wallis, he wrote to Newton a long letter, dated

Jgarnapuha,r--y r2e, m1i6n9d9i,ngtrhaimnsmthiatttinitgcotontahiinmedthneotohfifnegnsibvuet  para
                                                                                            what

Newton himself had acknowledged to many of his friends,

and proposing to leave out the word Horroziance, which
was put in because Newton " allowed that theory as far

as it goes."2 As Newton did not reply to this letter,

Flamsteed wrote to him again on the 5th, and drew from

him the following expostulation.

                                                        " Jermvn Street, January 6, 1698-9.

" Sir,-- Upon hearing occasionally that you had sent a

letter to Dr. Wallis about the parallax of the fixed stars

to be printed, and what you had mentioned therein with

Irespect to the theory of the moon, was concerned to be

publicly brought upon the stage about what, perhaps,

will never be fitted for the public, and thereby the world

   1 In the Latin version of this passage, given by Baily in p. 668, for similiam
read similia, for posteriore read posterum, for enarrare read qua in re ; for aim
[forum?] read eum; and for censeas harum read conseculurum.

   s As this letter derives a peculiar interest, from its connexion with the remarkable

letter of Newton of January 6th, which has been the subject of so much discussion,

we have printed it in the Appendix, No. XIV.

204            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         CHAP. XIX.

Iput into an expectation of what, perhaps, they are never
like to have.  do not love to be printed on every occa

sion, much less to be dunned and teased by foreigners

about mathematical things, or to be thought by our own

Ipeople to be trifling away my time about them, when
Ishould be about the King's business. And, therefore,

desired Dr. Gregory to write to Dr. Wallis, against print

ing that clause which related to that theory, and men

tioned me about it. You may let the world know, if

you please, how well you are stored with observations of

all sorts, and what calculations you have made towards

rectifying the theories of the heavenly motions. But

there may be cases wherein your friends should not be

Ipublished without their leave. And, therefore, hope
you will so order the matter, that I may not on this occa
sion be brought upon the Istage. -- am, your humble

servant,                                         Is. Newton."

   This letter has been characterized by Mr. Baily as a
" most extraordinary" production ; and another writer

represents   it as unworthy of Newton's          transcendent
genius, and   Newton as " indignant," and        taking fire at
the paragraph sent to Wallis, which he says " was obvi

ously written without the slightest intention to give
Ifoffence."
               Newton had written this letter as a simple

expression of his feelings, upon hearing that his lunar

theory had been mentioned by Flamsteed, as these writers,

without any authority assume, we should have regarded it

as_unseemly, and as a display of unnecessary feeling. But

this was not the case. Newton did nothing more than

request Dr. Wallis to leave out the paragraph ; and Mr.

Baily knew, and the other writer ought to have known,1

               1 Sec Bailv's Flamsteed, p. 164.

1698-99.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                                 205

that the letter was extracted from Newton by the two

letters of Flamsteed, which we have already mentioned,

and which for anything they knew, might have been

written in such a tone, as to make Newton's letter appear
an amiable, in place of an extraordinary, production. Mr.

Flamsteed's first letter of January 2d, was a provoking

letter, and yet Newton did not reply to and
                                    ;                             it                                                                very
                                                                      is
                                      it,
probable that Flamsteed's second letter, which extorted

an answer, was still more annoying for                            it                                                                quite
                                                                       is

clear, from his own note, that he was greatly offended at

Newton for delaying to answer it.1

   But independently of these circumstances, Newton
was entitled to express his feelings at being " brought

upon the stage," and thus exposed to being dunned and

teased by foreigners and what       still more in his fa
          ;
             ;

                               is

                                                          it
vour, he had peculiar reasons at that very time to pre

vent the belief that he was occupied with anything else
than " the King's business." The great recoinage of silver

was now going on. Some of the provincial mints were

in state of anarchy and the Mint itself was charged
a

before Parliament with the toleration of grave abuses,

which might have been attributed to Newton as its Master.
In thus justifying Newton, we do not mean to attach much

blame to Flamsteed. He should have asked Newton's

permission to print the obnoxious paragraph, and, when

was printed, Newton should have requested its suppression

from Flamsteed himself, and ought to have returned an an

swer to the letter of explanation which had been sent him.

Notwithstanding these differences, Flamsteed con

tinued to visit Newton when he went to London, to pro

mise him his observations when he required them, and

      Flamsteed answered Newton's letter on the 10th of January,                                                                    very contrite
spirit, and sent him the paragraph as altered Wallis.
1
                                                                                      by

                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                                                 a

206            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    CHAP. XIX.

to converse upon the tender subject of the printing of

the Greenwich observations. On the 3d of May 1700,

Flamsteed paid one of these visits, and has given such a

graphic account of it in a letter to Lowthorp1 a week

after, that it gives us some insight into the peculiarities

of both these  "grweaaittemd enh.is  Flamsteed went before                  Newton
was up, and                          rising." He found a                    bible in
his room, which he seems to have read, " and meeting,"
Ihe says, "with a sheet of paper, wrote upon it this
distich, which I remembered from a late satire, --

               A bantering spirit has our men possessed,                    10th  verse.
               And Wisdom is become a standing jest.

                                           Read Jeremiah, chap. ix. to the

I do not know whether he has read                   but think he
                                     ;

                                             if

                                                    it,

                                                     I

                                                                      a
cannot take amiss he has and he reflects little
it,

            it

             I

                      if
on he will find have given him a reasonable caution

against his credulity, and shewed him the way of the

world much better than his politics or play could do."
                                         a

When the subject of printing his observations was started,

and Flamsteed had explained the order in which they
were to be given, he added, " that the book of tables
would follow." At this Newton started, and asked him,
" what tables     and "
     if if V              I iIf      would publish any for the
           " My answer was, that she was in his hands,
moon         IV

and he would finish her, would lend him my assist

ance,      not, would fall upon her myself when had
                                                                            I

leisure." During " the discourse," Newton complained of

his friend's reserve, which Flamsteed denied, and said,

that he would come down some morning with Sirif
Christopher Wren and take his dinner with him, "he
should then see in what forwardness his work was, and
we would consider how to forward to the press."
                                     it

               1  Baily's Flamsteed, pp. 174, 175.

1699.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  207

   The reputation of Newton had been gradually extend
ing itself on the continent, as his philosophy became better
known. James Cassini, the celebrated French astrono

mer, came to England after the peace of Ryswick,1 to
pay Newton a visit, and is said to have offered him a
large pension from the French king, which he refused ;2
and it was probably on the suggestion of Cassini that he
was appointed one of the eight foreign associates of the
Academy of Sciences, who were created on the remodell
ing of the Academy in 169 9.3

   A short time after this election, namely, on the 7th of

March, M. Geoffroy, one of the members of the Academy,
transmitted to Dr. Sloane, the Secretary of the Royal
Society, a list of the eight foreign associates, containing
the name of Newton ; and gave him the following account

Iof the new organization of the Academy :--" shall here

  I1 The Treaty of Ryswick was signed in 1697.

   ! have given this aneedote in the words of Conduitt, which cannot be correct.
James Cassini, the younger, paid a visit to London in the early part of 1698, as
appears from the following short note, in which he communicates from his father
the periodic times of the five satellites of Saturn, slightly different from those pub
lish""edCCulaimnristsheime Lo2odnvdEiirndooitD, roeomvf eitnhrsoeurPIusrsainkciniNpeiaGw,atollpnia.,m9J6a0c.houbeuspeCrvaessniinsis,emS,.P.aDc.cepi a patre meo
epistolani una cum maximis satellitum Saturni digressionibus quas a me expostula-
veras. Has tibi mandare et gratitudinem meam tuorum erga me beneficiorum
simul exhibere mihi licoat. Tuam domum adivi ut te inviserem, sed mala usus
fortuna cum nunc abfuisses. Vale vir clarissime, et sic habeas me tibi semper esse
addictissimum. Dover, die 6 Aprilis, 1698, St. N."

   * The eight foreign Associates created on this occasion were--

                                    1. Leibnitz.

                                   2. Guglielmini.
                                   3. Hartsoecker.

                                   4. Tschirnhausen.

       7. Newton.  February 21.
       8. Roemer.

    Newton and Roemer, and the two Bernonllis, were nominated by the Academy,
and the other four by the King. -- Edleston's Correspondence, &c, p. lxix.

208                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             CHAP. XIX.

give you an account of the great splendour that the

AcacUfmie des Sciences has received by the regulation,

increase, encouragement, and order, M. 1'Abbe" Bignon

has obtained to it from the king. That Academy is now

composed of ten honorary academicians, which are chosen

learned and          eminent   gentlemen, of eight   shtirsanlgeearrsninagss--o
ciates, each         of which   is distinguished by

twenty pensioners fellows ; twenty Aleves ; twelve French

associates. Between the honorary academicians, two are

elected every year, one for president, the other for vice-

president. Twenty pensioners have every year 1500

French livres ; and after the death of one pensioner, the

Acade"mie will propose to the king three persons, asso

ciates, or Aleves, or sometimes others, and his majesty

will call one of the three for pensioner." 1

       While Newton held the inferior office of Warden of

the Mint, he retained the Lucasian Chair ; but upon his

promotion to the Mastership in 1699, he appointed Mr.
Whiston his deputy at Cambridge, with " the full profits

of the place." Whiston began his astronomical lectures

on the 27th January 1701 ; and when Newton resigned

the chair on the 10th December 1701, he succeeded in

getting Whiston appointed his successor. When he re

signed his fellowship, which he did soon after, he stood

tenth on the list ; and had he remained a fellow till

August 1702, he would have been elected a senior.

       We have not been able to discover why Newton did

not represent the University in the Parliament which

"   1  Mr. Weld has published this   letter from the Letter-Book of the    Royal Society,
   as  marking the different manner  in which the great learned societies  of England and

France were treated by their respective sovereigns. In the latter country, science

was thus early fostered and rewarded, while in England the Royal Society was left

to struggle with poverty." -- History of the Royal Society, vol. i. pp. 355, 356. See
vol. i. p. 100, &c.

1703.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               209

met in 1690. When a vacancy took place in November
1692, by the death of Sir Robert Sawyer, Newton's
health would probably not permit him to aspire to the
office. But at the next election for King William's sixth
Parliament, he was chosen one of the members for the

University. The other successful candidate was Mr.
Henry Boyle, afterwards Lord Carleton j1 " so that on
this occasion Trinity College had the honour of supplying
the University with both its representatives, and Dr.
Bentley had the satisfaction of assisting in the return of
his illustrious friend."2

    Newton's honours were now gathering thick around

him. On the 30th November 1 703, he was elected, on

the retirement of Lord Somers, President of the Royal

Society ; and he was annually re-elected during the re
maining twenty-five years of his life, having held the
office for a longer time than any of his predecessors, and
longer too than any of his successors, excepting Sir
Joseph Banks.

   In this new position, Newton was brought into personal

communication with Prince George of Denmark, (the

consort of Queen Anne,) who had been elected a F ellow

of the Royal Society. The Prince was anxious to promote
the interests of science, and on Newton's recommendation,

had offered to be at the expense of printing Flamsteed's
observations, and particularly his catalogue of the stars.
Newton's high merits then became known to the Queen,
who resolved to take the first opportunity of shewing her

   1 Mr. Hammond was the opponent of Newton on this occasion.  The votes stood
thus --
                                                                     11
       Mr. Henry Boyle,                  180

       Mr. Newton,                       161

                           Mr. Hammond,  64
» Monk's Life of Bentky, p. 122.

 VOI,. II.

210  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          CHAP. XIX.

respect for his genius. In the month of April 1705,

which her Majesty was spending at her royal residence

of Newmarket, she went on the 16th, accompanied by

Prince George of Denmark, and her whole court, to visit

the University of Cambridge, where she  was to be the
guest of Dr. Bentley at Trinity Lodge.  " Alighting at
the Regent Walk," says Dr. Monk, " before the schools,

she was received by the Duke of Somerset, the Chan

cellor, the head of the University, and addressed in a

speech by Dr. Ayloffe, the public orator. From thence

her Majesty went in procession to the Regent House,

where, agreeably to ancient custom, was held the congre

gation of the senate, termed Regia Comitia, at which

the University conferred degrees upon all persons nomi

nated by the Royal command ; the presence of the sove

reign dispensing with statutable qualifications and exer

cises. Afterwards, the Queen held a court at Trinity

Lodge, where she rendered this day memorable, by con

ferring knighthood upon the most illustrious of her sub

jects, Sir Isaac Newton.1 A sumptuous dinner was then

given to the royal visitor and her suite in the Hall of

Trinity College, which had been newly fitted up and de

corated. Whoever is acquainted with the large sums

which Alma Mater has since expended on public objects,

will be surprised to learn, that she was then so poor as

to be compelled to borrow £500 for the purpose of this

entertainment. The royal party, after attending evening

service, at the magnificent chapel at King's College, took

   1 The two persons who had the honour of being knighted along with Sir Isaac
were Sir John Ellis, Master of Caius College and Vice-chancellor, and Sir James

Montague, the University Counsel, afterwards Lord Chief Baron. Sir James, who

was of Trinity College, was a younger brother of Lord Halifax, and, along with
others, received on this occasion the degree of LL.D. At the same time the cele
brated Dr. Arbuthnot, physician to the Queen, received the degree of M.D.

1704.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  211

leave of the University, and returned the same night to

Newmarket."

  It must have been at this period of Newton's life, that

he wrote a love-letter of which a copy was found among

the Portsmouth papers ; but we have no means of ascer

taining whether it was for himself or a friend that he
composed this remarkable epistle. It is in the hand

writing of Mr. Conduitt, who, doubtless, intended to pub
lish and entitled, in the same hand, " Copy of Letter
       it,                                       I.
                 is                                     it

                      A                                           is
                                                                        ." a
                                       : ,"
to Lady Norris, by                           while on the back              written in
another hand, " Letter from Sir N. to
                                                                                  It has

no date, but, as we shall presently see,         must have been

written in 1703 or 1704 --

" Madam, -- Your ladyship's great grief at the loss of Sir

William, shews that he had returned safe home, your
                     if

ladyship could have been glad to have lived still with                                     a

husband, and therefore your aversion at present from

marrying again can proceed from nothing else than the

memory of him whom you have lost. To be always

thinking on the dead,           to live melancholy life among
                     a1                          a
                            is                      is

                                                            it

                                                                                        :
sepulchres, and how much grief an enemy to your

health  is  very manifest by the sickness brought when

you received the first news of your widowhood And can

your ladyship resolve to spend the rest of your days in

grief and sickness Can you resolve to wear widow's

habit perpetually, -- habit which less acceptable to com
                                                 is
                                                                        a

pany, habit which will be always putting you in mind
        is a
of your lost husband, and thereby promote your grief anda

indisposition till you leave off. The proper remedy for
                                             it

all these mischiefs  is    new husband, and whether your
                        a

ladyship should admit of proper remedy for such mala
                           a

                            I
dies,           question which hope will not need much

212  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XIX.

time to consider of. Whether your ladyship should go
constantly in the melancholy dress of a widow, or
flourish once more among the ladies ; whether you
should spend the rest of your days cheerfully or in sad
ness, in health or in sickness, are questions which need

not much consideration to decide them. Besides that

your ladyship will be better able to live according to
your quality by the assistance of a husband than up

on your own estate alone ; and therefore since your

ladyship likes the person proposed, I doubt not but in

a little time to have notice of your ladyship's inclinations
to marry, at least that you will give him leave to dis
course with you about it.

      I am, Madam, your ladyship's most humble,

                                         and most obedient servant."

    The words at the close of this letter might lead us to

suppose that the writer and the lover were different per
sons ; but as no name is mentioned, nor any reference
made to the qualifications of a third party, it is probable
that the title, " person proposed," is a quaint and not un
common form of expression to avoid the use of the first

person. It is not probable that any gentleman aspiring

to Lady Norris's hand would entrust his cause to a friend,
and still less probable is it that that friend would be Sir

Isaac Newton. It could only have been for a very par

ticular friend that Newton's modesty would have per
mitted him to undertake such a task, and not one of his

acquaintances can be named who was unmarried, and who

was likely to call in the aid of a philosopher in an affair of
matrimony. Newton had been acquainted with Lady
Norris for some years, and from the following letter to his
niece, Miss Catherine Barton, which we found among his

1700.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                              213

papers, there is some ground for supposing that he was
then intimately acquainted with her.1

" To Mrs. Catherine Barton,
          at Mr. Gyre's at Pudlicot,
                         near Woodstock, in Oxfordshire.
                                                                                 " London, Aug. 5, 1700.

  " Dear Niece, --I had your two letters, and am glad the

air agrees with you ; and though the fever is loth to leave

I Jyou, yet hope it abates, and that the remains of the

small-pox are dropping off apace. Sir oseph Tilley is

leaving Mr. Toll's house, and it's probable I may succeed
him. I intend to send you some wine by the next carrier,
which I beg the favour of Mr. Gyre and his lady to accept.

My Lady Norris thinks you forget your promise to write

her, and wants a letter from you.                  Pray let me know by
the next how your face                               the fever be going.
I                       and
                                                is,
                                           if
Perhaps warm milk from the cow may help to abate it.
-- am your very loving uncle,
                                                     " Is. Newton."

   Lady Norris was the widow of Sir William Norris, Bart,
of Speke, near Liverpool. He took his degree of B.A. in
1679. He became one of the Lay-Fellows of Trinity

College, and was succeeded in his Fellowship by Charles
Montague. He sat for Liverpool in the third, fourth, and

fifth parliaments of William III., in the proceedings of

which he took an active part. He was created a baronet
on the 3d December 1698, was minister at the Porte,

and subsequently went out to Delhi as ambassador to
the Great Mogul. Sir William arrived at the Mogul's
camp, near Purnella, in April 1701, and seems to have

      This letter, which had on the back of calculations about the Mint, bound
up near the beginning of the second volume of the large folio volumes containing
papers about the Mint.
1

                                                           it
                                                                                                                          is

214  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CTAP. XIX.

conducted himself in " an imprudent and expensive" man
ner. The object of his mission seems to have been to
solicit the favour of the Mogul to the English Company, in
opposition to the London Company ; and it so far succeeded
that the Mogul seized the property and servants of the last
of these establishments. Sir William embarked on board

the Scipio from Surat on the 29th of April 1 702, and his

brother, who was Secretary to the Embassy, went on board
the China Merchant, one of the Company's ships, the
cargo of which amounted to 60,000 rupees on the Com
pany's account, and 987,200 rupees on Sir William Norris's.
The two vessels sailed for England on the 5th of May ;

Sir William was seized with dysentery, and died on the
10th of October 1702, between the Mauritius and St.

Helena, which the Scipio reached on the 31st October.
Sir William left no family, and therefore his widow must

have succeeded to his fortune. 1

   Lady Norris, whose name was Elizabeth Read, was
daughter and heiress of Robert Read of Bristol, and had
been twice married before her union with Sir William,

first to Isaac Meynell of Lombard Street, goldsmith, and
secondly, to Nicholas Pollexfen, a merchant in London.

   As Mr. Norris resided at Trinity College while Newton
held the Lucasian Chair, he must have been personally
acquainted with him at that time, and their acquaintance
must have been renewed when both of them had their re

sidence in London. If our interpretation of the letter to

Lady Norris be correct, the desire of Sir Isaac to marry at
the age of sixty, has a remarkable coincidence with that of
Leibnitz, who made proposals to a lady when he was fifty.
" The lady," says Fontenelle, " asked for time to take the

   1 See Truce's AnnaU of the Honourable East India Company, vol. iii. pp. 261,
461.472, &c.

1705.                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      215

matter into consideration, and as Leibnitz thus obtained

leisure to consider the matter again, he was never married."1

   The Parliament had just been dissolved when Newton

was knighted, and he seems to have been urged by his

friends to stand for the University. He had visited

Cambridge about a fortnight before, as Mr. Edleston sup

poses, on business connected with the election ; but it

would   taoppceoanrtefsrtomthethUenifvoellroswitiyngagleatitner:2--that  he  had      no
desire

  " Sir, --I wrote lately to Mr. Vice-chancellor, that by
Ireason of my present occasions here, could very ill come

down to your University to visit my friends in order to
Ibe chosen your burgess.
                          would have it understood that
I do not refuse to serve you, (I would not be so ungrate
Iful to my Alma Mater, to whom owe my education, nor

so disobliging to my friends,) but by reason of my busi

ness here I desist from soliciting, and without that, I see
no reason to expect being chosen. And now I have

served you in this Parliament, other gentlemen may ex

pect their turn in the next. To solicit and miss for want

of doing it sufficiently, would be a reflection upon me, and

Iit's better to sit still. And tho' reckon that all one as
Ito desist absolutely, yet leave you and the rest of the

gentlemen to do with all manner of prudence what you

think best for yourselves, and what pleases you shall

please -- Your most humble and most obedt. servant."

    Although we might suppose from this letter that New
ton was unwilling to canvass personally for a seat in the
new Parliament, yet it appears from the following inter

I1
'
Fnntenelle's   Eloge   of Leibnitz, Mem. Acad.   Par. 1718, p. 126.          copies.
There is no   address  on this letter, of which  have found two rough

216               LIFE OF SIR I9AAC NEWTON.                           CHAP. XIX

esting communication to him from Lord Halifax, that he
had resolved to be a candidate in the middle of March,

and before the dissolution :---1

" Sir, -- I send you the address of the House of Lords,

to which the Queen made so favourable an answer, that

the enemy are quite enraged. The paragraph in her

speech against the Tackers provokes them still more than

this. And whatever the ministers may think, they will
Inever forgive them for either.
                                                           believe they begin to

think so, and will take measures to make other friends.

I was in hopes by this post to have sent you an account

of several alterations that would have pleased you, but

they are not yet made, tho' you may expect to hear of

them in a very little time. Among other expectations

we have, we do depend upon a good Bishop, Dr. Wake is

likely to be the man. We are sure Sir William Dawes
Iwill not.
                  think this will have great influence in the
place where you are, and therefore I think you may men

tion it among your friends as a thing very probable, tho'
it be not actually settled. He is to hold St. James's in

commendam, and Dr. Younger will be Dean of Exeter.

Mr. Godolphin will go down to Cambridge next week, and

if the Queen goes to Newmarket, and from thence to

Cambridge, she will give you great assistance. The Tories

say she makes that tour on purpose to turn Mr. Ansley
out. He is so afraid of being thrown out, that Lord

Gower has promised to bring him in at Preston, which

they should know at Cambridge. If you have any com

1 This appears also from a letter of Flamsteed's written on the 5th April 1705, the
day of the dissolution, in which he wishes Newton " good success in his affairs,
                  happy return." -- Baily's
health, and    a  he returned too soon")       Flamsteed,    p. 238.    This letter (marked
" not sent   as                              is given by              probably addressed to
                                                           Baily as
Mr. Hodgson ; but as Mr. Edleston first suggested, it was to Newton. -- Correspon

dence, &c., p. Ixxiii, note 151.

1706.                LIFK OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON.          217

mauds for me, I desire you would send them to me, who
Ishall be very ready to obey them. -- am your most

humble, and most obedient servt.,                " Halifax.

   " 17 March," [1705.]

   It appears from this letter that Newton had resolved

to become a candidate. He seems, however, to have been

very undecided, and very unwilling to take active steps
in the matter, as appears from the following letter without

a date and address.1

   " I understand that Mr. Patrick is putting in to be your

representative in the next Parliament, and believe that

Mr. Godolphin, my Lord High Treasurer's son, will also
Istand.
         do not intend to oppose either of them, they

being my friends, but being moved by some friends of

very good note to write for myself, I beg the favour of

you and the rest of my friends in the University to re

serve a vote for me till I either write to you again, or

make you a visit, which will be in a very short time, and

you will thereby very much oblige yours, &c."

       Lord Halifax exerted his influence for Newton and

Mr. Godolphin, as might have been expected, but, as the

following letter shows, anticipated their defeat from the
                           Court :--
Iopp"oSsiitrio, --nof the              Lord  Manchester  to engage
                     have  sent to my
IMr. Gale for Mr. Godolphin, but am afraid his letter

will not come time enough. There can be no doubt of
Lord Manchester's sentiments in this affair. Mr. Gale

may be sure he will oblige him and all his friends by
appearing for Mr. Godolphin, and he can do you no good

   1 This letter is among the MSS. of Newton, in the possession of tho Rev. Jeffrey
Ekins, who kindly communicated it to me. It was probably written shortly before
his visit to Cambridge in March.

218  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          CHAP. XIX.

any other ways. I am sorry you mention nothing of the
election. It does not look well, but I hope you still keep

your resolution of not being disturbed at the event, since

there has been no fault of yours in the management, and

then there is no great matter in it. I could tell you more

stories where the conduct of the Court has been the same,

but complaining is to no purpose ; and now the die is

cast, we shall have a good Parliament. -- I am your most

humble and most obedient servant,              " Hallfax.

       " 5th May 1705."

   In order to promote his election, Newton went to Cam
bridge on the 24 th or 25 th of April. The Tory election
cry on this occasion was " the Church in danger ;" and, on
the polling day, the 17th of May, " hundreds of young
students hollowed, like schoolboys and porters, crying, No

Fanatic, no occasional Conformity, against two worthy gen
tlemen that stood candidates."1 Newton and Godolphin
were defeated, and Annesley and Windsor elected.2 Mr.
Mansfield mentioned to Mr. William Bankes, that his fa

ther, Sir James Mansfield, knew an old man at Cambridge

who remembered this election, and who said that all the

residents voted for Newton, but that they were outnum

bered by the non-resident voters.

   1 Cobbett's Parliamentary   History, vol.  vi. p. 496. Flamsteed thought Newton's
success doubtful, " by reason  he put in too  late." -- Baily's Flamsteed, p. 239.
3 The following was the state of the poll :--

     Hon. Arthur Annesley, (Magd.,)            . . 182

     Hon. Dixie Windsor,       (Trinity,)      . 170

     Hon. Fra. Godolphin,      (King'),)       . . 162

     Sir Isaac Newton,         (Trinity,) . . 117
Dr Bentloy voted for Sir Isaac. -- Edleston's Correspond.. &c., p. lxxiv.,'note 153.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOX.  219

                      CHAPTER XX.

SIR ISAAC IS ANXIOUS TO HAVE THE GREENWICH OBSERVATIONS PUB

   LISHED -- FLAMSTEED AGREES, PROVIDED HIS EXPENSES ARE PAID --
    PRINCE GEORGE OFFERS TO PAY THE EXPENSE OF PUBLISHING THEM --

    HE APPOINTS SIR ISAAC AND OTHERS REFEREES TO MANAGE THE MAT
    TER --ARTICLES AGREED UPON BETWEEN FLAMSTEED AND THE RE
    FEREES -- DIFFERENCES ARISE, AND DELAYS IN PRINTING-- THE PRINCE

     OFFERS TO PUBLISH TYCHO's OBSERVATIONS ALONG WITH FLAMSTEED's

   --NEWTON WRITES TO OLAUS ROEMER ABOUT TYCHO's MANUSCRIPTS --

     TO PREVENT DELAY THE REFEREES PROPOSE TO APPOINT ANOTHER
    CORRECTOR OF THE PRESS -- FLAMSTEED OPPOSES THIS IN A LETTER TO
    SIR C. WREN -- PRINCE GEORGE DIES -- THE WORK IS STOPPED FOR THREE
    YEARS -- FLAMSTEED'S CHARGES AGAINST NEWTON-- SANCTIONED BY
    MR. BAILY-- DEFENCE OF NEWTON -- FLAMSTEED INSERTS IN HIS AUTO
    BIOGRAPHY A FALSE COPY OF HIS LETTER TO WREN -- THE QUEEN AP
    POINTS A BOARD OF VISITORS TO SUPERINTEND THE OBSERVATORY --
    FLAMSTEED'S CORRESPONDENCE WITH DR. ARBUTHNOT -- A SCENE BE
    TWEEN NEWTON AND FLAMSTEED -- HALLEY PUBLISHES THE OBSERVA
    TIONS PRINTED AT THE EXPENSE OF THE PRINCE AND THE PUBLIC --

     FLAMSTEED PUBLISHES AT HI3 OWN EXPENSE THE HISTORIA CELESTIS
    -- OBSERVATIONS ON THE CONTROVERSY.

   Elevated to the Chair of the Royal Society, and en
joying the confidence of the Prince Consort, Sir Isaac had
it in his power to do something for the promotion of
Science. He had long cherished the desire of having the
observations of Flamsteed published ; and Halley and his
other friends had frequently urged their publication with
a degree of pertinacity, which a personal interest in them

could alone explain. It was a very natural wish on the

part of physical astronomers to possess the best observa
tions then made, by which they could test their specula

220  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XX.

tions and their theories ; and it was not an unreasonable

expectation, that the Astronomer- Royal, the author and
the custodier of these observations, should impart such of
them to his friends as their researches might require,
and as his leisure would permit him to reduce. This,

however, was a very different thing from the systematic
publication of an immense mass of observations accumu
lated by an astronomer who had a salary of only £100
per annum, and no allowance either for assistants or
computers. Flamsteed had laid down a plan for reviewing
the heavens, making a catalogue of the fixed stars, and

instituting regular observations on the moon and the
other planets. He again and again explained to Newton
and others the reasons why he could not comply with
their wishes, and, regardless of the clamours which were

raised against him, and which he should have despised

more than he did, he went steadily onward pursuing his

own plan, till it was nearly ripe for execution.
   In 1701 he had finished the greater number of the

constellations, but it was not till the commencement of

1703 that his catalogue was so complete that he wished

it to be made known, publicly, that he was ready and
willing to publish it " at his own charge," provided the
public would defray the expense " of copying his papers
and books for the press." He had already employed cal
culators from the country, and made great progress in
the preparation of his manuscripts, when Sir Isaac New
ton paid him a visit on the 11th of April 1704. When
dinner was over, Sir Isaac asked to see the state of his

work, and, having been shewn the catalogue of the fixed
stars, the maps of the constellations, " his new lunar num
bers fitted to his corrections," and the observations on the

planets, he told Flamsteed that he would recommend

1704.             MFE OF S1R ISAAC NWTON.   221

them to the Prince privately. To this Flamsteed objected,

and insisted that it should be done publicly ;-- a request
which Newton did not seem to think reasonable.1 In

order to have a proper document for the Prince's consi

deration, Flamsteed found that the papers would occupy
1400 folio pages, and, having " drawn up an estimate of

them," he sent them to the Royal Society, where it was
proposed that the work should be " recommended to the
Prince." Sir Isaac concurred in this opinion, and, on the

7th of December, he waited on the Prince, and gave him
a copy of Flamsteed's estimate of his observations. The
Prince lost no time in coming to a decision on the subject.
After perusing the estimate, he intimated to Newton on
the 11th, through his secretary, Sir George Clark, his
persuasion of Flamsteed's fitness for the work, and desired
that Newton, Mr. Robartes, Sir C. Wren, Dr. Gregory,
Dr. Arbuthnot, and any other members of the Society Sir

Isaac thought qualified, should consider what papers were
fit for the press. Newton communicated this intelligence

to Flamsteed on the 18th December 1704, and asked him
to meet " the referees" at dinner next day, and bring his
papers with him in the morning. Flamsteed attended

the meeting ; but as the referees had not time to examine
the papers which he brought, Newton went to dine with
him at the Observatory on the 29th, and made himself
acquainted with the papers which it was proposed to pub
lish. He accordingly, on the 23d January 1 705, drew up
the report of the referees, which was submitted to the
 Prince, and received his approbation.2

1 An account of this interview by Flamsteed will be found in Bnily's Flamtteed,

Ipp. 69, 217.                               have found in Sir Isaac's handwriting,

   8 In this Report, the original of which

the expense of printing 400 copies is £683, with £180 to pay the charges of two
calculators/ " This set of observations," the reporters say, " we repute the fullest

       1*4; &£'.                                                                      s

222  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. XX.

    During the rest of the year 1 705, the printing of the
work advanced slowly, on account of the ill health of the

Astronomer-Royal, his distance from town, and differences

of opinion which arose between him and Newton about

the order of the observations. The Greenwich ones had

been placed before the Derby ones, contrary to Sir Isaac's
wishes ; and, on the 25th of October, Flamsteed defends

this arrangement, and adduces, as a sufficient warrant

for his plan, that Albert Curtius, in publishing Tycho's

Observations, began in 1582 with the most accurate.

Along with this explanation he transmits the title of the

work for Newton's approbation. The articles of agree

ment between Flamsteed and the referees were signed

at Newton's house on the 17th November 1705 ;J and

in a day or two after their signature, we find Flamsteed
writing to his friend, Mr. Sharp,2 " that Newton had at

last forced him to enter into articles for printing his works,

with a bookseller, very disadvantageous to himself;" that
" he has thereby injured him  and that he does " not

see that they are nearer the press than before."

The referees had found it necessary, as the dispensers

of the Prince's bounty, and as acting for public interests,

to draw up articles binding themselves, as well as Flam

steed and the printer, to perform their relative obliga

tions. It is therefore of importance to know what these

articles were, before we can rightly judge of the conduct
of the parties. Mr. Baily has seen " four copies or

and completest that has ever yet been made, and as it leads to the perfection of
astronomy and navigation, so, if it should be lost, the loss would be irreparable."

IThe Report is published in Baily's Flamsteed, p. 234.

   1 have found three rough copies of these articles, all in Sir Isaac's handwriting,

and obviously drawn up by himself. The very receipts granted by Flamsteed were

written by Newton.
    1 November 20, 1705. Baily's Flamsteed, p. 256.

170?                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.    223

draughts of these articles," so " similar to each other,"

that he "cannot ascertain which was the one actually

agreed upon." He has overlooked the very title of these

copies, and Flamsteed's note,1 written upon one of them,

which prove that they are only articles proposed by
Flamsteed,2 and not the articles which he signed. Of these

he has left no copy, because he had wilfully violated

them. From the very first he seems to have resolved

not to perform his part of the agreement, and to have

thrown difficulties in the way, in order to procure more

money from the referees. After signing the second

agreement, he followed the same course, lamenting con

stantly the hardness of his bargain, because he had

made the instruments, and paid his assistants out of his

own funds, --facts which had nothing whatever to do

with the agreement, and which though well known, were

never pleaded before the agreement was made. He com

plains, too, in one place, that the £125 owing to him,

was not paid till above        two  months after  it was due ; and
in another he says, " it       was  some months   after (March 20,
I I1707-8) ere could get the £125 ; and am apt to
Ithink, had it not been for Dr. Arbuthnot, should never

have received it."3 Now these statements he must have

known to be false. 1 find by the agreement of the 20th

March, that the £125 was due on the re-delivery of the

Catalogue of stars to Sir Isaac, which took place on the

20th of March. The order upon Newton for the £125

1 In this note he offers immediately to put the first volume into the hands of the

referees.                      himself had drawn up articles which " were not to
                               refers to certain topics in " the articles," which are
   2 Flamsteed says  that  he
Newton's purpose ;"   and  he

not mentioned in what Mr. Baily has ventured to consider as the genuine articles.

See pages 80 and 81 of his Autobiography.                                              r
   * Baily's Flamsteed, pp. 86 and 320.

224  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP.>X.

was signed by the referees on the 26th March, and Flam-

steed received his money on the 1 2th A pril I1 It is strange

how trivial writings are often preserved for the defence of
innocence, and the establishment of truth.

  I have not found a copy of the articles which were

actually signed by the parties. I have before me, how

ever, three drafts of them in Newton's handwriting, and

I regret to say that they are essentially different from

those published by Mr. Baily. In the latter, Flamsteed is

brought under no obligation whatever, and he is made

the custodier of all the copies of the work. In the former,

he is brought under the most stringent obligation to pro
duce " fair and correct copies" of his Catalogue, and of all
his other tables, within a specified time ; and there is no
obligation to give him the custody of the printed work.2
The discovery of these drafts of the articles, which cannot

be very different from those really signed, justifies the
anticipation of Mr. Edleston, that they would throw light

upon the controversy. Halley has distinctly stated, that
it was agreed to prefix the Catalogue of stars to the first
volume of the work ; and Mr. Baily, without any evi
dence, has denied this statement, and charged its author
with many misrepresentations and misstatements. Flam-
steed, indeed, has asserted that " he signed the articles,
but covenanted that the Catalogue of the fixed stars men
tioned to make a part of the first volume, should not be

    1 I have now before me the originals of the order upon Newton, of the 26th March,
 the order of Flamsteed of the 10th April, to pay the money to Mr. Hodgson, and
 Hodgson's receipt of the 12th April, all carefully preserved by Sir Isaac.

    2 In Newton's drafts of these articles, two different modes of paying Flamsteed
 are mentioned. One of these provides that he shall receive £50 for copying and
 correcting the press of each volume ; and also Is. 6d. per place, for computing the
 longitudes and latitudes of the planets, the places not exceeding 100, and the same
 sum for the places of the moon. The other mode is to pay two hundred and . . .
 pounds for both volumes.

1708.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            225

printed, but with the last ;" but this is an express decla
ration that the articles provided otherwise ; and Flam-

steed's covenant had this strange character, that after

signing articles, he either said to himself, or wrote upon
the document, that he " covenanted" something different

from them. In the articles of March 20, 1708, for

example, after he had got a copy of them, he writes,
" underneath it," that he covenanted certain things which
the articles did not contain. In the draft of the original

articles which I have mentioned, the contents of the two

volumes are distinctly written in Newton's hand ; and it
is not only stated in the contents, but it is the very first
of the articles, that the first part of the first volume is to

be the Catalogue of the fixed stars.1
    The allusion in Flamsteed's letter to the observations

of Tycho, seems to have drawn the attention of the re

ferees to that subject ; and they appear to have suggested
to his Royal Highness the idea of having the unpublished
observations of the Danish astronomer, which had been

left in the King of Denmark's library, written in Tycho's

own hand, printed at his expense, and published at the
same time with Flamsteed's work. The Prince agreed to

the suggestion ; and in communicating his secretary's
letter to Newton, Dr. Arbuthnot, one of his Royal High-

ness's physicians,2 requests him to inform the referees
and Mr. Halley, but not to let Flamsteed know, that
Halley was consulted. As the Prince was " mighty de

sirous to have the eight volumes of Tycho's observations
in his possession," Dr. Arbuthnot suggested, that as

1 This draft of the articles is given in Appendix, No. XV.  On the 8th of Jan
4 In an unpublished letter, dated Windsor, July 30, 1706.

uary 1707, Sir Isaac was requested by the Royal Society to endeavour to procure
Tycho's MSS., to be printed with Mr. Flamsteed's observations, and on the 27th he
stated that he would endeavour to procure them. Tycho's observations on the
comets of 1585, 1590, and 1596, were given to the Royal Society by Newton, Oc

tober 5, 1722.-- MisccUantom MSS. Ivii.

VOL. II.                                                    P                      /"

226  LIFE OF 81H ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XX.

they were sent into France by Olaus Roemer, the Danish
astronomer, the referees should write to him giving an
account of the substance of Flamsteed's observations,
and requesting an abstract of the eight volumes of those
of Tycho. Sir Isaac accordingly drew up a letter in
the name of the referees, and addressed it to Roemer,

but whether it was sent, and what was the result of the

Iapplication, if it was, have not been able to discover.

    Notwithstanding these impediments, the first volume,

containing the Sextant observations, was finished in
December 1707 ; and preparations were made for print

ing the second volume, which was to contain the observa
tions with the mural arc. On the 20th of March 1 708,

Flamsteed deposited the materials for this volume in the
hands of the referees, copied out in 1 75 sheets of paper ;

and he soon after amended the catalogue which had been
previously lodged in their hand under a new agreement.

   At a meeting of the referees on the 1 3th July, it was
agreed, "that the press should go on without farther
delay ;" and " that if Mr. Flamsteed do not take care that

the proofs be well corrected, and go on with dispatch,
another corrector be employed." In order " to prevent
the designed effect of this malicious order," Flamsteed
wrote a long and temperate letter of remonstrance to Sir

Christopher Wren, defending himself against the charge
of delay, and protesting against anything being printed
without his corrections. No answer was returned to this

letter : The press was stopped, and before any arrange
ments could be made, Prince George died on the 28th
October 1708, and the printing of the work was sus
pended for three years.1

   1 The agreement with the Prince was considered as cancelled by his death. His
treasurer had advanced £375 ; and as £25 of this had not been expended, it was re

turned to his administrators. See Appendix, No XVII.

1708.                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       227

During this long interval, no communication passed

between Flamsteed and any of the referees. Newton

had in his possession the synopses of lunar observations
which it is said were given him, " with an express under

standing that they were not to be published ;" and also

the uncompleted Catalogue of the stars, which, it is said,

was sealed up at his own request. The obligation thus

imposed, and the trust thus confided to him, he is charged

with having violated. Had this charge appeared but in

the letters and manuscripts in which it has slumbered for

more than a century, a few astronomers only would have

heard of and might have been neutralized by the
it

                 it,
                          it
high character of the great and good man whose character

affected. But after being repeated in a variety of

shapes, in the letters, and diary, and autobiography of its

author, the calumny has been presented to the world in

all its original bitterness, and in more attractive form,
                               I
                                     a
                                              it,

                                                  it
                                                                         a
by Mr. Baily and the public money1 has been expended
       it
                           ;
in printing the volume which contains and in circula

ting among all the distinguished astronomers and insti

tutions throughout the world.  have felt therefore

sacred duty to investigate the subject, and to defend an

illustrious name, embalmed in the affections of his disci

ples, and of his countrymen.

When Mr. Baily had seen the effect produced by his

Life1     Flamsteed, he found  necessary to publish
                               it
   It of
                                                                         ;

                                                                          a
Supplement, in its explanation and defence and from

his preliminary observations, the reader will see the

necessity of the task we have undertaken.
    " cannot be disguised," says Mr. Baily, " that the

     Mr. Baily's Life of Flamsteed was printed by order of the Lords Commission

ers of the Admiralty in 1835, and copies of presented them to numerous indi
viduals and institutions.
                               it

                                                          by

228               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.   CITAr. XX.

quarrel between Newton and Flamsteed, relative to the
printing of the Greenwich observations, has arrested a
much greater portion of the public attention, than any

other incident recorded in Flamsteed's Life, and indeed

greater than its relative importance seems to merit ; and

Newton's admirers have, as might have been expected,

shewn a natural desire to remove from him every appear

ance of misconduct arising out of that dispute. In doing

this, however, it seems to me that, in some instances at

least, the tendency of their remarks has been to excul
pate Newton, not so much by a direct refutation of the

charges adduced by Flamsteed, as by attempting to

lower the moral and scientific character of Flamsteed

himself in public opinion, and thus to shew that Newton

was most probably right in the line of conduct which he
pursued. This course, however, can scarcely be tolerated
at the present day : neither is it just to the character of

Flamsteed, (nor indeed to that of Newton, which stands
too high in the general opinion of mankind to need such

support,) that the decision should rest on such grounds.
The mere fact of mental superiority, which no one is dis
posed to deny, ought not to weigh one feather in the
scale of justice, and the case must be decided solely on

its own merits."

After this explanation, we may reasonably expect that

the charge against Newton, when preferred by Mr. Baily,

will be couched, as it
     it,
                    is,

                                          it
                        in less exceptionable terms than

in the vulgar and offensive phraseology of Flamsteed.

We shall give therefore, in his own words, in order to

make the charge and the answers to perfectly intelli

gible.

   " At the end of that period," says Mr. Baily, (the inter

val of three years,) "namely, in March 1710-11, Flam

1711.  LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.  229

steed learned, for the first time, (no communication hav
ing been had with him on the subject during the interval,)
that this packet containing the Catalogue had been broken
open, and that not only the Catalogue itself was at press,
but also that the observations (copied out on the 175
sheets of paper as above-mentioned) were likewise in
the course of being printed in a garbled and mutilated

state.

   " Flamsteed was of course very much annoyed and irri

tated at this unexpected piece of intelligence : he saw at
once that his favourite plan of printing his observations
in detail in the order in which they were made, and the
only way indeed in which they could be essentially useful
to the future astronomer, was without his knowledge or
consent about to be sacrificed to a scheme that would

render them of little or no practical utility, and compro
mise his own character as an observer. He likewise found

that the places of the moon, which he had from time to
time communicated to Newton, with an express under
standing that they were not to be published, because they
were deduced from an imperfect catalogue of the stars,
were annexed to the work. He was convinced that this
scheme had been long in agitation, since it must have
taken the referees a considerable time to dissect and ar

range the observations in the manner in which they were
then prepared and sent to the press. 1 Upon what grounds

Ithis clandestine and improper conduct can be justified,
Ihave ever been at a loss to imagine ; and have always

   1 " The same remark may perhaps be applied to the Catalogue ; and therefore
Flamsteed's assertion that the Queen's order, (to open the packet,) if obtained at all,
had been obtained after the offence was committed, is probably correct ; as that
order would not have been given prior to February, and the Catalogue containing
the additional stars by Halley, was at press in the following month, and actually
finished by the month of Junc." See page 232.

230                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. XX.

Iregretted, (in common am sure with every other reader,)

to find Newton's name mixed up with a transaction of this
kind ; since it in my opinion, the only portion of the
a
                        is,

                                                        ;

                                             of

                                               I

                                                                             is

                                                                           it of
series of disputes recorded in this volume that worthy

of serious refutation all the other sudden ebullitions

temper and apparent perversity                  conduct being mere

venial offences of our common nature. But suspect

was in that day as at the present hour, that individuals of

high and honourable character (when acting in concert
with others having interested objects in view, and not

quite so scrupulously austere in their conduct as them

selves) may sometimes be led to countenance and sanction
certain acts which, as private persons, and on their sole

responsibility, they would cautiously avoid."1

Had Mr. Baily told us how Flamsteed first heard of the

ill usage and clandestine proceedings so forcibly described

in the preceding passage, and how he received the intelli

gence, we should have been better able to form an opinion

of the nature of the offence. The whole statement of Mr.

Baily, that he was annoyed and irritated at the piece of

unexpected intelligence, an entire fiction. The intelligence
                                     is
was received in March with perfect composure of mind,
                                         ;
and the alleged irritation was not shown till October, seven

months afterwards, and then too, not at the intelligence,

but during personal altercation with Sir Isaac Newton,
     is
                a
in which Flamsteed was the aggressor This important
                                                !

fact proved by the correspondence which was begun by

Dr. Arbuthnot on the 14th March 1710-11, and continued

till the 23d of May. The fact of the Catalogue being in

the press, and consequently of the packet having been

                   ever was sealed,             obvious from the very
opened,  if                                 is

             1 it

                                 'a
first letters of Arbuthnot and in the five answers returned

                   Baily Flamttced Supplement, pp. 727, 72R.

1711.           LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 231

by Flams teed, there is not the slightest allusion made to

the irritating event ! T
    Mr. Baily asserts on Flamsteed's authority,2 that it was

in March 1711 that he first learned that the sealed Cata

logue was broken open, but the incorrectness of this
statement, which Mr. Baily ought to have known, is
proved by the very letters of Flamsteed himself. In
his petition to the Queen, April 16, 1712, he distinctly
states that " some time after, (March 1706,) he was
told that the copy of the Catalogue was opened and un
sealed;" and in a letter to Sharp, May 15, 1711, he

tells him, "we met on March 20, 1707-8, (the date

of the second agreement,) and then Sir Isaac had open

ed the Catalogue, and desired me to insert the magnitude
of the stars to their places, for they had not always
been inserted in it." Now it is here placed beyond a
doubt, that Flamsteed knew in March 1 708, that the Cata

logue was open -- that he found no fault whatever with its

being open, and did not at the time charge Newton with
having opened it. Nay, he is so well pleased with this
second agreement, and the payment to himself of £125,
to which he had no claim by the original articles, that he
tells Sharp, on the 19th April 1708, of this " change in
his affairs which it will not be displeasing to him to hear,"
and he finds no fault with the Catalogue being open, though
he adds that it was part of the new agreement that the

   1 Flamsteed  tells us in his          autobiography written long afterwards, that in   March
1711 he was "   privately told           that his Catalogue was in the press," (p. 93 ;)  and in
his letter to Sharp, dated May 15, 1711, he says, " March 25th last past 1 was in

formed by a friend that my Catalogue was in the press, and some sheets of it

printed off;" but this was no secret, for on the 21st February, at a meeting of the
Royal Society, Dr. Sloane was ordered " to write a letter to him, desiring him to

furnish the deficient part of his Catalogue of the Fixed Stars, now printing by order

of 'thBeaiQlyu'seenF.la" msteed, p. 93.

232                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             CHAP. XX.

magnitudes were to be inserted in it. In the whole of
his correspondence with Sharp, the depositary of his

afflictions and his calumnies, from March 1708, when he

knew that the Catalogue was opened, till the end of No

vember 1712, he makes no charge against Newton or any

other person for having unsealed the Catalogue. At that

date, however, when the arrangement between him and

the referees was at an end, he tells his correspondent for
the first time that " he was forced to trust in the hands

of Sir Isaac Newton an imperfect copv of the Catalogue,

which he very treacherously broke open, though it was

at his own desire sealed up and so delivered into his

hands."1

The next charge which Mr. Baily makes against Newton

                   is,
and his colleagues that without Flamsteed's knowledge
and consent they sacrificed " his favourite plan of printing
his observations in detail in the order in which they were
made," to " scheme of little or no practical utility, and
                a

compromising his character as an observer." To this

charge  it      sufficient to reply, that the scheme here con
            is

demned that which forms the first article of the agreeis

ment   signed by Flamsteed     himself Of the same char            !
acter     the charge that, in  " annexing to the work" the
       is

places of the moon, Newton had violated an express un

derstanding that they were not to be published. Now,
Mr. Baily ought to have known that this understanding

was imposed upon Newton in 1694, when he received

these observations for his lunar theory. By the articles
of agreement, these lunar observations were to form part
of the Historia Ccelestis, and for the purposes of collation

the referees were authorized to call for all the original

                   1
                                                               p.
                   Baily's Flamsteed,                              298.

1711.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             233

papers in Flamsteed's custody. These observations, whe
ther in Newton's possession or anywhere else, had thus
become the property of the referees for publication, and
they were guilty of no clandestine conduct in annexing
them to the work. In a note, which we have not quoted,
Mr. Baily says, " that no demand was ever made by the
referees for any observations subsequent to the year
1 705," whereas it is expressly stipulated in the first
article, " that the observations made with the wall quad
rant telescope and micrometer," shall be those " made in
and after 1689, until the finishing of the impression!"

    After making these injurious attacks upon Newton,
which we trust have been satisfactorily repelled, Mr.
Baily " imagines that it may now be left to the candid
and unbiassed judgment of the public to decide whether
there is the slightest foundation for the opinion that
Flamsteed opposed any impediment to the publication of

his astronomical observations, or whether, on the other

hand, Newton exhibited any great anxiety for their
speedy appearance, in order to complete his Theory of

Gravitation." A brief notice of the conduct of the

two parties thus placed at the bar of the public, will
enable it to give the unbiassed decision which Mr. Baily

solicits.

   Previous to the 10th of April 1 704, * the Prince, whose
" help to print had been craved by Flamsteed,"2 had

expressed a willingness to bear the expense of printing

his Observations. At the above date Newton saw the

Book of Observations, the Catalogue, so far as finish
ed, and the Maps of the Constellations ; and an esti
mate by Flamsteed of the number of pages or extent of

       1 Baily's Flamsteed, pp. 73 and 210.  * Ibid. p. 76.

234                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. XX.

the work was laid before the Royal Society, who recom
mended the publication of it. The referees appointed by
the Prince inspected the papers, and on the 23d January
1705, they reported that the expense of printing 1200
pages, " all which was ready for the press," would be
£683, including £100 for copying the papers and correct

ing the press. At the end of the report, the referees

observe, " that it may be very proper to print the places
of the moon, planets, and comets, 600 being computed,
and 1 400 not, and that the charges of two calculators
to finish them, and of paper, press-work, and printing, will
be about £180 ; so that the whole charge will be about

£863.V1

   It will be seen from these arrangements, that the idea

of Flamsteed's receiving any recompense for his own
labours was never contemplated by the Prince or the
referees ; but in about a month after the date of the

report, he suggested to Newton that he should have an

honourable recompense for his pains.2 No notice being
taken of the suggestion, he again, on the 15th June

1705, complains that on that occasion Newton did not

say a word of any recompense for thirty years' pains,

   1 It is here important to notice that the printing of the places of the planets, &c.,
is not a necessary part of the arrangement, and that if it is thought proper to adopt

            to be paid for by a separate sum. In two copies of this report, found
among Flamsteed's MSS., this £180 not mentioned. --Baily's Flamsteed, p. 76,
it,                         is
  2 it                               it
                                                     it,
         isnote. But in giving in his autobiography a copy of the estimated expense, Flam-
               it
                        itsteed not only inserts the £180 along with the other sums, but he gives as the sum
                                                                      it
                                                                                    is
to be paid for two calculators, thus making appear that £280 out of the £863 to

be at his disposal. After his statement of the charges of printing, &c., Flamstecd
adds, " But the last particular of the charge (£180 for two calculators) was not men

tioned in (the Report,) but added in a note under         for what reason those know

best who drew up." The Report states distinctly the reason.         It        strange that

an editor like Mr. Baily, who has given the real Report as possessed    is      Flamsteed,
                                                                            by

should have allowed these misstatements to pass nnreproved.

Feb. 28, 1705.

1711.               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON,             23.-5

though he said it would be for the committee's honour to
                    first ; and,  on the  29th August    1705,
provide for  that                 unjust  that no care  should  he
                    extremely                                   be
pronounces   it "

taken to secure him the reimbursement of his large ex
penses for above thirty years," adding, " that it was a

great dishonour to the Queen, the Prince, and the nation,

that no reward was proposed."

Previous to these expressions of his views,1 Flamsteed

had communicated, in a letter to his nephew, Mr. Hodg

son,   a  plan of   doubtful honesty, for making  money   out of
the    "  Prince's                                 never
                    Bounty," --a plan which he             could

have meant for the public eye, and which Mr. Baily

ought not to have published.2 It is obvious, indeed, that

before and after he had signed the articles in 1 705, the

grand object of the Queen's Astronomer was to secure a

sum of money for himself, and that to obtain this he

threw every obstruction in the way of completing the

work.

On the 13th July 1708, nearly three years after the

work had begun, and when it ought to have been finished,

the delay on Flamsteed's part was so great, that the

referees, as we have previously stated, agreed, that if

he " did not go on with despatch, another corrector

would be employed."

  I1 March 22, 1705.

   * " think to be very plain with Mr. Aston, and desire that he, I, and Mr.

Churchill, may understand one another fully, and know what each shall advantage
themselves by my pains ; for his and Mr. Churchill's will be little or nothing, but
to accept their shares, and this will be no equal bargain for me that must be at all
the labour and trouble here, nor for Mr. Newton, who saves us the labour of soliciting

for the Prince's bounty at Court. And therefore I think he too ought to be

Iacquainted with what advantage every one of us shall make, and go and share with

us. shall say this to him when he returns from Cambridge." -- March 22, 1705.
It may be conjectured, from the postscript to this letter, that the parties were,

according to this plan, to divide the profits arising from the sale of the 400 copies of
the work.

236  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                     CHAP. XX.

    In order to thwart this resolution, Flamsteed imme

diately addressed a letter to Sir Christopher Wren,1 in
which he lays the whole of the blame upon Newton ; and,
in order to give authenticity to the copy of it which he
preserved, he tells us that " he took a copy of it himself
to shew any acquaintance, friends, and some gentlemen
that had an opinion of Sir Isaac Newton before, and
could not think he could be guilty of such collusion as
this order and my letter proved upon him."2 This copy,
which exists in Flamsteed's handwriting,3 was transferred
to his autobiography for the avowed purpose of proving
Newton's guilt, and correcting the good opinion enter
tained of him by the friends of the Queen's Astronomer
and others. The letter certainly has not such a ten
dency, but, in order to give it efficacy, Flamsteed can
celled a paragraph in the original sent to Wren, and

substituted another in the incorrect copy, which he sub

mitted as evidence to the contemporary jury that was
to try Newton, and to the more solemn judgment of
posterity. Sir Isaac had fortunately preserved the ori
ginal letter, which, after slumbering for a century and a
half, and eluding the search of Mr. Baily, has reappear

ed to defend Newton, and cast a doubt on every docu

ment Flamsteed left behind him that is not authenticated

by other evidence than his own.4

   In the original, or cancelled paragraph, Flamsteed de

clares his willingness, and even his desire, to finish the
work. He instructs his nephew to correct the proofs :
He leaves six sheets to be added : He authorizes Newton

to go on with the 1 75 sheets of the second volume, that

1 Dated July 19, 1708, and sent by Wren to Newton.
! Baily's Flamsteed, p. 87.
                             · Ibid.,               p. 87,  note,
' See pages 172, note ; 180, note; and 181, note.

1711.  LIFE OF Sllt ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                            237

the press may proceed while he is completing the Cata
logue, so that there should be no stop on his account, as
there never was, and never should be.1 Nothing could
be more satisfactory to the referees than this communi
cation. Whatever misunderstandings had occurred, the
Queen's Astronomer here bound himself anew to com
plete the Catalogue, and avoid all farther delay ; but
after the Prince's death, when he had refused to com

plete the Catalogue, and, in 1716, when he came to
write his autobiography, he was willing to forget the
obligations in the original paragraph, and he there
fore falsified the document by the substitution of a
paragraph, in which he abjures hurrying on the work
in his absence, and limits his former promise, that there

shall be no stop on his account, by the condition that
" heed should be given to his advice ;" or, in other
words, that he should have his own way, which he
took in spite of all his written promises and sealed obli

gations.2

    Previous to Flamsteed's correspondence with Arbuth-

not, the Royal Society, anxious to make the Greenwich
Observatory useful for the promotion of astronomy and
navigation, applied to the Queen to place it under the
superintendence of a Board. An order was accordingly

issued on the 12th December 1710, appointing the Pre

   1 This paragraph, and the one substituted for  are given in Appendix,

No. XVI.
2
                                            a

                                                       of

                                                                                       it,
                                                                                                                    it
                                                                                                                       a is
      Nearly three years after this letter to Wren was written, on the 26th April
1711, Flamsteed desired Dr. Arbuthnot " to peruse his letter to Sir C. Wren, of

which he had given him copy, and particularly the last paragraph, whereby he

would be satisfied that he had done all that lay in his power to expedite his work,

and had taken great care of the Catalogue  the fixed stars." Now                                                             only in

the original letter actually sent to Wren, that these matters occur in the last para

graph, so that Flamsteed referred to the real letter, of which he had taken correct

copy for Arbuthnot. The incorrect copy was, therefore, manufactured at a later

date for the purposes we have mentioned.

                                                                                                                                      <

238           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. XX.

sident, and such other members of the Royal Society as

it should name, to suggest observations to be made, -- to

repair and renew the instruments in the Observatory, and
to receive from the Astronomer-Royal the annual obser
vations which he has recorded. Armed with this authority,
and by an order from the Queen to print the observations,
in the hands of the referees, the Society requested Dr.
Arbuthnot to apply to Flamsteed, as we have seen he did,
in March 1711, for the rest of his Catalogue, the part of
it in their hands having been already in the press. The
sheets were sent to Flamsteed, who asserted that they
contained many errors and unnecessary alterations, while
Halley1 declared that he had corrected numerous errors

in the original Catalogue -- that he had asked Flamsteed

for any corrections he thought necessary, and that he

offered to make them and reprint the whole sheet if re

quired. 2
    While matters were in this state, Sir Isaac requested

Flamsteed to meet him at the Royal Society's house on
the 26th October 1711. Flamsteed accordingly went,
and found there Dr. Sloane and Dr. Mead along with

1 This letter of Halley 's to Flamsteed, dated June 23, 1711, is the only appear

ance he makes in person in this multifarious correspondence. When we consider

the innumerable and coarse attacks made upon his character, and the vulgar abuse

of him which almost every letter contains, the following advice to Flamsteed at the
close of his epistle will not In; thought unfriendly : " Pray govern your passion, and

Iwhen you have seen and considered what have done for you, you may perhaps

think I deserve at your hands a much better treatment than you have for a long

time been pleased to bestow on your quondam friend, and not yet profligate enemy,

(as you call  me.)" This  advice is not so severe as  that of Flamsteed's own parti
cular friend  Dr. Smith.  " My advice is that you     represent your case nakedly,

clearly, and without any flourish, or without any kind of resentment, as you are a

philosopher and a mathematician, and above all, as you are a clergymun." --Baily's

Flamsteed, pp 293 and 747.
   * On the 18th March 1712, when Halley visited the Observatory, " He offered,"

Isays Flamsteed, " to burn his Catalogue if would print mine." Dr. Arbuthnot had

previously offered to " reprint, change, or alter any thing Flamsteed allowed."

1712.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             '239

Newton. Flamsteed has given three1 accounts of this

meeting, which are not very consistent with one another.
According to him, Newton asked what instruments he

wanted, and what repairs. Upon which Flamsteed said

that he would not suffer any one to concern themselves

about repairing his own instruments. To this Newton
replied, " As good have no observatory as no instruments."

Flamsteed     thhisenlacboomurpsl.aine"dAtthtahtis,"hesahyasdFlabmeesnteerodb, be"dthoef

the fruit of                              ' We are then
I Iimpetuous man                          was sorry that

robbers of your
              grew outrageous, and said,
              labours V " answered, "
they owned themselves to be so." After which " all he
said was in a rage. He called me many hard names--

puppy was the most innocent of them."

Such is Flamsteed's account of an altercation which he

did not make known at the time it happened, in order to

allow the other three parties concerned to give their ac

count of what actually took place. We have Flamsteed's

own authority for stating that Dr. Mead ran into the

same passion, and charged him with having insulted the
IfPresident.
              it be true that Newton lost his temper and

called Flamsteed a puppy, we leave it to those who have

perused the correspondence, and studied the character of

Flamsteed as gathered from the preceding pages, to de
termine the amount of provocation which Newton seems
to have received. How simple-minded must he have been
in whose vocabulary of vituperation the epithet given to

Flamsteed was the most prominent !

   The referees, by orders from the Queen, proceeded to
print the copy of the Catalogue when they could procure

no other, and therefore they, and not Newton, must have

broken open the seal if it was sealed. In violation of the

       1 In his Autobiography and Diary, and in a letter to Sharp.

240  LIFE OF Sllt ISAAC NEWTON.                          CHAP. XX.

promise contained in his letter to Wren, Flamsteed hadit,
refused to go on with and we find him telling Sharp,is
what he durst not insinuate to the referees, that " he shall
not urge the press forward again till he sees a good fundis 1
settled and secured." No sooner, however, does he findit,

that his Catalogue printing, and that the press urgedis
forward by the referees, than he assails them with the                   a
most violent language. Halley called malicious thief.
His property, which he gave to Newton, and got money                              is
for said to have been surreptitiously forced out of
his hands by his profligate enemies, and under the influ
ence of these feelings he determined to print his observa

tions at his own expense, thus violating two solemn obliga
tions, and frustrating the liberal arrangements of Prince
George, after he had received £125 of his money, and
caused £250 more to be expended in printing the work,
and in paying Machin for correcting his own calcula

 tions.

    Under these circumstances the referees, with the assist

ance of Dr. Halley as its editor, published in 1712, under
the title of Historia Coslestis, the part of the work which
had been executed at the expense of the Prince and the
Government.2 Of the 400 copies that were printed, nearly
100, including 30 reserved by the Treasury, were presented

to eminent individuals and public bodies, and the remaining
300 were given to Flamsteed by Sir Robert Walpole, when

First Lord of the Treasury. Flamsteed committed them to

the flames, preserving only what now the first 97 sheets
of the Historia Coelestis, which he left almost ready for
publication at the time of his death, on the 31st December
21

                             I;

                                                    in

                                                     is
Baily's Flamsteed, p. 270 March 24, 1709.

In Appendix, No. XVII., have given an account of the expense incurred by

the Prince and the Government  printing the work.

1712.                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  241

1719. The work was published in 1725 by his executors,
in three vols, folio, and dedicated by them to the King.1

   In taking a general view of this painful controversy,
Mr. Baily has remarked, that the friends of Newton

have defended him by attempting to lower the moral and
scientific character of Flamsteed ;2 a course which he

thinks can scarcely be tolerated in the present day.
Attainments in science have certainly nothing to do with

1 The correspondence between Newton and Flamsteed seems to have terminated
Iwith Flamsteed's letter of September 14, 1706.
                                                                              have found, however, among the

Portsmouth papers, a draft of a letter from Newton to Flamsteed, without a date,

and certainly written about the 24th of March 1711. It shows his great anxiety to

get on with the printingof the work, in place of stopping as Flamsteed maintained.

It will be found Appendix, No. XVIII. There also short one from Flamsteed,
                       in
                                                                              is
                                                                                         a it,

dated April 23, 1716, wishing Newton to return some of his manuscripts.

  It may be proper here to notice an observation made by Professor De Morgan in

reference   to  "thSehoortmlyissaioftnerwoaf rdFsla,"mshteeedsa'sys,na"mtehe  from the second         edition of the
Principia.                                                                     second edition      of the Piincipia

appeared. Flamsteed, whose observations had been of more service to Newton than

those of any other individual, and to whom proper acknowledgment had been made

in the first edition, and who had increased the obligation in the interval, had his

name erased in all the passages in which appeared (we have verified for this oc
                                        it

                                                         a
                                                             :

                                                                     is
casion eight or nine places ourselves.) To such pitch                                           this petty resentment

carried, that whereas in one place of the first edition (prop. 18, book iii.) there                   if is
a parenthesis by the observations of Cassini and Flamsteed,' the corresponding
*                                 the consent of the observations of astronomers.' " --Sketch                in
place of the secondp.  is'
                              by
             in ;
                 is 'of the Life of Newton,Cabinet Portrait Gallery, vol. xi.                     101 Lond. 1846. In
                           Mr. Edleston observes, " the name,                                   however, will be found in
reply to this statement,                                                      in
                                                                                   it p.
pages 441, 443, 445, 458, 465, 478, and 479 The last two references occur in some
                                        it                                                   in :
additional matter on comets, which was put into Cotes's hand in October 1712.is :

(See   141 of this work.)            1  question very much whether the suppression of Flam

steed's name in several places where had appeared in the first edition, was not

such as was necessary in the process of improving the work." --Correspondence,

&c. p. lxxv. note 162. In thus correcting the numerical oversight of Professor De

Morgan, we must admit that his criticism substantially correct. Mr. Edleston's

explanation            not applicable to the omission of the joint names of Cassini and

Flamsteed but even         !" it if  had an application to them, would not justify the
                               it
omission. Newton owed to Flamsteed substantial obligations, and we do not think

that these obligations are sufficiently acknowledged                          the Principia, even his

name had in every case been retained in the second edition.

      The following opinion of the Principia, given by Flamsteed                                   1713, might have

either justified an attempt on the part of Newton's friends, to lower his scientific
character, or rendered unnecessary. " think his new Principia worse than the
                                        I

                                                  p.
old, save the moon -- Baily's Flamsteed,               307.

VOL. II.                                                                                           Q

242  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XX.

 the present question ; but after Flamsteed has charged
 Newton with illegal, unjust, and immoral acts, upon no
 evidence but his own, and has sullied that venerable

name with vulgar and offensive abuse, --it is a strange

position to maintain, that we are not to inquire into
the temper and character of the accuser.1 In the re
volting correspondence which Flamsteed has bequeathed
to posterity, he has delineated his own character in sharp
outline and glaring tints ; and Newton requires no other
Mgis to defend him than one whose compartments are
emblazoned with the scurrilous invectives against himself,
and garnished with pious appeals to God and to Providence.
We have hesitated, however, to associate the sacred char

acter of the accuser with systematic calumny ; and we
hasten to forget that there may be an astronomer without
principle, and a divine without charity.

    1 The injurious tendency of Mr. Baily's work, is strikingly exhibited in the notices
of it in our two leading reviews. Both the Edinburgh and the Quarterly Review
took the part of Flamsteed, and made no attempt to defend Newton against his
charges. It never seems to have occurred to the writers of these articles, that the
charges are supported by no other evidence than that of the choleric individual by
whom they are preferred ; and neither of them has been at the trouble of cross-
questioning their solitary witness. The Quarterly Reviewer goes so far, as " charit
ably to attribute Newton's letter of the 6th of January 1699, to the effect of that
distressing malady which overwhelmed Newton for a time in 1692 -- a malady rashly
ascribed by some to mental aberration !" -- See Edinburgh Review, vol. lxii. p. 359,
June 1836 ; and Quarterly Review, vol. lv. p. 96, December 1835.

1700.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  243

                    CHAPTER XXI.

DISSENSIONS IN THE ROYAL SOCIETY -- DR. SLOANE AND DR. WOODWARD
    LETTER TO NEWTON ON THE SUBJECT-- DR. WOODWARD REMOVED FROM
    THE COUNCIL -- SECOND EDITION OF THE PRINCIPIA -- DR. BENTLEY's
    LETTER TO NEWTON ABOUT IT -- DELAY OF THE WORK -- BENTLEY's
    SECOND LETTER -- NEWTON'S RESIDENCES IN LONDON -- BENTLEY AN
   NOUNCES TO NEWTON THE COMPLETION OF THE SECOND EDITION --THE
    DUKE D'AUMONT ELECTED F.R.S. -- DESLANDES' ACCOUNT OF A DINNER
    PARTY AT NEWTON'S-- ORIGIN OF THE ROYAL OBSERVATORY AT GREEN
   WICH -- PRINCE MENZIKOFF ELECTED F.R.S. -- PETITION TO PARLIA
    MENT FOR A BILL TO PROMOTE THE DISCOVERY OF THE LONGITUDE --
    EVIDENCE OF NEWTON -- HIS CONDUCT MISREPRESENTED BY WHISTON
   AND BIOT--THE BILL PASSES BOTH HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT -- DISSEN
   SIONS IN THE GOVERNMENT-- OFFER OF A PENSION TO NEWTON--
   --DEATH OF QUEEN ANNE--ACCESSION OF GEORGE I. -- LORD HALIFAX
    PRIME MINISTER -- DEATH OF HALIFAX -- HIS WILL-- HIS AFFECTION FOR
   MISS CATHERINE BARTON, NEWTOn's NIECE -- HER INTIMACY WITH
   SWIFT --HER CHARACTER DEFENDED.

   While Sir Isaac and his friends were striving with

Flamsteed to complete the printing of the Greenwich ob
servations, his tranquillity was disturbed by an exciting
dispute which took place in the Council of the Royal
Society, between Dr. Sloane and Dr. Woodward. So
early as 1700, before Newton was President of that
body, the conduct of its Secretary, Dr. Sloane, in furnish
ing " unfit entertainment" at their meetings, and in con
ducting the publication of the Philosophical Transactions,
had been the subject of animadversion. In a pamphlet,
entitled The Transactioneer, with some of his Philoso
phical Fancies, the Royal Society, and particularly Dr.

244  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           CHAP. XXI.

Sloane, were severely satirized. The Council made great

exertions to discover the author of this silly production,1
" and Dr. Sloane, and his friend Mr. Pettiver, caused it to

be set abroad, that Dr. Woodward was either the author,

or at least concerned in its production." Dr. Woodward
Iindignantly denied the"
                       of   am sorry,"   he says,
" to find two or three     the Society,  and my
     charge.
     members

particular friends, ill treated in it : The writer of it is but

meanly qualified for what he undertakes ; though whether

there was not occasion given, may be worth your con

Isideration. This am sure, the world has been now for

Isome time past very loud upon that subject : and there

were those who laid the charges so much wrong, that

have but too often occasion to vindicate the Society itself,

and that in public company too." This homologation of

the charges in the pamphlet, by a distinguished member

of the body, could not fail to irritate the Secretary ; and

we need not wonder that a more public quarrel arose be

tween Dr. Woodward and Dr. Sloane. At the anniversary

meeting of the Society held on the 30th November 1709,

Dr. Sloane was re-elected to the office of Secretary ; and

Mr. Richard Waller, who had been the other Secretary

since 1687, was replaced by the Rev. John Harris, D.D.,

a friend of Dr. Woodward and his party.2 Soon after this

election, and at one of its ordinary meetings,3 Dr. Sloane
" entertained" the Society with a translation from the

   1 Dr. Johnson says that it was written in 1700 by Dr. William King, "a man of
shallowness ;" and Mr. Weld, who has looked into the copy of it in the British
Museum, characterizes it as " of so low and ridiculous a nature, that it is surprising
the Council should have thought it worth their while to notice it." --History of the
Royal Society, vol. i. pp. 352-355.

   » Mr. Waller was reinstated in place of Dr. Harris at the next election on the

30th November 1710.

  · The following account of the quarrel I find in an anonymous letter addressed to

Sir Isaac Newton, and dated March 28, 1710.

1709.                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               245

Memoirs of    the Academy of Sciences, in                         which it was
" maintained  that the Bezoar is a gallstone"
                                                                   and the Doc
tor himself asserted " that the stones in the gall-bladder

were the cause of colic." Dr. Woodward denied the truth

and probability of these opinions ; and when his adver
sary " was not able to maintain what he had asserted by

words, he had recourse to grimaces very strange and sur

prising, and such as were enough to provoke any ingenu

ous sensible man to a warmth, at least equal to that

which Dr. Woodward used. His words were, no man that

understands anatomy, can assert that the stones in the

gall-bladder are the cause of the colic. When Dr. Sloane
averred that all medical writers were of that opinion,

Dr. Woodward replied, none, unless the writer of the His
tory of Jamaica; challenging him to                               aMneyad,o--ne
man, which he did not. But appealing  assign
                                      to Dr.

which was only a small mean shift, the Doctor was forced

to give it against him. Those recited were the very

words Dr. Woodward used ; and whether they are unfit,

you are a proper judge. That they were not spoken till

after Dr. Sloane had made his grimaces twice or thrice,

you were assured by Mr. Clavel, and Mr. Knight is ready

to confirm the same if you please to ask him. He is a

gentleman, as modest, impartial, and creditable, and in

deed, with Mr. Clavel and Dr. Harris,1 sate so fronting

Dr. Sloane, as to be able to see his face and grimaces.

The rest, which were but few, sate out of fair view. In

particular, Mr. Moreland, that with so much solemn

formality, made asseveration, that to the very best of his

memory the words preceded the grimaces, sate directly

   1 Dr. Harris was the  author of  a work published in 1697, in    defence of   Wood
ward's " Essay towards   a Natural                                was entitled,    " Re
                                     History of the Earth." It

marks on some Late Papers, relating to the Universal Deluge, and to the Natural          r

History of the Earth." -- Ward's Lives of the Gresham Profetsors, p. 286.

246      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           CHAP. XXI

behind Dr. Sloane, so that he neither did, nor possibly

could, see one of those grimaces."
   In defence of the language used by Woodward, the

author of this letter reminds Sir Isaac, that he himself

had on   a previous occasion employed still  strhoengsearyst,er"mosf
against   Sloane. " You had complained,"

Dr. Sloane's artifices in surprising you with things at the

Council, frequently very unfit, without having given you
any previous account. As upon others, you had declared

to more than one friend, how little qualified he was for

the post of Secretary, so upon these occasions you as

freely declared him a tricking fellow ; nay, a villain and
rascal,1 for his deceitful and ill usage of you in the affair

of Dr. Wall. Such expressions do not fall forth of the

mouth of a gentleman of your truly good sense and

breeding, without cause. Indeed, all allow you had very

great and just cause ; and though Dr. Woodward has not

used any such expressions, he has had causes as great

and just, long and often, of which I have heard the par

ticulars, but shall not trouble you with them here."

This appeal to Sir Isaac does not seem to have ad

vanced the objects of Dr. Woodward and his party.

The grimaces of Sloane, and the uncivil language of

Woodward, were brought under the notice of the Council

on the 10th of May 1710. Sloane denied the grimaces,

and in such a way as to induce Woodward to say,
" Speak sense, or English, and we shall understand you."

The consideration of this new attack upon the Secretary

   1 Without better evidence than that of a partisan, we cannot believe that these
words were in Newton's vocabulary. When he was irritated at the conduct of

Flamsteed, he could not command a harsher term than that of Puppy. See p. 239.

The letter, however, is well written, and contains many useful and temperate sug

gestions for improving the Society. The author, too, seems not at all disposed to
maintain his incognito, as ho expresses a willingness to have a personal interview
with Sir Isaac.

1710. LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. 247

came before the Council on the 24th May ; and as the

Doctor refused to make        an apology, it was resolved
" that Dr. Woodward be        removed from the Council for

creating a disturbance by the said reflecting words." A

resolution was, at the same time, passed, thanking Dr.

Sloane for his pains and fidelity in serving the Society as

Secretary. Dr. Woodward brought an action at law

against the Council in order to reinstate him as a mem

ber of but he was unsuccessful. Dr. Sloane resigned
1
the office of secretary in 1713, and on the 30th Novem
          it,
ber 1727, he re-appeared in the Council with the rank of

a baronet, -- in the more dignified position of its President,

and the successor of Sir Isaac Newton.1

Sir Hans Sloane and Dr. Woodward were both of them distinguished men,

and great national benefactors. Dr. Woodward was Professor of Physic in Gresham

College. He not only collected much valuable information respecting the geo

logical structure of the earth, but so early as 1695, he began to form collection of
                                                            a
fossils, which after arranging and cataloguing1,   he bequeathed to the University ofis
Cambridge, of which he was member, with the sum of £150, " for the mainten
                           a        it
                                          it,

                                                  I.
ance of a lecturer to read there on the subject of the Doctor's Natural History of

the Earth," &c. He was born May 1665, and died April 25, 1728. His ex

pulsion from the Council of the Royal Society does not seem to have alienated him

from Newton, as          1714 he dedicated to him his Naturalia Historia Tellurit, of
which he says, "            wholly owing to you, being begun, carried on, and finished
of
                it in
                       is
at your request." -- Fossils of all Kinds, 1728. Letter
Sir Hans Sloane, who was of Scotch extraction, was born in Ireland on the 16th
April 1660. In the year 1705, he published the first volume of his Natural His

tory Jamaica, and the second volume in 1725. He wrote also twenty four Papers
for the Phil. Transactions. He was created Baronet in 1716, and died on the
                                                a

11th January 1753. On the condition of his family receiving £20,000, he be

queathed his museum to the public, with his library of 50,000 volumes, and 3566

manuscripts. The original cost of his museum was £50,000. Parliament accepted
the trust, and these valuable collections form the nucleus of the British Museum. --

Weld's History of the Royal Society, vol. p. 456.
   During the time of the dispute, however, in the Royal Society, Newton said to

have remarked, " that Dr. Woodward might be good natural philosopher, but that
                              i.

                                          a

ahe was not good moral one."

   In consequence of some difference of opinion on medical subjects, Woodward and

Dr. Mead fought a duel under the gate     oefxclGarimesehdamMeCadolleg"e.AnyWothodinwga,r"d'sreplfioeodt
slipped, and he fell. " Take your life,"                 :

Woodward, " but your physic." An amusing account of this duel, by Dr. Wood-

248   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. XXI.

We have already seen, in the history of the Principia,1

that Newton had been occupied during many years in

preparing for the press a second edition of the work.

His disputes with Flamsteed, however, and his duties at

the Mint, rendered more anxious by the disturbances

which had arisen in that establishment, interfered greatly

with its progress ; and it was with much difficulty that

Dr. Bentley persuaded him to entrust the publication to

him. He accordingly sent him, in June 1708, or earlier,

a portion of the copy of the work, with his corrections

and additions; and on the 10th of that month Bentley

sent him a proof of the first sheet for his     approbation,

accompanied with the following letter :--

                                                             " Trih. Coll., June 10, 1708.

" Dear Sir,--By this time I hope you have made some

progress towards finishing your great work, which is now

expected here with great impatience, and the prospect of
it has already lowered the price of the former edition
Iabove half of what it once was.
                                  have here sent you a
Ispecimen of the first sheet, of which printed about a
Iquire; so that the whole will not be wrought off before
it have your approbation.   bought this week a hundred

reams of this paper you see ; it being impossible to have

Igot  so good in a year or  two, (for it comes  from Geneva,)
      had not taken this    opportunity with    my friend Sir
if

Theodore Jansen, the great paper merchant of Britain.

ffILSwsietliaaowt1IaerafndocrnwS,raeeewrN,meyweereukiwivpstlolAittonloo.nnbbgneeteief.eaotlhdolrpfsaeoo.ymstuAe3ontabh1shudl2rule.a.or"iahrti--fnnattdmBohimteuahinrieelEcy.SioR'ghsnoWhasyDtreiFepadrleelae.knmrloatHSynhsboatlceJertoiCerehuidetesoyr,ncnthcu1apbaar4.ylssyti2,holh7oon6ivsfsJ,to;uJla.nnlpsyoolanvltreiet.t.hh1iaip7asl21.tit00y6r,,te4hp1ef1.uFoy7ltra1ahm9tEi,aos.vnteeaHenbdbadrylolekisaneyacytuaiNsopn,nidcss"hooDnmSlo'riestr.

1708.                  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        249

I hope you will like              and the letter too, which upon
       ;a

             I
                                    it,
                                                 I
                                                     I
trials we found here to be more suitable to the volume

than greater, and more pleasant to the eye.       have sent

you likewise the proof-sheet, that you may see what

changes of pointing, putting letters, capitals, &c., have

made and hope much to the better. This proof-sheet

was printed from your former edition, adjusted by your

own corrections and additions. The alterations after

wards are mine, which will shew and justify themselves,

if  you compare nicely the proof-sheet with the finished

one. The old one was without running title upon each
                                  ;
       which           deformed.     The sections only made with
         Def. 2.,      which are      a
page,  1.                                    anow made full and in capitals --
Def.
                   is

Definitio I., &c. Pray look on Hugenius de Oscilla-

tione, which              book very masterly printed, and you'll
          it

              is
                  is
                     a
see that       done like this. Compare any period of the

old and new, and you'll discern in the latter, by the

change in the points and capitals, clearness and em

phasis that the other has not as all that have seen this

specimen acknowledge. Our English compositors are

ignorant, and print Latin books as they are used to do

English ones,             they are not set right by one used to
          I
observe the beauties of the best printing abroad. In    I; a
                if

                        4,
few places have taken the liberty to change some words,

either for the sake of the Latin, or the thought itself

as that in page motrices, acceleratrices et absolutas,

placed so, because you explain them afterwards in that

order.
    " But all these alterations are submitted to your

better judgment nothing being to be wrought off finally
                       ;

                                  I

                                                                                                 a
without your approbation.         hope to see you in about

fortnight, and by that time you will have examined this

proof, and thought of what's to come next. My wife has

250          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     CHAP. XXI.

Ibrought                          thank God, is a true
Ihealthful
     me a     son   lately, who,
     child.        am, yours,
             --

                                  " Hi. Bentley.

* " Note that the print will look much better when a
book is bound and beaten."

I have not been able to discover any reason why the

printing of the second edition, thus fairly begun, and for

which paper was purchased, should have been disconti
nued, and why the duty of editing it had passed from

the hands of Bentley into those of Cotes.

Newton was at this time occupied as one of the referees

in the publication of the Greenwich Observations, and with

his business in the Mint and at the Royal Society ; and

we may ascribe, as Mr. Edleston has done, the delay which

took place, when the assistance of Cotes had been obtained

in 1709, to the political excitement of the times, and to

the occupation of Bentley with his quarrels with the

seniors of his College.

   It does not appear at what date Mr. Whiston delivered

to Cotes " the greatest part of the copy of the Principia."

Newton intimates the transmission of it in a letter, dated

October 11, 1709. Cotes was then in the country, where

he had been for about a month, and Newton's letter to

him was acknowledged  by Bentley on the 20th in the

following terms : --                   " Trin. Coll., Octob. 20, 1709.

" Dear Sir, --Mr. Cotes, who had been in the country

for about a month, returned hither the very day Dr.

IClarke1 brought your letter, in which, perceive, you think

   1 Dr. Clarke had probably come up to perform some exercises for the degree of D.D.,
which he took in 1710.

1709.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  251

we have not yet begun your book ; but I must acquaint

you that five sheets are finely printed off already, and

had not we staid for two cuts that Rowley carried to

town to be mended by Lightbody, which we have not yet

Ireceived, you had had sent you six sheets by this time.

am sure you'll be pleased with them when you see them.

Besides the general running title at the head of every

Ileaf, PHILOSOPHISE NATURALIS PRINCIPIA MATHEMATICA,

have added the subdivisions of the book, (like Hugenii
de Oscillatione,) first, Definitiones, then Axiomata sive
Leges Motus, then De Motu Corporum Liber Primus.

Next will come Secundus, and lastly, De Mundi Syste-
mate Liber Tertius. All these stand in the top of the

margin of the several leaves. Your new corollary, which

you would have inserted, came just in time, for we had

printed to the fiftieth page of your former edition, and

that very place where the insertion was to be was in the

compositors' hands. The correction in the first sheet

which you would have, plusquam duplo, et plusquam de-

cuplo, was provided for before ; for we printed it quasi

duplo and quasi decuplo, which, you know, amounts to

the same thing, for quasi denotes either the excess or the

defect, and, in my opinion, since in that place you add

no reason why it will be plusquam, 'tis neater to put it

quasi, undetermined, and leave the reader to find it out.
In the old edition, p. 34, lines 20 and 21, for infinite

major, you had twice mended it minor. This, we thought,

you did in haste ; for it was right before, and so we have
Iprinted it major.
                    proposed to our master printer to

have Lightbody come down and compose, which at first

he agreed to ; but the next day he had a character of his

being a mere sot, and having played such pranks that

nobody will take him into any print-house in London or

252        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. XXI.

Oxford ; and so he fears he'll debauch all his men. So

Iwe must let him alone, and daresay we shall adjust the

cuts very well without him. You need not be so shy of

giving Mr. Cotes too much trouble. He has more esteem

for you, and obligations to you, than to think the trouble

toogrievous ; but, however, he does it at my orders, to

whom he owes more than that, and so pray you be easy

as to that. We will take care that no little slip in a cal

culation shall pass this fine edition. Dr. Clarke tells me
Iyou are thinking for Chelsea, where wish you all satis
Ifaction.
           hope my picture at Thornhill's will have your

last sitting, before you leave the town.1 The time you set

under your hand is already lapsed. When the two cuts
                                                               of--
Iare sent us we shallprint
           care                                                 Sir,
therefore, pray take
                  faster                than you   are aware
                  to be                 ready for
                                                   us. -- am,

your very obedient humble servant,        " III. Bentley.

   " To Sir Isaac Newton,
          at his house in Jermin Street,

     near St. James's Church, London."

   Newton received this letter when he was removing
from Jermyn Street to Chelsea, where he had a house

" near the College." On the 1st of July 1697, Dr. Wallis
addressed letters to him at the Tower, as if he had lived

at the Mint. That he had no official residence there, may
be inferred from the observation of Charles Montague, in

1695, that he might have a lodging near him when he
came to town to kiss the King's hand.2 Towards the close
of 1697, he occupied a house in Jermyn Street, near St.

James's Church, where he remained thirteen years, till

   1 This picture was bequeathed by Bentley to Trinity College.
   * 1 find it stated in Conduct's MSS., that Halley once dined with Newton at the
Mint.

1712-13.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  253

he went to Chelsea in October 1709. About the end of

September 1710, he removed to Martin Street, near Lei
cester Fields, where he resided during the rest of his
life. This house, which we have represented in the ad
joining sketch, from a photographic picture, is the first

house on the left hand, or east side of Martin Street, as

you enter it from Leicester Square. It stands at the

corner of Long's Court, beside a chapel, and is surmounted
by a wooden erection said to have been Newton's private

observatory. The house, which is now occupied as a

254  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         CHAP. XXt

printing-office, is described by Mr. Heneage as one " of

good size, and formerly perhaps of some pretensions."1

Nearly four years elapsed before the second edition of

the Principia was completed ;2 and, about the beginning

of July 1713, this happy event was intimated to Sir Isaac

in the following letter from Bentley, without date, but
                                                 1st :--
bea"riDngeatrheSpiro,s--t-mAatrklasotf  July              is  happily  brought
                                                  book
                                        your
forth, and I thank you anew that you did me the honour

to be its conveyer to the world. You will receive by the

carrier, according to your order, six copies ; but pray be

so free as to command what more you shall want. We

Ihave no binders here that either work well or quick, so

you must accept of them in quires. gave Roger (Cotes)
a dozen, who presents one to Dr. Clarke and Whiston.

IThis tell you, that you may not give double ; and on
I Ithat account tell you that have sent one to the Trea

surer, Lord Trevor, and                 Bishop   of Ely. We          thought it
was properest for you to                present                      so you will
                                                 Dr. Halley --
Inot forget him. have sent (though at great abatement)
200 already to France and Holland. The edition in Eng

Iland to the last buyer is 1 5s. in quires, and we shall take
care to keep it up so for the honour of the book.                                 can

Ithink of nothing more at present,               but          shall               your
                                                  to          order                am,
commands, if you have any thing
                                                                     emxpe.e--ct

with all respect and esteem, your affectionate and humble

servant,                                                      " Ri. Bentley.

   " Tuesday, Trin. Coll.
   " To Sir Isaac Newton,

           at his house in Martin Street,
                near Leicester Fields, London."

1 Literary and Historical Memorials of London, 2 vols. : Lond. 1847. Mr.

Croker, in his edition of Boswell's Life of Johnson, mentions a plan of converting
Newton's house into a lecture-room.              8 See vol. i. pp. 314-319.

1713.  LIFE OK SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                 255

    During the years 1712 and 1713, when Newton was
occupied with this work, he was obliged to devote much
of his leisure to the fluxionary controversy which had at
this time begun to divide the mathematical world. The
publication of the differential method of Leibnitz in 1684,
before Newton had made public his method of fluxions,
rendered it necessary that he should establish, by authentic
documents, his prior claim to that great discovery. The
Royal Society had, indeed, in 1712, appointed a committee
of their body to examine the letters and papers which re
lated to the question, but all the labour of research fell

upon Newton, and the Commercium Epistolicum, which

contained the documents and the report of the committee,
though not written by him, in the ordinary sense of the

term, was yet virtually his production. A controversy

then arose between the English and continental mathe

maticians, which harassed him during the rest of his
life ; and though he seldom appeared in the front of the
battle, yet he supplied the munitions of war, and guided
the army of his disciples with all the prudence and skill
of a leader.

    Owing to the interest excited by this controversy, of
which we have given an ample history in a former chap
ter, the Royal Society and its distinguished members
became better known on the continent, and foreigners of

distinction sought for admission among its Fellows.1
Among these was the Duke D'Aumont, who came to
England as Ambassador Extraordinary from France in
January 1713.2 He was elected a Fellow of the Royal
Society on the 21st of May, and he afterwards addressed

1 A very large number of foreign ambassadors and persons of distinction were

cho'seSnwiFfte'sllowWsorokfs,thJeanSuoacireyty2datatnhdis   period.    vol. xiv. pp. 333,  335.  Edit. 1784.
                                                           4th, 1713,

                                                                                                              /^

256  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        CHAP. XXI.

ac"ivrelieltituttyrenrswittohhimtwhhetichhSeoirhcieetthhyaa1nsktsoref afsotuercdhththeaemgkrien;a"dt,tehltluhsmathainmNitye"wtathonandt
his letter was read in a full meeting of the Society to the
great satisfaction and pleasure of all the members present,"
and assures him " that when any thing comes to their

knowledge which they may think acceptable to his Grace,

they will take care to communicate it."2
    The Duke D'Aumont was accompanied to England by

M. Deslandes, the author of a work entitled A Critical His

tory of Philosophy? Deslandes dined at Newton's house
in company with Halley, Demoivre, and Mr. Craig, and
has given the following interesting account of his visit :--

I" may be permitted," he says, " to mention here an

anecdote, not for the honour which may attach to me from
having been familiar with the greatest men of the age,
but from the bearing which it may have on the history of
philosophy. Having gone to England with the late Duke

ID'Aumont, who united with the highest talents a gene

rosity almost unknown in our times, was invited to dine
with the illustrious Mr. Newton. And as it is the custom

in England, after dinner, to drink to the health of kings

and princes whom philosophers generally do not know, and

seldom associate with, Mr. Newton more judiciously pro
posed to me to drink the health of all honest persons, to
whatever country they belonged. ' We are all friends,'
he added to me, ' because we unanimously aim at the only
object worthy of man, which is the knowledge of truth.

   1 This letter, dated February 25, 1714, and an English version of
in the Royal Society, A 55, 56.
"2                                                                                                                                  are preserved
                             ii.

                                                          is
                                                                              in

                                                                                                             it,
                                                                                                                                   4
      This letter, dated May 27, 1714,  published  the Macclesfield Correspondence,
vol. ii. p. 420.

Histoire Critique de la Philosophic, par Mr. D. [Deslandes,] vols. 12mo.

Amst. 1737. Vol. pp. 264, 265.

1714.              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  257

We are also all of the same religion, because leading a
simple life, we conform ourselves to what is right, and
we endeavour sincerely to give to the Supreme Being that
worship which, according to our feeble lights, we are per
suaded will please him most.' The witnesses to this

speech were Mr. Halley, Mr. De Moivre, and Mr. C --,

(Craig,) all mathematicians of the first order."
    In the following year, Prince Alexander MenzikofF

addressed a letter to Newton, expressing his admiration
of the wisdom, bravery, and rare talents of the English
nation, and soliciting admission into the illustrious Society
of which he was the President.1 He was accordingly

elected on the 29th July 1714; and it appears from New

ton's answer, that the English merchants had requested
this honour for the Prince on account of his humanity,
his love of science, and his affection for the English. 2

    The great problem of the determination of the longitude
at sea, to which the discoveries of Newton so greatly
contributed, had begun, at this time, to attract the notice

of English mathematicians. At an earlier period indeed,

the subject had been brought before the leading members
of the Royal Society under very singular circumstances.
Towards the close of 1674, Le Sieur de St. Pierre, a

French charlatan, who commanded the interest of the

Duchess of Portsmouth, had procured from the King a
commission for examining a scheme for the discovery of

the longitude. This commission, among other names,
included those of Lord Brouncker, Dr. Ward, Sir C. Wren,
Sir Jonas Moore, and Dr. Hook. In February 1675,
Flamsteed was on a visit to Sir Jonas Moore, and having

   1 This letter, dated Petersburg, Aug. 23, 1714, has been preserved. The Prince's   f
signature, as if written with a paralytic hand, is illegible.

   8 Three drafts have been preserved of Newton's letter written in Latin, and dated

October 25, 1714.

VOL. II.           ·R

258  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         CHAP. XXI.

accompanied him to a meeting of the commissioners, his

name was added to their list. By his assistance the igno

rance and presumption of the Frenchman were soon ex

posed ; and the result, though mortifying to his patrons

at court, proved highly advantageous to the interests of

astronomy. Flamsteed had written a letter to the com

missioners and another to St. Pierre, explanatory of his

views, and thus describes the origin of the Royal Obser

Ivatory of Greenwich :--" heard," he says, " no more of

the Frenchman after this ; but was told that my letters

being shown King Charles, he, startled at the assertion

of the fixed stars' places being false in the catalogue, (of
Tycho,) and said with some vehemence, ' he must have

them anew observed, examined, and corrected, for the use

of his seamen and further, (when it was urged to him
how necessary it was to have a good stock of observa

tions taken for correcting the motions of the moon and
planets,) with the same earnestness, ' he must have it

done.' And when he was asked who could or who should

do it ? ' The person,' says he, ' that informs you of them.'

Whereupon I was appointed to it."1 In the royal

warrant for the payment of Flamsteed's salary, the

astronomical observator, as he was then called, was com
manded " to apply himself forthwith, with the utmost

care and diligence, to rectify the tables of the motions

of the heavens, and the places of the fixed stars, so as to

find out the so much desired longitude of places for the

perfecting the art of navigation."2

No further steps seem to have been taken in this im

portant matter till the 25th May 1714, when several

captains of her Majesty's ships, merchants of London, and

commanders of merchantmen, presented a petition to the

     1 Baily's Flamsteed, pp. 37, 38.  ' Ibid. pp. Ill, 112.

1714. LIFE OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON. 259

House of Commons, setting forth " that the discovery of
longitude is of such consequence to Great Britain, for
safety of the navy, for merchant ships, as well as of im
provement of trade, that for want thereof many ships
have been retarded in their voyages, and many lost ; but

if due encouragement were proposed by the public, for

such as shall discover the same, some persons would offer
themselves to prove the same before the most proper
judges, in order to their entire satisfaction, for the safety

of men's lives, her Majesty's navy, the increase of trade,
and the shipping of these islands, and the lasting honour
of the British nation."

    This sagacious petition, which proved to be a grand
step in the advancement of astronomy,1 was submitted to
a large committee, whose report was laid on the table of
the House on the 7th of June, and taken into considera
tion on the 11th. The following is the report and reso
lution of the committee, which, as we shall see, forms an

important event in the life of Newton :--

    " Mr. Ditton and Mr. Whiston being examined, did
inform the committee that they had made a discovery of
the longitude, and were very certain that the same was
true in the theory, and did not doubt but that, upon due
trial made, it would prove certain and practicable at sea.

    " That they had communicated the whole history of
their proceedings towards the said discovery to Sir Isaac
Newton, Dr. Clarke, Mr. Halley, and Mr. Cotes, who all
seemed to allow of the truth of the proposition as to the
theory, but doubted of several difficulties that would

arise in the practice."

   Sir Isaac Newton, attending the committee, said,--

    " That for determining the longitude at sea there have

                                                      1 See vol. i. p. 351.

260               UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        CHAP. XXI.

been several projects, true in theory, but difficult to

execute.
    " 1. One is by a watch to keep time exactly ; but, by

reason of the motion of the ship, the variation of heat

and cold, wet and dry, and the difference of gravity in

different latitudes, such a watch hath not yet been made.
    " 2. Another is by the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites ;

but, by reason of the length of telescopes requisite to

observe them, and the motion of a ship at sea, those

eclipses cannot yet be there observed.

   " 3. A third is by the place of the moon ; but her
theory is not yet exact enough for that purpose. It is

exact enough to determine the longitude within two or

three degrees, but not within a degree.

   " 4. A fourth is Mr. Ditton's project : And this is

rather for keeping an account of the longitude at sea,

than for finding  it,

                     if

                                             it
                                                                        is

                                                                       it
                  at any time should be lost, as

may easily be in cloudy weather. How far this     prac

ticable, and with what charge, they that are skilled in sea
affairs are best able to judge. In sailing by this method,

whenever they are to pass over very deep seas, they must

sail due east or west, without varying their latitude and
                                                  ;

their way over such sea doth not lie due east or west,
if                a
                               it,
               athey must first sail into the latitude of the next place to

which they are going beyond         and then keep due east

or west, till they come at that place.            watch regu
   " In the three first ways there must be
                                      it
lated by spring, and rectified every visible sunrise and
                                               a
sunset, to tell the hour of the day or night. In the

fourth way such a watch  is  not necessary. In the first

way there must be two watches, this and the other above-

mentioned.                            may be of some

   " In any of the three first ways,

1714.           LIFE UF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  261

service to find the longitude within a degree, and of much
more service to find it within forty minutes, or half a de

gree if it may, and the success may deserve rewards

accordingly.

   " In the fourth way, it is easier to enable seamen to
know their distance and bearing from the shore, forty,

sixty, or eighty miles off, than to cross the seas ; and
some part of the reward may be given, when the first is

performed on the coast of Great Britain, for the safety of

ships coming home ; and the rest, when seamen shall be

enabled to sail to an assigned remote harbour without

losing their longitude if it may be.

   " Dr. Clarke said that there could no discredit arise to

the Government in promising a reward in general, with

out respect to any particular project, to such person or

persons who should discover the longitude at sea.
   " Mr. Halley said, that Mr. Ditton's method for finding

the longitude did seem to him to consist of many parti

culars which first ought to be experimented before he

could give his opinion ; and that it would cost a consider

able sum to make the experiments, but what the expense

would amount to he could not tell.
    " Mr. Whiston affirmed that the undoubted benefit which

would arise in the land, and near the shore, would vastly

surmount the    charges of experiments.    right  in  the  theory
   " Mr. Cotes  said that the project was

near the shore, and the practical part ought to be expe

rimented.
    " And, upon the whole, the committee came to these

resolutions : ' That it is the opinion of this committee that

a reward be settled by Parliament upon such person or

persons as shall discover a more certain and practicable
method of ascertaining the longitude, than any yet in

262  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    CHAP. XXI.

practice ; and the said reward be proportioned to the de
gree of exactness to which the said method shall reach.' "

    This resolution was unanimously adopted by the House.
    The bill passed through the House of Commons on the
3d of July,1 and the House of Lords on the 8th of that

month.2

    This important bill, which, as predicted by British
captains and merchants, has in various ways contributed
" to the lasting honour of the British nation," contributes
in no slight degree to the honour of Newton. Had the
evidence of the different witnesses in Parliament been

recorded without their names, it would not have required
the sagacity of Bernoulli to have discovered the testimony

of Newton, -- the " lion from his claw." The most distin

guished of his successors, with all the lights of a century
and a half, could not have stated more correctly the true
and the only methods of finding the longitude at sea.
The method by chronometers has been brought to the

highest perfection, and is doubtless the most correct and
infallible. The method " by the place of the moon," has,
by means of his own lunar theory, perfected by his suc
cessors, become second only to that of " the watch."

    So early as 1696, a report was spread among the
members of the Royal Society, that Newton was occu
pied with the problem of finding the longitude at sea ;
but the report having no foundation, he requested Halley
to acquaint the members " that he was not about it."3

Long after this, however, his attention was directed to the

1 Journals of the House of Commons, vol. xvii. pp. 641, 671, 677, and 716.
* In consequence of this Act, Henry Gully, an Englishman, devoted himself to

the improvement of timekeepers. He settled in Paris, made various improvements

upon watches, and had for his pupil the celebrated Julien le Roy, to whom, and to
his  son, M. Berthoud, the art of watchmaking is
     Macclesfield Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 419.  under  great  obligations.
  '

                                                                                   '

1714.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  263

invention of an instrument for finding the longitude by
the place of the moon ; and, in the year 1 700, he com

municated to Dr. Halley the description of a reflecting
sextant, for observing the moon's distance from the fixed

stars at sea.1

The bill which had been enacted for rewarding the

discovery of the longitude, seems to have stimulated the
inventive powers of Sir Christopher Wren, then in his
eighty-third year. He communicated the results of his

study to the Royal Society, as indicated by the following
                         I found
curious document  which           among the manuscripts

of Newton :--

    " Sir Christopher Wrenn's Cypher, describing three
Instruments proper for discovering the Longitude at Sea,
delivered to the Society Novemb. 30, 1714, by Mr. Wren :

OZVCVAYINIXDNCVOCWEDCNMALNABECIRTE
WNGRAMHHCCAW.
ZEIYEINOIEBIVTXESCIOCPSDEDMNANHSEFPR
PIWHDRAEHHXCIF.
EZKAVEBIMOXRFOSLCEEDHWMGNNIVEOMRE
WWERRCSHEPCI P.-- Vera Copia,
                                  " Edm. Halley."

    We presume that each of these paragraphs of letters is

the description of a separate instrument. If it be true

that every cypher can be decyphered, these mysterious
paragraphs, which their author did not live to expound,

may disclose something interesting to science.
   After the death of Newton, the problem of finding the

longitude at sea became a subject of general interest
throughout Europe. Various acts relating to it were

passed in England. In 1726, our countryman, John

Harrison, produced a timepiece of singular accuracy, and,

                                                     1 See vol. i. p. 239.

264           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.   CHAP. XXI.

after many trials, in one of which it gave the longitude

within 10' 45" of the truth, £10,000, half the reward

offered in Queen Anne's Act, was adjudged to him ; and

the other half promised when an equally good timepiece,

upon the same principle, should be made by himself or

others. Mr. Kendal, who was appointed by the Board to

make such a watch, succeeded so completely, that after it

had been round the world with Captain Cook in the years

1 772-1 775, the second £10,000 was given to Mr. Harrison.

In order still farther to encourage inventions for the dis

covery of the longitude, a new Act was passed in 1774,

offering a reward of £5000 for a chronometer or time

piece that would determine   ; t--heoflo£n7g0it0u0defowr idtheitnerma indeinggreei,t
or sixty geographical miles

within two- thirds of a degree, or forty miles ; and £10,000

for determining it within half a degree, or thirty miles.

The very same rewards were offered for any other method

by which the same accuracy was obtained ; and a special

reward of £5000 was promised to the author of such solar

and lunar tables as were sufficiently exact to show the

distance  of  the moon   from the   sun and stars, within fifteen
seconds   of  a degree,    " such  tables being constructed en

tirely upon the principles of gravitation laid down by Sir
Isaac Newton, except with respect to those elements

which must necessarily be taken from astronomical obser

vations." In terms of this Act, the widow of Tobias

Mayer received £3000 for his lunar tables, and Euler

£300 for the theorems on which they were founded.1

The Board of Longitude in France, established to pro

mote the same object as the English Board, rewarded

Euler for the new tables which he published in 1771,

and, during the rest of the eighteenth century, and the

              1 See vol. i. pp. 350-352.

1714.  LIFE OP S1R ISAAC NEWTON.  265

first quarter of the nineteenth, these two Boards exerted
themselves in the promotion of all those scientific objects

which were calculated to improve the instruments and
methods for determining the longitude at sea. The French
Board, composed of the most distinguished astronomers
in France, exists in all its original activity and usefulness ;

but, as if we had ceased to be a maritime nation, the
British Board was abolished in 1828, -- the only scientific

Board in the kingdom which afforded salaries for scien
tific men.

    Such is the official account of the part which Newton

took in promoting this important measure, and a more

clear and satisfactory testimony than his was never given
before a committee of the House of Commons. Mr. Whis-

ton, however, has left behind him an account of what took

place in the committee, which has been interpreted by
M. Biot in a way very offensive to the friends of Newton.
" As soon as the committee was set," says Whiston,1
" which was a very large one, Newton, Halley, Clarke, and
Cotes appeared, a chair was placed for Sir Isaac near the

Ichairman,2 and stood at the back of it. What the rest

had to say they delivered by word of mouth, but Sir I.
Newton delivered what he had to say in a paper. Upon

the reading of this paper, the committee were at a loss,
as not well understanding its contents, Sir I. Newton sitting
still and saying nothing by way of explication. This gave
the chairman an opportunity which it was perceived he
wanted, of trying to stop the bill; which he did by declaring
his own opinion to be, that ' unless Sir I. Newton would
say that the method now proposed was likely to be useful

    1 Historical Preface to some of the copies of his " Longitude Discovered, Lond.
 1738," p. v., dated, as Mr. Edleston conjectures, in 1742. Correspondence, &c,
 p. lxxvi.

    * Mr. Clayton, M.P. for Liverpool.

266  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXI.

for the discovery of the longitude, he was against making
a bill in general for a reward for such a discovery,' as Dr.
Clarke had particularly proposed to the committee. Upon
this opinion of his, not contradicted by any other member
of the committee ; and upon Sir Isaac Newton's silence all

Ithe while, saw the whole design was in the utmost danger
Iof miscarrying. thought it therefore absolutely necessary
to speak myself, which I did nearly in these words :-- ' Mr.

Chairman, the occasion of the puzzle you are now in, is
nothing but Sir I. Newton's caution. He knows the use
fulness of the present method near the shores, (which are
the places of greatest danger.') Whereupon Sir Isaac
stood up and said, that ' he thought this bill ought to pass,
because of the present method's usefulness near the shores.'
Which declaration of his was much the same with what

he had said in his own paper, but which was not under

stood by the committee, and determined them unani
mously to agree to such a bill." The effect of Newton's

opinion upon the committee must have been highly gra
tifying to himself and his friends ; and when he simply
paused in repeating orally what he had so distinctly read
from his paper, he little thought that a future biographer
would ascribe an interval of silence to " puerility of con

duct," -- to " an inexplicable timidity of mind, and to the

consequences of a previous mental aberration." l

    During the dissensions which prevailed in the ministry

    1 " Les trois derniers (Halley, Cotes, anil Clarke) exprimerent leur avis verbale-
ment ; mais Newton hit le sien, sur un papier ecrit qu'il avait apporte, et qui ne
fut comprii de personne ; puis il se rassit, et garda obstinement le silence, quelque
instance qu'on lui fit de s'expliquer plus ouvertement. Enfin Wrhiston voyant quo
le bill allaitctre retire, prit sur lui de dire que si M. Newton ne voulait pus s'expli
quer davantage, e'etait par crainte de se comproincttre ; mais qu'au fond, il trouvait
le projet utile : Alors M. Newton repeta presque mot a mot ce qu 'avait dit Whiston,
et le projet du bill fut accepte. Cette conduite presque puerile, dans une circon-
stance si solennelle pourrait pieter aux plus etranges consequences, surtout si on la

1714.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                      267

before the death of Queen Anne, the Tories were desirous
of securing for their friends some of the more valuable
offices in the patronage of Government. The Mastership
of the Mint was one of those which they thought within
their reach, and the scheme of releasing Sir Isaac from
the labours of his office, and thus giving him more leisure
for the prosecution of his studies, seemed to be one that

was likely to meet with general approbation. It was re

solved, therefore, to offer him a pension of £2000 on the

condition that he resigned the Mastership of the Mint, the
salary of which was only about half of that sum ; and Dr.
Swift was commissioned by Bolingbroke, one of the Se
cretaries of State, to propose the plan to Mrs. Catherine
Barton,1 the particular friend of Swift, and the favourite
niece of Newton. The liberality of the offer might have
tempted ordinary functionaries, but it met with a very

different reception from Newton, who saw at once the
character and object of the proposal. When Mrs. Barton
communicated to him the message from Bolingbroke, Sir

IIsaac replied, " My place is at their service, but will

have no pension."2
   Although the character and talents of Newton had been

rapporte an fatal accident quo Newton aurait eprouve en 1695." Biot, Diog. Univ.

Art. Newton, pp. 192, 193.
   Mr. Edleston justly remarks, that " this is not a model of accurate condensation,"

and he leaves it to the reader, who will, of course, make the requisite allowaneo

f"orprtehsequfeorpwuaerrdinlee"ssbeaandprovpaenrityepoitfhetht eto  reporter,  to judge  whether M.   Biot's term
                                                                     apply to  the part  that Newton  took on the

occasion." -- Correspondent, &c. p. Ixxvi., note 167.
   A more correct view of Newton's conduct was taken
the late Professor Rigaud. " What kind of persons,"                            by        msyaysd, ist"ingthueishceodmmfriitetnede
                                                                               he

Imust have consisted of that such a plain statement as Newton's should not have

been understood by any one of them, cannot tell. The whole story is evidently
tinctured by Whiston's spleen and disappointment." -- MS. letter, Oct. 21, 1830.

M. Biot is mistaken in saying that the act of 1714 is still in force. It was repealed

along with various other Longitude acts in 1774.                                         8 Conduitt's MSS.
   1 The name Mrs. was then given to unmarried women.

268  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       CHAP. XXI.

appreciated at Court during the life of Prince George of

Denmark, yet in the latter years of Queen Anne, the po

litical party to which he belonged had ceased to be in the
ascendant. His patron, Lord Halifax, the supporter of

every liberal measure in the Upper House, had thus ex

cited the hostility of the Tories, and had rendered himself

doubly obnoxious by his attachment to the House of Ha
nover. When the act for the naturalization of the Hano

verian family, and the better securing the crown in the
Protestant line had passed, Lord Halifax was selected to

carry the act and the insignia of the Order of the Garter

to the Electoral Prince ; and in 1714 he succeeded in

procuring a writ to call the Elector of Hanover as Duke

of Cambridge to the House of Peers. These proofs of his

devotion endeared him to the House of Hanover, and on

the death of the Queen on the 1st of August 1714, and
the accession of George the First, he was nominated one

of the Lords of the Regency in his Majesty's absence. He

discharged this trust with such zeal and fidelity, that he

was admitted into the most secret councils of the King,

appointed First Lord of the Treasury, created Earl of

Halifax, and admitted a Knight Companion of the Order

of the Garter. From the elevated position to which

his friend had now attained, and the ascendency of those

opinions which he had never ceased to advocate, Newton

naturally became an object of interest at court. His
                                                             -- his
thioignh--shitiusatsipoontleusnsdecrhaGraocvteerrn, maenndt          European reputa
                                                             above   all, his unaffected

piety, attracted the attention of the Princess of Wales,

afterwards Queen Consort of George the Second. This

lady, who possessed a highly cultivated mind, derived the

greatest pleasure from conversing with Newton and cor

                                                                                          i

1715.  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         269

ceived from Sir Isaac that information and assistance

which she had from other quarters sought in vain ; and

she had been often heard to declare, that she was fortu

nate in living at a time when she could enjoy the conver

sation of so great a genius.

Though a man of robust health and a sound constitu

tion, the Earl of Halifax did not long survive the honours

which had been conferred upon him, and Newton had

to mourn the loss of his earliest and best friend. When

on a visit at the house of Mynheer Duvenvoord, one of

the Dutch ambassadors, he was seized with inflammation

in the lungs, of which he died on the 19 th May 1715.1

This accomplished nobleman, to whom Sir Isaac owed his

appointment in the Mint, was distinguished as the patron
of literature as well as of science. He was the intimate

friend of Addison, Congreve, Prior, Tickell, Steele, and

Pope,   and as the author     of the Battle  of  the Boyne, the
                              greater part   of   the " Country
Man    of Honour, and the

Mouse and the City Mouse," he was ranked even by Addi

son among the poets of the day. 2

                    I'm tired with rhyming, and would fain give o'er,
                    But justice still demands one labour more --
                    The noble Montague remains unnamed,
                    For wit, for humour, and for judgment famed.

   Like Locke and Bentley, he was very desirous of under
standing the Principia, and he one day asked Sir Isaac

if there was no way of making himself master of his dis

coveries without learning mathematics. Sir Isaac replied
that it was impossible, but Mr. Maine having recommend
ed to his Lordship Mr. Machin, a friend of Newton's, and

   1 Born April 16, 1661.                                                Lon

  * The Poetical Works of the late Right Hon. Chari.es Earl op Halifax.

don, 1716, 2d edit.

270                  LIFE OF SIlt ISAAC NEWTON.                                CHAP. XXI.

Professor of Mathcmatica in Gresham College, as a proper
person to give him instructions in mathematics, he pre
sented him with fifty guineas to encourage him. The

task, however, proved more difficult than either party had
expected, and Machin told Mr. Conduitt that, after trying
various schemes, they gave it up in despair.1

   As a frequent visitor at the house of Sir Isaac, Lord
Halifax became acquainted with his niece, Mrs. Catherine
Barton, a lady of wit, beauty, and accomplishments.2 She
was the daughter of Robert Barton, Esq. of Brigstock, in
Northamptonshire, and Hannah Smith, Newton's half-

sister ; and so great an impression had she made upon

Lord Halifax, that in a codicil to his will in 1706, he

bequeathed to her all the jewels he should have at the
time of his death, and three thousand pounds, " as a
small token of the great love3 and affection he had long
had for her." Mrs. Catherine Barton was only in her

twenty-seventh year, and, under ordinary circumstances,
a marriage might have been expected as the result of
so ardent an attachment. On the death, however, of

his first wife, the Countess of Manchester, Halifax is
said to have resolved to lead a single life, though it has
been asserted, on the authority of his rival,4 that he was
disappointed in gaining the affections of a lady of great

1 Conduitfs MSS.

8 Born 1679, married August 26, 1717, died 20th January 1739.

  Ia The words love and affection

which they have now. Swift, for
Barton better than any one here."
                                     had not, in Halifax's day, the same meaning
                                                                               "
                                     example, writes to Stella that he         ho  lovsaeyss,M"rs.
                                     Speaking of the Duko of Argyle,
Ilove that Duke mightily. Lady Mountjoy is a little body love very well." Speak

I Iing of the pictures of Lady Orkney, Lord Bolingbroke, and Lady Masham, he says,
" shall have the pictures of those            really love here." In like manner, Pope
writes to H. Cromwell, " I should be glad to tell all the world that I have an

extreme   affection  and esteem for  you."    Letters  to Robert  Molenworth,  Esq.  Edit.
   ' The   Earl of   Shaftesbury.    See his

1750, lett. iii. pp. 70-72.

1715.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  271

birth and fortune, to whose hand he had aspired. But         y
however this may be, his attachment to Miss Barton
continued unabated, and, at his death in 1715, it was

found that, by another codicil, dated February 1, 1712,
he had greatly increased the bequest which he had
made in 1706. He left to Sir Isaac Newton the sum
of one hundred pounds, as " a mark of the great hon
our and esteem he had for so great a man ;" and he
" bequeathed to his niece, Mrs. Catherine Barton, the sum
of five thousand pounds," with " a grant from the Crown,
during her life, of the Rangership and Lodge of Bushy
Park, with all the household goods and furniture ;" and,
to enable her to keep the house and garden in good

Iorder, he bequeathed his manor of Apscourt, in Surrey.

" These gifts and legacies," he adds, " leave to her as a

Itoken of the sincere love, affection, and esteem have long

had for her person, and as a small recompense for the

pleasure and happiness I have had in her conversation."

He charges also his executor to " transfer to her an
annuity of two hundred pounds per annum, purchased in
Sir Isaac Newton's name, and which he (Lord Halifax)
held in trust for her."

    When the contents of this will became known after the

death of Halifax, Miss Barton did not escape the censure

of the world, though she was regarded by all who knew
her as a woman of strict honour and virtue. During his
lordship's life, and when a frequent visitor at the house
of Newton, his affection for Miss Barton, and his delight
in her society, never once excited the criticism of his
contemporaries ; and there is not the slightest reason to
believe that it exceeded that love and admiration which
married men, and men of all ages, ever feel in the pre
sence of physical and intellectual beauty. Halifax was

272  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXI.

not a libertine, and the very terms of affection in which
he accounts for his liberality to Miss Barton are the most

satisfactory proof that his love was virtuous and her con

duct pure. If there is one hour in man's life more so

lemn than another, it is that hour when he is preparing
for his death.

                               Venit summa Dies, et ineluctabile fatum,

were the words which Halifax prefixed to the codicil,
which evinces his affection and liberality to Miss Barton ;
and he little thought that the language of the heart, dic
tated at such an hour, would be regarded as a record of
her shame. Nor is it a slight testimony to the purity of
his affection for Miss Barton, that he introduces his liber

ality to her by a legacy to her pious uncle, Sir Isaac

Newton, his earliest and best friend, "as a mark of the

great honour and esteem he had for so great a man ;" and
that he records the fact of his holding for her in trust an
annuity of two hundred pounds per annum, purchased in
Sir Isaac Newton's name.

   Although it is stated that Miss Barton did not escape
from censure, yet calumny, with her many tongues, does

not seem to have left upon record the slightest charge

against her character. Flamsteed, who never scrupled to
calumniate Newton in language applicable only to the
most abandoned of mankind, would have gloated over a
charge so destructive of the character of his friend. He

mentions, however, merely the fact of Lord Halifax's be
quest, and he has limited his malice, if he meant it to be
malicious, to the simple act of placing the words excellent
conversation in italics.1

   1 Baily's Flamsteed, Letter to Sharp, July 9, 1715. He adds, " Sir I. Newton
loses his support in him (Halifax,) and having been in with Lord Oxford, Boling-
broke, and Dr. Arbuthnot, is not now looked upon as he was formerly," p. 314. See
also pp. 73 and 317, where the great intimacy of Newton and Halifax is mentioned.

1715.               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                    273

    The only contemporary document which really bears
upon this question, is the following passage in an anony
mous Life of the Earl of Halifax, published in 1715.1

  I" am likewise to account," says the author, " for an

other omission in the course of this history, which is that
of the death of Lord Halifax's lady ;2 upon whose decease
his Lordship took a resolution of living single thencefor
ward, and cast his eye upon the widow of one Colonel
Barton, and niece to the famous Sir Isaac Newton, to be

superintendent of his domestic affairs. But as this lady

was young, beautiful, and gay, so those that were given
to censure, passed a judgment upon her which she no
ways merited, since she was a woman of strict honour and
virtue ; and though she might be agreeable to his Lord
ship in every particular, that noble peer's complaisance

to her, proceeded wholly from the great esteem he had
for her wit and most exquisite understanding,3 as will
appear from what relates to her in his will at the close of

these memoirs."4

   With the exception of the mistake that the lady was
the widow of Colonel Barton, we may admit the truth
of the preceding passage. We shall therefore adopt it as

   1 This Life of Halifax, written by some literary hack of the disreputable house of
Curll and Co., cannot be regarded as a work of any authority upon the statements of

which we can safely rely. The anonymous author obviously received no information

from the family of Halifax, and therefore any fact which he did not derive from

public documents, must be considered as   resting  upon vulgar rumour.                                                         The author
himself says in his Dedication to George  Earl of  Halifax, that " he is                                                      sensible that

he has been guilty of many omissions through want of intelligence from persons

who might have obliged him with proper information." In a copy of the first edition

of the Life of Halifax, in the University Library of Cambridge, the author is said to

be William Pittis.
* The Countess Dowager of Manchester, whom Charles Montague married " some
                  Ri"nevG"oilvuTethieoCnoBwrinpiteis1r h6w8C8it.o,"u--srttiLl"l ifsBeaayrotsof--nHawliifllaxh,avep.
time before the                                                                                                      3.
    * Oldisworth                                                                                                     sense."

* Life of Halifax, pp. 195, 196, 2d edit. Lond. 1716.

VOL. II.                                                                                                                      S

274  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                               CHAP. XXI.

the foundation of our argument, and we may admit that
it was known to Newton and his friends. After the death

of Halifax, Miss Barton continued to reside, as she always
did, in so far as there is any evidence on the subject, with
her uncle Sir Isaac. He gave splendid entertainments at his
house in Martin Street, where the most distinguished fo

reigners were occasionally assembled, and where doubtless
the best company in London was to be found. Miss
Barton presided at her uncle's table, and by her " excel
lent conversation," excited the love and affection even of

some of her married friends. M. Montmort, a married

man and a distinguished mathematician, had heard of
her wit and beauty before he had visited England, and
after he had met with her as a friend of Sir Isaac's, his
admiration knew no bounds. In a letter addressed to

Montmort by the celebrated Brook Taylor, another of
Newton's friends, Miss Barton had sent her compliments
to him, and he is thus led to express in the warmest
terms, compared with which those of Halifax are cold,
the great admiration with which Miss Barton had in

spired him. 1
   Among the other admirers of Miss Barton, we must

mention Dean Swift, who frequently visited her, and on

one occasion " at her lodgings," --that we presume, in
1
                                                                       »

                                                         ;a
                                                                        is,
the house of Sir Isaac Newton, with whom, as Mr. Con-
duitt distinctly tells us, " no other person ever lived."

Thus loved and admired by politicians, wits, and philo

sophers, she remained in Newton's house till the 24th

of August 1717, when she married John Conduitt, Esq.,2

M.P., of Cranbury in Hampshire,  gentleman of inde

pendent circumstances, and much esteemed by Sir Isaac.

The result of this marriage was an only daughter, Cathe

See Appendix, No. XIX.  Born 1688 died May 20, 1737, set. 49.

1716.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                     275

rine Conduitt, who was born in 1718, and who was mar
ried in 1 740 to the Honourable John Wallop, afterwards
Lord Viscount Lymington. She died in 1750, at the

early age of thirty-two, leaving one daughter and four
sons, from the eldest of whom the Portsmouth family
are descended.

   During the century and a half which has passed away
since the death of Halifax, no stain has been cast on the

memory of Mrs. Conduitt, and the very writer whose

ambiguous words have been misinterpreted to her injury,

has himself declared that she was a woman of strict honour
and virtue, and that the complaisance to her of the noble
peer proceeded wholly from the great           he had for her
wit and most exquisite understanding.  esteem
                                               such authority
                                       l On

the biographers of Newton, while they recounted with

pride the beauty and accomplishments of his niece, could

not but feel another interest in one who had been the

ornament of his domestic circle, and the solace of his de

clining years. They did not attempt to conceal the

warmth of Halifax's attachment to her, or omit to record

the liberality with which it was marked ; but they never
imagined that the affection breathed in the solemn pages

of a will would be viewed as the expression of unhallowed

love, and that a bequest to a female friend would be re

garded as the wages of iniquity.

1 The sneer of Voltaire in ascribing Newton's promotion to the Mint to the beauty

of his niece, scarcely deserves our notice. Miss Barton was only sixteen when he

received the appointment, and Montague could not then have seen      her. Voltaire,
however, makes no insinuation against the character of Miss Barton.    " J'avais cru,
dans ma jeunesse," says he, " que Newton avait fait sa fortune par son extreme

merite. Je m'etais imagine que la cour, et la ville de Londres l'avait nomme par

acclamation grand maitre des monnaies du royaume. Point du tout. Isaac Newton

avait une niece assez aimable nomme Madame Conduitt, elle plut beaucoup au grand

Tresorier Halifax. Le calcul infinitesimal et le gravitation ne lui auraient Bervi de
rien sans une jolic niece." -- Dial. Philot. tom. i'v. p. 61.

276  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          CHAP. XXI.

As every event in Newton's life, and every topic with

which his name is associated, possess the deepest interest,

it is desirable that those which affect the character of so

great a man, should be examined and discussed when it

is possible to find materials by which we may explain what

is ambiguous, or refute what is false. Viewed in this

light, we are disposed to welcome the discussion which

has lately been raised by Mr. De Morgan in reference to

the nature of the attachment which subsisted between

Miss Barton and the Earl of Halifax. 1

    Assuming it as proved, by the single testimony of the
biographer of Halifax, that Miss Barton " was received

by Montague into his house as superintendent of his do

mestic affairs," and that she left the house of her uncle

Sir Isaac Newton to cohabit with that nobleman, and be

lieving it to be impossible that Newton could be ignorant

that his niece was regarded by    the world as the mistress  of
                                   Mr. De Morgan " takes     it
his friend and political patron,
to be established that she was either the wife or the mis
tress of Halifax ;" and on various grounds, which it is
unnecessary to repeat, he prefers the alternative of a pri

vate marriage. In coming to this conclusion, the most

favourable certainly to Newton's reputation, Mr. De Mor

gan finds it difficult to explain why the marriage was

concealed in the lifetime of Halifax. He ascribes it to the

inferior station of Miss Barton as the grand- daughter of a

country clergyman, which would have given the marriage
the character of a mesalliance, from which Halifax would

have been weak enough to shrink. In opposition to this

estimate of Mrs. Barton's social position, we have to state

   1 This discussion will be found under the title of Lord Halifax and Mrs. Cathe

rine Barton, in Notes and Queries, No. 210, November 5, 1853, pp. 429, 433, in
an elaborate article marked by the usual acuteness of that distinguished writer.

1718.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                              277

that the " Bartons of Brigstock possessed estates in
Northamptonshire for several hundred years, and were
nearly related to the Earl of Rockingham, Lord Griffin,

Sir Jeffrey Palmer, and other honourable families in that

neighbourhood."1 But Mr. De Morgan finds it a still

greater difficulty, and entirely fails in surmounting
       it                                                                                  to
                             it,
                                                                                      it,
explain how there was no record of the marriage, and

what could induce Sir Isaac, Mrs. Conduitt, and her hus

band, to conceal            after Halifax's death, and thus to

leave as the most probable conclusion, that the niece of

the one and the wife of the other had been the mistress,
Ifinstead of the wife of Halifax.
                                            there was no marriage,

some kind friend might have propagated a rumour that

there was but no such rumour was ever heard, and no
       ;
attempt has ever been made to obtain such solution of;
                                               a
                                                        a
this mysterious connexion. To infer marriage, when
                                                                                           --
the parties themselves have never acknowledged                it,
when no trace of a record can be found, -- and when no
                                                                 it
friend or relation has ever attempted even to make

the subject of conjecture,          is  to violate every principle of

sound reasoning and we are disposed to think that Mr.

De Morgan's respect for the memory of Newton has led

him to what he regards as the only conclusion which                                        is

compatible with the character of man so great and
                                            a

pure.

   In denying the marriage, we do not admit one of the

grounds upon which has been maintained. We deny

that Miss Barton ever lived single night under the roof
of Lord Halifax. His biographer makes no such state
                            it

                                      a

      Conduitt's MSS. find          the     handwriting of   Mrs. Catherine Barton,
upon the back of drawing                    the Swinfords   of Stamford, that " the
1      a                    stated

         I

                        it
                                       in
                                                                                                                                  of
                            of the arms of

Bartons were descended from the Swinfords," from Catherine Swinford, the wife

Sir Hugh Swinford, who became the mistress of John of Gaunt.

278  LIFE OF S1R ISAAC NEWTON.                                                 CHAP. XXI.

mcoenntta.insThtehrepeassdaisgteinwcthipcrhophoassitigoinvse,n--rise to the discussion

1. That Halifax had resolved never to marry.

2. That he cast his eye upon Miss Barton to be the

superintendent of his domestic affairs ; and,

3. That she was a woman of strict honour and virtue.

The first of these propositions overturns the theory of

a marriage ; and the second merely proves a plan or a

pweisrhintoenndthehipsarhtouosfehHoaldlif,a--x athwaisthM, itsoso,Bwarhtiocnh  should su
                                                                               was never

expressed amid the gossip of contemporary correspond

ence, or in the hearing of any witness. It rests, indeed,

upon no other evidence than that of the anonymous bio

grapher. Where, then, is the proof, or even its shadow,

that Miss Barton occupied such a situation, or was ever

once seen seated at Halifax's table? In 1710, Swift

visited Miss Barton frequently, and once " at her lodgings."

He dined with Halifax on the 28 th November, and with

Miss Barton on the 30th ; and though he mentions this

fact to Stella, he never alludes to any connexion whatever

between his two friends.1 But independent of these facts,

there is no evidence whatever that Miss Barton ever

slept out of her uncle's house ; and we are distinctly told
by Mr. Conduitt, that " nobody ever lived with Sir Isaac

but his wife, who was with him near twenty years, before

and after her marriage." It is not known at what time

Miss Barton took up her residence with her uncle, or

during what periods she may have been absent before

and after her marriage, either on visits to her friends in

1 Swift's great admiration of Miss Barton, notwithstanding her Whig politics, is
Ino slight proof of the purity of her social position.
                                                        have placed in Appendix,
No. XX., a letter from Mrs. Conduitt to himself, and all the passages in which she

and Halifax are mentioned in his journal to Stella.

1715.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              279

the one case, or when living with her husband in the

other ;1 but whatever may be its amount, its addition to

the twenty years of her residence with Newton, before

and after her marriage, will not allow us to assign any

period during which, under Halifax's roof, that love and

affection which, previous to 1706, he had long had for

her, could have been developed.

    Mr. De  Morgan lays          grienatthsetre"ssLifuepoonf  the admitted
fact, that  the statement                                     Halifax" was
" left uncontradicted                             (Mrs. Conduitt,) -- by
                         by herself,              by Lord Lymington,               her
husband, --by her                                                                  her
                       daughter, --
son-in-law, --and by the uncle (Sir Isaac Newton) who
had stood to her in the place of a father. It is impossible,"
he adds, " that Newton could have been ignorant that his
niece was living in Montague's House, -- enjoyed an annuity2

I1 find letters addressed to Mr. Conduitt at Cranbury, his country house in

Hampshire, where it is probable he and his family frequently resided, when he was

not attending his duty in the House of Commons. During Newton's illness in 1726,
Dr. Mead addressed several letters to him " at his house near Winchester."
                                                                                   Miss

Barton, as we have already seen, (p. 213,) was boarded in Oxfordshire, where she

had an attack of the small-pox, in August 1700. There is no evidence that she lived

with Newton before this date, and we have not been able to determine at what time
Ifshe took up her residence under his roof.
                                                  we suppose it to have been in 1701,

we obtain sixteen years as the period of her residence in Newton's house before her

marriage, and four years for her residence with him after her marriage in 1717 --the

other six years having been spent with her husband.
   8 Mr. De Morgan says, that Halifax bought this annuity for Miss Barton in

Newton's name, but this is a conjecture, and not a fact ; and we consider it quite

certain, from a fair interpretation of the words, that Newton purchased this annuity,

and, being nearly twenty years older than Halifax, made him the trustee. He is

simply the trustee, and not the  granter  of the  annuity.   Had he granted   the  annuity,
he would have mentioned it as     one of  the "   gifts and  legacies" which   he  left her.

IAn annuity purchased in Sir Isaac Newton's name can mean nothing else than an
annuity purchased by Sir Isaac Newton.    find among Newton's papers a scroll of

the beginning of the act of transference from the executor, George Lord Halifax, in

which the date of the trust is stated to be October 26, 1706. Mr. De Morgan
remarks, that if " the annuity had been bought by Newton, Conduitt would have

mentioned it in his list of the benefactions which Newton's relatives received from

him." But the annuity was not a benefaction like those contained in Conduitt's

list. It was virtually a debt due to his favourite niece whom he had educated, and

280                     LIFE OF SIR I8AAC NEWTON.                          CHAP. XXI.

bought in his own name,--and was regarded by the world

as the mistress of his friend and political patron." Now,

the very fact that such respectable parties, so deeply
interested in the character of their accomplished relative,

contradicted neither the fact, if it was a fact, nor the
rumour, if it was a rumour, is a proof that there was

neither fact nor rumour to contradict. How could any

person contradict the cast of an eye, -- the only act as

cribed to Halifax by his biographer 1 How could they
contradict the statement made only in 1853, that Miss
Barton lived in Montague's House, when no person in their
own lifetime ever made such a statement 1 How could

they express their indignation at the charge, that she
was the mistress of Halifax, when calumny had never

who had for twenty years kept his house ; and if she had not received it from Sir

Isaac, his conduct would have been very unjust, as, owing to his not having made a

will, she got only the eighth part of his personal estate along with his four nephews

and nieces. Mr. De Morgan makes other statements which it is necessary to
examine. After mentioning the important fact, that though " Swift writes to Stella
of every kind of small talk, he never mentions Halifax and Miss Barton together, --

never makes the slightest allusion to either in connexion with the other, though

in one and the same letter     he  minutes his having dined with Halifax   "onthtehree
28th, and with Miss Barton     on  the 30th, (September 1710)," he adds,

must have been intentional suppression in this." Certainly, if Swift knew or be

lieved that Miss Barton lived with Halifax ; but the true inference that she notis,

only did not live with  him,   but that      was never even reported that she did. Mr.  if
De Morgan, however,     adds,             world knew that there was some liaison between
                               " All the
                      it,
                                              it

                                                     is
                                                                        a
the two." On the contrary, we maintain that not one person in the world knew

this, or could know     in 1710. There    not single fact to prove that the codicil

copSorfwouo1irfs7fte0o"6(fNwbo"yvaeisnMmtieksbnnsetoriwoBnn2aa0rl,toton1s7,u1ap1"n)pyhreeirnsedsdcoiioovenrsidd,"usnaolht.fioesrvehnMwahvrd.iicnrohgDpewbaeeMesnaocrracgn"aasntmseeaesgaeobdenosouwtomithnhoetrtiovpWeo,hsliatiigytch,gsaitashhsawvhdieniinsng

been learnt from Halifax." Why make Miss Barton the political pupil of Halifax,
seeing that her own uncle, Sir Isaac Newton, with whom she had spent the great er

part of her life, and from beneath whose roof she never strayed, was one of the most
obsLdeearcvdieydde, Bde"tWttyhhaiGgt essrhmeoaf i(ntMh, iessfrdoamByartwohnTi)chhiwsa"sWhreiaggpaprcedoaenrdsv,e"arssaastaioMnrers.tpoeDocektaMbplloaecrgewanoimn haatnhs,e" juahsotfualsycet of
                        ?                                                                                                                                                                       of

                                      it                                                                                                                                                             V

which there are abundant indications.

1716.                             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  281

breathed that she was, and when the very biographer,

whose words are in every other respect admitted as true,
declares that " she was a woman of strict honour and

virtue V However different may have been the state of

public morals in the reign of George            I.,  it      would require

substantial evidence to prove that the Earl of Halifax,

the First Minister of the Crown, and a great favourite of

the royal family, was              (unknown to any             contemporary
writer) living in open            concubinage with
one of the beauties and                                      Miss Barton,--
                                   toasts of the day,1       -- the friend of

Swift and Lady Betty Germain, and the accomplished and
favourite niece of Sir Isaac Newton,--himself the religi
                                  of Wales, -- the
ous instructor of the Princess    Church,--and                                personal
friend of the dignitaries of the                                       p. a  man uni

versally esteemed for his piety and virtue.

     " In poem called the Toasters, where all the distinguished beauties at that

time are celebrated distinct epigrams, these two appear honour of Miss Barton
1                                               in                                        :
              a                                      ;
                              in

                   Stampt with her reigning charms this brittle glassin
                                             ;
               Will safely through the realms of Bacchus pass
                 Full fraught with beauty, will new flames impart,           3156, note.
                 And mount her shining image in the heart.
Another --
               Beauty and Wit strive each vain,
                 To vanquish Bacchus and his train
                 But Barton with successful charms,

                   From both their quivers drew her arms,

                   The roving god his sway resigns,
                 And cheerfully submits his vines."

                        Art. Montague, Biographia Britannia1, vol. v.

282      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXII.

         CHAPTER XXII.

LEIBNITZ ATTACKS NEWTON'S PHILOSOPHY --NEWTON'S REPLY -- LEIBNITZ

    ATTACKS THE ENGLISH PHILOSOPHY AS IRRELIGIOUS, IN LETTERS TO
   THE PRINCESS OF WALES -- THE KING REQUESTS NEWTON TO DEFEND
   HIMSELF -- HE CLAIMS THE INVENTION OF FLUXIONS -- DR. CLARKE DE
   FENDS THE ENGLISH PHILOSOPHY -- THE DISPUTE CARRIED ON THROUGH

   THE PRINCESS OF WALES -- INSINCERITY OF LEIBNITZ --HIS DEATH --

    HIS ELOGE BY FONTENELLE, WHO APOLOGIZES TO CHAMBERLAYNE FOR
   A MISTAKE ADVERSE TO NEWTON -- NEWTON'S OBSERVATIONS ON THE
   ELOGE -- VARIGNON RECONCILES NEWTON AND JOHN BERNOULLI -- NEW-

    TON'S CORRESPONDENCE WITH VARIGNON, WHOSE VIEWS ARE FAVOUR
   ABLE TO LEIBNITZ -- NEWTON ASKS VARIGNON's OPINION ON THE COM-

   MERCIUM -- HIS CRITICISMS UPON IT -- HIS DEATH -- CORRESPONDENCE
   BETWEEN NEWTON AND JOHN BERNOULLI -- MONTMORT's VIEWS ON
   THE FLUXIONARY CONTROVERSY --NICOLAS BERNOULLI'S LETTER TO
    NEWTON -- LETTERS OF DR. SMITH, DR. DERHAM, AND FONTENELLE,

    REFERRED TO.

   Before Newton had taken an open part in the fluxion-

ary controversy, and before the publication even of the

Commercium Epistolicwm, Leibnitz had begun to challenge
the soundness of the Newtonian philosophy, and to excite
against it the prejudices of Continental philosophers. In
his TheodicSe, published in 1710,1 he attacks the theory
of gravity, and accuses Newton of introducing occult

qualities and miracles into philosophy ; and, in a contro
versy which he had in 1711 with Hartsoeker,2 who main

tained that all things arose from certain atoms floating in
a perfect fluid without cohesion, he took occasion to renew

his attack upon the English philosophy. In this dispute

1 Eseais de Theodicee sur la Bovii de Dieu, la Liberie tle V Homme, et VOru/ine
da Ma!.  * Journal de Trevovx, May, 1712.

1712.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              283

with the Dutch physician, the name of Newton is not

mentioned by Leibnitz, but he was so obviously the per

son whose opinions were assailed, that he addressed a

very able reply to the editor, in which neither his own
Iname nor any of his writings are referred to. " In your
weekly paper,"1 he says, " dated May 5, 1712,                                 meet

with two letters, one written by Mr. Leibnitz to Mr.

Hartsoeker, the other by Mr. Hartsoeker to Mr. Leib

nitz, in answer to the former. And in the letter of Mr.

Leibnitz, meeting with some things reflecting upon the

IEnglish, hope you will do them the justice to publish

this vindication as you have printed the reflection." He

then proceeds to shew that the theory of gravity is
" proved by mathematical demonstration, grounded upon

experiments and the phenomena of nature ; and that to

understand the motions of the planets under the influence

of gravity, without knowing the cause of gravity, is as

good a progress in philosophy as to understand the frame
of a clock, and the dependence of the wheels upon one

another, without knowing the cause of the gravity of the

weight which moves the machine, is in the philosophy of

clockwork ; or the understanding the frame of the bones

and muscles, and their connexion in the body of an ani

mal, and how the bones are moved by the contracting or

dilating of the muscles, without knowing how the muscles

are contracted and dilated by the power of the mind, is

in the philosophy of animal motion." 2

The pertinacity with which Leibnitz reiterated his

attacks upon the doctrine of gravity, has no parallel in

1 Memoirs of Literature, No. XVIII. p. 137. See Cotes' letter to Newton in

Edleston's Correnpondence, &c., p. 153.                                       It does
   8 The scroll of this letter, which occupies two folio pages, has no date.

not appear in the Memoirs of Literature for which it was written.

284  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXII.

the history of science, and it is difficult to believe that
the love of truth was the only motive by which he was
actuated. We have already seen1 how he indulged in
the same criticisms in the postscript of his letter to the
Abbe" Conti in November 1715, and we shall now find

him in the climax of his hostility to Newton, when in the

very same month he endeavoured to misrepresent and
malign his philosophy, in his correspondence with the
Princess of Wales. He had no doubt learned from her

Royal Highness the regard which she entertained for
Newton, and the pleasure and instruction which she deri

ved from his conversation ; and, under such circumstances,

it might have been expected that a man of high princi
ple would have kept in subordination his feelings as a
rival, without abjuring his opinions as a philosopher. He
might have taught the Princess his doctrine of pre-esta
blished harmony as incompatible with Newton's opinions
respecting certain irregularities in the planetary system,
or he might have whispered into the royal ear that gra

vity was an occult quality, and a miracle ; but when he
represented the Newtonian philosophy and the opinions
of Locke as subversive of natural, and inferentially of

revealed religion, he yielded to an ignoble impulse, and
did violence to the dignity of philosophy.

   In a letter which Leibnitz addressed to the Princess in

the month of November 1715, the following charges were

made against the English :--

   " 1. Natural religion itself seems to decay [in Eng
land2] very much. Many will have human souls to be

material ; others make God himself a corporeal being.

   i Vol. I. p. 60.
   2 The words in England are not in the original paragraph, but they were added
either by the Princess or Dr. Clarke, and, as we shall presently see, were meant to
be understood by Leibnitz himself.

1716.        LIFE OF BIR ISAAC NEWTON.              285

   " 2. Mr. Locke and his followers are uncertain at least
whether the soul be not material and naturally perish

able.
   " 3. Sir
             Isaac Newton says that    space   is   a;n--oitrgwanil,l
which God    makes use of to perceive  things   by

follow that they do not depend altogether upon Him, nor

were produced by Him.
   " 4. Sir Isaac Newton and his followers have also a very

odd opinion concerning the Work of God. According to

their doctrine, God Almighty wants to wind up his watch

from time to time, otherwise it would cease to move. He

had not, it seems, sufficient foresight to make it a perpe

tual motion. Nay, the machine of God's making is so

imperfect according to these gentlemen, that he is obliged

to clean it now and then by an extraordinary concourse,

and even to mend it as a clockmaker mends his work ;

who must consequently be so much the more unskilful a

workman, as he is oftener obliged to mend his work, and

to set it right. According to my opinion the same force
and vigour remains always in the world, and only passes

from one part of matter to another, agreeably to the laws

Iof nature and the beautiful pre-established order. And

hold that when God works miracles, he does not do it in

order to supply the wants of nature, but those of grace.

Whoever thinks otherwise, must needs have a very mean

notion of the wisdom and power of God."

These views of Leibnitz having become the subject of

conversation at court, where Newton and Locke were in

high esteem, the king, who never seems to have had much

affection for his countryman, expressed a wish that Sir Isaac
Newton would draw up a reply in defence of his philoso
phy, as well as of his claim to be the original inventor of

Fluxions. It was accordingly arranged that Newton should

                                                                       <

286            LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         chap. xxrr.

undertake the mathematical part of the controversy, while
Dr. Clarke was entrusted with the defence of the English
philosophy. The Princess of Wales, therefore, commu
nicated to the Dr. the preceding extracts from Leibnitz's
letter, and Dr. Clarke's reply was transmitted to Leibnitz
through her Royal Highness. Leibnitz replied to this
communication ; and after Dr. Clarke had returned his

fifth answer to the fifth paper of Leibnitz, the death of

the latter on the 14th November 1716, put an end to the

controversy.1

While this dispute was going on, Leibnitz sent an

account of it to John Bernoulli, in a letter dated June 7,

1716. After abusing Brook Taylor's Method of Incre

ments in language which the editor has struck out, he

tells his correspondent that he is engaged in a philoso

phical dispute with Newton, or rather with his defender

Clarke, -- that he had written to the Princess of Wales,
who took an interest in such subjects, --" that philosophy

Eorngralisthhe,"r--natthuartalthreeliPgriionnc,esswahsaddetgraennesrmatiitntegd  among the

                                                                                 extracts of
his letter to Clarke, -- that her Royal Highness had sent

him his answer, and that he had replied four times to the

communications of his opponent. He tells him that space
is now the idol of Englishmen ; and " that whatever is

inexplicable from the nature of things, such as the New

tonian general attraction of matter, and other things of

the same kind, is either miraculous or absurd." He ex

pects that the contest, from which everything offensive is
excluded, will be continued, and he concludes the para

   1 All these papers, which passed through the hands of the Princess, were pub

lished at Amsterdam in 1720, under the title of Recueil de Diverset Pieces sur la
PhUosophie, la Religion Naturelle, VHistoire, les Mathematiipies, &c, par Messrs.
Leirniz, Clahkr, Newton, &c. They were published also in French and English
in 1738 in Dr. Clarke's Works, vol. iv. pp. 680-710.

1716.                                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  287

graph with the following singular sentiment, the conclusion

of which may be inferred from its being struck out by the

editor. 1
    " Hujusmodi enim collationes mihi ludus jocusque sunt,2

quia in philosophia,

Omnia precepi                        at*que     animo     mecum ante                pe*regi."3
           ·
                                                    *             «

   It is very obvious from the notes on Dr. Clarke's replies

to Leibnitz, that he had received assistance on several

astronomical points from Newton himself.4 Sir Isaac's

attention indeed, had been called to the subject, by the

postscript to Conti's letter, and in his reply to on the
                                                       by

                                                                                     it,
      We hope that those who possess the originals of the Commercium EpistolicumIt » 1
of Leibnitz and Bernoulli, will supply the numerous elisions which the editor hadIt

not the courage to insert, as they would throw much light on the temper with which

the Fluxionary controversy was carried on                 these eminent mathematicians. No

such eliminations have been made in the letters of Newton or his friends.

        has been supposed by many persons that the Theodicee of Leibnitz, which

was written for the information of the Queen of Prussia, with the view of counter

acting the sceptical opinions of Bayle, did not express his own sentiments, and that
Leibnitz really believed the doctrines which he impugned. Professor Pfaff of Tu

atb"ingesne,emwshotsoemoepinthioant  of the Thiodicee Leibnitz had requested, thus replied to him  :
                                     you have invented that theological system only in jest, while

the bottom you receive the doctrines of Bayle but                             necessary that some one
                                                          ;
give the dangerous principles         of Bayle
this letter Leibnitz answered,       " You are                 it
                                                                   is it

                                                                        is
                                                                                 ;
                                                    a serious and thorough           refutation."  To
                                                     right, venerable sir, in       what you say
                                                                                                   re

specting the Theodicea. You have hit the nail on the head and wonder that no
                                                                                    I

one before has taken this view of my intentions, for                          not the business of philo

sophers always to treat of subjects seriously they who, as you correctly observe, so
                                                    in ;
tax the powers of their mind the invention of hypotheses. You who are a theo
                                     it
logian, will pursue the theological course in the refutation of errors." This letterin

was, of course, understood in its natural meaning but the biographer of Leibnitz,;
Dr. Gurhauer, maintains to be an ironical answer to the presumptuous Professor!it,
We do not venture to say, though he has himself said that Leibnitz's real opinions

were not expressed in his Theodicee, and his letter to the Princess of Wales, but

we call the attention of the reader to the ludus et jocus, with which our metaphy
sical gladiator carried on his contest with Dr. Clarke, and pointed out the decay of
natural religion in England.

I4 *Comm. Epistol. Leibnitii et JBernouUii, tom. ii. pp. 381, 382.

       have found, among Sir Isaac's papers, many folio pages of manuscript contain

ing the same views as those given               by  Dr. Clarke.

288             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       CHAP. XXII.

26th February 1716, he devotes a page to a defence of

his views and a criticism upon those of his rival. Satisfied

no doubt with the ample discussion which the subject was

undergoing between Clarke and Leibnitz, he takes no

notice of this portion of Leibnitz's rejoinder1 in his cele
brated " Remarks,"2 which were written in May 1716.

On a subsequent occasion, when M. Des Maizeaux re

quested from him some new observations on the subject,

he declined to renew the discussion, and assigned the

following reason for his silence :--

   " You know," he says, " that when Mr. L'Abbe" Conti

had received a letter from Mr. Leibnitz with a large post

script against me, full of accusations foreign to the ques

tion, and the postscript was showed to the King, and I

was pressed for an answer, to be also shewed to his Ma

jesty,3 and the same was afterwards sent to Mr. Leibnitz ;*

he sent it with his answer to Paris, declining to make good

his charge, and pretending that I was the aggressor, and

saying that he sent those letters to Paris that he might

have neutral and intelligent witnesses of what passed be
Itween us.
                looked upon this as an indirect practice, and
forbore writing an answer in the form of a letter to be

sent to him, and only wrote some observations5 on his

letter to satisfy my friends here that it was easy to have

Ianswered him had thought fit to let him go on with his

I1

*
     Letter to  Conti, April 14, 1716.  the  court  of  2 Rapbson's Fltu-iont, p. 111.
     " By the   contrivance of some of                  Hanover was prevailed with to

write an answer to the postscript of a letter written by Mr. Leibnitz to Mr. L'Abbe

Conti, that both might be shewed to the King. I did it with reluctancy ; and by
Ithe letters which Mr. Leibnitz thereupon wrote to several at court, found that he
Iwas at the bottom of the design. It is now about forty years since left off all
Icorrespondence by letters about mathematics and philosophy, and therefore say
nothing farther to you about these matters." --Scroll of a letter to the Abbi Yarujnon

in 1718.

4 This was Newton's letter to Conti of the 26th February 1716.
* Published in Raphson's Fluxions, p. 111.

1716.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      289

I Ipoliticks. As soon as heard that he was dead, caused

the letters and observations to be printed, lest they should

at any time come abroad imperfectly in France. You

are now upon a design of reprinting them with some other

letters written at the same time, whose originals have

been left in your hands for that purpose by Mr. I/Abbe"

IConti, for making that controversy complete, and see no

necessity of adding anything more to what has been said,

especially now Mr. Leibnitz is dead."1

After the death of Leibnitz, the fluxionary controversy

was almost in abeyance. The attention of mathematicians,

however, was again called to the subject by the Eloge of

Leibnitz, from the pen of Fontenelle, which was published

in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences for 1716, and

by another Eloge which appeared in the Acta Eruditorum

for 1717. The friends of Newton were not pleased with

the observations of Fontenelle, and Mr. Chamberlayne,

who had previously interfered between the rival analysts,
did not scruple to complain of them in his " Lives of the

French Philosophers." Fontenelle received this criticism

with his usual urbanity, and wrote the following note
to Mr. Chamberlayne :--" You complain of me, but
after so civil a manner, that I think myself obliged to
Ireturn you an answer.
                        confess to you sincerely that

till we had seen the Commercium Epistolicum, it was com

monly believed here that Leibnitz was the first inventor

of the Differential Calculus, or at least the first publisher

   1 In this scroll, of which there is a duplicate, another page is added, giving the

Iusual history of his discovery of fluxions. In the duplicate, apparently the first

written, there is added after the word dead, " For have always industriously avoid

ed disputes. If anything more were to be added, it should be what follows the

following declaration." The pen is drawn through this last sentence, and the de

claration is not mentioned. This paper was probably drawn up for the use of M.

Des Maizeaux, in writing his preface to his Secueil, &c, which contains a clear ac

count of the Fluxionary dispute. The Preface is dated October 27, 1719.

VOL. II.                                T

290                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     CHAP. XXII.

of though was as well known that Sir Isaac Newtonit,
             it, it
was master of the secret at the same time but as he did
                                                  ;

not challenge          we could not be undeceived, and what
                                                            it
said concerning        it  was upon the credit of the common
                                                             it is I
belief, which did not find contradicted. But since
             I

so now, promise you will change my language when
          I                I

ever there an opportunity, for do assure you that
             is               I

has been my study all my lifetime, to keep myself free

from any partiality, whether national or personal, nothing

being my concern but truth."1
    When Newton himself perused the Eloge of Leibnitz,

which was sent to him by Varignon, he did not scruple to
express his dissatisfaction with it. In thanking Varignon
for his " kind present of the Elogia of the Academicians,"
he says, " in that of Mr. Leibnitz Mr. Fontenelle has

been very candid. There are some mistakes in matter

of fact, but not by design.   reckon that Mr. Fontenelle
                              I

                                                            A

                                                                                                                 2
was not sufficiently informed." He then proceeds to

point out the mistakes to which he refers, criticising at
the same time the Elogium of Leibnitz in the eta Eru-

ditorum, and repeating many of the leading facts which

we have already given in the history of the controversy.
As no notice taken of these criticisms in the letters of
          is it
Varignon,       is isprobable that they were never sent to him,

and this the more likely, as have found three copiesI
of more elaborate paper entitled Historical Annotations
on the Elogium Mr. Leibnitz, which, in so far as havea

                       of                            3

been able to ascertain, has not been published.          I

     But though the leaders in this controversy had ceased

**1  This extract from Fontenelle's letter, dated February 1717, in Mrs. Barton's

handwriting, and seems to have been sent by Chamberlayne to Newton.
      This scroll occupies nearly two closely written folio pages, and one part of

almost obliterated with alterations.

      These annotations occupy about ten closely written folio pages.
                                 5,
                                              is
                                                                      it
                                                                          is

1716.                            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        291

to take a public or active part in                               yet some of them
it

                                                         ;

                                                             it,
                                                                        it a
                                                                                               a
looked back with uneasiness to the part which they had

played. John Bernoulli, who had been dragged into

by the importunities of Leibnitz, and whose character

had been compromised by the disclosure of secrets which

ought to have been concealed, was anxious for reconci

liation with Newton and the Abbe" Varignon, to whom he

had communicated his desire, succeeded in the task. We

have already1 given a brief account of the correspondence

which took place on this occasion, in so far as forms

part of the fluxionary controversy. There are, however,

other points of interest in these letters which throw some

light on the personal character of their authors, and we

have therefore given the most interesting of them in the

Appendix.2 The letters of Varignon relate chiefly to the

French translation of Newton's Optics, by M. Coste, the

publication of which had been delayed by the improper

conduct of the bookseller who undertook                          while those
                                                                 it
of Newton, which we possess only in scrolls, are occupied
                                                                     :;
with details respecting his controversy with Leibnitz, and                      3

his nominal reconciliation with Bernoulli. That Newton

never forgave Bernoulli very distinctly shown in thea
                                            is
following paragraph of letter to Varignon --

    " Demoivre told me that Bernoulli wished to have my

picture but he has not yet acknowledged publicly that
I

        is

                        ;
possessed the method of fluxions and moments in 1672,

as confessed in the Eloge on Leibnitz, published in the

History of your Academy. He has not yet acknowledged

that gave, in the first proposition of the Book of Quad
       I

            2,
ratures, published in 1693 by Wallis, and in 1686 in

Lem.                       book  ii.   of the Principia, synthetically demon

strated, the true rule for differentiating differences and»
                                                                 8
1                                        See Appendix, No. XXI.                                ;
       Pages 71-75.                                              Sept. 26, 1721, o. s.

292  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  CHAP. XXII.

that I had in the year 1672 the rule for determining the

I Icurvature of curves. He has not yet acknowledged that,

in the year 1669, when wrote the Analysis by series,
had a method of accurately squaring curve lines when it

could be done, and which is explained in my letter to
Oldenburg, dated 24th October 1676, and in the Fifth

Prop, of the Book of Quadratures ; and also that Tables

of Curvatures, which could be compared with the Conic
IfSections, were composed by me at that time.
                                                these

things were admitted, it would put an end to all disputes,

and I could not then easily refuse him my picture."
  In replying to this letter, Varignon says,1 " I sent to

Bernoulli, on the 21st October, the portions of your letter

relating to his complaints, with the addition that you pro

hibited me from publishing them ; but I took no notice of

the conditions which you considered necessary before you

granted him your picture, lest they should have annoyed
him. In order, however, that you might still appear

Ifriendly to him, informed him that three copies of your

Optics, now in the press, were destined for himself, his

son, and his nephew ; and, indeed, in his last letter from

Basle of the 22d November, he desires me to present to

you, in his name and theirs, their best thanks for the

many gifts you intend for them. But the answer which

Ihe has made to the parts which transcribed from your
Ilast letter, I dare not communicate to you. have deemed

it better to transcribe it for Demoivre, who will tell it to

you, that you may say to him what perhaps you would

not wish to write."

From the high character of Varignon, both as a mathe

matician and an individual, Newton and his rivals were

equally anxious to obtain his judgment in their favour.

                     1 Dated December 9, 1721.

1722.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            2TW

Leibnitz had expressed to Bernoulli his great anxiety
that Varignon would do nothing in France that would be

injurious to his cause ;1 and Bernoulli, in his reply,2 sends
him an extract from a letter of Varignon's, in which,
while he concedes to Newton an early knowledge of the
doctrine of infinitesimals, he gives to Leibnitz the dis
covery of the differential calculus. Varignon has no
where given an opposite opinion in his letters to Newton,
though he could scarcely have avoided it had any fa
vourable impression been made upon his mind by the
information communicated to him, and by his subse
quent perusal of the second edition of the Commercium

Epistolicum, and the Recensio. Previous to the publica
tion of this edition, Newton sent him a copy of the se
cond, and requested his opinion of it in the following

letter. 3

" To the celebrated M. Abbe Varignon,               of the  Commer
      Prof, of Mathematics in the College Mazarin.

  " Reverend Sir, --I send you a copy

cium Epistolicum, reprinted here along with the account
of it turned into Latin, and the Judgment of the ' Primary

Mathematician.' All these were printed long before the

death of Leibnitz, but this Commercium has not yet been

offered for sale in the booksellers' shops. A preface to

Ithe reader is prefixed, and an annotation of which two

parts are new, but taken from ancient writings. earn

estly entreat you to read these two, and if you find

anything said which ought not to be said, or anything
which ought to be said otherwise, and mention it to me,

1 Spero dominum Varignonium curaturum, te presertim hortatore, ne quid in
(jdllia fiat de quo queri possim.
ii. p. 321.                        'Aug. 19, 1713, Com. JUpist. Leib. et Bern., tom.
                                                              September 9, 1713.

   » Varignon had lost his copy of the first edition, from having lent it to a friend.

The date of Newton's letter must have been in June or July 1722.

294                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               CHAP. XXII.

1 will take care that it shall be corrected, if necessary,

before the book is published. The object of the book
                                             I
                                                                                              is,
not that disputes may be revived, but that questions may

be rejected which have nothing to do with the subject,

and that what has been said respecting the first inventor
of the method, either of fluxions, or moments, or differ

ences, may be handed down to posterity, and quietly

referred to their judgment.                  am getting well slowly,
and hope that shall soon enjoy my usual health. -- Fare
               :
well,                                                        Is. Newton."
                 I
          In replying to this letter, the Abbe" wisely avoids theII

question at issue between his friends, and contents him

self with      making the        following   observations    on the Com-
mercium                          requested    M. Demoivre      to mention
               --" lately

to you that had some hesitation about two places in the

first preface to the reader, which you begged me to con

sider, along with the notes on the anonymous epistle,
dated 7th June 1713, in which see nothing calculated
                                 it
                                     is

                                          5,

                                         I
to give offence. But                         otherwise in the above-men

tioned preface, for, in page there are two things which

I       think may be offensive." These two criticisms, which

       1we have given in a note, though very trivial, were at

        tended to in the edition of 1725.1 This letter, which

          " 1". Lin. 12, 13. Legitur Jam velo sublato, ut miliiem in hac rixa pro se

inducere: Mallem simpliciter Jam in hac rixa pro se inducere, ne quis sub illo

tw.'o prius lalitantem putet Dum. Bernoullium, cui Leibnitius epistolam predictam

aseripsit. Adde quod ut Militem vilior est denominatio quam ut euudem I)"TM. Ber

noullinm         non offendat.   Legitur de D° Des Maizeaux  in lucem edidit Mallem
   " 2".       Ibidem, Lin. 29.              7
                                                            et

                                                                  is
                                                                                      :

                                                                                           4
et me non con*ulto in lucem edidit ut nimirum hsec loquendi ratio concilietur cum

Epistola       quam   ad Dum. Ilernoullium,   tua cum venia nuper scripsi.         ad Lectorem.
   " Hrec      sunt  quso te lubente notavi  in prsedicti libri Praefatione prima

At notis ad Epistolam sine nomine datam die Junii 1713, nihil mihi visum estin

        quod sic paci noxium esse possit, ut Jam dixi." This letter dated Paris, Aug.

        1722.

1722.                            LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.            295

announced to Newton that the French translation of his

Optics was completed on the last day of July 1 722, was

the last which he received from Varignon, who died a

few months afterwards, on the 23d December 1 722.1

   In a preceding chapter we have mentioned the short

correspondence which took place between Newton and
John Bernoulli, and have quoted those portions of it

which bear upon the Fluxionary controversy.2 It com

menced on the part of Bernoulli with a letter of thanks3
for the copy of Newton's Optics, which he had received
through Varignon, and for the copy of the Latin edition
which was promised him, with apologies for the delay
that has taken place in writing him, which he hopes he

will not impute to any insensibility to his divine and un

rivalled genius. He appeals to his correspondence with
Montmort and Demoivre for a proof of his admiration of
his talents and his affection for his character, and he

cannot understand how it has happened that -- after the

torch had been lighted of that deadly war, which, to the
disgrace of mathematical science, has raged for three

years between the geometers of Britain and Germany--

he, neither a Briton nor a German, but a Swiss, who be

longed to no party, and would have done any thing

1 Pierre Varignon was born at Caen in 1654. In 1687 he published his Projet

d'une Nouvelle Mtchanique, in consequence of which he was elected a Member of

the Academy of Sciences, and appointed Professor of Mathematics in the College

Mazarin. Though of a robust constitution, his habits of severe study made such an

impression upona                 that, in 1705, his life was for six months in great danger, and,
                   it,
during the three following years, he was
                                 a                     a state of constant languor and fever,
                                                   in
during the attacks of which, as he told Fontenelle, he believed that he was in the

middle of forest, where he saw the leaves of all the trees covered with algebraic

calculations. After teaching his class at the College Mazarin, on the 22d December

1722, he was seized with an illness which carried him off on the following night.

Newton contributed the plate for the portrait of Varignon to the edition of his Mecha-

nirfue, re-published in 1725, as present to the friends of Varignon.

3»
                             5,
       Pages 71, 72.             See ArpeNnix, No. XXII.

       Dated July 1714.

296   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         CHAP. XXII.

rather than voluntarily intermeddle with the disputes of

others, should have fallen, as was reported, in his esteem.

If such should be the case, which he cannot believe, he

must ascribe it to a combination of sycophants who seek
to advance their own reputation and that of their friends,

by destroying the good name of others, and proscribing
all who are not English, the innocent and the guilty,

unless they are willing to applaud them in every thing.
He believes, therefore, that many falsehoods have been

told which have sunk him in his esteem, and, in defence

of himself, he appeals to his writings, and declares that

in these as well as in his letters, his conversations, his

orations, and his lectures, he has always extolled him and

his inventions with the highest praise. Nor can he doubt

that such sincere appreciation of his talents will be more
agreeable to posterity " than that immoderate ardour

(not of praising you, for you cannot be too much praised)
of arrogating to you what you do not claim, and leaving

nothing to foreigners." This extravagant praise, which
could not but be offensive to Newton, is followed by the

solemn denial, (the substance of which we have already
quoted,1) that he was the author of the celebrated letter

in the Charta Volans, which he understood Newton had,

on the authority of Leibnitz, ascribed to him in Raphson's

Fluxions. He makes the best apology he can for Leibnitz's

disregard of his feelings in ascribing the letter to him, and
he concludes with an ardent expression of his gratitude

to Newton for his splendid presents, and for his admission

into  the Royal Society, begging that   he will regard him
      a most zealous worshipper of his  immortal merits."
as "

In Newton's reply to this letter,2 he assures Bernoulli,

1 Page 55, note.

8 I have found the scroll of this letter, but without a date. See Aitenpix, No. XXII.

1719.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    297

as we have already seen,1 that as soon as he learned

that he was not the author of the obnoxious letter, he

wished to cultivate his friendship. He thanks him for his

kind reception of his Optics, and will endeavour to repay

his politeness by mutual friendship. He explains how he

suspected him to be the writer of the letter of the 7th

June, but hopes, as he is not the author of that this will
       1,

                                 I.

                                                                      it,
do him no injury. He assures him that the addition to

Cor. Prop. xiii. Book of the Principia was made at

the suggestion of Cotes, and was printed in 1709, before

the commencement of these disputes, and he concludes

with the promise that he will exert himself to put an end

to the controversy between his friends and him.

   To this letter Bernoulli replied on the 21st December

1719. After referring to the obnoxious letterin the manner

we have elsewhere mentioned,2 and to the publication of

some of Leibnitz's letters, he wishes Newton's countrymen

would consider the controversy was to be carried on by
                if
the testimony of mathematicians, whether or not would
                 I                                                         it

be better that other letters should be produced than those

of Leibnitz, who  cannot be  regarded    as  aaddpsr,op"erfrwomitnessosmien
his own cause.    " have     letters,"  he

learned men from countries which have taken no part in

this national contest, and which,  iIf  were to make public,

   doubt such of your countrymen as rate me with so
I      I

much warmth, proceeding even to gross insults, would1

have much reason to boast. have, among other authenif
                             I

tic documents, letter from M. Montmort, very learned
                p. a                         a
                     a                            a
mathematician, lately dead, who, as you know, was, while

he lived, attached to no party, being Frenchman.                               I

have, say, copy of a certain letter sent to me by him,

which he addressed on the 18th December 1718, to the

       See 72.                               »  See pp. 72, 73.

298  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXII.

celebrated Brook Taylor,1 and which even of itself might
put an end to the greatest part of the controversy, but
not according to the views of Taylor and his foreign dis

Iciples. willingly abstain, however, from publishing these

letters, provided your countrymen will cease to provoke

our patience, which I wish for the sake of peace." Ber

noulli then expresses his satisfaction with Newton's
statement respecting the corollary in the Principia. He
explains that he had only spoken against the form of
Newton's assertion in the first edition of the work, and he

claims to be the first who gave the analysis of the inverse
truth, without supposing the direct one to be already
known. He then mentions a report brought by a friend
of his from England, that he had been expelled from the
Royal Society,2 and he begs that Newton will let him
know whether he was expelled by a decision of the So
ciety, or by the single authority of the Secretary, whom
at that time he suspects to be Brook Taylor.

    The answer of Sir Isaac to this letter has not been

found, but there can be no doubt that he explained to

Bernoulli, as I find he did to another foreign member of

the Royal Society, who made a similar complaint, that

  1 I have found among Newton's papers a copy of this very interesting letter.

Montmort was the particular friend of Brook Taylor, and was much attached to
Newton, to whom he sent in 1716 a present of fifty bottles of champagne. That
Montmort was, as Bernoulli says, an impartial judge in this matter, can hardly be
doubted, and as his letter expresses the opinion of continental mathematicians on

Ithe Fluxionary controversy, in a manner at once precise and intelligible, consider

it a duty to give it a place in the Appendix. In consequence of Bernoulli's reference
to it in his correspondence with Newton, it has acquired a historical interest. See

Appendix, No. XXIII., Iwhere have prefixed to it Brook Taylor's letter to Sir Isaac,

dated 22d April, 1716, in which Montmort's regard for Newton is specially men
tioned.

   * This friend had seen in the list of Fellows for 1718 the name of Bernoulli ; but
in a work entitled Magna Britannia Notitia, by John Chamberlayne, the friend of
Newton, published in 1718, p. 1-44. ho saw a catalogue of the Fellows containing
the name of his nephew, but not his own.

1719.  UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  299

the omission of his name from the list of the Fellows was

merely an error of the person who copied it. No farther

correspondence seems to have taken place between Newton
and Bernoulli till 1 723, when the latter acknowledged the
receipt of three splendidly bound copies of the French
edition of the Optics, for himself, his son, and his nephew.

In this letter Bernoulli characterizes Newton's theory of

light and colours as a discovery which will be more ad
mired by posterity than it was then. He tells him that
Hartsoeker had claimed for himself the discovery of the
different refrangibility of light, and attacked his theory of
the planetary system ; and he expresses his surprise that

no Englishman was at hand to defend their illustrious
countryman against a " fellow so rude and barbarous."
After giving an account of Hartsoeker's attack upon him
self founded upon a letter of Newton's, and requesting his
assistance in protecting him against the charge,1 he con
cludes with thanking him in the name of the celebrated
Scheuchzer for the kindness he had shewn to his son when

in London, and giving him the privilege of conversing
with the greatest of philosophers and mathematicians. 2

   It does not appear that Newton returned any answer

to this letter, or that he carried on any correspondence
with the other distinguished members of the Bernoulli
family. Nicolas, the nephew of John, to whom, as we
have seen, Newton presented copies of several of his

    1 See p. 74.
   * John Bernoulli was born at Basle on the 7th August 1667, and died there on
the 1st of January 1748, in the 81st year of his age. He was one of the most dis
tinguished mathematicians of the last century. He was Professor of Mathematics
at Basle, and one of the eight Associates of the Academy of Sciences. Two of his

sons, Daniel and Nicolas, to the last of whom Newton sent copies of his Optics,
were eminent mathematicians. His works were published in 1742 at Lausanne and

Geneva, in 4 vols. 4to.

300           LIFE OF SIR I8AAC NEWTON.                            CHAP. XXII.

works, had pointed out a mistake in the 10th Prop, of
the 2d Book of the Principia.1 He went to London in
the summer of 1712, where he met with the kindest re

ception from Newton and Halley, a circumstance which
he speaks of with much gratitude in a letter in which he
thanks Newton for a copy of the second edition of the
Principia.3 In the fluxionary controversy he was attacked
by Keill, as one of Newton's enemies, but it appears that
he denied the imputation in an explanatory letter to
Newton, to which he received no answer.3

   In the latter part of Newton's life his correspondence
was very limited, and with the exception of a few letters
from Dr. Robert Smith of Cambridge, Fontenelle,4 Dr.
Derham,5 and others, his other letters possess very little
interest. We are informed by Conduitt that he destroyed
many of his papers before his death, and it is probable
that some of them were letters which he deemed of no

importance.

1 Page 263 of the 1st edit, and p. 232 of the 2d edit. In his letter to the Abbe

Varignon, in the autumn of 1719, Newton mentions that N. Bernoulli had pointed
out this mistake, and adds, " constructionem propositionis correxi, et correctam ei
ostendi, et imprimi curavi non subdole, sed eo cognoscente." -- Macclesfield Corre
spondence, vol. ii. p. 437. John Bernoulli had previously shewn in 1710, that

Newton's result was erroneous when the curve was a circle, and he resumed the

subject in the Leipsic Acts for February and March 1703. " It is remarkable,"
says Mr. Edleston, " that both of these mathematicians mistook the source of the

error. They imagined that Newton had taken the coefficients of the successive
powers of h in the expansion of (x X p)n for the successive fluxions of xx." -- See
Comm. Epiit. Leib. et Bern. tom. ii. p. 229 ; Bernoullii Opera, tom. i. pp. 489, 509 ;

and Edleston's Correspondence, &c. pp. 142, 145, 156, 170

  I8 Dated Padua, May 31, 1717.

    3 find this fact stated in a letter to Newton from the Scotch mathematician

James Stirling, who met with Nicolas Bernoulli when he was at Venice in 1719.

IThe postscript to the letter containing a message from Bernoulli  to Newton  is
              have given it in Appendix, No. XXIV.
interesting.

4 See Appendix, No. XXV.
4 See Appendix, No. XXVI.

1708.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                     301

       CHAPTER XXIII.

THE PRINCESS OF WALES OBTAINS FROM NEWTON A MANUSCRIPT ABSTRACT
   OF HIS SYSTEM OF CHRONOLOGY -- THE ABBE CONTI, AT HER REQUEST,
   IS ALLOWED TO TAKE A COPY OF IT UNDER PROMISE OF SECRECY--

    HE GIVES A COPY TO M. FRERET OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY, WHO
   WRITES A REFUTATION OF IT, AND GIVES IT TO A BOOKSELLER, WHO
    ASKS NEWTON's PERMISSION TO PRINT IT-- NEWTON NEGLECTS TO
    ANSWER TWO LETTERS ON THE SUBJECT -- THE ABSTRACT AND THE
    REFUTATION OF IT PRINTED -- NEWTON REPROBATES THE CONDUCT OF
    CONTI, AND DEFENDS HIS SYSTEM -- IT IS ATTACKED BY FATHER SOU-
    CIET, AND IS DEFENDED BY HALLEY-- SIR ISAAC's LARGER WORK ON

    CHRONOLOGY PUBLISHED AFTER HIS DEATH, AND DEDICATED TO THE

   QUEEN BY MR. CONDUITT --POPE ASSISTS IN WRITING THE DEDICATION --
    OPINIONS RESPECTING THE CHRONOLOGY -- SIR ISAAC's PAPER ON THE

    FORM OF THE MOST ANCIENT YEAR-- HIS UNPUBLISHED PAPERS ON THE

    JULIAN YEAR, AND THE REFORMATION OF THE CALENDAR.

When Sir Isaac Newton was one day conversing with

the Princess of Wales, on some points of ancient history,

in reference to the education of the royal family, he was

led to mention to her, and to explain, a new system of

chronology, which he composed during his residence at

C"aomf brerifdregseh, inwghehreimhseelfwwasithinhtihsetohryabaitn,d  as he expresses it it,
                                                                      chronology when

he was weary of other studies." The Princess was so

much pleased with the ingenuity of his system, that she

sent a message by the Abbe" Conti, when in England,

desiring Sir Isaac to speak with her, and on this occa

sion she requested a copy of the work which contained

his system of chronology. Sir Isaac informed her that

existed only in separate papers, which were not only in a

302                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           CHAP. XXIII.

state of confusion, but contained a very imperfect view of

the subject ; and he promised in a few days to draw up

an abstract of it for her Royal Highness's perusal, and on

the condition that it should not be communicated to anmvi
other person.1 Some time after the Princess received the

manuscript, she requested that the Abbe" Conti might be

permitted to have a copy of it. Sir Isaac granted her

request, and the Abbe" was distinctly informed that the

manuscript was given to him at the request of the Prin

cess, and with Sir Isaac's leave,                 and that he was to keep
                                                  Short Chronicle from the
it a secret. It was entitled " A

First Memory of Things in Europe to the Conquest of Per
sia by Alexander the Great." It occupies only twenty-four

SquirarItsoaapcagsetas,teswitthhatanheint"roddoeusctnioont  of four pages,  in which
                                                            pretend to be   exact to

a year, and that there may be errors of five or ten years,

and sometimes twenty, but not much above."

During his residence in England, the Abbe" Conti kept

his promise of secrecy, but he no sooner reached Paris

than he communicated the manuscript to several persons,

and among others to M. Freret, a learned antiquary, who

not only translated it into French, but added observations

of his own, for the purpose of refuting some of its leading

   1 In order to enjoy  the  conversation of the  most distinguished literary men   at
that time in England,   the  " Princess of Wales    appointed a particular day in  the

week, when they were invited to attend her Royal Highness in the evening ; a prac
tice which she continued after her accession to the throne. Of this company were

Drs. Clarke, Hoadley, Berkeley, and Sherlock. Clarke and Berkeley were generally

considered as principals in the debates that arose upon those occasions, and Hoadley

adhered to the former as Sherlock did to the latter. Hoadley was no friend to

Berkeley : he affected to consider his philosophy and his Bermuda project as the

reveries of a visionary. Sherlock, (who was afterwards Bishop of London,) on the
other hand, warmly espoused his cause, and particularly when the ' Minute Philo

sopher' came out, he carried a copy of it to the Queen, and left it to her Majesty to

determine whether such a work could be the production of a disordered understand
ing." -- Works of George Berkeley, D.D., Bishop of Cloyne, p. vii. Lond. 1837.

1724.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  303

results. Sir Isaac knew nothing of this transaction till
the month of May 1724, when he received a respectful
letter from G. Cavelier, a bookseller in Paris, informing
him that a small manuscript had fallen into his hands,
which he was assured came from his pen, and that as his

name was very highly esteemed throughout Europe, he
wished to print it. He had learned, however, that it con
tained some errors, and as Sir Isaac would probably not
wish it to appear under his name, he begged, as the ma
nuscript which he had was of little value, that he would
give him a correct copy of His Chronology. He added,
that several persons who had defective copies would be

glad to have correct ones, and as he was a bookseller who

desired only to publish good articles, he was persuaded

there could be nothing better than what came from his pen.
    Sir Isaac took no notice of this letter, the object of

which he probably thought was to get money for the
manuscript, for he could hardly suppose that a mere

pamphlet on a subject by no means popular, and supposed
to contain errors, would repay the expenses of publication.
After waiting nearly ten months for an answer, Cavelier
addressed another letter to Newton, dated March 20, 1 725,

in which he asks him if he has additions or corrections to

make, as some errors have been committed by the transla

tor. He requests an immediate answer, and adds, that if

he does not receive one, he will consider his silence as his
consent to the publication of the work, " with remarks."1

   As Sir Isaac paid no attention to this second letter,
Cavelier requested a friend in London to procure an an

swer, which he at last received in the following terms :--

  I" remember that I wrote a chronological index for a

particular friend, on condition that it should not be com

             1 These two letters of Cavelier have been preserved by Sir Israc.

304            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    CHAP. XXIII.

municated. As I have not seen the MS. which you have
Iunder my name, know not whether it be the same. That
which I wrote was not at all done with design to publish
it. I intend not to meddle with that which hath been

Igiven you undermy                      name, nor              to give any  consent        to
                                         am, your              very humble  servant,
the publishing ofit. --

" London, May 27, 1725. St. Vet."                              " Is- NEWTON.

   Before Cavelier received this letter the work was print
ed,1 and a copy of it was sent to Newton as a present,
on the 11th November 1725.2 The pamphlet was accom

1 It was entitled Abrégé de Chronologie de M. Le Chevalier Newton, fait par

lui-même, et traduit sur le manuscript Anglais. Paris, 1725.
* The existence of this manuscript in Paris was generally known, and was the

subject of conversation before the date of Cavelier's first letter to Newton, (May 1 1,
                                                                a letter from M. Montmort
1724,) as appears from the following extract of                January 15, 1724 :--        (or per
                                                               la Chronologie Raisonnée.   Tout le
hap"sOfrnomm'aCodnitti)autossiBrqouoek   Taylor, dated Paris,
                                        Mr. Newton imprime

monde l'attend avec bien de l'impatience. Faites luy mes complimens, je vous en

prie ; voicy une petit Sonnet que vous luy communiquerez ; j'espère qu'il en sera
content ; car il verra l'attraction désigné par l'amour, qui règle le sistême de M.

Descartes désigné par Phaeton.          Dans lefMémoires de Leipsique, il aura vu si je
suis du parti des Allemands.

               ' Lasciar mi il curro Governar del giorno,'
                Disse à Febo l'Amor, ' e tosto sia

               Rectificata in Ciel l'alta armonia

               Che Fetonte turbô con suo gran scorno

               Io diedi sede al cancro ed al capricorno

               Ed al corpo lt:nar l'obliqua via
               10 sterno al par del Caos ; ed Io con lumeor
               Forzo al mondo l'equilibro ; ed Io l'adorno.

               Disse ;' e le Briglie imperioso stese
               E corresse l'Aurora, ed agli infinite

               Fonti del lume il corso antico rese

               Ritornô i Pianet' ai primi siti

               11 Solar Orbe a perni scai s'apese

               E tal fu poi quai' 0 Newton l'additi.
                                                Par L'AnBOT Coxti."

     Conlemplatio Philosophica, and Life of Brook Taylor. Lond. 1793, p. 141.
M. Conti is supposed to be the Abbot who corresponded with Lady Mary Wort-

ley Montague. See her Letters and Works, vol. i. p. 358, and vol.           ïi.  pp 11, 21,

119, and 128.

1725.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          305

panied by Freret's observations, and, in an advertisement

aprefixed to   Cavelier defends himself for printing
                                                               it
   21against the author's wishes, on the ground that he had       a

        awritten three letters to obtain his permission, and, in      by

                  isorder to ensure an answer, had intimated to him that he                ;

                      it,would take his silence for consent. When Sir Isaac re         of
                                                                                             a a it
                                                           inceived this work, he drew up a paper entitled, Remarks

on the Observations made on a Chronological Index Sir

Isaac Newton, translated into French                           the Observator,

and published at Paris, which was printed in the Philo
sophical Transactions.* In this paper Sir Isaac gives

history of the transaction, charges the Abbe" Conti with

breach of promise,2 and blames the publisher for having

asked his leave to print the translation without sending
                                                             trpaenrsulsaatlo,r--, --wiatnhdouwt itahcoquutaainntninogunchinimg
him        copy for  his
with   the name of   the

his intention of printing along with                           refutation of the

original. The observations made by the translator against

the conclusions deduced by the author, were founded on

an imperfect knowledge of Sir Isaac's system and they

are so specious, that Halley himself confesses that he was

at first prejudiced in favour of the Observations, taking

the calculations for granted, and not having seen Sir

Isaac's work.

To all the observations of M. Freret Sir Isaac returned

   triumphant answer. This celebrated writer had ven
tured to assert, " that he believed he had stated enough

concerning the epoch of the Argonauts, and the length
of generations, to make people cautious about the rest
                                                               I
Phil. Trans. 172!), Vol. xxxiii. No. 389, p. 315.
                                                                          p.

                                                                                   U

                                                                                                                ;
                                                               have found seven dis

tinctly written copies of this paper Sir Isaac's handwriting.

Conti     said to have defended himself with much moderation, and with many

expressions of esteem for Newton. See Biog. Univ., tom. ix. 517.

VOL. II.

306   LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                   CHAP. XXIII.

for these are the two foundations of all this new system

of chronology." He founds his arguments against the

epochs of the Argonauts, as fixed by our author, on the

supposition that Sir Isaac places the vernal equinox at

the time of the Argonautic expedition in the middle of the
      coonf sAtreilelast,iown,h--ereaaspoSinirt  Isaac places it  in the middle of
sign                                             corresponding    with the middle
the

of the back of Aries, or 8° from the first star of Aries.

This position of the colure is assigned on the authority of

Eudoxus, as given by Hipparchus, who says that the

colure passed over the back of Aries. Setting out with

this mistake, M. Freret concludes that the Argonautic

expedition took place 532 years earlier than Sir Isaac

made it. His second objection to the new system relates

to the length of generations, which he says is made only
eighteen or twenty years. Sir Isaac, on the contrary,

reckons a generation at thirty-three years, or three gene
rations at 100 ; and it was the lengths of the reigns of

kings that he made eighteen or twenty years. This

deduction he founds on the reigns of sixty-four French
kings. Now, the ancient Greeks and Egyptians reckoned

the length of a reign equal to that of a generation ; and
it was by correcting this mistake, and adopting a measure
founded on fact, that Sir Isaac placed the Argonautic

expedition forty-four years after the death of Solomon,

and fixed some of the other points of his system.
    Sir Isaac concludes his remarks with the following

passage :-- " Abbe" Conti1 came into England in spring

   1 In the passage from the Acta Eruditorum, Conti is described as carrying letters

of Newton's to Leibnitz, and communicating Leibnitz's letters to Newton. Conti
was a very excellent and accomplished person, distinguished as a poet and a man of
very considerable acquirements. He was a great favourite of the King, and acted as
interpreter when Dr. Clarke, who could speak only Latin and English, was explain

ing to his Majesty the discoveries of Newton. It was at the King's request that he

1725.           LIKE OF Slit ISAAC NEWTON.                                      307

1715, and, while he staid in England, he pretended to be

my friend, but assisted Mr. Leibnitz in engaging me in

new disputes. The part he acted here may be under

stood by the character given of him in the Acta Erudi-

torum for 1721                       And how Mr. Leibnitz, by his

mediation, endeavoured to engage me against my will in

new disputes about occult qualities, universal gravity, the

sensorium of God, space, time, vacuum, atoms, the per

fection of the world, supramundane intelligence, and ma

thematical problems, is mentioned in the second edition

of the Gommercium Epistolicum. And what he hath

been doing in Italy may be understood by the disputes

raised there by one of his friends,1 who denies many of

my optical experiments, though they have been all tried

in France with success ; but I hope that these things,

and    --thewpilel rbpeettuhael   motion, will    be the last efforts of this
kind                             last efforts of  those friends of Mr. Leib

nitz to embroil me." 2

This answer of Sir Isaac's to the objections of Freret

called into the field a fresh antagonist, Father Souciet,

who published five Dissertations on the new chronology.

These Dissertations were written in a tone so highly

interfered in the dispute between Newton and Leibnitz, and we see no reason to

blame him for the part which he acted in that matter.
    1 Signior Rizzetti, who afterwards published his attack upon Newton in a book

entitled De Luminis Affectionibus Specimen Physico-Mathematicum.      Venet. 1727.

See Desaguliers' Defence of Newton in the Phil. Trans. 1728, p. 596.
I2 The words in italics are in another copy.
                                                  find also from one of these copies
that Conti is charged with " sending Mr. Stirling to Italy, a person then unknown
Ito me, to                             if
                                              would   have contributed to his   main
tenance ;"                            to   have "    softened the business, by  lately
       be ready to defend me ihere,
       and in another, Conti is said

writing a poem  upon him, and    in  the colour of a friend."   This  p2o6e,m17is23.prob"abHley
that mentioned  by Bolingbroke   in  a letter to Brook Taylor,  Dec.
has begun a philosophical poem which will be finished, I believe, long before the

Anti-Lucretius of the Cardinal de Polignac. Sir I. Newton's system will make the
principal beauty in it. He recited the Exorde to me, which I thought very fine.
I need not tell you that he writes in Italian." -- Life of Brook Taylor, p. 136.

3U8  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIII-

reprehensible, that Mr. Conduitt, being apprehensive that

the manner in which his system was attacked would affect

Sir Isaac more than the arguments themselves, prevailed

uSpoouncieat'sfrioebnjdecttioondsr,awstruippp, edforofhtishepe"reusxatrl,aoarndinabasrytraocrtnaof

ments with which they were clothed." The perusal of

these objections had no other effect upon him than to

convince him of the ignorance of their author ; and he

was induced to read the entire work, which produced no

change in his opinion.

   In consequence of these discussions, Sir Isaac was pre

vailed upon to prepare his larger work for the press.

After the publication of Freret's Observations, he had
resolved to print it " as privately as possible, and keep

the copies in his own possession," but it was not ready till
nearly the time of his death. It did not therefore appear

till 1 728, when it was published by Mr. Conduitt under the

title of the Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms amended, to
which is prefixed a short Chronicle, from the First Memory
of Things in Europe to the   CoofnqsuixestchoafpPteerrssia:--b1y.
                                                                   Alexan
der the Great.1 It consists                                         On the

Chronology of the Greeks ;2 2. Of the Empire of Egypt ;
3. Of the Assyrian Empire ; 4. Of the two contemporary

Empires of the Babylonians and Medes ; 5. A Description

of the Temple of Solomon ; 6. Of the Empire of the Per

sians. The sixth chapter was not copied out with the

other five, which makes it doubtful whether or not it was

intended for publication ; but as it was found among his

papers, and appeared to be a continuation of the same

   1 The work is dedicated to the Queen by Mr. Conduitt, in an address of twelve
quarto pages, in composing which he sought the assistance of Pope. We have

given Pope's letter, containing his criticisms, in the Appendix, No. XXVII.

   2 According to Whiston, Sir Isaac wrote out eighteen copies of this chapter with
his own hand, differing little from one another. -- Whision'e Life, p. 39.

1725.                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           309

work, it was thought right to add it to the other five

chapters.1

   After the death of Newton, Dr. Halley, who had not
yet seen the larger work, felt himself called upon, both
as Astronomer-Royal and as the friend of the author, to
reply to the first and last dissertations of Father Souciet,
which were chiefly astronomical ; and in two papers2 he
has done this in a most convincing and learned argu

ment.

    Among the supporters of the views of Newton, we may
enumerate Dr. Reid, Nauze, and some other writers ; and

among its opponents, M. Freret, who left behind him a
posthumous work on the subject,3 M. Fourmond, Mr. A.
Bedford, Dr. Shuckford, Dr. Middletou, Whiston,4 and the

late M. Delambre. The object of M. Fourmond is to show
the uncertainty of the astronomical argument, arising on
the one hand from the vague account of the ancient sphere

as given by Hipparchus ; and, on the other, from the
extreme rudeness of ancient astronomical observations.

Delambre has taken a similar view of the subject : He
regards the observations of ancient astronomers as too
incorrect to form the basis of a system of chronology ;

and he maintains, that, if we admit the accuracy of the

details in the sphere of Eudoxus, and suppose them all to
belong to the same epoch, all the stars which it contains

1 This work forms the first article in the fifth volume of Dr. Horsley's edition of

Newton's   works, and    is  accompanied with                                copious notes.   The next article in the
volume is   entitled, "       Short Chronicle                              from a MS., the   property of the Reverend
                         A

Dr. Ekins, Dean of Carlisle," which is nothing more than an abstract of the chrono

logy already printed in the same volume. We cannot even conjecture the reasons

41·for publishing              less perfect than the abstract, two or three dates
                     it,

                                         it
                                                   is

                                                                       le
                especially as

being wanting.                                                                               Paris. 1758, 4to.
      Phil. Tram. 1727, vol. xxxiv. pp. 205, 296.
      Defense de la Chronologie contre Systime de M. Newton.

     Collection of Authentk Records, Part II. No. 24. 1727.

310  LIFE OF S1U ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIII.

 ought at that epoch to be found in the place where they
are marked, and we might thence verify the accuracy,

and ascertain the state of the observations. It follows,

 however, from such an examination, that the sphere would

indicate almost as many different epochs as it contains
 stars. Some of them even had not, in the time of Eudoxus,

 arrived at the position which had been for a long time
 attributed to them, and will not even reach it for 300

years to come, and on this account he considers it impos
sible to deduce any chronological conclusions from such a
rude mass of errors.

    But, however well founded these observations may be,
we agree in opinion with M. Daunou,1 " that they are not
sufficient to establish a new system, and we must regard
the system of Newton as a great fact in the history of

chronological science, and as confirming the observation

of Varro, that the stage of history does not commence till
the first Olympiad."

    Among the chronological writings of Sir Isaac Newton,
we must enumerate his Letter to a person of distinction
who had desired his opinion of the learned Bishop Lloyd's
Hypothesis concerning the Form of the most Ancient Year.
This hypothesis was sent by the Bishop of Worcester to
Dr. Prideaux. Sir Isaac remarks, that it is filled with

many excellent observations on the ancient year ; but he
does not " find it proved that any ancient nations used a
year of twelve months and 3G0 days without correcting
it from time to time by the luminaries to make the months
keep to the course of the moon, and the year to the course
of the sun, and returns of the seasons and fruits of the

earth." After examining the years of all the nations of

    1 See .an excellent view of this controversy in an able note by M. Daunou, attached
lo Bint's Life of Newton in the Iling. UniverseUe, tom. xxxi. p. 180.

1704.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                     311

antiquity, he concludes, " that no other years are to be met

with among the ancients but such as were either luni-

solar, or solar or lunar, or the calendars of these years."

A practical year, he adds, of 360 days, is none of these.

The beginning of such a year would have run round the

four seasons in seventy years, and such a notable revo

lution would have been mentioned in history, and is not

to be asserted without proving it.1

When the public attention was called to the reformation

of the Kalendar, Sir Isaac seems to have been consulted

on the subject. Among his papers he has left two copies,

one distinctly written out as if for publication, entitled

Considerations   about rectifying    the Julian Kalendar.2
                 account of the    Egyptian Kalendar -- the
After giving an

improvements introduced by Julius Caesar and the Roman

senate, and the correction made by Gregory XIII., he

describes what in another manuscript he calls the best
form of the solar year. " The best form of the solar
year," he says, " is to divide it by the four cardinal

periods of the equinoxes and solstices, so that the quar

ters of the year may begin at the equinoxes and solstices

as they ought to do, and then to divide every quarter into

three equal months, which will be done by making the

six winter months to consist of 30 days each, and the six

summer months of 31 days each, excepting one of them,

suppose the last, which in the leap years shall have 31

1 This letter was first published without any date in the Gentleman's Magazine
Ifor 1755, vol. xxv. p. 3.
                            have found two copies of it among Sir Isaac's papers.

Mr. Edleston informs us that the original is in the British Museum, presented by
IMrs. Sharp.
              have found also two copies of the communication he made to the

Bishop of Worcester, which is published by Mr. Edleston in his Correspondence, &c.

Appendix, p. 314. One of these copies is much fuller than that which is printed by

Mr. Edleston.                                                                  Pro

  I5 infer that this paper was written in 1699, from the statement in it that

fessor Gregory's corrections " were made 118 years ago."

312  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIII.

days, in the other years only 30 days. At the end of

every 100 years, omit the intercalary day in the leap
year, excepting at the end of every 500 years. For this
rule is exacter than the Gregorian, of omitting it at the

end of every 100 years, excepting at the end of every 400
years, and thus reckoning by 500ds and thousands of

years is rounder than the other by 400, 800, and 1200ds.

And this I take to be the simplest, and in all respects the

best form of the civil year that can be thought of."
   In the paper entitled Considerations, &c, in which the

above form of the civil year is stated less fully, he goes
on to consider the best method of introducing a change

of style.
    " But without the consent of a good part of Europe,"

he says, " I do not think it advisable to alter the number

of days in the month. The question is now whether the
old style should be retained in conformity with antiquity,
or the new received in conformity with the nations abroad.

I press neither opinion, but whenever the latter shall be
Iresolved upon, believe the best way may be, to receive

the new style without the Gregorian Kalendar by an Act
of Parliament, to some such purpose as that which fol

lows."1

  I1 find two copies of another paper in Latin, entitled Begulcepro determinatione

Ptmelue. The subject of the Kalendar is touched upon in Newton's Chronology,

p. 71, and in his Observations on the Prophecies of Daniel, p. 137, note.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  313

                  CHAPTER XXIV.

THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS OF NEWTON-- THEIR IMPORTANCE TO CHRIS
   TIANITY--MOTIVES TO WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN ASCRIBED-- BIOT's
   OPINION DISPROVED-- THE DATE OF NEWTON's THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS
   FIXED -- HIS LETTERS TO LOCKE ON THESE SUBJECTS -- HISTORY OF HIS

    ACCOUNT OF TWO CORRUPTIONS OF THE SCRIPTURES-- HIS OBSERVA

   TIONS ON THE PROPHECIES OF DANIEL, AND ON THE APOCALYPSE --

    ABSTRACT OF HIS HISTORICAL ACCOUNT OF TWO CORRUPTIONS OF
    SCRIPTURE -- HIS VIEWS ADOPTED BY THE ABLEST BIBLICAL CRITICS
    OF MODERN TIMES -- HIS UNPUBLISHED THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS -- PARA
    DOXICAL QUESTIONS CONCERNING ATHANASIUS -- HIS IRENICUM OR EC
    CLESIASTICAL POLITY TENDING TO PEACE -- HIS VIEWS ON POINTS OF
    TRINITARIAN DOCTRINE -- HIS ARTICLES OF FAITH -- HIS PLAN FOR COR
    RECTING THE ROMISH TENDENCIES OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND --

   COINCIDENCE OF HIS OPINIONS WITH THOSE OF LOCKE--HIS VIEWS ON
    THE FUTURE RESIDENCE OF THE BLEST -- OPINIONS OF VOLTAIRE AND
    OTHERS -- NAPIER, BOYLE, MILTON, AND LOCKE STUDENTS OF THE SCRIP
    TURES -- ANALOGY BETWEEN THE BOOK OF NATURE AND THAT OF RE
    VELATION -- LETTER OF DR. MORLAND TO NEWTON.

  If Sir Isaac Newton had not been distinguished as a

mathematician and a natural philosopher, he would have
enjoyed a high reputation as a theologian. The occupa
tion of his time, however, with those profound studies, for
which his genius was so peculiarly adapted, and in the
prosecution of which he was so eminently successful, pre
vented him from preparing for the press the theological
works which he had begun at a very early period of life,
and to which he devoted much of his time even when he

mixed with the world, and was occupied with the affairs
of the Mint. The history of Sir Isaac's theological writ
ings cannot fail to be regarded as an interesting portion

314  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

of his life, and much anxiety has been expressed for a
more precise account than has yet been given of his reli
gious opinions. That the greatest philosopher of which
any age can boast was a sincere and humble believer in
the leading doctrines of our religion, and lived conform
ably to its precepts, has been justly regarded as a proud
triumph of the Christian faith. Had he exhibited only
an outward respect for the forms and duties of religion,
or left merely in his dying words an acknowledgment of

his belief, his piety might have been regarded as a prudent
submission to popular feeling, or as a proof of the decay
or the extinction of his transcendent powers ; but he had

been a searcher of the Scriptures from his youth, and he
found it no abrupt transition to pass from the study of

the material universe to an investigation of the profoundest
truths, and the most obscure predictions, of holy writ.

   The religious opinions of great men, -- of those espe

cially who, by force of genius and patient thought, have

discovered new and commanding truths, possess an in
terest of various kinds. The apostle of infidelity cowers
beneath the implied rebuke. The timid and the waver

ing stand firmer in the faith, and the man of the world

treats the institutions of religion with more respect and
forbearance. Nor are such opinions less influential when

they emanate from men who follow truth through her

labyrinth, neither impelled by professional ambition, nor
alarmed by articles which they have to sign, or creeds

which they have to believe. Though often solicited by
its highest dignitaries, Newton never thought of entering
the Church. He had, therefore, no beacons to dread, and

no false lights to mislead him. He was free to range
through the volume of inspiration, and to gather from
the Sibylline pages of its prophets and apostles, its histo

16'JO.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  315

rians and its poets, the insulated truths which they re
veal, and to combine them into a broader faith, and em

balm them in a higher toleration.
    To the friends and countrymen of Newton, it has been

no inconsiderable source of pain that some foreign wri
ters have referred to extraordinary causes his religious
opinions and theological writings. While some have as
cribed them to the habits of the age in which he lived,
and to a desire of promoting civil liberty by turning
against the abettors of irresponsible power the sharp
weapons which the Scriptures supply, others have endea

voured to show that they were composed at a late period
of life when his mind was in its dotage, or had suffered

from that supposed mental aberration to which so many

acts of his life have been so erroneously ascribed. In

answer to such allegations, we may adduce the testimony

of one of his most distinguished friends, John Craig, an
eminent mathematician, who, in the very year in which
Newton died, gave the following account of his theologi

cal writings.1

   " I shall not tell you what great improvements he

made in geometry and algebra, but it is proper to ac
quaint you that his great application in his inquiries into
nature did not make him unmindful of the Great Author

of nature. They were little acquainted with him who
imagine that he was so intent upon his studies of geome
try and philosophy as to neglect that of religion and
other things subservient to it. And this 1 know, that he
was much more solicitous in his inquiries into religion
than into natural philosophy, and that the reason of his
shewing the errors of Cartes' philosophy was, because he
thought it was made on purpose to be the foundation of

       1 Letter to Conduitt, dated 7th April, 1727. See vol. i. Appendix, p. 4H5.

316  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

infidelity. And Sir Isaac Newton, to make his inquiries
into the Christian religion more successful, had read the
ancient writers and ecclesiastical historians with great
exactness, and had drawn up in writing great collections
out of both ; and to show how earnest he was in religion,
he had written a long explication of remarkable parts of
the Old and New Testament, while his understanding was
in its greatest perfection, lest the infidels might pretend that
his applying himself to the study of religion was the effect
of dotage. That he would not publish these writings in

his own time, because they showed that his thoughts
were sometimes different from those which are commonly
received, which would engage him in disputes ; and this

was a thing which he avoided as much as possible. But
now it's hoped that the worthy and ingenious Mr. Con-
duitt will take care that they be published, that the
world may see that Sir Isaac Newton was as good a
Christian as he was a mathematician and philosopher."

    The anxiety to refer the religious writings of Newton
to a late period of his life, seems to have been particu
larly felt by M. Biot, who goes so far as to fix the date
of one of his most important works,1 and to associate his
religious tendencies with the effects of what he calls " the
fatal epoch of 1693."

    " From the nature of the subject," says he, " and from
certain indications which Newton seems to give at the
beginning of his dissertation, we may conjecture with
probability that he composed it at the time when the
errors of Whiston and a work of Clarke on the same sub

ject, drew upon them the attacks of all the theologians of
England, which would place the date between the years

1712 and 1719. It would then be a prodigy to remark,

  1 Historical Account nf Two Xotahte Corruptions of the Scripturet, 50 pp quarto.

1690.                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               317

that a man of from seventy-two to seventy -five years of

age was able to compose, rapidly as he leads us to believe,

so extensive a piece of sacred criticism, of literary history,
and even of bibliography, where an erudition the most vast,

the most varied, and the most ready, always supports an
argument well arranged and powerfully combined

At this epoch of the life of Newton, the reading of reli

gious books had become one of his most habitual occupa
tions, and after he had performed the duties of his office,
they formed, along with the conversation of his friends,
his only amusement. He had then almost ceased to care

for the sciences, and, as we have already remarked, since
the fatal epoch of 1693, he gave to the world only three
really new scientific productions, of which one had pro

bably been long ready, while the others required from
him only a very little time."1

   Notwithstanding the prodigy which it involves, M. Biot

htaatsioando; --pteitd  1712-1719 as the date of this critical disser

seventy-two             is regarded as    th; --e ctohme poresaitdioinng  of a   man of
                         or seventy-five                                    of  religious

works is stated to have become one of his most habitual

occupations, and such reading is said to have been his
only amusements ; and all this is associated with " the

fatal epoch of 1693," as if his illness at that time had

been the cause of his abandoning science and betaking
himself to theology.

    The incorrectness of these opinions we are fortunately

able to prove. It appears from Mr. Pryme's manuscript,2

that previous to 1692, when a shade is supposed to

have passed over his gifted mind, Newton was well

   1 The papers here alluded to were one on the Scale of Heat, his Reflecting Sex
tant, and his Solution of the Problem of Quickest Descent. See Bibl. Univ., tom.

xxxi. p. 190, and vol. i. p. 239, and p. 19 of this volume.
    " See p. 137.

318  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         CHAP. XXIV.

known by the appellation of an " excellent divine,"1 -- a

character which could not have been acquired without

the devotion of many years to theological researches ; but,

important as this argument would have been, we are not

left to so general a defence. The correspondence of Newton

with Locke, places it beyond a doubt that he had begun his

researches respecting the prophecies before the year 1691,

--before the forty-ninth year of his age, and before the

" fatal epoch of 1693." The following letter shews that
he had previously discussed this subject with his friend.2

                                                                               " Cambridge, Feb. 7, 1690-1.

" Sir, --I am sorry your journey proved to so little

purpose, though it delivered you from the trouble of the
company the day after. You have obliged me by men

tioning me to my friends at London, and I must thank

both you and my Lady Masham for your civilities at

Oates, and for not thinking that I made a long stay there.
I hope we shall meet again in due time, and then I should

be glad to have your judgment upon some of my mystical

fancies. The Son of Man, (Dan. vii.) I take to be the same

with the Word of God upon the White Horse in Heaven,

(Apoc. xii.) for both are to rule the nations with a rod of
iron ; but whence are you certain that the Ancient of Days

is Christ 1 Does Christ anywhere sit upon the throne 1--

If ISir Francis Masham be at Oates, present, pray, my ser

vice to him, with his lady, Mrs. Cudworth, and Mrs. Masham.

IDr. Covel is not in Cambridge. -- am, your affectionate
                                                          " Is. Newton.
and humble servant,
" Know you the meaning of Dan. x. 21 1 There is none
that holdeth with me in these things but Mich, your Prince."

1 In a book called " Newton's Waste Book," containing his discoveries in mathe

matics in the years 1664 and 1665, there are many extracts which prove that he had

in these years prosecuted the study of theology.          Lond. 1830.
   8 Lord King's Life of Locke, vol. i. p. 402, 2d edit.

1692.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  319

   In replying to this letter, Locke does not seem to have
distinctly noticed Newton's question, why he thought that
Christ was the Ancient of Days, for in another letter1
addressed to Locke, he says, " Concerning the Ancient of
Days, Dan. vii., there seems to be a mistake either in my
last letter or in yours, because you wrote in your former

Iletter that the Ancient of Days is Christ ; and in my last
   either did, or should have asked how you knew that.
But these discourses may be done with more freedom at
our next meeting."

   It is obvious, from these facts, that Locke and Newton

had corresponded on the prophecies of Daniel so early as

1691, and that these subjects were discussed by them

when they met. In replying to some questions of Locke on

the subject of miracles, Newton tells him2 that " miracles
of good credit continued in the Church for about two or

three hundred years. Gregorius Thaumaturgus had his
name from them, and was one of the latest who was emi

Inent for that gift, but of their number and frequency

am not able to give you a just account ;" and he resumes
the subject in the following interesting letter :--

                                                                       " Cambridge, May 3, 1692.

I" Sir,--Now the churlish weather is almost over, was

thinking within a post or two, to put you in mind of my

desire to see you here, where you shall be as welcome as
I Ican make you.
Ibecause          am glad you have prevented me,

          hope now to see you the sooner. You may

lodge conveniently either at the Rose Tavern or Queen's
IArms Inn.
            am glad the edition is stopped, but do not

perceive that you had mine, and therefore have sent you a

transcript of what concerned miracles, if it come not now

Itoo late ; for it happens that have a copy of it by me.

1 Dated Cambridge, June 30, 1691.  » Cambridge, Feb. 16, 1691-2.

320      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

Concerning miracles, there is a notable passage or two in
Irena?us, L. 22, c. 56, recited by Eusebius, I. 5, c. 17. The

miraculous refection of the Roman army by rain, at the

prayers of a Christian legion, (thence called fulminatrix,)
is mentioned by Ziphilina apud Dionam. in Marco Imp.,
and by Tertullian, Apolog. c. 5, and ad Scap. c. 4, and by
Eusebius, I. 5, c. 5, Hist. Eccl., and in Chronico, and ac

knowledged by the Emperor Marcus in a letter, as Ter
tullian mentions. The same Tertullian somewhere chal

lenges the heathens to produce a demoniac, and he shall

produce a man who shall cast out the demon. For this

Iwas the language of the ancient for curing lunatics.

am told that Sir Henry Yelverton, in a book about the

truth of Christianity, has writ well of the ancient miracles,

but the book I never saw. Concerning Gregory Thau-

maturgus, see Gregory Nystra in ejus vita, and Basil, de

Spiritu Sancto, c. 29. My humble service to Sir Francis
Iand his lady.
                am, your most humble servant,
                " Is. Newton.
" I know of nothing that will call me from home this

month."

   In the early part of 1703, Locke sent to Newton the
manuscript of his Commentary on the Epistles of St. Paul

to the Corinthians, which have been published among his
posthumous works, and in the following letter he gave him
his opinion of the work, with a criticism upon his inter
pretation of a particular passage. 1

                                                                                " London, May 15, 1703.

  " Sir, -- Upon my first receiving your Ipapers, read

over those concerning the First Epistle of the Corinthians,

   1 " The words of Locke," says Lord King, " stand unaltered in the printed copy,"
vol. 420.
ii.
     p.

1703.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                321

Ibut by so many intermissions, that resolved to go over
Ithem again, so soon as could get leisure to do it with
Imore attention.
                  have now read it over a second time,

and gone over also your papers on the Second Epistle.

ISome faults, which seemed to be faults of the scribe,
Imended with my pen as read the papers ; some others
I have noted in the enclosed papers. In your paraphrase

on 1 Cor. vii. 14, you say, ' the unbelieving husband is
Isanctified or made a Christian in his wife.'
                                               doubt this

interpretation, because the unbelieving is not capable of
baptism, as all Christians are. The Jews looked upon

themselves as clean, holy, or separate to God, and other

nations as unclean, unholy, or common, and accordingly
it was unlawful for a man that was a Jew to keep com

pany with, or come unto one of another nation ; Acts

x. 28. But when the propagation of the gospel made it

necessary for the Jews, who preached the gospel, to go

unto and keep company with the Gentiles, God showed

Peter by a vision, in the case of Cornelius, that he had

cleansed those of other nations, so that Peter should not

any longer call any man common or unclean, and on that

account forbear their company : and thereupon Peter

went in unto Cornelius and his companions, who were

uncircumcised, and did eat with them ; Acts x. 27, 28,

and xi. 3. Sanctifying, therefore, and cleansing, signify
here, not the making a man a Jew or Christian, but the

dispensing with the law whereby the people of God were

to avoid the company of the rest of the world as unholy
or unclean. And if this sense be applied to St. Paul's

words, they will signify, that although believers are a

people holy to God, and ought to avoid the company of

unbelievers as unholy or unclean, yet this law is dispensed

with in some cases, and particularly in the case of mar-

VOL. n.                                        x

322  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         CHAP. XXIV.

riage. The believing wife must not separate from the

unbelieving husband as unholy or unclean, nor the be

lieving husband from the unbelieving wife ; for the un

believer is sanctified or cleansed by marriage with the

believer, the law of avoiding the company of unbelievers
Ibeing, in this case, dispensed with.
                                       should therefore
interpret St. Paul's words after the following manner :--
" ' For the unbelieving husband is sanctified or cleansed

by the believing wife, so that it is lawful to keep him

company, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the

husband ; else were the children of such parents to be

separated from you, and avoided as unclean, but now by

nursing and educating them in your families, you allow

Ithat they are holy/
    " This interpretation propose as easy and suiting well

to the words and design of St. Paul, but submit it wholly

Ito your judgment.
    " had thoughts of going to Cambridge this summer,

and calling at Oates in my way, but am now uncertain of
Ithis journey. Present, pray, my humble service to Sir
IFrancis Masham and his lady.
                               think your paraphrase

Iand commentary on these two Epistles is done with very

great care and judgment.-- am, your most humble and

obedient servant,                      " Is. Newton."

   It is obvious from these letters that Newton had car

ried on his theological studies, and particularly those
relating to the Prophecies, long before the epoch of 1693,
and there is no reason to believe that any part of his
principal theological work on the Prophecies and the

Apocalypse was composed after that date. If any far

ther evidence were required for this fact, it may be derived

1690.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  323

from his folio Commonplace Booh, written in his early
hand, and containing copious extracts and observations
on theological subjects of every kind.

    The other work of Newton, entitled Historical A ccount

of two Notable Corruptions of the Scriptures, in a Letter
to a Friend, is certainly an early production. In 1690,
or perhaps earlier, he had corresponded on the subject of
it with Locke, who requested a sight of the manuscript.
In reply to this request, Newton writes to him,1 " that

he would have answered his letter sooner, but that he

stayed to revise and send the papers which he desired ;
but the consulting of authors proving more tedious than
he expected, made him defer sending them till next

week." In the following letter to Locke, which accom

panies the manuscript, he mentions part of it as some
thing that he " had by him," and it was therefore in all
probability written long before 1690 :--

                                          " November 14, 1690.

" Sir,--I send you now by the carrier, Martin, the
I Ipapers promised.     fear I have not only made you

stay too long for them, but also made them too long by

an addition ; for, upon the receipt of your letter review

ing what I had by me concerning the text of 1 John v. 7,

and examining authors a little further about1      met with

                                             iIt,
something new concerning that other of Tim. iii. 16,

which thought would be as acceptable to inquisitive
it,
    ismen, and might be set down in little room but by
                                      a       ;
    II
                                       I
searching farther into authors to find out the bottom of

       swelled to the bigness you see.    fear the length of

what say on both texts may occasion you too much

trouble, and therefore  at present you get only what
        1

              if
        Cambridge, Sept. 28, 1690.

324       LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.            CHAP. XXIV.

concerns the first done into French, that of the other may
Istay till we see what success the first will have.
                                                     have
Ino entire copy besides that send you, and therefore
Iwould not have it lost, because may, perhaps, after it

has gone abroad long enough in French, put it forth in

English. What charge you are at about it (for I am sure
it will put you to some) you must let me know, for the
trouble alone is enough for you. Pray present my most

humble service and thanks to my Lord and Lady Mon

mouth, for their so kind remembrance of me, for their
Ifavour is such that can never sufficiently acknowledge
If Iit. your voyage hold, wish you a prosperous one,
Iand happy return.
                    should be glad of a line from you

to know that you have these papers, and how far you

Ihave recovered your health,  for you    told  me nothing of
                               faithful   and
that. -- am, Sir, your most                     most humble

servant,                                    " Is. Newton."

When this correspondence was going on, Mr. Locke

meditated a journey to Holland, and undertook, in com

pliance with the wishes of his friend, to have the Histo

rical Account, &c, translated into French, and published

in Holland. Dreading the intolerance of the divines of

his own country, he was anxious     to have the opinions of
foreign biblical writers before he  " put it forth in Eng

lish." Having abandoned his design of visiting Holland,

Locke transmitted the manuscript, in his own hand

writing,1 and without Newton's name, to his friend M.

Le Clerc in Holland, with a request to have it translated

into French and published. Sir Isaac was not aware of

the step that Locke had taken, and knowing that he had

          1 Edition of 1754, pp. 122, 123.

1692.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  325

not left England, he believed that the manuscript was

still in his possession. It had reached M. Le Clerc, how

ever, previous to the 11th April 1691, for, in a letter to

Locke of that date, he tells him that he will translate,

either into Latin or French, the small Historical Account,

I&c., which deserves to be published. " believe, however,"

he adds, " that it would be better if the author had read

with care what M. Simon has said on the subject, of

which he speaks in his Criticism of the New Testament."1

In a subsequent letter, Le Clerc tells Locke that he has

been prevented, by various occupations, from doing any

thing with the manuscript, but that he hopes to have an

opportunity of publishing it along with some other disser

tations, as it is too small to appear alone. In reply to a

letter which he had  received from Locke,               Le Clerc says,
" that he will take  care to insert in the
                                                        dissertation on

the passage in St. John, the addition which he had sent

him, and translate the other, to publish both in Latin."

Locke seems to have intimated the intentions of Le

Clerc to Sir Isaac, who lost n o time in addressing to him

the following letter :--

                     " Cambridge, Feb. 16, 1691-2.

" Sir, --Your former letters came not to my hand, but
I Ithis have.
               was of opinion my papers had lain still,

and am sorry to hear there is news about them. Let me

entreat you to stop their translation and impression so
I Ifsoon as you can, for design to suppress them.
                                                                          your
Ifriend hath been at any pains and charge, will repay it

and gratify him
   " Your most affectionate and humble servant,
                                                             " Is. Newton."

       1 Hist. Critique du Textc du Nouvcau Testament,  Rotterdam, 1689.

326  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CUAP. XXIV.

From these facts it is obvious that this celebrated

treatise, which Biot alleges to have been written between

1712 and 1719, was actually written in 1690, or probably
much earlier, and was in the hands of Le Clerc on the

11th April 1691, previous to the time of the supposed

insanity of its author. Locke lost no time in communi

cating to his friend the wishes of Newton, and the publi

cation of the Historical Account was therefore stopped.

Although we are not acquainted with the reasons

which induced Newton to take this step, they may to a

certain extent be inferred from Le Clerc's answer to
Locke.1 " It is a pity," he says, " that these two disser
Itations should be suppressed.
                                do not think that any

person could find out that they were translated, unless it

were said so. In a matter of this kind, where 1 would
not fail to seize the meaning of the author, I would have

given it an original air which would not have savoured of

Ia translation." And, in another letter,2 he says, " will

keep carefully the two dissertations, till you tell me what

the author wishes me to do with them."

No information concerning these dissertations is con

tained either in the correspondence of Locke with New

ton, or with Le Clerc. We are told by the editor of the

edition of 1 75 4, that Le Clerc deposited the manuscript
in the Library of the Remonstrants, and that he received,

through a friend, the copy of it which he published,
under the title of Two Letters from Sir Isaac Newton to
M. Le Clerc, the former containing a Dissertation upon
the Reading of the Greek Testament, 1 John v. 7, the
latter upon 1 Timothy iii. 1 6 ; -- a form which had never

been given to it by its author. The copy thus published

     1 April 11, 1692.          » July 15, 1692.

1692.                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  327

was a very imperfect one, wanting both the beginning1
and the end, and erroneous in many places ; but Dr.
Horsley has published a genuine edition, which has the
form of a single letter to a friend, and was copied from a
manuscript in Sir Isaac Newton's handwriting, now in
the possession of the Reverend Jeffrey Ekins, Rector of

Sampford.2

   Having thus determined, as accurately as possible, the
dates of the principal theological writings of Sir Isaac,
we shall now proceed to give some account of their

contents.

   The work entitled Observations upon the Prophecies of
Daniel and the Apocalypse of St. John,3 is divided into
two parts, the first of which treats of the Prophecies of
Daniel, and the second of the Apocalypse of St. John.

It begins with an account of the different books which

compose the Old Testament ; and, as the author considers
Daniel to be the most distinct in the order of time, and

the easiest to be understood, he makes him the key to all

t"helasptrotpimheet."ic  books in those matters which relate to the
                         He next considers the figurative language
of the prophets, which he regards as taken " from the

analogy between the world natural, and an empire or

kingdom considered as a world politic ;" the heavens,

and the things therein, representing thrones and dynas
ties ; the earth, with the things therein, the inferior
people ; and the lowest parts of the earth the most mi-

   1 The editor supplied the beginning down to the 13th page, where he mentions

Iin a note, that " thus far is not Sir Isaac's."
    » have not found any copy of this manuscript, or any letters relating to

among the manuscripts of Newton. In his list of the MSS., Dr. Horsley mentions
a Latin translation of the Historical Account, and a paper-book entitled Sanc'i
Johannis Apostoli Vindiciai contra Novaticos et Falctirios.

      Lond. 1733. 4to. Pp. 323.
·
                                                                                                                                     it,

328  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

serable of the people. The sun is put for the whole race
of kings, the moon for the body of the common people,

and the stars for subordinate princes and rulers. In the

earth, the dry land and the waters are put for the people
of several nations. Animals and vegetables are also put
for the people of several regions. When a beast or man
is put for a kingdom, his parts and qualities are put for
the analogous parts and qualities of the kingdom ; and
when a man is taken in a mystical sense, his qualities are
often signified by his actions, and by the circumstances

and things about him. In applying these principles he

begins with the vision of the image composed of four
different metals. This image he considers as represent
ing a body of four great nations which should reign in
succession over the earth, viz., the people of Babylonia,
the Persians, the Greeks, and the Romans, while the

stone cut out without hands is a new kingdom which
should arise after the four, conquer all those nations,
become very great, and endure to the end of time.

    The vision of the four beasts is the prophecy of the
four empires repeated, with several new additions. The
lion with eagles' wings was the kingdom of Babylon and
Media, which overthrew the Assyrian power. The beast
like a bear was the Persian empire, and its three ribs
were the kingdoms of Sardis, Babylon, and Egypt. The
third beast, like a leopard, was the Greek empire, and its
four heads and four wings were the kingdoms of Cassan-
der, Lysimachus, Ptolemy, and Seleucus. The fourth
beast, with its great iron teeth, was the Roman empire,
and its ten horns were the ten kingdoms into which it
was broken in the reign of Theodosius the Great.

   In the fifth chapter Sir Isaac treats of the kingdoms

represented by the feet of the image composed of iron

1692.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       329

and clay which did not stick to one another, and which
were of different strength. These were the Gothic tribes
called Ostrogoths, Visigoths, Vandals, Gepidae, Lombards,
Burgundians, Alans, &c., all of whom had the same man

ners and customs, and spoke the same language, and
who, about the year 416 A. a, were all quietly settled in

several kingdoms within the empire, not only by con

quest, but by grants of the Emperor.

   In the sixth chapter he treats of the ten kingdoms

represented by the ten horns of the fourth beast, into

which the Western empire became divided about the

time when Rome    was  --besieged  and  taken  by the Goths.
These kingdoms  were,

1. The kingdom of the Vandals and Alans in Spain

       and Africa.

2. The kingdom of Suevians in Spain.

3. The kingdom of the Visigoths.

4. The kingdom of the Alans in Gaul.

5. The kingdom of the Burgundians.

6. The kingdom of the Franks.

7. The kingdom of the Britains.

8. The kingdom of the Huns.

9. The kingdom of the Lombards.

10. The kingdom of Ravenna.

Some of these kingdoms at length fell, and new ones

sprung up ; but whatever was their subsequent number,

they still retain the name of the ten kings from their

first number.

The eleventh horn of Daniel's fourth beast is shown in

chapter vii. to be the Church of Rome in its triple char

acter of a seer, a prophet, and a king, and its power

to change times and laws is copiously illustrated in

chapter viii.

330                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       CHAP. XXIV.

   In the ninth chapter our author treats of the kingdom
represented in Daniel by the ram and he-goat, the ram
indicating the kingdom of the Medes and Persians from
the beginning of the four empires, and the he-goat the
kingdom of the Greeks to the end of them.

    The prophecy of the seventy weeks, which had hitherto
been restricted to the first coming of our Saviour, is shown

to be a prediction of all the main periods relating to the
coming of the Messiah, the times of his birth and death,
the time of his rejection by the Jews, the duration of the

Jewish war, by which he caused the city and sanctuary

to be destroyed, and the time of his second coming.

     In the eleventh chapter Sir Isaac treats with great

saangdacpiatyssioann,d--aacustuebnjeescst  of the time of our Saviour's birth
                                           which had perplexed all preceding

commentators.

   After explaining in the twelfth chapter the last pro
phecy of Daniel, namely, that of the scripture of truth,
which he considers as a commentary on the vision of the
ram and he-goat, he proceeds in the thirteenth chapter to
the prophecy of the king who did according to his will,
and magnified himself above every god, and honoured
Mahuzzims, and regarded not the desire of women. He
shows that the Greek empire, after the division of the

Roman empire into the Greek and Latin empires, became
the king who, in matters of religion, did according to his
will, and in legislation exalted and magnified himself above

every god.

   In the second part of his work, entitled Observations on

the  Apocalypse    of  St.   John, consisting of   three chapters,
     Isaac treats  in  the  first or introductory  chapter, " con
Sir

cerning the time when the Apocalypse was written," which

he conceives to have been during John's exile in Patmos,

1092.         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                331

and before the Epistle to the Hebrews and the Epistles of

Peter were written, which in his opinion have a reference

to the Apocalypse. In the second he treats " of the rela

tion which the Apocalypse has to the book of the law of

Moses, and to the worship of God in the temple ;" and
in the Third, " of the relation which the prophecy of John

hath to those of Daniel, and of the subject of the pro

phecy."

Sir Isaac regards the prophecies of the Old and New

Testament not as given to gratify men's curiosities, by

enabling them to foreknow things, but that after they

were fulfilled, they might be interpreted by the event, and

afford convincing arguments that the world is governed

by Providence. He considers that there is so much of

this prophecy already fulfilled, as to afford to the diligent

student sufficient instances of God's Providence ; and he
adds, that " amongst the interpreters of the last age, there

is scarce one of note who hath not made some discovery

worth knowing, and thence it seems one may gather that

God is about opening these mysteries. The success of
others," he continues, " put me upon considering
                                                  it,  and

       have done anything which may be useful to following
iIf
                                      brief notice of this
       I
writers, have my design." Such
              is
                                is
                                   a
ingenious work, which characterized by great learn

ing, and marked with the sagacity of its distinguished

author.1

   The same qualities of Sir Isaac's mind are equally con
spicuous in his Historical Account Two Notable Cor
                                of

ruptions      Scripture. This celebrated treatise relates to
1

          of
two texts in the Epistles of St. John and St. Paul. The

      Voltaire, who probably never read this work, has erroneously stated that Sir
Isaac explained the Revelations in the same manner as all those that went before

him.

332  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

first of these is in 1 John v. 7, " For there are three that

bear record in heaven, the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Ghost, and these three are one." This text he considers

as a gross corruption of Scripture, which had its origin
among the Latins, who interpreted the Spirit, Water, and
Blood, to be the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, in order to
prove them one. With the same view Jerome inserted
the Trinity in express words in his version. The Latins
marked his variations in the margins of their books ; and

in the twelfth and following centuries, when the disputa

tions of the schoolmen were at their height, the variation
began to creep into the text in transcribing. After the
invention of printing, it crept out of the Latin into the
printed Greek, contrary to the authority of all the Greek
manuscripts and ancient versions ; and from the Venetian
press it went soon after into Greece. After proving these
positions, Sir Isaac gives the following paraphrase of this
remarkable passage, which is printed in italics.

    " Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that be-

lieveth that Jesus is the Son of God, that Son spoken of in
the Psalms, where he saith, ' thou art my Son ; this day

Ihave begotten thee.' This is he that, after the Jews had

long expected him, came, first in a mortal body, by bap
tism of water, and then in an immortal one, by shedding

his blood upon the cross, and rising again from the dead ;
not by water only, but by water and blood; being the Son
of God, as well by his resurrection from the dead (Acts
xiii. 33) as by his supernatural birth of the virgin, (Luke
i. 35.) And it is the Spirit also that, together with the
water and blood, beareth witness of the truth of his coming ;
because the Spirit is truth ; and so a fit and unexception

able witness. For there are three that bear record of his

coming ; the Spirit which he promised to send, and which

1692.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  333

was since shed forth upon us in the form of cloven tongues,

and in various gifts ; the baptism of water, wherein God
testified ' this is my beloved Son ;' and the shedding of

his blood, accompanied with his resurrection, whereby he

became the most faithful martyr, or witness, of this truth.

And these three, the spirit, the baptism, and passion of

Christ, agree in witnessing one and the same thing, (namely,

that the Son of God is come ;) and, therefore, their evi

dence is strong ; for the law requires but two consenting

ifwitnesses, and here we have three : and we receive the
witness of men, the threefold witness of God, which he bare
of his Son, by declaring at his baptism, ' this is my beloved

Son,' by raising him from the dead, and by pouring out
his Spirit on us, is greater ; and, therefore, ought to be

more readily received."

   It appears from the introduction to this letter, that

Locke, to whom it was addressed, had been reading the
" discourses of some late writers on the subject,"1 and had
expressed to Newton a desire " to know the truth of that

text of Scripture concerning the testimony of the three

in heaven." Without noticing the views of his predeces

sors, Sir Isaac contents himself with referring to Luther,

Erasmus, Bullinger, and Grotius, and some others, as
" the more learned and quick-sighted men, who would not

dissemble   their knowledge,"    (of the corruption of this
text,) and  to " the generality  who were fond of the place

for its making against heresy." In the last edition of his

Bible, published by himself, Luther had expunged the text

as spurious, but in deference to popular opinion, it was

   1 Among the writers here referred to, Father Simon was doubtless the most im
portant. In his Hist. Crit. du Texte du Nouv. Test. chap, xviii. p. 203; and in
his Hist. Crit. des Versions du Nouv. Ted. chap, xiv., Rott. 1690, he has given

the same opinion of the text as Newton.

334  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

restored by his followers. Erasmus too, omitted it in his

edition of the New Testament, published in 1516 and

1 51 9, 1 but, as Porson informs us, having promised Lee

that he would insert the passage in his text if it was

found in a single Greek MS., he accordingly inserted it

in his edition of 1522, after learning that it existed in a

MS. which is now in Trinity College, Dublin. Dr. Clarke
came to the conclusion, " that much stress ought not to be

laid upon the passage in any question, because the sense
of the Epistle was complete without it,"2 and because it
was not found in any MS. before the invention of printing,
nor cited by any of the numerous writers in the Arian
controversy ; and Dr. Bentley read a public lecture to

prove that the verse in question was spurious. Gibbon
in the third volume of his History, expressed the general
opinion of biblical critics upon the subject ; and Wetstein

and Griesbach adopted the same views. In reply to

these authors, Archdeacon Travis entered the field by
attacking Gibbon in 1 782, and subsequently Newton and
Griesbach in 178 6. 3 Michaelis considered it a sufficient
answer to the English divine to say, that " he was indis
putably half a century behindhand in critical knowledge ;"
and Porson, indignant at the presumption of his country
man, exposed his ignorance and errors in the celebrated
letters which he addressed to him in 1788, 1789, and
1790.4 In referring to these able letters, Sir Charles

   1 In stating this fact, Sir Charles Lyell omits to mention the re-insertion of the

text in the edition of 1522. He is mistaken in saying, after Porson, that Newton's

Dissertation was written between 1690 and 1760, (a typographical error for 1700,)
as it was written in 1690, or much earlier, as we have shown.

    * Clarke's Works, vol. iv. p. 121.

   3 In letters in the Gent. Magazine, re-printed and enlarged in 1784 and 1786.
    * Five of these letters appeared in the Gent. Magazine for 1788, and were re
printed with some others, and entitled " Letters to Mr. Archdeacon Travis," &c.
By R. Porson. Lond. 1790. 8vo. Pp. 406.

1692.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          335

Lyell remarks, that " by them the question was for ever

set at rest."1 Had it been a question in science, it

might have been expected that presumptuous error, when

once sternly refuted, would not dare to reappear ; but

theological questions are never set at rest, and the very

corruption of the sacred text which Sir Charles charac
terizes as having been " given up by every one who has

the least pretension to scholarship and candour," has been

defended in our own day by Dr. Burgess, Bishop of St.

David's, and afterwards of Salisbury, with a boldness of

assumption, and a severity of intolerance, unworthy of a

Christian divine.2

The other notable corruption of Scripture discussed by

Sir Isaac, is that which he charges the Greeks with hav

ing perpetrated in the text of St. Paul,3 Great is the mys

....tery of godliness, God manifest            in    the flesh.      According
                                               "   by changing        6 into 0c,
to him this reading was effected
the abbreviation of ©eo?,                      whereas all the churches

for the first four or five hundred years, and the authors

of all the ancient versions, Jerome as well as the rest,

read, ' Great is the mystery of godliness which was ma

nifested in the flesh.' For this is the common reading
of the Ethiopic, Syriac, and Latin versions to this day,

Jerome's manuscripts having given him no occasion to

correct the old vulgar Latin in this place."

After showing that the corruption in question took

palragcuemeinntsth:e--s"ixTthhe  century, Sir   Isaac thus  sums up   his
                                   difference  between the   Greek   and

1 Second Visit to the United States, vol. i. p. 122.

   1 Tracts on the Divinity of Christ, pp. xc. 371, 372, Lond. 1820 ; and Introduc
tion to the Controversy on the disputed verse in St. John, Salisbury, 1835, &c. An

able reply to Dr. Burgess, said to be written by the Bishop of Ely, appeared in the

Quarterly Review, March 1826, vol. xxxiii. p. 64. See Notes and Queries, vol. i.
                                               s 1 Timothy iii. 16.
pp. 399 and 453.

   336                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        CHAP. XXIV.

   the ancient version puts it past dispute that either the

   Greeks have corrupted their MSS., or the Latins, Syrians,

   and Ethiopians their versions ; and it is more reasonable

   to lay     the fault  cuopnosnidetrhaetioGnrsee:k--s Itthawnas  upon the other
   three,    for these                                              easier for one
   nation to do it than for three to conspire, --it was easier

   to change a letter or two in the Greek than six words in

   the Latin. In the Greek the sense is obscure, -- in the
   versions clear. It was agreeable to the interest of the

   Greeks to make the change, but against the interest of

   other nations to doa                  and men are never false to their

   own interest. The Greek reading was unknown in thep.

   times of the Arian controversy, but that of the versionsof i.

   was then in use both among Greeks and Latins. Someby it,

   Greek MSS. render the Greek reading dubious, but those

   of the versions, hitherto collated, agree. There are no

   signs of corruption in the versions, hitherto discovered,

   but in the Greek we have showed you particularly when,

   on what occasion, and by whom the text was corrupted."                        1

   The view taken of this text by Sir Isaac has been

   defended by Dr. Clarke,2 Whiston,3 Sender,* Griesbach,8

   Wetstein, and others. In our own day has been con
                                              "
   troverted, with much ability and learning, in an elaborate
                                                   it
   dissertation by Dr. Henderson,6 who has not justified its

   retention as portion of revealed truth.7

   Historical Account, &c, Art. Land XXIV., Newtoni Opera, tom. v. pp. 531, 548.
   ·' *s 1
              fWorlcs, vol. iv. 47.           Memoirs, p. 365.

   Historical Collections cited Mielmelis, vol. iv. p. 425.

   Sipnbolm Critkce, vol. p. 8.

   The Great Mystery     Godliness incontrovertible, or Sir Isaac Newton and the

   Socinirnis oiled, &c. By E. Henderson, Professor of Divinity in Highbury College.

,  Ixmd. 1730.

   The latest writers on the subject, although not Unitarian, namely, Dr. David
   in '
         in
   son his Treatise on Biblical Criticism, vol. p. 382, Edin. 1852, and Dr. Tregillisii.

   his Account of the Printed Text of the Greek .Areic Testament,  p.  226, Lond. 1854,

   have adopted the views of Sir Isaac.

               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    337

    As the tendency of the Historical Account, &c., was to

deprive the defenders of the doctrine of the Trinity of

the aid of two leading texts, Sir Isaac Newton has been

regarded by the Socinians and Arians, and even by some

orthodox divines, as an Antitrinitarian ; but this opinion

is   not warranted   by any    thing which he has published.1
"   In the Eastern  nations,"  he says, " and for a long time in

the Western, the faith subsisted without this text, and it

is rather a danger to religion than an advantage to make
it now lean upon a bruised reed. There cannot be better

service done to the truth than to purge it of things spu

rious ; and, therefore, knowing your prudence and calm

I Iness of temper, am confident shall not offend you by

telling you my mind plainly, especially since it is no

article of faith, no point of discipline, nothing but a criti

cism concerning a text of Scripture, which I am going to

write about."

    Although it is obvious that, in allowing his Dissertation

to be published in Holland, Sir Isaac did not consider

himself as supporting the Socinians or the Arians, yet it
cannot be doubted that he was afraid of being known

as the author of the work, and of holding the opinions

which it advocates. The name of the author was never

communicated to Le Clerc, but he no doubt learned it

from the writings of Whiston,2 who, after Newton's death,
mentioned the Dissertation as his production. After the
death of Le Clerc, Wetstein3 placed Locke's copy of it

    1 There are certainly, as Professor De Morgan has shown, two or three expres

sions in the Dissertation which a believer in the doctrine of the Trinity is not likely

I Ito have used ; but while freely make this admission, think Mr. De Morgan

will also admit that they would not justify us in considering Newton as an Anti

trinitarian. They warrant us only to suspect his orthodoxy. See Professor De

Morgan's Life of Newton, p. 113, note.                         Amst. 1751.

   » Authentic Records, p. 1077. Lond. 1728.
   8 Prolegomena to his edition of the New Testament, p. 185.

    VOL. II.                                                   Y

338                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 CHAP. XXIV.

in the Library of the Remonstrants, and endeavoured in
vain to procure, from Newton's heirs, the parts that were

deficient in the original.

   It does not appear that Newton was charged with

being an Arian during his lifetime. Whiston indeed tells
us, that he " afterwards1 found that Sir Isaac Newton

was so hearty for the Baptists, as well as for the Euse-

bians or Arians, that he sometimes suspected these two

were the two witnesses in the Revelations ;" and Hopton
Haynes, who was employed in the Mint, and who was
himself a Humanitarian,2 mentioned to Richard Baron,3
that Newton held the same doctrine as himself.4 In so
far as the opinions of Newton, Locke, and Clarke, all of
whom were suspected of Arian tendencies, were hostile

to the doctrine of the Trinity, they had substantial rea
sons for keeping them secret. In the Toleration Act
passed in 1688,5 before Newton had sent his Disserta

1 After 1712.-- Memoirs, &c., p. 206.
8 The Humanitarians believe in the humanity of our Saviour, and that he was

not an object of prayer.        Richard Baron,"  says Professor De Morgan, " who
   * " The Unitarian minister,

was a friend of Haynes, states the preceding as having passed in conversation

between him and Haynes. The statement is made in the preface of the first

volume of his collection of tracts, called ' A Cordial for Low Spirits,' (three vols.
Lond. 1763, edit. 3d, 12mo,) published under the name of Thomas Gordon. This
is not primary evidence like that of Whiston, and it loses force by the circumstance,

that in the posthumous work which Mr. Haynes left on the disputed          points,  (and
which was twice printed,) there is no allusion to it." -- Life of Newton,  p. 110,  note.

* The author of the Life of Newton, in the Biographia Britannica, vol. v. p. 3241,
says that Newton would not suffer Whiston to be a member of the Royal Society,
because he had represented him as an Arian, and, as if to prove this, he refers to

Whiston's Memoirs,   which contain no such statement.    Whiston himself assigns
another " reason of  Sir Isaac Newton's unwillingness  to have him a member,"
namely, " that he was afraid of him the last thirteen years of his life ;" but the
                                to Halley, who asked him, "
reason which Whiston assigned   because they durst not choose  Why he was           not a
member of the Society?" was, "                                   a heretick."
                                                                                    -- See

Whiston's Memoirs, edit. 1749, pp. 206, 292, 293.
   * Act, 1 William and Mary, 1688, chap, xviii., sect. 17.

                        LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.                                          339

 tion to Locke, an exception was made of those who                ;
 wrote against " the doctrine of the blessed Trinity ;" and
 in the Act for the Suppression of Blasphemy and Pro-                 it,
 faneness,1 it was provided, that whoever " by printing,
 teaching, or advisedly speaking, denied any one of the                           it
 persons of the Holy Trinity to be God," should, " for
 the first offence, be disabled to have any office or em
 ployment, or any profit appertaining thereunto." The
 expulsion of Whiston from the University of Cambridge
 in 1711, for holding Arian tenets, though the Queen did
 not confirm the censure passed by the Convocation,2 was

 yet a warning to Antitrinitarians of every class who

 either held office, or were desirous of holding to refrain
 from the public expression of their opinions and we have
no doubt that Newton was influenced by motives of this
kind when he desired Locke " to stop the translation and
impression of his papers," and mentioned " his design to

suppress them."3

    Although a traditionary belief has long prevailed that
Newton was an Arian,4 yet the Trinitarians claimed him
as a friend, while the Socinians, by republishing his His

torical Account, &c., under the title of "Sir Isaac Newton

on the Trinitarian Corruptions of Scripture,"5 wished to
be believed that he was a supporter of their views. That
he was not Socinian proved by his avowed belief that
            9                      is
               &
                                         of
                     a
8* 1  Act,  10 William III., 1698, chap, xxxii.

      Burnet's History of   his own  Times, vol. vi. p. 53, 8vo.  1833.           suppress
      In suppressing these  papers,  Sir Isaac certainly did not  " deliberately

his opinions," as Dr. Burgess has stated. See Frofessor Do Morgan's Life of Newton,

p. 115. There  is       abundance of evidence that he never abandoned the opinions

main"taiNneewdtoinn'stherseeligpioaupesrs.opinions," says Dr. Thomson, " were not orthodox4 for

example, he did not believe in the Trinity. This gives us the reason why Horsley, theis
                                                                                      ;
champion of the Trinity, found Newton's papers unfit for publication but   it               much
                                                                  ;

to be regretted that they have never seen the light."--Hist. BoyaX Society, p. 284.

6     Dr. Henderson's Great Mystery          Godliness, &c. 3.
                                                 p.

340            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    CHAP. XXIV.

our Saviour was the object of " worship among the pri
mitive Christians," and that he was " the Son of God, as

well by his Resurrection from the dead, as by his super
natural birth of the Virgin." " He animadverts, indeed,"
as Dr. Henderson observes,1 " with great freedom, and

sometimes with considerable asperity, on the orthodox ;

but it does not appear that this arose from any hostility to

their views respecting the doctrine of the Trinity, or that

it was opposed to any thing beside the unfair mode in

which he conceived they had treated one or two passages

of Scripture, with a view to the support of that doctrine."
   Influenced by similar views, and in the absence of all

direct evidence, I had no hesitation when writing the Life

of Sir Isaac Newton in 1830, in coming to the conclusion

that he was a believer in the Trinity ; 2 and in giving this

opinion on the creed of so great a man, and so indefati

gable a student of Scripture, I was well aware that there

are various forms of Trinitarian truth, and various modes

of expressing  in it,   which have been received as orthodox in

the purest societies of the Christian Church. It may beof

an ecclesiastical privilege to burrow for heresy among
the obscurities of thought, and the ambiguities of lan

guage, but in the charity which thinketh no evil, we are

bound to believe that our neighbour          not heretic till
                                             is
                                                 it

                                                         a
the charge against him has been distinctly proved. Truth

has no greater enemy than its unwise defenders, and no

warmer friends than those who, receiving in a meek and

tolerant spirit, respect the conscientious convictions of

others, and seek, in study and in prayer, for the best

solution of mysterious and incomprehensible revela

'1   The Great Mystery    Godliness, &c, 2.
                          p.
                                                                      is
    M. Biot had previously arrived at the same opinion. " There           absolutely
nothing," ho says, " the writings of Newton which can justify, or even authorize

the conjecture that he was an Antitrinitarian.''-- fiiog, Univ. tom. xxxi. p. 190.

                      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  341

tions. If the Highest authority has assured us " that no

man hioweth the Son but the Father," the pretenders

to such knowledge impiously presume to be more than

man.1

  When I examined in 1836 the manuscripts of Sir Isaac
Newton at Hurtsbourne Park, I found various theological

papers, some of which were so carefully written, and others
so frequently copied, that they must have been intended
for publication. We have already seen2 that Craig, the
friend of Newton, urged Conduitt to give these writings
to the world. His own niece, Mrs. Conduitt, resolved to

publish them herself " if God granted her life," but, " as

she might be snatched away before she had leisure to un
dertake so great a work," she made a codicil to her will,3

1 In order to correct a very grave misrepresentation by Dr. Burgess, Bishop of

I XXVIII.Salisbury, of the way in which this subject was treated in my former Life of Newton,
am obliged to insert in Appendix, No.                 two letters from the Bishop.

* See page 315 of this volume.
   * The following is a copy of the codicil which the Rev. Jeffery Ekins has been

"so kind as to communicate to me :-- I, Catherine Conduitt, do make and appoint
Ithis a Codicil to my last Will and Testament. Whereas,
                                                                              have in my custody
Ise vera!l Tracts written by Sir Is. Newton, and which propose to print if God grant
I Ime life ; but as may be snatched away before
                                                 can have leisure to undertake so
great a work, towards publishing of which I design to ask the help of learned men,
I will and appoint, and ordain, that my Executor do lay all the Tracts relating to

Divinity before Dr. Sykes, and in hopes he will prepare them for the press.

IThere are two critical pieces, one on the three that bear Record in Heaven, and

another upon the Text who thought it not robbery, &c., which will have printed,

and there's a piece called Paradoxical Questions concerning Athanasius, another

the History of the Creed, or criticism on  and Church History compleat, and
                                      a; I
                                             it,
                                                            a
many more Divinity Tracts, all of them ordain shall be printed and published, so

as they be done with care and exactness and whatever proffit may arise from the

same, my dear Mr. Conduitt has given bond of £2000, to be responsible to the

seven nearest of kin to Sir Is. Newton. Therefore the papers must be carefully

kept, that no copys may be taken and printed, and Dr. Sykes desired to peruse them

here, otherways   if  any accident comes to them the penalty of the Bond will be

levy'd. As the labour and sincere search of so good Christian and so great
                                      I                                          I
                                                                           a                      a
genius, may not be lost to the world, do charge my Executor to do as hereby

ordain.  Witness  my  hand and seal,  the 26 of Jan.           1737.

                                                                    " Catherine  Cokduitt."

342          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             CHAP. XXIV.

charging her executor to submit " them to Dr. Sykes, in

hopes that   he will         prtoepaarree--them  for the  press."        The
manuscripts   referred

     1. The Historical Account, &c., already published.

     2. Paradoxical Questions concerning Athanasius.
     3. A History of the Creed.

     4. A Church History complete.1

     5. Many Divinity Tracts.

Mr. Conduitt died a few months after the date of this

codicil, and Mrs. Conduitt in January 1739, and there is

reason to believe that the papers were never put into the

hands of Dr. Sykes. After the marriage of Miss Conduitt
to Mr. Wallop, afterwards Lord Lymington, the manu

scripts went into their possession, and some of them, in

cluding the Historical Account, were given by Lady

Lymington to her executor Mr. Jeffery Ekins, from whom

they passed successively into the hands of the Dean of

Carlisle, the Rector of Morpeth, and the Rev. Jeffery

Ekins, Rector of Sampford, who now possesses them.
   The most complete of the manuscripts above enumera

ted, is the one entitled Paradoxical Questions concerning

the morals and actions       of Athanasius and his Followers.'
                              questions, and possesses a very
It consists of sixteen

considerable interest.

   " Quest. 1. Whether the ignominious death of Arius in

1 In a " Catalogue taken of Sir Isaac Newton's MSS., October 15th and 16th, in

the year 1777, by William Mann Godschall, Esq., and the Rev. Dr. Horsley," no

such manuscript is mentioned. The only MS. of this kind is one of two pages dis

tinctly written and entitled Chap. VII. of the Rise of the Roman Catholic Church

or Ecclesiastical Dominion.

I* The manuscript of this work, now before me, is beautifully written in Sir Isaac's
own hand, and extends to sixty-two folio pages. It wants the last leaf.  have

seen at Hurtsbourne Park a copy in another hand, distinctly written as if for publi

cation. In the Catalogue above mentioned of Newton's MSS. two copies of this

MS. are mentioned in one place, and in another part of the Catalogue another copy

is mentioned as complete, showing that the other two were not so.

              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   343

a boghouse was not a story feigned and put about by

Athanasius above twenty years after his death V
   In answer to this question, Newton shows that though

Athanasius pretended to have received this account of

Arius's death, and of his dying out of communion, from
Macarius, yet he invented it himself and circulated " that
                                                   a it,
the miracle of his death being known, will no longer be
                                             V it
doubted w hether the Arian heresy be odious to God or not."
" Quest.
          2.  Whether the Meletians deserved that ill

character which Athanasius gave them

The charge against the Meletians that they were excom

municated for crimes, Sir Isaac considers to be fiction

invented by Athanasius in retaliation for his having been

tried at the instance of Inschyras, Meletian presbyter,
                                          a

and condemned by the council of Tyre for having broken

the communion cup of Inschyras, demolished his church,

and afterwards killed Arsenius, the successor of Meletus.
   " Quest. 3. Whether the council of Tyre and Jerusalem

was not an orthodox authentic council bigger than that of

Nice  V

   Although this council received Arius into communion
after he had " disowned the things for which he had been

condemned at Nice, and excommunicated Athanasius," Sir

Isaac endeavours to show with great ingenuity and force

of argument, that was not an Arian council -- that did
              it                                   V
                                  it
not profess Arianism, and that was full council, anda a it
" as authentic as any Greek council ever was or could be

since the Apostles' days, they being in communion with

the Church Catholic, and legally convened by the letters

of Constantine the Great."
   " Quest. Whether was dead man's hand in bag,
          4.

                           it
                                       a

or the dead body of Arsenius, which was laid before the

council at Tyre to prove that Arsenius was dead

344              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP.JCXIV.

    " Quest. 5. Whether it was Arsenius alive, or only his

letter which Athanasius produced in the council of Tyre,
                                      "
to  prove  that  he  was  not  dead
                                     1

    " Quest. 6. Whether the story of producing the dead

man's hand, and the living Arsenius, in the council of

Tyre, was not feigned by Athanasius about twenty-five

years after the time of the council V

    In answering these three questions together, Sir Isaac

shews that the dead body of Arsenius was, after exhuma

tion, produced before the council of Tyre, to prove that

he was murdered by Athanasius, who was found guilty

and banished as the murderer. In defence of himself

A thanasius invented the story that it was only a dead

man's hand that was produced before the council, and that

he refuted the   charge by producing Arsenius alive.
                 Whether the letter of Pinnes for proving
   " Quest. 7.

Arsenius to be alive was not feigned by Athanasius at the

same time with the story of the dead man's hand V
   In order to defend Athanasius, a monk confessed

that Arsenius had been concealed at Hypseles, and had
been sent out of the way to the lower parts of Egypt.
Sir Isaac endeavours to show the incorrectness of this

story.
    " Quest. 8. Whether the letter of Arsenius was not

feigned by Athanasius before the convening of the council

of Tyre V
   After an ingenious criticism on Arsenius' letter, Sir

Isaac concludes that it is a forgery.
    " Quest. 9. Whether the letter of Inschyras was not

feigned by Athanasius V

    This penitential letter, for having prosecuted Athana
sius, addressed to the Blessed Pope Athanasius, is sus

pected on very ingenious grounds, to be a forgery.

LIFE OV SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  345

    " Quest. 10. Whether the recantation of Valens and

Ursatius was not feigned by the friends of Athanasius V

    These recantations are supposed with good reason to be

forgeries.
    " Quest. 11. Whether Athanasius was falsely accused,

or did falsely accuse Eusebius of adultery before the

council of Tyre V

    Athanasius is said to have sent a woman to accuse
Eusebius of adultery, in the hope of such a tumult being
raised that he might escape being tried. But when Euse

bius asked her if she knew the man, she answered that

she would not be so senseless as to accuse such men. The

friends of Athanasius afterwards inverted this story, as if

the woman had been hired by the Eusebians to accuse

Athanasius.
    " Quest. 12. Whether Athanasius did sincerely acquit

himself of the crime of breaking the communion cup of

Inschyras V

   This question is answered in the negative, and Athanasius'

ingenious artifice to explain away the charge is well exposed.
    " Quest. 13. Whether Athanasius was not made Bishop

of Alexandria by sedition and violence against the Canons

of that Church V

    The Bishops who ordained him, after resisting his im
portunities " for many days together," and having been
kept prisoner in a church by a mob of Athanasius's party,
were obliged to ordain him. He was only twenty-five
years of age, so that " the Meletians used to cry, 0 wick

edness ! he a bishop or he a boy V

    " Quest. 14. Whether Athanasius was not justly de
posed by the Council of Tyre V

    The justice of the sentence is proved by seven different

arguments.

346  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

    " Quest. 15. Whether Athanasius was not seditious?"
    This question is answered in the affirmative by an ex
amination of his " Epistle to the Orthodox of all Regions,"
and a letter entitled " The People of Alexandria to the
Catholic Church, which is under Athanasius the most

reverend Bishop."
    " Quest. 16. Whether Constantius persecuted the

Athanasians for religion, or only punished them for

immorality V

   In answering this question, Sir Isaac shows that Con
stantius and his Bishops, in place of persecuting the
Athanasians, treated them with the greatest moderation,
and that their martyrs " perished by the sword in resist
ing the higher powers." He shows that Hilary, who

courted martyrdom by insulting Constantius, and was
thus guilty of the capital crime of Lcesa Majestas, was

released from banishment by the Emperor, and allowed
to return to his own country. After quoting the favour
able opinions of the Emperor given by his enemies, he

concludes with the following character of him :-- " In

short, the virtues of this Emperor were so illustrious, that

I do not find a better character given of any Prince for

clemency, temperance, chastity, contempt of popular

fame, affection to Christianity, justice, prudence, princely
carriage, and good government, than is given to him even
by his very enemies. He kept up the imperial dignity
of his person to the height, and yet reigned in the hearts
of his people, and swayed the world by their love to him,
so that no Prince could be farther from deserving the
name of a persecutor."

   Among the other theological manuscripts of Sir Isaac,
there are none so distinctly written as the Paradoxical
Questions ; but there are so many copies of some of them,

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        347

that it can scarcely be doubted that they were thus re
peatedly corrected for publication. The fact, indeed, of

Sir Isaac having, previous to his death, burned many of

his letters and papers, and left these theological writings
behind him, makes it more than probable that he had no

desire to suppress his opinions.
    The most remarkable of these MSS. is one entitled

Irenicum, or Ecclesiastical Polity tending to Peace.1 It

consists of twenty Positions, or Theses, in which the doc
trines of Christianity, the government of the Church, and
its relations to the State, are described in a few brief and
intelligible paragraphs. As the production of a great and

good man who had studied the Scriptures and the history

of the Church without any sectarian predilections, it can

not but be interesting to the Christian student.2

   In a paper of a few pages, entitled A Short Scheme of

the True Religion, in which religion is described as partly
fundamental and immutable, and partly circumstantial
and mutable, he treats of Godliness, Atheism, Idolatry,
and Humanity, or our duty to man. " Opposite to godli
ness," he says, " is Atheism in profession, and idolatry in
practice. Atheism is so senseless and odious to mankind,
that it never had many professors. Can it be by accident
that all birds, beasts, and men have their right side and

left side alike shaped, (except in their bowels,) and just
two eyes, and no more, on either side of the face ; and
just two ears on either side the head, and a nose with
two holes ; and either two fore-legs, or two wings, or two

arms on the shoulders, and two legs on the hips, and no

more 1 Whence arises this uniformity in all their out

   1 There are four copies of this MS. with the title Irenicum,  but only one with
the full title given in the text.

  * Sue ArPExuix, No. XXIX.

348  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

ward shapes but from the counsel and contrivance of an
Author \ Whence is it that the eyes of all sorts of living

creatures are transparent to the very bottom, and the
only transparent members in the body, having on the
outside a hard transparent skin, and within transparent
humours, with a crystalline lens in the middle, and a
pupil before the lens, all of them so finely shaped and
fitted for vision, that no artist can mend them \ Did

blind chance know that there was light, and what was its
refraction, and fit the eyes of all creatures, after the most
curious manner, to make use of it \ These, and suchlike

considerations, always have, and ever will prevail with
mankind, to believe that there is a Being who made all

things, and has all things in his power, and who is there

fore to be feared."

    The section on idolatry is concluded with the following

summary :--" We are, therefore, to acknowledge one God,

infinite, eternal, omnipresent, omniscient, omnipotent, the
Creator of all things, most wise, most just, most good, most

holy. We must love him, fear him, honour him, trust in
him, pray to him, give him thanks, praise him, hallow his
name, obey his commandments, and set times apart for
his service, as we are directed in the Third and Fourth

Commandments, for this is the love of God that we

keep his commandments, and his commandments are not
grievous, 1 John v. 3. And these things we must do not
to any mediators between him and us, but to him alone,

that he may give his angels charge over us, who, being
our fellow-servants, are pleased with the worship which
we give to their God. And this is the first and the prin
cipal part of religion. This always was, and always will
 be the religion of all God's people, from the beginning to
 the end of the world."

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  349

   In another manuscript, On our Religion to God, to

Christ, and the Church, he treats more fully of some of
the theses in the Irenicum, but his doctrinal opinions are

more conspicuous in the following twelve articles, which

have no title :--
   Art. 1. There is one God the Father, ever living,

omnipresent, omniscient, almighty, the maker of heaven

and earth, and one Mediator between God and man, the

man Christ Jesus.

   Art. 2. The Father is the invisible God whom no eye
hath seen, or can see. All other beings are sometimes

visible.

   Art. 3. The Father hath life in himself, and hath given

the Son to have life in himself.

   Art. 4. The Father is omniscient, and hath all know

ledge originally in his own breast, and communicates
knowledge of future things to Jesus Christ ; and none in
heaven or earth, or under the earth, is worthy to receive
knowledge of future things immediately from the Father
but the Lamb. And, therefore, the testimony of Jesus is
the spirit of prophecy, and Jesus is the Word or Prophet
of God.i

   Art. 5. The Father is immovable, no place being capa

ble of becoming emptier or fuller of him than it is by the

eternal necessity of nature. All other beings are movable

from place to place.

   Art. 6. All the worship (whether of prayer, praise, or

thanksgiving) which was due to the Father before the

   1 In the Catalogue of Newton's MSS. by Dr. Horsley, he mentions a paper " of

twelve short paragraphs in English, which seems to have been the beginning of a
treatise on the divinity of our Saviour. In the fourth paragraph he adds the Arian
interpretation of the word Logos, in St. John's Gospel, is sustained, but the Socinian
doctrine is denied." This was probably another copy of the articles given in the

text.

350               LIFE OF SIR I8AAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

coming of Christ, is still due to him. Christ came not to

diminish the worship of his Father.

   Art. 7. Prayers are most prevalent when directed to

the Father in the name of the Son.

   Art. 8. We are to return thanks to the Father alone

for creating us, and giving us food and raiment and other

blessings of this life, and whatsoever we are to thank him
for, or desire that he would do for us, we ask of him im

mediately in the name of Christ.

   Art. 9. We need not pray to Christ to intercede for

Ifus. we pray the Father aright he will intercede.

   Art. 10. It is not necessary to salvation to direct our

prayers to any other than the Father in the name of the

Son.

Art. 11. To give the name of God to angels or kings,

is not against the First Commandment. To give the

worship of the God of the Jews to angels or kings, is

against it. The meaning of the commandment                                           Thou
                                   is
shalt worship no other God but me.                        is,
Art. 12. To us there
                                                                                is,
                                   but one God, the Father, of

whom     are all  things, and   one  --LoTrdhaJtesuswCeharriset,tobywowrhshoimp
are all  things,  and we by    him.

the Father alone as God Almighty, and Jesus alone as

the Lord, the Messiah, the Great King, the Lamb of God

who was slain, and hath redeemed us with his blood, and

made us kings and priests.

    On the subject of the Trinitarian controversy, have
found manuscript of fourteen queries, which may throw
      a

                                         1

                                                   II
some light on the opinions of its author, and which have,

therefore, given in the Appendix.1

   Although Sir Isaac, in his observations on the Prophe

                  See Appendix, No. XXX.

1714.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     351

cies of Daniel, has shown how the Church of Rome, as

the eleventh horn of the fourth beast, rooted up three of

his first horns, the Exarchate of Ravenna, the kingdom of

the Lombards, and the dukedom of Rome, and thus rose

up as a temporal power, he has not given any account of

the steps by which the Bishop of Rome obtained the rank
of the Universal Bishop. In a paper of eight queries, con

taining his views on this subject, he states, that after the

death of Constantius in a.d. 341, he began to usurp the

universal Bishopric ; that the Emperor Constantius abo

lished Popery in a.d. 361 ; and that the Emperor Gratian,

in 379, restored, by his edict, the universal Bishopric of

Rome over all the West.

    The tendency of the Church of England to relapse into
Romish superstition seems to have shewn itself in the time
of Newton, and to have induced him to take steps to

counteract it. It is probable that he had been requested

by influential persons, both in the Church and in the State,

to suggest a legislative measure for correcting an evil
which at that time was as dangerous to the State as it was

hostile to the articles of the Church and the fundamental

truths of Christianity. This proceeding must have taken

place at the accession of the House of Hanover in 1714,
as will appear from the following draught of an Act of

Parliament drawn  up by Sir Isaac,  and  in his own  hand

writing :--
" Whereas of late years, some opinions have been pro

pagated by superstitious men among the Christians of the
Church of England, to break all communion and friendship

with the Protestant churches abroad, and to return into

the communion of the Church of Rome ; such as are the

opinions, that the Church of Rome is a true church, without

allowing her to be a false church in any respect, and that

352                                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

the Protestant churches abroad are false churches, and

that they have no baptism, and by consequence are no

Christians, and that the Church of England is in danger,

meaning, by the succession of the House of Hanover. For

preventing the mischiefs which may ensue upon such

deannagcteerdo,u--s, uncharitable,          and unchristian principles, be it
                                            declaration shall be made and
    " That the following

subscribed in open court in the Quarter Sessions next

after                               by all persons.
" We, whose names are underwritten, do solemnly, and

without all equivocation or mental reservation, acknow

ledge and declare that we do sincerely believe that the

Church of Rome in doctrine and worship, a false, uncha
                                    ;
ritable, and idolatrous church, with whom                      not lawful
                                      is,                      it
to communicate and that the churches of the Lutherans              is
                                                                           is is
and Calvinists abroad are true churches, with whom we

may lawfully communicate, and that their baptism                                valid
and authentic and that the Church of England                                    in no
It

     is
                                 ;
danger by the succession of the House of Hanover in the

throne of the kingdom of Great Britain."

           interesting to observe the coincidence of the re
ligious views of Sir Isaac Newton with those of John

Locke, his illustrious contemporary and friend. Though,

like Newton, he lived in communion with the Church of
England, " yet                              obvious," as Lord King says, " from
                                    a it
                                        is
an unpublished reply to a work of Dr. Stillingfleet's, that

he entertained                      strong opinion that the exclusive doc
trines of the Church of England were very objectionable --

that he thought them much too narrow and confined, and

that he wished for much larger and easier comprehensiona
of Protestants." In paper dated 1688, and apparentlya

drawn up for the guidance of religious society when he
                                                     a

                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     353

 was in Holland,1 we find the following noble article, which
 Newton would have countersigned, and which, without

 having adopted the peculiar opinions of these distinguish
 ed men, we regard as at once the essence and the bulwark
 of Protestant truth.

   " If any one find any doctrinal parts of Scripture diffi

 cult to be understood, we recommend him, 1st, The study
of the Scriptures in humility and singleness of heart. 2d,
Prayer to the Father of lights to enlighten him. 3d, Obe
dience to what is already revealed to him, remembering
that the practice of what we do know is the surest way

to more knowledge ; our infallible guide having told us, if
any man will do the will of him that sent me [his will,] he
shall know of the doctrine, John vii. 1 7. Uh, We leave him

to the advice and assistance of those whom he thinks best

able to instruct him ; no men, or society of men, having
any authority to impose their opinions or interpretations
on any other, the meanest Christian ; since, in matters of
religion, every man must know and believe and give an
account for himself."

    Interesting as any opinion of Newton's must be, on
every subject to which he has directed his transcendent
powers, there is one prophetic of the future destiny of
man which has a peculiar value, and with which we may
appropriately close our notice of his theological writings.2
Although Sir Isaac believed in a plurality of worlds, he

   1 This paper, entitled Pacific Christians, and containing eleven articles, is pub
lished in King's Life of Ixxke, vol. ii. pp. 63-67. Edit 1830.

   * The writer of the Life of Newton in the Biographia Britannica mentions

an unfinished work entitled Lexicon Propheticum, to which was subjoined a Latin

Idissertation On the Sacred Cubit of the Jews, translated and printed in 1737, by Dr.

Birch, in vol. ii. of the Miscellaneous Works of Mr. John Greaves. have not seen

any such MS., and it is not mentioned in Dr. Horsley's Catalogue. The paper on
the Cubit may be included in " Latin Papers relating to the Jewish Temple," noticed

by Dr. Horeley.

VOL. II.                                    Z

354                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

has nowhere given it as his opinion that the worlds beyond

our own are to be the residence of the blessed. This opi

nion, however, resting on Scripture and science, and com

bining what is revealed  with what is   demonstrated,  he has
distinctly developed in  the following
                                        --passage :
  " God made and governs the world invisibly, and hath

commanded us to love and worship him, and no other

God ; to honour our parents and masters, and love our
neighbours as ourselves ; and to be temperate, just, and
peaceable, and to be merciful even to brute beasts. And

by the same power by which he gave life at first to every

species of animals, he is able to revive the dead, and hath
revived Jesus Christ our Redeemer, who hath gone into

the heavens to receive a kingdom, and prepare a place for

us, and is next in dignity to God, and may be worshipped

as the Lamb of God, and hath sent the Holy Ghost to

comfort us in his absence, and will at length return and

reign over us, invisibly to mortals, till he hath raised up

and judged all the dead, and then he will give up his king

dom to the Father, and carry the blessed to the place he is

now preparing for them, and send the rest to other places

suitable to their merits. For in God's house (which is the

universe,) are many mansions, and he governs them by

agents which can pass through the heavens from one man

sion to another. For if all places to which we have access
are filled with living creatures, why should all these im

mense spaces of the heavens above the clouds be incapable
of inhabitants f"1
   Such is a brief   view of
Sir Isaac Newton.       With   the theological  mthaenu"scPraiprtasdooxf
                              the exception of

I"1   have ventured  to state and illustrate views similar to these in the last chapter
  On  the Future of  the Universe," of a little volume entitled More Worlds than

On?. 1854.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  353

 ical Questions concerning Athanasius," none of them were
 prepared for the press, and there can be no doubt that
 his representatives, and also Dr. Horsley, exercised a wise
 discretion in not giving them formally to the world. Had
 Sir Isaac found leisure to complete the works of which we

 have but imperfect fragments, they would have displayed
 his sagacity and varied erudition, and would have exhi

bited more correctly and fully than the specimens we
have given, his opinions on the great questions of Chris

tian doctrine and ecclesiastical polity.

   It is scarcely a matter of surprise that sceptical writers

should have spoken disrespectfully of the theological
writings of a mathematician and philosopher, but it has
surprised us that other authors should have regarded the
study of the Scriptures as incompatible with scientific
research. When Voltaire asserted that Sir Isaac explained
the Prophecies in the same manner as those who went
before him, he only exhibited his ignorance of what Newton
wrote, and of what others had written ; and when he

stated that Newton composed his Commentaries on the

Apocalypse to console mankind for the great superiority
which he had over them, he but shewed the emptiness of

the consolation to which scepticism aspires.
    We have few examples, indeed, of truly great men

pursuing simultaneously their own peculiar studies and
the critical examination of the Scriptures. The most
illustrious have been the ornaments of our own land, and

England may well be proud of having had Napier, and
Milton, and Locke, and Newton, for the champions both
of its faith and its Protestantism. From the study of the

material universe -- the revelation of God's wisdom, to
the study of his holy word -- the revelation of his will, the

transition is neither difficult nor startling. From the

356  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXIV.

homes of planetary life to the homes of its future destiny
the mind passes with a firm and joyous step, and it is only
when scepticism or intellectual pride has obstructed the
path, that the pilgrim falters in his journey, or faints by

the way.
    When a philosopher like Newton first directs his energies

to the study of the material universe, no indications of
order attract his notice, and no proofs of design call forth
his admiration. In the starry firmament he sees no bodies
of stupendous magnitude, and no distances of immeasur
able span. The two great luminaries appear vastly infe
rior in magnitude to many objects around him, and the
greatest distances in the heavens seem even inferior to
those which his own eye can embrace on the surface of
the earth. The planets, when observed with care, are

seen to have a motion among the fixed stars, and to vary
in their magnitude and distances, but these changes appear
to follow no law. Sometimes they move to the east, some

times to the west, passing the meridian sometimes near
and sometimes far from the horizon, while at other times

they are absolutely stationary in their path. No system,
in short, appears, and no general law seems to direct their
motions. By the observations and inquiries of astrono

mers, however, during successive ages, a regular system
has been recognised in this chaos of moving bodies, and
the magnitudes, distances, and revolutions of every planet
which composes it have been determined with the most
extraordinary accuracy. Minds fitted and prepared for
this species of inquiry are capable of appreciating the
great variety of evidence by which the truths of the pla
netary system are established ; but thousands of indivi

duals, and many who are highly distinguished in other
branches of knowledge, are incapable of understanding

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            357

such researches, and view with a sceptical eye the great
and irrefragable truths of astronomy.

    That the sun is stationary in the centre of our  system,
                                                     its own
-- that the earth moves round the sun, and round
axis, -- that the diameter of the earth is 8000 miles, and

that of the sun one hundred and ten times as great ; that

the earth's orbit is 190 millions of miles in breadth ; and

that, if this immense space were filled with light, it would

appear only like a luminous point at the nearest fixed

star, --are positions absolutely unintelligible and incredible

to all who have not carefully studied the subject. To

millions of our species, then, the Great Book of Nature is

absolutely sealed, though it is in the power of all to unfold

its pages, and to peruse those glowing passages which
proclaim the power and wisdom of its Author.

The Book of Revelation exhibits to us the same pecu

liarities as that of Nature. To the ordinary eye it pre

iasnepgnpltaysrenunontlniymecmiensessdigaianrytifei--cainnddtoicc--tartiinsouenpssernaolafmtiutosrsatdl ivciinontneetrrofaerdrigeiicnntc.oersyE--sveeeanmntds

prophecies nearly unintelligible, occupy its pages. The

avhneisndttoprhyoyfsoifcoatuhlreevSfaiallv--l iooutfhrem--aphnrei--sdiocptfiroetnhceepotisfn--taroMhdiesuscstmiiaohinra--coletfhsem--oahrdaisl
death --his resurrection -- the gift of tongues -- and the

subsequent propagation of his religion by the unlettered

fishermen of Galilee, are each a stumbling-block to the

wisdom of this world. The youthful and vigorous mind,

when summoned from its early studies to the perusal of

the Scriptures, turns from them with disappointment. It
recognises in the sacred page no profound science--no
secular wisdom -- no disclosures of Nature's secrets-- no

palpable impress of an Almighty hand. But, though the

358             LIFE OF S1U ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP, xxi r.

system of revealed truth which the Scriptures contain is

like that of the universe concealed from common obser

vation, yet the labours of centuries have established its

divine origin, and developed in all its order and beauty

the great plan of human restoration. In the chaos of its

incidents, we discover the whole history of our species,

whether it is delineated in events that are past, or shadow

ed forth in those which are to come, --from the creation of

man and the origin of evil, to the extinction of his earthly

dynasty, and the commencement of his immortal career.

The antiquity and authenticity of the books which
                smacirraecdulocuasnonp,r--optahgeatifounlfilmoefnttheofgoitsspepl,r--o
compose the

phecies, --the

have been demonstrated to all who are capable of appre

ciating the force of historical evidence ; and in the poeti

cal and prose compositions of the inspired authors, we

discover a system of doctrine, and a code of morality,
traced in characters as distinct and legible as the most

unerring truths in the material world. -- False systems of

religion have indeed been deduced from the sacred re

cord, -- as false systems of the universe have sprung from

the study of the book of nature ; but the very prevalence
of a false system proves the existence of one that is true ;

and though the two classes of facts necessarily depend on

different kinds of evidence, yet we scruple not to say that

the Copernican system is not more demonstrably true

Ifthan the system of theological truth contained in the
Bible.  men of high powers, then, are still found, who

are insensible to the evidence which has established the
system of the universe, need we wonder that there are

others who resist the effulgent evidence which sustains

the strongholds of our faith ?

  If such be the character of Christian truth, we need

                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      359

not be surprised that it was embraced and expounded by
such a genius as Sir Isaac Newton. Cherishing its doc
trines, and leaning on its promises, he felt it his duty, as
it was his delight, to apply to it that intellectual strength
which had successfully surmounted the difficulties of the
material universe. The fame which that success procured
him he could not but feel to be the breath of popular

applause, which administered only to his personal feelings ;
but the investigation of the sacred mysteries, while it pre
pared his own mind for its final destiny, was calculated to
promote the spiritual interests of thousands. This noble

impulse he did not hesitate to obey, and by thus uniting
philosophy with religion, he dissolved the league which
genius had formed with scepticism, and added to the cloud
of witnesses the brightest name of ancient or of modern

times.1

         What wonder then that his devotion swelled

         Responsive to his knowledge ! for could he,

         Whose piercing mental eye diffusive saw
         The finished university of things,
         In all its order, magnitude, and parts,

         Forbear incessant to adore that power
         Who fills, sustains, and actuates the whole.

                                                                            Thomson.

1 The piety of Newton was so well known and appreciated by his friends, that he

was occasionally consulted about their spiritual state. We have already seen, in
page 37 of this volume, that an eminent mathematician " thanked God that his soul

was extremely quiet, in which Newton had the chief share ;" and, in the following

letter  from Dr. Morland, (the brother, we believe, of Sir  Samuel,)   who was elected a
Fellow    of the Royal Society in 1703, we find him acting  the same
                                                                      benevolent part :--

I" Sin, -- have done, and will do my best while I live, to follow your advice, to
repent and believe. I              as I am able, that God would
                       pray often                                                     make me sincere
and change my heart.   Pray write  me your opinion whether, upon
                                                                                      the whole, I may
die with comfort. This can do you no harm --written without your name. God
knows I am very low and uneasy, and have but little strength.
                                   " Your most humble servant,
                                                               " Jos. MoRi.Axn.

" Pray favour me with one line, because when I parted I had not your last word

to me, you being in haste.                                                                              r
   " Direct for Dr. Morland, in Epsom, Surrey."

360  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXV.

                    CHAPTER XXV.                                       <

sir Isaac's early study of chemistry -- and of alchemy, as shewn
   in his letter to mr. aston -- his experiments on the metal for
    reflecting telescopes -- his chemical pursuits between 1683
    and 1687 -- his researches on the quantities and degrees of
   heat, written after his illness in 1693 --his experiments on
   the rarefaction of air, water, and lintseed oil-- his paper on
   the nature of acids-- the results of his chemical researches,
   published among his queries in his optics --his opinion on fire
   and flame-- on elective attractions^-manuscript works on
   alchemy left among sir isaac's papers -- a- belief in alchemy
   prevalent in newton's time-- boyle, locke, anb.newton studied
   alchemy as a science-- others for fraudulent purposes.

   Although Sir Isaac had directed his attention to che

mistry at various periods of his life, yet his name has not

Ibeen associated with any striking discovery in the science.

   have therefore reserved an account of such of bis ''che
mical researches as have any real value, for the same
chapter in which it is necessary to speak of his labours as

an alchemist. It was doubtless during his residence with
Mr. Clark, the apothecary at Grantham, that he first wit- '

nessed, and acquired a taste for, the practical operations

of chemistry. In his earliest note-books there are copious
extracts from Boyle and other chemical writers, and in
1669, when he wrote his interesting letter to Francis
Aston,1 we see very distinctly the great interest he felt
in chemistry, and the peculiar bent of his mind to a belief

                                1 See Vol. I. Appendix, pp. 388, 380.

1671-72.  LIFE OF S1R ISAAC NEWTON.                                       361

in the doctrines of alchemy. He requests his young friend
to observe the extraction of metals out of their ores, and
the processes for refining them, and to notice as " the most

luciferous, and many times lucriferous experiments in
philosophy," " any transmutations out of their own species

into another -- of iron into copper, and any metal into
quicksilver, or of one salt into another, or into an insipid
body, &c." He returns to the same topic as he proceeds,
and asks him to inquire if at the gold, copper, and iron
mines at Schemnitz they change iron into copper by a
particular process which he describes as done in Italy and
other places. He refers also to a method used in various
places in Germany of obtaining gold from its solution in the
water and rivers by laying mercury in the stream, and

straining the mercury through leather so as to leave the
gold behind. He concludes this remarkable letter by
asking his friend to inquire when in Holland about one
Borry, who always went clothed in green, and who had
escaped from prison, into which he had been thrown by
the Pope, in order to " extort secrets of great worth both

as to medicine and profit."

   At the time when this letter was written, Newton was

occupied with the construction of his reflecting telescope,
and he was therefore led to institute new experiments on

the alloys of metals, and the changes which they under

went by their union with other bodies. In his letter to

Oldenburg in 1671-2,1 he has mentioned the general re
sults of these experiments, which to a great extent have
been the guide of all who have followed him in the con
struction of metallic specula for reflecting telescopes. He
has left behind him, however, a full account of the com

     1 Jan. 18th and 19th 1671-2, Newtoni Opera, toiu. iv. pp. 273, 274.  I find re
cords of experiments in Dec. 10-19, 1678, and also in 1679, 1680.

362    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   CHAP. XXV.

position of his specula, and of the method of founding
them, in a paper carefully written in his own hand, and

entitled Be Metallo ad conficiendum speculum componendo
et fundendo. 1

    During the four years, from 1683 to 1687, the period

in which the Principia was composed, he never abandoned

his chemical experiments. Dr. H. Newton, who was his

amanuensis during that time, tells us that during six

weeks in spring and autumn, he was so constantly occu

pied   inorhidsayla--botrhaatotrythethfairte  he   was scarcely out of it  either
night                                              it was almost always    burn
                                               in
ing --that it was well furnished with chemical materials

and apparatus, and that the transmuting of metals was

his chief design.

   At a later period, in 1692, he was engaged in chemical

experiments, as appears from his correspondence with
Locke ;2 and at the very time3 at which Biot places the

mental illness of Newton, I find a carefully drawn up re

cord of chemical experiments made in that very month on

the properties and action of barm, and on the distillation

of the salts of metals.4 They were resumed in April 1695,

and continued to February 1696, when he was called to

London upon his appointment to the Wardenship of the
Mint.

   The only chemical paper of importance published by
Sir Isaac, was read at the Royal Society on the 28th of

May 1701, and printed in the Philosophical Transactions6

without his name, under the title of Scala graduum

1 See Appendix, No. XXXI.                          See Journal des Savant, 1832,

* See pages 120 and 121 of this volume.
3 Between the 10th and 30th December 1692.

p. 332.

   * Entitled Experiments and Observations, Dec. 1692, April and June 1C93.
   * Phil. Trans, for March and April 1701, p. 824.

1701.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 363

Calpris.          The following are the  principal  points  of the

Scale :--

       Degrees    Equal Parts
       of 11eat.    of Heat.

           0            0 Heat of the winter air when water begins to freeze.
            1          12 The greatest heat at the surface of the human body,

           2                     and that at which eggs are hatched.
           3           24 Heat of melting wax.

           4           48 The lowest heat at which equal parts of tin and bismuth
           5                   melt.

                      96 The lowest heat at which lead melts.
                     192 The heat of a small coal fire not urged by bellows. The

                                heat of a wood fire is from 200 to 210.

   In the original table eleven intermediate points of the

scale are accurately determined, and the temperature of
other parts of the scale less accurately indicated.

    The first column of this table contains the degrees of

heat in arithmetical progression ; and the second contains
the degrees of heat in geometrical progression, the second

degree being twice as great as the first, and so on. It is

obvious from this table, that the heat at which equal parts

of tin and bismuth melt is four times greater than that of
blood heat ; the heat of melting lead eight times greater ;
and the heat of a small coal fire sixteen times greater.

    This table was constructed by the help of a thermo
meter, and of red-hot iron. By the former he measured
all heats as far as that of melting tin ; and by the latter
he measured all the higher heats. For the heat which

heated iron loses in a given time is as the total heat of

the iron ; and, therefore, if the times of cooling are taken

equal, the heats will be in a geometrical progression, and
may therefore be easily found by a table of logarithms.

    He found by a thermometer constructed with lintseed

oil, that if the oil, when the thermometer was placed in

melting snow, occupied a space of 10,000 parts, the same
oil, rarefied with one degree of heat, or that of the human

364  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXV.

 body, occupied a space of 10,256 ; in the heat of water
beginning to boil, a space of 10,705 ; in the heat of water

 boiling violently, 10,725 ; in the heat of melted tin begin
ning to cool, and putting on the consistency of an amal
gam, 11,516, and when the tin had become solid, 11,496.
 Hence the oil was rarefied in the ratio of 40 to 39 by the
heat of the human body ; of 15 to 14 by the heat of boil
ing water ; of 15 to 13 in the heat of melting tin begin
ning to solidify ; and of 23 to 20 in the same tin when
solid. The rarefaction of air was, with the same heat, ten

times greater than that of oil ; and the rarefaction of oil
fifteen times greater than that of spirit of wine. By
making the heats of oil proportional to its rarefaction,
and by calling the heat of the human body 12 parts, we
obtain the heat of water beginning to boil, 33 ; of water
boiling violently, 3 4 ; of melted tin beginning to solidify,
 72 ; and of the same become solid, 70.

    Sir Isaac then heated a sufficiently thick piece of iron
till it was red hot ; and having fixed it in a cold place,
where the wind blew uniformly, he put upon it particles
of different metals and other fusible bodies, and noted

the times of cooling, till all the particles having lost their
fluidity grew cold, and the heat of the iron was equal
to that of the human body. Then, by assuming that the
excesses of the heats of the iron and of the solidified

particles of metal, above the heat of the atmosphere, were
in geometrical progression when the times were in arith
metical progression, all the heats were obtained. The iron
was placed in a current of air, in order that the air heated
by the iron might always be carried away by the wind,
and that cold air might replace it with a uniform motion ;
for thus equal parts of the air were heated in equal times,
and received a heat proportional to that of the iron. But

        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   365

the heats thus found had the same ratio to one another

with the heats found by the thermometer ; and hence he

was right in assuming, that the rarefactions of the oil were

proportional to its heats.

   In giving a notice of this paper, M. Biot justly observes,

that it contains three important discoveries, one of which

is the method of making thermometers comparable by
determining the extreme terms of their graduation from

the phenomena of constant temperature ; the second is
the determination of the law of cooling in solid bodies at

moderate temperatures ; and the third is the observation

of the  constancy of     t--emapecroantusrteanciyn  the phenomena of
fusion  and ebullition,                             which has become

one of the foundations of the theory of heat. This capi

tal fact is established by numerous and varied experi

ments made not only upon compound bodies, and upon
simple metals, but also upon various metallic alloys, which
shows that Newton had felt the importance of it. " We
may believe," M. Biot adds, " with great probability, that

this work was one of those which he had finished before

the fire in his laboratory."1

This method of determining the date of important dis

coveries is certainly new in the history of science. New

ton himself communicated this paper to the Royal Society

in 1701, and, having no other evidence to guide us, we

might have reasonably supposed that the experiments on

which it was founded, and the important deductions

which they authorized, were made a short time previous
to its communication. M. Biot, however, follows a dif

ferent rule. " The paper," he says, " contains three im

   1 This constant recurrence to the fatal attack of 1693, which is synonymous with
the fire in the laboratory, in order to fix the date of Newton's writings and discoveries,
is equally painful and unjust. The date of the fire itself is actually unknown.

3C6                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              CHAP. XXV.

portant discoveries, and therefore they must have been

made previous to 1692-3, because, after the mental cala

mity which he believes befell him at that date, he was fit

to write nothing but theology !" Having already shown,

that in every case in which he has thus reasoned, M.

Biot has been incorrect in his decision, I was desirous of

ascertaining the probable date of these experiments by

an examination of Newton's note-books. In one of the
oldest of these I found the following paragraphs written

in a fresher ink, and in the handwriting of his later

years :--

    " The sealed thermometer, or another wholly like
                                                                                      I it,
but made with oil, with the heat of my body, (to which
             of a bird hatching her
equal that                           eggs,) stands                   at the
degree of   17|. --March 10, 169§.     When water                    begins

to freeze,  . it     stands at the degree . . . when water
                                  .                           ;
                    ;                  .                            ;
                                          ;
                                                                       is
                                                 .
                                                     ;                             .

                                                           .
begins to boil, at the degree . . .                         when water boils

vehemently, at the degree . .        when water as hot

as the hand can endure to stay long in, at the degree . .
                                                                                      .
when tin begins to melt, at the degree . . . . when wax
                                                                                         it a ;
begins to melt, at the degree . . . when molten tin
                                  .

                                        a

                                                    ;
....sets, at the degree . . . . when molten lead sets, at the.;;

degree . . when melted wax sets, at the degree

   " By dipping bolt-head with short neck into hot
                       a

                          it
water, and holding with its neck under water for six or

eight minutes till the glass be as hot as the water -- then

stopping the glass with my finger, inverting into
                                                              it
vessel of cold water, taking away my finger, letting             it

....stand for an hour to cool putting my hand into the cold

water and stopping again with my finger, when the
                       it

water within and without the glass, taking out and

weighing the water drawn up into the glass, and the

water which will fill the glass, and making allowance for

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  367

Ithe ascent and descent of the barometer, found how

much the air was rarefied by the heat of the water ; and

by a barometer of lintseed oil, I found also how much the
Ioil was rarefied by the same heat. The experiment

made twice, and found the first time that the rarefaction

of air was to the rarefaction of water at equal heats as

10^ to 1 --the second time as 9-J-f to 1. 'Tis, therefore,
in round numbers, as 10 to 1. By another way of rec

Ikoning, found that the rarefaction of this oil was to the

rarefaction of spirit of wine in equal heats, as 15 to 1, or

thereabouts, for I did not measure this proportion accu

rately. From these the rarefaction of air was to that
of V in equal heats as 150 to 1.

    " The space which lintseed oil took up with such heat

Ias could give to a little bolt-head with my body, was to

the space which it took up in such a degree of coldness as

made water begin to freeze, as 41 to 40 ; and, therefore,
the spaces which air took up in the same degrees of heat

and cold, were as 50 to 40, or 5 to 4."

    From this manuscript it is obvious that Newton was
engaged in his experiments on the scale of heat at the
very time that he was supposed incapable of such an

effort ; and as he had not then completed the inquiry, it
follows that the discoveries which it contains were made

at a later date. The historian of science has not a more
painful duty to discharge than that of fixing the date of
discoveries, but it is a duty which he is never called to

perform unless there are conflicting claims submitted to

his judgment. It is a singular obligation which a biogra

pher imposes upon himself to fix the date of a discovery
by the alleged insanity of its author.

    The only other chemical paper of Sir Isaac's that has

Nabeen published, is one of about two pages, entitled De

368             1a1FE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 CHAP. XXV.

tura Acidorum. It is followed by other two pages, entitled

Cogitationes Varice, containing a number of brief opinions

on chemical subjects, which have been more distinctly

and fully reproduced in the Queries at the end of his

Treatise on Optics. This paper must have been written

subsequently to 1687, as it contains a reference to the

Principia.

In the note-books and loose manuscripts of Sir Isaac,

many chemical experiments and observations are recorded,

but it is sometimes difficult to distinguish what is his own
from what he has copied from other writers. As he seems

to have considered his paper on the scale of heat the only

one fit for publication, it is probable that he collected from

his note-books the most important of the results at which

he had arrived, and published them among the queries in

his Optics.

The most interesting of these chemical queries relate to

fire, flame, vapour, heat, and elective attractions,1 and as

they were revised in 1716 and 1717, we may regard them

as containing the most mature opinions of their author.

He considers fire as a body heated so hot as to emit light

copiously, red hot iron being nothing else than fire, and a
burning coal red hot wood. In one of his note-books " he

concludes that flame is nothing but exhalations set on fire,

and that a burning coal and a burning flame differ only
in rarity and density," that            a is,  that flame consists of
particles of carbon brought to white heat, -- an opinion
of Sir Humphry Davy's. " Flame," he adds, "
                                                                           is  no

thing but a company of burning little coals dispersed

about in the air, flame and vapour differing only as bodies
red hot, and not red hot, by cold." He considers the " sun

and fixed stars as great earths vehemently hot, whose

             1  These queries are Nos.  6,                10, 11, and 31.
                                            7,
                                                 8,
                                                      9,

                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    369

heat is conceived by the greatness of the bodies and the

material action and reaction between them and the light

which they emit, and whose parts are kept from burning

away, not only by their fixity, but also by the vast weight

and density of the atmospheres incumbent upon them,

and very strongly compressing them, and condensing the

vapours and exhalations which arise from them.

In his long query on elective attractions, he considers

the small particles of bodies as acting upon one another

at distances so minute as to escape observation. When

salt of tartar deliquesces, he supposes that this arises from

an attraction between the saline particles and the aqueous

particles held in solution in the atmosphere, and to the

same attraction he ascribes it that the water will not distil

from the salt of tartar without great heat. For the same

reason sulphuric acid attracts water powerfully, and parts

with it with great difficulty. When this attractive force

becomes very powerful, as in the union between sulphuric
acid and water, so as to make the particles " coalesce with

violence," and rush towards one another with an accelerated

motion, heat is produced by the mixture of the two fluids.

In like manner,  he explains    --thethperodauctcitoionn   of flame from
the mixture of    cold fluids,                            of fulminating
powders, --the combination of iron filings with sulphur, --

and all the other chemical phenomena of precipitation,

combination, solution, and crystallization, and the mecha

nical phenomena of cohesion and capillary attraction. He

ascribes hot springs, volcanoes, fire-damps, mineral corus

cations, earthquakes, hot suffocating exhalations, hurri

canes, lightning, thunder, fiery meteors, subterraneous

explosions, land-slips, ebullitions of the sea, and water

spouts, to sulphureous steams abounding in the bowels of

the earth, and fermenting with minerals, or escaping into

vol. H.                                                   2a

370        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXV.

the atmosphere, where they ferment with acid vapours

fitted to promote fermentation.
   In explaining the structure of solid bodies, he is of opi

nion, " that the smallest particles of matter may cohere

by the strongest attractions, and compose bigger particles
of weaker virtue ; and many of these may cohere and

compose bigger particles whose virtue is still weaker ; and
so on for divers successions, until the progression end in

the biggest particles, on which the operations in chemistry,

Ifand the colours of natural bodies, depend, and which, by
adhering, compose bodies of a sensible magnitude.  the

body is compact, and bends or yields inward to pression,

without any sliding of its parts, it is hard and elastic,

returning to its figure with a force arising from the mutual
Ifattraction of its parts.
                            the parts slide upon one another,
Ifthe body is malleable or soft.
                                  they slip easily, and are

of a fit size to be agitated by heat, and the heat is big
enough to keep them in agitation, the body is fluid ; and

if it be apt to stick to things, it is humid ; and the drops

of every fluid affect a round figure, by the mutual attrac
tion of their parts, as the globe of the earth and sea affects

a round figure, by the mutual attraction of its parts by

gravity."

   Sir Isaac then supposes, that, as the attractive force of
bodies can reach but to a small distance from them, " a

repulsive virtue ought to succeed ;" and he considers such

a virtue as following from the reflexion and inflexions of

the rays of light, the rays being repelled by bodies in both
these cases without the immediate contact of the reflecting
or inflecting body, and also from the emission of light, the
ray, as soon as it is shaken off from a shining body by the

vibrating motion of the parts of the body, getting beyond
the reach of attraction, and being driven away with ex

      LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              371

ceeding great velocity by the force of reflexion, the force
that turns it back in reflexion being sufficient to emit it.

    We have already seen that Newton at one period of his
life was a believer in alchemy, and that he even devoted
much time to the study and practice of its processes. The
Rev. Mr. Law1 has stated that there were found among
Sir Isaac's papers large extracts out of Jacob Behmen's
works, written with his own hand, and that he had learned

from undoubted authority, that in a former part of his life
he was led into a search of the philosopher's tincture from
the same author. He afterwards stated in a private letter,
that his vouchers are names well known, and that they
have assured him that " Sir Isaac was formerly so deep in
Jacob Behmen, that he, together with Dr. Newton his rela
tive, set up furnaces, and were for several months at work
in quest of the tincture." That this statement is substan
tially true is proved by Dr. Newton's own letter.2 We have
seen in Sir Isaac's handwriting, The Metamorphoses of the
Planets, by John De Monte Snyders, in 62 pages, 4to, and
a key to the same work, and numerous pages of alchemist
poetry from Norton's Ordinal, and Basil Valentine's Mys
tery of the Microcosm. There is also a copy of Secrets
Revealed, or an open entrance to the Shut Palace of the
King? which is covered with notes in Sir Isaac's hand, in

1 In his Appeal to all that doubt or disbelieve the truths of the Gospel, 3d edit,
p. 314, Mr. Law had stated that Sir Isaac Newton borrowed his doctrine of attraction

from  B"ehthmeenfo'sunTdeautitoonnicwhTichheosMorp.heLra.w  A correspondent  having expressed a desire to
know                                                                         assertion," a friend of Mr.
                                                            had for such an

Law's replied to this application, and quoted from a letter of Mr. Law's to himself the

statement which we have given in the text. The correspondent, in a subsequent

communication, expresses his disbelief that Sir Isaac could have betrayed such

weakness. See Gentleman's Magazine, 1782, vol. lii. pp. 227, 329, and 575.
   * See page 96 of this volume.

  * By W. C, Lond. 1669, 8vo. " Composed by a most famous Englishman, styling

himself Anonymus or Eurceneus Philaletha, who, by inspiration and reading, attained

to the philosopher's stone at his age of twenty-three years. Anno Domini, 1645."

372       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               CHAP. XXV.

which great changes are made upon the language and
meaning of the thirty-five chapters of which it consists.

I have found also among Sir Isaac's papers, a beautifully
written, but incomplete copy of William Y worth's Proces

sus Mysterii magni Philosophicus, and also a small ma

nuscript in his handwriting, entitled Thesaurus Thesau-

rorum sive Medicina Aurea.1

There is no problem of more difficult solution than that

which relates to the belief in alchemy, and to the practice

of its arts, by men of high character and lofty attainments.

When we consider that a gas, a fluid, and a solid may

consist of the very same ingredients in different propor

tions ; that the same elements, with one or more atoms
of water, form different substances ; that a virulent poi

son may differ from the most wholesome food only in the
difference of quantity of the very same ingredients ; that

gold and silver, and indeed all the metals, may be ex

tracted from transparent crystals, which scarcely differ

in their appearance from a piece of common salt, or a bit

of sugar-candy ; --that Aluminum, a metal with almost

all the valuable properties of gold and platinum, can be

extracted from clay ; -- that lights of the most dazzling

colours can be obtained from the combustion of colourless

salts ; that gas, giving the most brilliant light, resides in

a lump of coal or a block of wood ; that several of the

gems can   be crystallized  from    thcehiarrceoleaml, --entwse;  and that
diamond   is nothing more     than                                need not

wonder that the most extravagant expectations were

entertained of procuring from the basest materials the

   1 In addition to these works, Sir Isaac has left behind him, in his Note books, and
separate MSS., copious extracts from the writings of the alchemists of all ages,
and a very large Index Chemicus and Svpphmentum Indicts Chemici, with minute

references to the different subjects to which they relate.

           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 373

precious metals and the noblest gems. In the daily ex
periments of the alchemist, his aspirations, after great

discoveries, must often have been encouraged by the

singular phenomena which he encountered, and the

startling results at which he arrived. The most ignorant

compounder of simples could hardly fail to witness the

almost magical transformations of chemical bodies, and

every new product which he obtained must have added

to the probability that the tempting doublet of gold and

silver would be thrown from the dice-box with which he

gambled. When any of the precious metals were actually

obtained from the ores of lead and other minerals, it was

not unreasonable to suppose that they had been formed

during the process, and men not disposed to speculate

might have thus embarked in new adventures to pro

cure a more copious supply, without any insult being

offered to sober reason, or any injury inflicted on sound

morality.
   Nor were the expectations of the alchemists to find

a universal medicine altogether irrational and useless.
The success of the Arabian physicians in the use of

mercurial preparations naturally led to the belief that
other medicines, still more general in their application,

and more efficacious in their healing powers, might yet

be brought to light, and we have no doubt that many
important discoveries were the result of such overstrained

expectations ; but when the alchemists pretended to have

obtained such a medicine, and to have conferred longevity

                  they did equal violence to reason and
by administeringit a

to truth.      is
                          it,

                                                is
                                                                 is
When mind ardent and ambitious                                       fascinated by

some lofty pursuit where gold the object, and fame the
           difficult to pause even after successive fail
impulse,

374  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXV.

ures, and to make a voluntary shipwreck of the reputation

which has been staked. Hope still cheers the aspirant

from failure to failure, till the loss of fortune and the

decay of credit disturb the serenity of his mind, and
hurry him on to the last resource of baffled ingenuity and

disappointed ambition. The philosopher thus becomes an

impostor, and, by the pretended transmutation of the
baser metals into gold, or the discovery of the philoso

pher's stone, or of the universal medicine, he attempts to

sustain his sinking reputation, and recover the character

he has lost. The communication of the great mystery is

now the staple commodity     with which he is to barter.

It can be imparted only     to a chosen few,--to those

among the opulent who merit it by their virtues, and can

acquire it by their diligence, and the divine vengeance is

threatened against its disclosure. A process thus com

mencing in fraud and terminating in mysticism, is con

veyed to the wealthy aspirant, or to the young enthusiast,

and the grand mystery passes current for a season, till

some wary professor of the art denounces its publication

as detrimental to society.

The alchemy of Boyle, Newton, and Locke cannot be

thus characterized. The ambition neither of wealth nor

of praise prompted their studies, and we may safely say

that a love of truth alone, a desire to make new discove

ries in chemistry, and a wish to test the extraordinary

pretensions of their predecessors and their contemporaries,
were the only motives by which they were actuated. In

so far as Newton's inquiries were limited to the transmu

tation and multiplication of metals, and even to the dis

covery of the universal tincture, we may find some apo

logy for his researches ; but we cannot understand how

a mind of such power, and so nobly occupied with the

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              375

abstractions of geometry, and the study of the material
world, could stoop to be even the copyist of the most

contemptible alchemical poetry, and the annotator of a

work, the obvious production of a fool and a knave. Such,

however, was the taste of the century in which Newton

lived, and, when we denounce the mental epidemics of a
past age, we may find some palliation of them in those
of our own times.

   Lady Mary Wortley Montague informs us,1 that " at
Vienna there was a prodigious number of alchemists.
The philosopher's stone," she says, " is the great object
of zeal and science ; and those who have more reading

and capacity than the vulgar, have transported their su

Iperstition, (shall call it V) or fanaticism, from religion to

chemistry ; and they believe in a new kind of transub-
stantiation, which is designed to make the laity as rich as

the other kind has made the priesthood. This pestilen

tial passion has already ruined several great houses.
There is scarcely a man of opulence or fashion that has
not an alchemist in his service ; and even the Emperor
is supposed to be no enemy to this folly in secret, though
he has pretended to discourage it in public."

   In these times, and even earlier, Sir Isaac Newton

lived. Leibnitz, his great rival, was also an alchemist.
In his early life he was secretary to the Society of

Rosicrucians at Nuremberg,-- a secret association which

practised alchemy, and which existed in several of the
larger towns in Germany. Leibnitz, however, soon re
nounced his faith in the mystic art, and, there is reason
to believe, from one of Newton's letters to Locke,2 that

   1 In a letter dated January 2, 1717, and    supposed to be written  to the Abbe
Conti. -- Letters and Works, vol. ii. p. 130.

    8 See page 121 of this volume.

   376         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                              CHAP. XXV.

   he also had learned to have but little confidence even
   in the humbler department of the multiplication of

   metals.1

   1 When Locke, as one of the executors of Boyle, was about to publish some of his

   works, Newton wished him to insert the second and third part of one of Boyle's
   recipes, (the first part of which was to obtain " a mercury that would grow hot with
                                               communicated to him on condition that they                                      should
   gold,") and which Boyle had                                            Newton " desired
   be published after his death.                 In making this request,   And he adds, --"                                    that it
   might not be known that they
                                               came through his hands."                                                        One of

   them seems to be a considerable experiment, and may prove of good use in medicine

   Iin analyzing bodies. The other is only a knack. In dissuading you from too hasty

   a trial of this recipe, have forborne to say anything against multiplication in

                                               it,

                                                           if

                                                                          is
                                                                                                             2,

                                                                                                   it
   general, because you seem persuaded of though there one argument against

   which could never find an answer to, and which,  you will let me have your opi
        I      will send you in my next." Letter to Locke, August 1692. --
   nion about
             a

               iIt,

                                           i.
   King's Life of Locke, vol. pp. 410, 413.

      Even at the beginning of the present century, some distinguished individuals

   t"hoTuhgehtanfaalvyosuisrabolfyalkoaf laislchaenmdya. lkalPinroefeessaortrhsRowbiisllonp,reisnenwtrlyitinlegad,to  James    Watt, says,
                                                                          I                                            think,  to the doc
                                                                              I
   trine of reciprocal convertibility of all things into all. . . . expect to see alchymy
   revive, and be as universally studied as ever." Feb. 11, 1800. -- Muirhead's Origin

   and Progress of the Mechanical Inventions of James Watt, vol. ii. pp. 271, 272.
   Lond. 1854.

·

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  377

                 . CHAPTER XXVI.

illnewton's first attack of health, and his recovery -- history

   of his acquaintance with dr. pemberton, who superintends the
   third edition of the principia -- their correspondence -- im
   provements in the third edition -- change in the celebrated
   scholium -- and in the scholium on the motion of the moon's
   nodes --demonstration of machin and pemberton --publication of
   the third edition -- newton attacked with the stone --conduitt
  acts for him in the mint--his letter recommending colin mac-
   laurin as assistant to gregory -- his liberality on this occasion
  --maclaurin's LETTER TO NEWTON--VISIT of the abbs' ALARI to

   NEWTON -- HIS ACQUAINTANCE WITH SAMUEL CRELL-- HE PRESIDES AT
   THE ROYAL SOCIETY ON THE 2d MARCH-- HIS LAST ILLNESS -- AND
   DEATH ON THE 20TH MARCH 1717 -- HIS BODY LIES IN STATE -- HIS
   BURIAL AND MONUMENT IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY -- STATUES AND PIC
   TURES OF HIM -- HIS PROPERTY -- HIS DESCENDANTS.

   Although Sir Isaac had now attained to a very ad

vanced age, he had for a long time enjoyed almost un
interrupted health. In 1722, however, when he had
entered his eightieth year, he was seized with inconti
nence of urine, which, though at first ascribed to stone,
and thought incurable, was owing merely to a weakness
in the sphincter of the bladder. Dr. Mead advised him to
give up the use of his carriage, neither to dine abroad, nor
with large parties at home, and to limit his diet to a
little butcher-meat and broth, vegetables, and fruit, of
which he was always very fond. By these means he
recovered slowly, though never perfectly, as the disease
was always brought on by motion of any kind. In

378  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        CHAP. XXVI.

July 1722, when he was corresponding with Varignon,

who died in that year, he wrote to him that he was

getting slowly well, and hoped soon to enjoy his usual

health ; 1 but there is reason to believe that the seeds of

a more painful disease, of which this was only the herald,

were lurking in his constitution, and would sooner or

later come to maturity.

Thus warned of his slight tenure of life, he resolved to

proceed with the third edition of the Principia, for which

he had been long making preparation. The premature

death of Mr. Cotes had deprived him of his valuable assist

ance, but he had the good fortune to obtain the services

of Dr. Henry Pemberton, a young and accomplished phy

sician, who had successfully cultivated mathematical

learning, and who, from various causes, was particu

larly qualified for the task of editing so great a work.

When Pemberton was studying medicine at Leyden under

Boerhaave, a gentleman lent him the Principia, which

was then extremely scarce. Having heard that it was a

work of difficult comprehension, he was surprised at his

own facility in mastering its problems, and in order to

pursue the subject, he devoted himself to the study of the
doctrine of fluxions, and of prime and ultimate ratios, as

explained in the introduction to Newton's treatise, Be

Quadratures Curvarum. Soon after this he solved the pro
blem with which Leibnitz had challenged the English ma

thematicians ; and upon showing his solution to Dr. Keill,

he was so pleased with the talent which it displayed, that

he immediately introduced  "  him to Sir Isaac.2                      Owing, as
Dr. Wilson informs us, to     some ill offices done                   by a mal

evolent person who then had Sir Isaac's ear," the great

     1 " Paulatim convalesce, et spero me salutem cito fruitunim."
     8 See this volume, p. 60, and Macclesfield Correspondence, vol.
     /                                                                                                                               424.
                                                                                                           ii.
                                                                                                                                 p.

1720.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        379

philosopher paid no attention to the young geometer, to
whom he was hereafter to owe so many obligations. Pem-
berton was mortified with the cold reception he had expe
rienced ; but having the most ardent desire to become

acquainted with so great a philosopher, he thought he would

best accomplish his object by writing a Treatise, containing
a popular account of Sir Isaac's discoveries. An unforeseen
accident, however, gained for him his object by a less dila
tory process. Signior Poleni, an Italian mathematician, had
published in his tract De Castellis, an experiment which he
considered as proving Leibnitz's assertion that the force
of descending bodies is proportional to the square of the

velocity, and not, as is commonly thought, to the simple
velocity. Dr. Pemberton saw its insufficiency, and drew
up a refutation of which he showed to his friend Dr.

Mead. The Doctor immediately communicated to Sir
Isaac, who was so well pleased with that he called upon

Pemberton at his lodgings, and shewed him refutation

of Poleni by himself, grounded on other principles.1 In
                            it,

                                                   a

                                                         it,
                                                                        a

                                                                      it
1      Pemberton's Paper, in the form of letter to Dr. Mead, was published in the

Philosophical Transactions for April and May, 1722, No. 371, p. 57. Sir Isaac's

refutation was added in a postscript to the letter without his name, as having been
given to the author " by an excellent and learned friend of his, to whom he had

been pleased to shew the letter, in confirming Sir Isaac Newton's sentiment in rela

tion to the resistance of fluids." As the subject excited much controversy, Sir Isaac's
                                 may be interesting to the reader. " Suppose,"
simple and intelligible view of  it
says he, " pieces of fine silk, or the like thin substance, extended in parallel planes,it
                                              is
and fixed at small distances from each other. Suppose then globe to strike per
                                                           is  ;
pendicularly against the outermost of the silks, and by breaking through them toa
Iflose part of its motion.
                            the pieces of silk be of equal strength, the same degree

of force will be required to break each of them, but the time in which each piece of

silk resists, will be so much shorter as the globe swifter and the loss of motion

in the globe consequent upon its breaking through each silk, and surmounting the
resistance thereof, will be proportional to the time in which the silk opposes itself to

the globe's motion, insomuch that the globe, by the resistance of any one piece of
silk, will lose so much of its motion as
                                          swifter. But, on'tho other hand, how
                                                                           by
                                                                                    a
much swifter the globe moves, so many more of the silks will break through in
                                                               it

given space of time whence the number of the silks which oppose themselves to the;
motion of the globe in a given time being reciprocally proportional to the effect of

380          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              CHAP. XXVI.

this agreeable way Pemberton secured the friendship of
Newton, and they often met together to converse on
mathematical and philosophical subjects. Though Sir
Isaac quickly discovered the capacity of his young friend,
his modesty was so great, as Wilson informs us, that he
solicited Dr. Mead to prevail on Pemberton to assist him
in bringing out a new edition of the Principia.1

    Owing to the smallness of the impression of the second
edition of that work, it seems to have been quickly sold,
but having been reprinted at Amsterdam in 1713, the
foreign demand for it was amply supplied. In Dr. Horsley's
list of the MSS. at Hurtsbourne Park, he mentions a copy
of " the second edition of the Principia, interlined with
some written notes of Sir Isaac Newton," which is no

doubt the work referred to in the memorandum which he

left in the library of Christ's Church, Oxford, and which
is mentioned by Professor Rigaud.2 These notes, there

fore, must have formed the new matter which was intro

duced into the third edition by Newton himself, and were

probably copied from the volume which contains them,
and transmitted to Dr. Pemberton to be inserted in the

printed sheets of the second edition.
    The printing of the new edition seems to have com

menced either in the very end of 1 723, or at the beginning
of 1724, and was not finished till the month of February
1726. The letters which passed between Newton and
Pemberton during the progress of the work, had they been
preserved, would have been interesting in many respects,

each silk upon the globe, the resistance made to the globe by these silks, or the loss
of motion the globe undergoes by them in a given time, will be always the same." --

Pp. 67, 68.

I1 Dr. Wilson's Preface to Pemberton's Course of Chemistry. Lond. 1771.
! Hist. Essay, p. 106.  did not find this volume among the papers in Hurts-

bourne Park, when I examined them in 1836. It appears to have been in the hands

of Dr. Horsley when he edited the works of Newton.

1723.      LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                   381

and have   cionmfoprmletsedusththeathi"sthoerywaosf   the  Principia.   Dr.
Pemberton                                            very  frequently  with

him, and as they lived at some distance, a great number

of letters passed between them on that account."1 The

letters of Newton, however, have unfortunately been lost,

but the greatest part, if not the whole, of those of Pember

ton have been preserved.2 The date of the earliest of these,

which relates to a criticism on the last two lines of the

sixty-third page, is February 11, 1723-4, but it was pre

ceded by five letters without dates, so that the printing of

the work must have commenced in December 1 723, or in

January 1724. The Preface bears the date of January

1 725-6, but there is a long letter from Pemberton dated

February 9, 1 725-6, in which he points out the necessity

of some changes in the 23d and 2pth Propositions of the

first Book, and proposes to cancel two leaves, which toge

ther with other two cancels, would require the reprinting

of a whole sheet. The letters of Pemberton contain nu

merous suggestions for the improvement of the work, and

with one or two exceptions they seem to have been im

plicitly adopted by Newton. He never alters a single

word without permission, and when the changes which he

suggests are of importance, he enters into full explanations
Iof the grounds upon which they are proposed.
                                                                       am

disposed to think that Newton addressed comparatively

few letters to Pemberton during the printing of the

work. Their correspondence was carried on through the

printing-office, and it is probable that Newton wrote his

answers principally upon the proof-sheets, accepting or

   1 View of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophy, Preface, p. 2.
   » These letters are twenty-three in number, with seven sheets of Queries, con

taining suggestions for the improvement of the work. Only seven of the letters
have dates. The Rev. Mr. Jeffery Ekins has kindly sent me a copy of a short one
in his possession, but without a date.

382  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                   CHAP. XXVI.

modifying the alterations proposed by his friend. There
is only one reference in the letters to a personal interview.
On another occasion Newton leaves a new corollary with
Mr. Innys the bookseller, and in none of Pemberton's
letters does he acknowledge the receipt of any letter on
the subject of Newton's additions or his own suggestions.
Sir Isaac was at no period of his life fond of writing letters ;
and least of all in his old age. He wrote scrolls of almost

every letter he composed, and we are persuaded that

among Pemberton's papers which have been lost, there
were very few of the letters of Newton.

    Among the more interesting changes made in the third
edition are the changes in the celebrated Scholium on
Fluxions, and in the new Scholium on the Motion of the

Moon's Nodes in Prop. 33 of the Third Book. Newton,

as we have already seen, has been greatly blamed by
foreign writers for the omission of the paragraph about
Leibnitz, which he had inserted in the two first editions

of his work. Montucla1 has ventured to insinuate that

it was left out by Pemberton without Newton's consent ;
but Dr. Wilson, Pemberton's friend, bears witness that the
new Scholium " was entirely composed by Sir Isaac, and
printed from his own handwriting." As no reference
whatever is made to it in Pemberton's letters, it is pro
bable that there was no difference of opinion about the

propriety of the change, and that Pemberton saw no
grounds for proposing any alteration upon the new form
which had been given to the Scholium.2

   Between the publication of the second and third edi
tion, Mr. Machin, Professor of Astronomy in Gresham

   1 Hist. dea Mathemotiqvet, vol. ii. p. 338.    Paris,  1758.  See also p. 29 of this
volume, and Appendix, No. I.
                                                No. I.
   8 See p. 32 of this volume, and Appendix,

1726.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                        383

College, communicated to Newton a new demonstration
of the motion of the moon's nodes. When it was sent to
Pemberton for insertion, he informs Newton that he had
himself invented a similar demonstration, and had men
tioned it in his letter to Dr. Wilson on certain inventions
of Cotes.1 Sir Isaac, therefore, drew up, in conformity with

these facts, the Scholium we have mentioned, and added
to it the two propositions of Machin, as they had been

first sent to him.

    In February or March 1 726, the third edition of the
Principia was published, with a new preface by the
author, dated January 12, 1725-6, in which he mentions
the more important additions which he had made, and
states that Dr. Henry Pemberton,2 " vir harum rerum

 peritissimus,"3 superintended the edition.4

1 Epistola ad Amicum de Cotesii inventis, curvarum ratione quce cum Circulo et

Hyperbola comparationem admittunt, pp. 6, 7, 4to. Lond. 1722. This letter is

J.addressed Amico Suo W. Integerrimo Dileclissimoque, H. P. Salutem. See Dr.

Wilson's Preface to Pemberton 's Course of Chemistry, p. vi., for the history of this
interesting volume. The Theorem of Cotes, rather prolixly demonstrated by Pem

berton, was attacked with more success by Demoivre, and afterwards demonstrated

directly by John Bernoulli. Opera, tom iv. p. 68.
   2 Dr. Pemberton was born in London in 1694. He took the degree of medicine

at Leyden, and became acquainted with Newton in the way we have already men
tioned. Immediately after Sir Isaac's death in 1727, he advertised a Translation

of the Principia, with a Comment ; but the publication of Motte's Translation in

1729 prevented him from proceeding with this work. He devoted himself, however,
to the completion of his " View of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophy," part of which

was submitted  to Newton before his death. In  Dr. Mead's letter  to Conduitt,  already
mentioned, he  says, " Dr. Pemberton has also  given part of his  Book to the   Knight,

of which he read some part immediately, and kept the papers, and seemed very well

pleased. You may depend upon his having the perusal of the whole of it if he will

be pleased to take the trouble." Pemberton was chosen Professor of Physic in

Gresham College, and gave lectures on chemistry, which were published after his

death, by his friend Dr. Wilson. He died in 1771, at the age of 77.     See Preface
                                                                        Itisshortcr
Ito his Course of Chemistry, and vol. i. p. 318, note.
    3 have found a copy of the Preface with the date of November 1725.

than the one printed, and does not contain the well-merited compliment to Dr. Pem

berton, who, as his friend Dr. Wilson tells us, valued it more than the liberal present
of 200 guineas which Newton gave him. Pemberton 's Chemistry, Preface, p. xv.

   * Twelve fine paper copies were printed. There is one in the library of Trinity

384  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVf.

     Had Sir Isaac enjoyed his usual health, he would no
 doubt have made greater additions to the Principia, but,

 notwithstanding the precautions which he observed, he
 experienced a return of his former complaint ; and, in
 August 1724, he passed, without any pain, a stone about
the size of a pea, which came away in two pieces, the one
at the distance of some days from the other. After some

months of tolerably good health, he was seized in January
 1 725, with a violent cough and inflammation of the lungs,
and, in consequence of this attack, he was prevailed upon

to take up his residence at Kensington,1 where his health

experienced a decided improvement. In February 1 725,
he was attacked in both his feet with a fit of the gout, of

which he had received a slight warning a few years be
fore, and the effect of this new complaint was to produce
a beneficial change in his general health. On Sunday the
7th of March, when his head was clearer and his memory
stronger than Mr. Conduitt had known it to be for some

time, he entered into a long conversation on various
topics in astronomy of a speculative nature, which Mr.
Conduitt, who knew little of the subject, has, we think,

very imperfectly reported.2

  Although his health was greatly improved, yet his in

J.College, one in that of Queens' College, which Newton had presented to F. Fau

quier, one in the Royal Society library, presented by Martin Folkes in the name of
the President, on the 31st March 1726, (Edleston's Correspondence, p. lxxix), and
one in the Observatory at Oxford, which Newton had presented to Bradley. Mr.
Rigaud says, " that they were all originally bound with gilt leaves in red morocco,
to a pattern which was much used for the Harleian Library." -- Memoirs of Bradley,
p. xi. Newton sent six copies of the work to Fontenelle, for the Academy of
Sciences, for himself, and for the principal mathematicians in Paris.

   1 According to Dr. Stukely, he lived at Orbell's Buildings. In Maude's Wens-
Uydale he is said to have " died in lodgings in that agreeable part of Kensington
called Orbell's, now Pitt's Buildings."

   8 This paper was published in the Appendix to my former Life of Newton, but as
Sir Isaac has given his opinions on the same subjects more deliberately in his letters

Ito Bentley and elsewhere, have not thought it adviseable to reprint it.

1726.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               385

disposition was sufficiently severe to unfit him for the
discharge of his duties at the Mint ; and as his old deputy
was confined with the dropsy, he was desirous, in the
winter of 1 725, of resigning in favour of Mr. Conduitt.

Difficulties, however, seem to have been experienced in

making this arrangement, but all the duties of the office

were so satisfactorily performed by Mr. Conduitt, that

during the last year of his life Sir Isaac hardly ever went
to the Mint.

Among the last duties which he discharged with his

pen, and one distinguished, too, by his usual liberality,

was that of obtaining for Colin Maclaurin1 the situation
of assistant and successor to Mr. James Gregory, Profes
sor of Mathematics in the University of Edinburgh. Mr.

Maclaurin, who then filled the chair of Mathematics in

Aberdeen, having applied to Sir Isaac for a testimonial
                        received the following answer, "
of his qualifications,  to the patrons of the University  with
allowance to show it
                                                          :" --
I" am very glad to hear that you have a prospect of

being joined to Mr. James Gregory in the Professorship

of the Mathematics at Edinburgh, not only because you

are my friend, but principally because of your abilities,

you being acquainted as well with the new improvements
of mathematics as with the former state of those sciences.

I heartily wish you good success, and shall be very glad
of hearing of your being elected.--I am, with all sincerity,

your faithful friend and most humble servant."

    To this letter Maclaurin returned the following an

swer :--
  " Honoured Sir, -- I am much obliged to you for your

I1 Notice of Maclaurin 's Life, prefixed to his Account of Sir Isaac Newton's
Discoveries, p. iv. Lond. 1748.  have not found a copy of this letter among

Newton's papers.

VOL. II.                                     2B

386            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         CHAP. XXVI.

kind letter that Mr. Hadley transmitted to me. It has

been of use to me. However, the provost or mayor of

the town has thought fit to consult yourself directly on

that subject, because I made some scruples to make your
letter, that was addressed to me, public. I flatter myself

you will, as soon as your convenience will allow, give an
answer to his letter, that the want of it may not obstruct

the affair.

  I" have lately had a dispute with a gentleman here,

who attacked your Prop. 36, lib. of the Principia, and
                                                 2 a ii.
     supposed to be pretty good mathematician. 'Tis          is
is

           7,
               8,
                      9,

                  r

                                       Q

                              is
                                      a
about the pressure upon the circellus pq (Prop. 36, lib.
                                                                      P
                                                                         Q

                                                                                   ii.
Cor.          10.) He finds by calcul of his, that the

pressure upon                           to the cylinder on the ba.se      of the
height Jgh, as 2ab2 to ab2+ef2 = pq2, whereas you
make that proportion as efs to ef2 --pq2 in Cor. 10.
                                          2

" can demonstrate, (and he allows it,) that when CD
I

and ef are equal, the pressure on pq to the cylinder
on pq of the height £gh as 2ef2 to 2ef2 -- pq2. But

he objects, that though the proportion must be allowed

in that case, yet cannot be general, and that ought
              a                                                       it

to vary with      b,                         does not enter into your pro

                      it

                                    a
                                          b
               though

portion. Cor. 10, Prop. 36.
    " have answered this, and have shewed, that when
     is I
ab very great, the pressure on pq should be the weight

of the whole cylinder above pq, according to him, because
the ratio of ab2 to ab2+ef2 -- pq2, in that case
           a2                                                         is    ratio
                               2                                         a

                                             1.  And this think absurd,
of b2 to b2, or of to
2                                                I
   a

since, by the very idea of the cataract, PQ cannot bear

the whole cylinder above it.                     am more and more
    " But trouble you no farther.
it,

        I

                       it

                                       I
satisfied that your book will triumph over all that oppose

      and that as has met with resistance from the pre

1726.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       387

judices and humours of men, it will prevail the longer. --
I am, with much gratitude, and the greatest respect, ho

noured Sir, your most obliged, most humble servant,

                                             " Colin Maclaurin.

    " Edinburgh, Oct. 25, 1725."

   In consequence of this letter, Sir Isaac returned the

following answer to the Lord Provost, of which I have

found two copies slightly different and more complete

than the one printed in Maclaurin's Life.

  " My Lord, --I received the honour of your letter, and

am glad to understand that Mr. Maclaurin is in good re

Ipute amongst you for his skill in mathematics, for think
he deserves it very well. And, to satisfy you that I do

not flatter him, and also to encourage him to accept of

Ithe place of assisting Mr. Gregory, in order to succeed

him, am ready you please to give me leave) to con
I

     it
                  it
                     (if

                        aI I

                                                          it,

                                        I iIf
                                                I
tribute twenty pounds per annum towards a provision for

him, till Mr. Gregory's place become void,   live so long,

and will pay to his order in London.1 When your

letter arrived at London was absent from hence, which

made the later before received otherwise might

have returned an answer little sooner. -- am, my Lord,

your Lordship's most humble and most obedient servant,
                                                          " Isaac Newton.

...." To his Lordship the
          Provost or Edinburgh,
                   in Scotland."

In the first scroll of the letter there was inserted the following passage, " for
1
       a
                     a
                           :

                 I

                                                                               it

                                                                             I
have kindness also for Mr. Gregory upon his brother's account, and should be

glad to have hand in helping him to a coadjutor," but was struck out.

    On the back of the  two scrolls,  which are written on the same page, are the
                        reckon him    well skilled in arithmetic, algebra, geometry,
following words --"

astronomy, and optics, which are the mathematical sciences proper for a university,

and abundantly sufficient for a Professor."

388  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.   CHAP. XXVI.

It is almost unnecessary to say, that Maclaurin was

over the words, to be envied by every aspirant to scien

tific fame, --" Newtono Suadente." 1

Notwithstanding his great age, and his imperfect health,

Sir Isaac was able to attend the meetings of the Royal

Society, and to receive with hospitality distinguished fo

reigners who were introduced to him. The Abbe" Alari,
the instructor of Louis XV., and the friend of Boling-

broke, spent two months in London in 1725. He paid a

visit to Newton, of which   the  following flippant and  a: --p
parently incorrect account  has  been given by a friend
" He visited the University of Cambridge and the great

Newton, who enjoyed, at that time, in the capital of

England, the general esteem of Europe, and 50,000 livres

   1 Colin Maclaurin was born in February 1698. He studied mathematics under
Dr. Robert Simson at Glasgow, and was in 1717 elected Professor of Mathematics
in Marischal College, Aberdeen. In 1719 he became acquainted with Newton, and

was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, to whose Transactions he contributed two
papers. He gained the prize of the Academy of Sciences for 1724, on the Percussion
of Bodies. In 1742 he published his Treatise on Fluxions, which was written in

answer to Berkeley's Analyst. In 1745 he took an active part in defending Edin

burgh against the approach of Prince Charles ; and in superintending the execution
of the works which he had designed, he caught the cold, of which he died on the
14th June 1746, in the forty-eighth year of his age. Mr. Conduitt had requested
him as a friend to draw up an account of Newton's discoveries for the biography of
him, in which he was engaged. Maclaurin sent the MS. of it to London, but in
consequence of the death of Conduitt in 1737, the MS was returned, and it became

the foundation of his admirable Account of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophical Disco

veries, which was published after his death. Maclaurin was a man, like Newton,
of undoubted piety, and an humble Christian. He died while dictating to his ama
nuensis the last chapter of his work in which he proves the wisdom, the power, the
goodness, and the other attributes of the Deity.

1726.                    LIFE OF SIB ISAAC NEWTON.                            389

of salary as Master of the Mint. The Abbe" having gone to
his house at nine o'clock in the morning, Newton began by
telling him that he was eighty-three years of age. There
was in his chamber the portrait of his patron, Lord Halifax,
and one of the Abbe" Varignon, of whose geometrical writ
ings he had a high opinion. ' Varignon/ he said, ' and
Father Sebastien, the Carmelite, are those who have un

derstood best my system of colours.' The conversation at
last turned on ancient history, with which Newton was
then occupied. The Abbe", who was deeply read in Greek
and Latin authors, having made himself very agreeable,
was asked to dinner. The repast was detestable. Newton
was stingy, and gave his guests wines of Palma and Ma
deira, which he had received in presents. After dinner
he took the Abbe" to the Royal Society, of which he was
the President, and made him sit at his right hand. The
business began, and Newton fell asleep. When it was

over, every body signed the register, and the Abbe* among
the rest.1 Newton took him to his house, and kept him
till nine o'clock in the evening."2

   In the following year Newton received visits from

Samuel Crell,3 a distinguished German divine, who had
embraced the opinions of Socinus, and was appointed
minister of a Unitarian church on the frontiers of Poland.

He came to England in 1 726, for the purpose of printing
the last of his works, which was published in that year.4

1 The Abbe signed only the Journal Book.

8 Mssnis Ilistorique sur BoHngbrake, compiled by General Grimoard in Letlres

Historiciues   . ..  de  ...   Bolinpbroke, vol. i.  p.  155, Paris, 1808.    fMolrl.owEindglest"onm,
from whose    work   we  have  copied the aneedote   in  the text, gives the
the simple record in the Journal Book of Alari's visit." " Mr. Mildmay had leave
to be present, as also Mr. Peter Joseph Alari, a French gentleman." -- Correspond

ence, &c. p. lxxxviii.

3 Born 1657, died 1747.

* Initium Evangelii 8. Johnnnis ApostoH ex antiiptitate ecclesiaxtica restitutum,
itidenviue nova ration* iUustratum, 8vo, 1726. It was published under the name of

390  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                           CHAP. XXVI.

After his return to Amsterdam, where he resided during

the rest of his life, he sent to his friend Lacroze, the cele

brated orientalist, in a letter dated 17th July 1727, the

following account of his visits to Newton, whose death a few

months before had given a great interest to every thing

associated with his name :--" I also conversed at different

times with the illustrious Newton, who died in the month

of March at the age of eighty-five. He read manuscript
without spectacles, and without bringing it near his eyes.

He still reasoned acutely as he was wont to do, and told

me that his memory only had failed him. Gout and the

stone occasionally troubled him at his very advanced age.

A few weeks before his death he threw into the fire many

manuscripts written in his own hand. He left, however,

some to be printed, among which is one entitled Historia

Dominationis Clericorum, as I was assured by his phy

sician, the celebrated Dr. Mead. He was not only deeply

versed in mathematics and philosophy, but likewise in

theology and ecclesiastical history. He had also written,

as he himself told me, a Commentary on the Apocalypse

of St. John. Whether or not he burnt                                                                                     did not learn.
     it
                    a

                                           it

                                           iIt,

                                                                           it
He expressed wish to read my book, and he read

when was printing, because seemed to contain some

things that were new."1

    Having completed the new edition of his great work,
Sir Isaac seems to have abstained from all intellectual

labour during the latter half of 1726, with the exception
of what indicated by two letters to the Rev. Mr. Mason,2
*1

           is

                                                                       4,
                                                                         i.
                                                                                           p.

                                                                                                                      a
L. M. Artemonius, because he had adopted the opinions of Artemon, a heretic of

the third century, respecting our Saviour. The letters L. M. signify Lucas Melle-
rim, the anagram of Samuel Crellius.
                                              105. Edidit J. L. Uhlins, Lipsiw,
     Thesaurus Epislolicus Lacrozianus, tom.

1742-1746, three vols. 4to.

One dated May 10, 1726, sending £3 for repairing the floor of Colsterworth

church, and the other dated February  1727, on the assay of piece of ore.

1726.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  391

and his letter to Fontenelle in June or July, accompany
ing the six copies of the Principia for the Academy of
Sciences.1 He had received much benefit from absolute

 rest and from the air of Kensington, but his friends found
it very difficult to restrain him from going occasionally to

town. In the month of August he complained of an af

fection of the rectum, which he thought was fistula, but
Dr. Cheselden found upon examination that it was " no
thing but a little relaxation of the inward coat of the
gut ;" and this opinion, as Dr. Mead wrote to Mr. Conduitt
then in the country, " made his old friend very easy in

the matter."2

    When thus confined to the house, Sir Isaac amused
himself with reading, but as Mr. Conduitt informs us,
" the book which was commonly lying before him, and
which he read oftenest at last, was a duodecimo bible."

I" found," he adds, " his eyes bloodshot one morning, and

he complained that something swam before them. When

I asked him what he thought had occasioned the disorder,

he said he believed that he had overstrained the optic

nerves, for the morning or two last past he had waked

before the sun was quite up, and had endeavoured to see
what o'clock it was on his watch, by a very little light

that came through the curtains and the shutter ; upon
which he left that off, and found out the hour by feeling
with his hand, and his eyes soon recovered."

    Thinking that he was fit for the journey, he went to
London on Tuesday the 28th of February, to preside at a
meeting of the Royal Society on the 2d of March, and on
the following day Mr. Conduitt thought he had not seen

  I1 have found a scroll of this letter without a date, and Fontenellc's answer to

dated July 14, 1726.
      This letter dated August 11, 1726. Dr. Mead had received two letters of

inquiry from Conduitt on the occasion, to which this was the answer.
»
                        is

                                                                                                                                     it,

392  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVI.

hiin better for many years. Sir Isaac himself was sensible
of the change, and " told his nephew smiling, that he had
slept the Sunday before from eleven at night till eight in
the morning without waking." These feelings, however,
were fallacious. He had undergone great fatigue in going
to the Society, and in paying and receiving visits, and the
consequence of this was a violent attack of his former
complaint. He was taken ill on Friday the 3d March, and
continued so after his return to Kensington on Saturday
the 4th of March. For a whole week he had no medical
advice ; but the moment Mr. Conduitt heard of his illness,

which was on Saturday the 11th March,1 he sent for Dr.
Mead and Mr. Cheselden, who pronounced the disease to
be stone in the bladder, and held out no hopes of his re
covery. " The stone had probably been moved from the
place where it lay quiet by the great motion and fatigue
of his last journey to London." From that time he ex
perienced violent fits of pain with very brief intermissions,
and though the drops of sweat ran down his face in these
severe paroxysms, he never uttered a cry or a complaint,
or displayed the least marks of peevishness or impatience,
but during the short intervals of relief " would smile and
talk with his usual cheerfulness." On Wednesday the 1 5th
 of March, he appeared to be somewhat better, and slight
though groundless hopes were entertained of his recovery.
 On the morning of Saturday the 18th, he read the news
 papers, and carried on a pretty long conversation with
 Dr. Mead. His senses and his faculties were still vigorous,
 but at six o'clock of the same evening, he became insen
 sible, and continued in that state during the whole of

 Sunday and till Monday the 20th, when he expired with

    1 Mr. Conduitt has left three different accounts of his illness. Some of the facts
 mentioned above are found only in one of them, apparently the one first -written.

1727.  LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                                                    393

out pain between one and two o'clock  in the morning,                                         in

the eighty-fifth year of his age, --

             . . . 'Tis done, the measure's full,

       And I resign my charge.

                                                              Thomson.1

    His body was removed from Kensington to London,
and on Tuesday the 28th March it lay in the Jerusalem

Chamber, and was thence conveyed to Westminster Ab
bey, where it was buried near the entrance into the choir

on the left hand. The pall was supported by the Lord
High Chancellor, the Dukes of Montrose and Roxburghe,
and the Earls of Pembroke, Sussex, and Macclesfield, who

were Fellows of the Royal Society. The Honourable Sir
Michael Newton, Knight of the Bath, was chief mourner,

and was followed by some other relations, and several

eminent persons who were intimately acquainted with the
deceased. The office was performed by the Bishop of
Rochester, attended by the prebends and choir.8

    Sensible of the high honour which they derived from
their connexion with so distinguished a philosopher, the
relations of Sir Isaac Newton, who inherited his personal
estate,3 agreed to devote £500 to the erection of a monu
ment to his memory ; and the Dean and Chapter of West
minster appropriated for it a place in the most conspicuous
part of the Abbey, which had often been refused to the
greatest of our nobility. This monument was erected in
1731. On the front of a sarcophagus resting on a pe
destal, are sculptured in basso relievo youths bearing in

'1 A Poem, sacred to the Memory of Sir Isaac Newton.                     the three  children  of

  The London Gaz tie, April 4, 1727. No. 6569.
3 These were the three children of his half-brother Smith,

his half-sister Pilkington, and the two daughters of his half-sister Barton, all of

whom survived Sir Isaac. Xe w A nectlotes of Sir Isaac Newton, by J. H., a Gentle
man of his Mother's Family. See Annual Register, 1776, vol. xix. p. 25 of Cha

racters. The author of this paper was James Hutton, Esq. of Pimlico. See Appen .

dix, No. XXXII.

394  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVI.

their hands the emblems of Sir Isaac's principal discoveries.                  ..

One carries a prism, another a reflecting telescope, a third
is weighing the sun and planets with a steelyard, a fourth

is employed about a furnace, and two others are loaded
with money newly coined. On the sarcophagus is placed
the figure of Sir Isaac in a cumbent posture, with his
elbow resting on several of his works. Two youths stand
before him with a scroll, on which is drawn a remarkable

diagram relative to the solar system, and above that is a
converging series. Behind the sarcophagus is a pyramid,
from the middle of which rises a globe in mezzo relievo,
upon which several of the constellations are drawn, in
order to show the path of the comet in 1 681, whose period
Sir Isaac had determined, and also the position of the

solstitial colure mentioned by Hipparchus, and by means
of which Sir Isaac had, in his Chronology, fixed the time

of the Argonautic expedition. A figure of Astronomy as

Queen of the Sciences sits weeping on the Globe with a
sceptre in her hand, and a star surmounts the summit of
the pyramid. The following epitaph is inscribed on the

monument :--

                                                   Hie situs est
                                     Isaacus Newton, Kques Aural us,

                                               Qui animi vi prope divina,
                                              Planetarum Mutus, Figuras,
                                     Cometaram semitas, Oceanique /Estus,
                                            Sua Mathcsi faceui prefercute,

                                                   Primus demonstravit.
                                     Kadiurnm Lucis dissimilitudines,

                                  ( 'olorumque hide nascentium proprietates,
                          Quau nemo antea vel snspicatus erat, pervestigavit.

                                   Naturae, Autiquitatis, S. Scripturse,
                                           Sedulus, sagax, fidtis luterprca,

                             Dei Opt. Max. Majestatem philosophic asseruit,

                                 Evangelii simplicitatem mon'ous expressit.
                          Sibi gratulentur Mortales, tale tantumque extitisse

                                          Humani Generis Decus.

                    Natiw xxv. Pecomb. MPCXUI. Obiit xx. Mar.
                                           MDCCXXVII.

1727.    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      395

Of which the following is a literal translation :

                                            Here Lies
                             Sir I sane Newton, Knight,

                  Who, by a vigour of mind almost supernatural,
                                      First demonstrated

                      The motions and Figures of the Planets,
           The Paths of the Comets, and the Tides of the Ocean.

                                He diligently investigated
               The different rcfrangihilities of the Rays of Light,
         And the properties of the Colours to which they give rise.
              An Assiduous, Sagacious, and Faithful Interpreter

                 of Nature, Antiquity, and the Holy Scriptures,

               He asserted in his Philosophy the Majesty of God,
         And exhibited in his Conduct the simplicity of the Gospel.

                                     Let Mortals rejoice
                     That there has existed such and so great

                      An ornament of the Human Race.

                    Born 25th Dec. 1642, Died 20th March 1727.

   In the beginning of 1731, a medal was struck at the

Tower in honour of Sir Isaac Newton. It had on one

side the head of the philosopher, with the motto, Felix

cognoscere causas, and on the reverse a figure represent

ing the mathematics.

   On the 4th July 1 755, a magnificent full-length statue

of Sir Isaac Newton, in white marble, was erected in the

antechapel of Trinity College. He is represented standing

on a pedestal in a loose gown, holding a prism, and looking

upwards   with an  eisxptrheessiinosncroipf tdieoenp,--and  successful  thought.
On the   pedestal

         Qui genus humanum ingenio superavit.1

   This statue, an engraving of which, taken from a pho

tograph by the Rev. W. Kingsley, forms the frontispiece
to this volume, was executed by Roubilliac, and erected
at the expense of Dr. Robert Smith, the author of the

         1 Qui genus humanum ingenio superavit, et omnes
            Perstrinxit Stellas exortus ut F.therous Sol Lucretius.

396  LIKE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                   CHAP. XXVI.

Compkat System of Optics, and Professor of Astronomy
and Experimental Philosophy at Cambridge. The statue
has been thus described by a modern poet :--

     Hark where the organ full and clear,
     With loud hosannahs charms the ear ;
     Behold, a prism within his hands,
     Absorbed in thought great Newton stands ;
     Such was his brow, and looks serene,
     His serious gait and musing mien,
     When taught on eagle wings to fly,
     He traced the wonders of the sky ;
     The chambers of the sun explored,
     Where tints of thousand hues were stored.

Dr. Smith likewise bequeathed the sum of £500 for

executing a painting on glass for the window at the south

end of Trinity College, Cambridge. The subject repre

sents the presentation of Sir Isaac Newton to his Majesty

George III., who is seated under a canopy with a laurel

chaplet in his hand, and attended by the British Minerva,
apparently advising him to reward merit in the person of

the great philosopher. Below the throne, the Lord Chan

cellor Bacon by an anachronism legitimate in art, pro
     1
posing to register the reward about to be conferred upon
                   is,
Sir Isaac. The original drawing of this picture was exe
                                                             p.

                                             A
cuted by Cypriani, and cost one hundred guineas.
   The personal estate of Sir Isaac Newton, which was

worth about £32,000, was divided among his four nephews

and four nieces of the half-blood, the grandchildren of his

mother by the Rev. Mr. Smith. The family estates of

Woolsthorpe and Sustern went to John Newton, the

heir-at-law, whose great grandfather was Sir Isaac's

uncle. This gentleman sold them in 1732 to Edmund

Turnor, Esq. of Stoke Rocheford.1                                short time before

his death, Sir Isaac gave away an estate in the parish of

     Tumor's CoUedions, &c, 158. See ArPEndix, No. XXX II.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  397

Bay don, in Wiltshire, to the sons and daughter of a brother
of Mrs. Conduitt,1 who, in consequence of their father dying
before Sir Isaac, had no share in the personal estate ;

and he also gave an estate of the same value, which he
bought at Kensington, to Catherine, the only daughter of
Mr. Conduitt, who afterwards married Mr. Wallop. This

lady was afterwards Viscountess Lymington, and the
estate of Kensington descended to the Earl of Ports
mouth, by whom it was sold. Sir Isaac was succeeded
as Master and Worker in the Mint by his nephew, John

Conduitt, Esq.2

   1 These were Robert and Newton Barton, and Mrs. Burr, the children of Colonel
Barton. This branch of the family became extinct by the death of the Rev. John
Barton. The present Charles Cutts Barton, Esq., is the heir-male of Geoffry Bar
ton, a half-brother of Mr. Conduitt, and the great -grandson of the widow of Colonel

Barton, by her marriage with Colonel Gardner, whose only daughter married the
Rev. Cutts Barton, Dean of Bristol.

   2 Mr. Conduitt's appointment to this office was announced in the Gazette imme
diately after the official notification of Sir Isaac's funeral. In a MS. entitled
Memorandums touching Mr. John Conduitt, it is stated that he went to West
minster School on the 28th June 1691, -- to Westminster College in June 1701, --
and to Trinity College, Cambridge, in June 1705, where he continued till June 1707.
On the 8th July he set out on his travels to Holland, Germany, &c, and returned
in May 1710. Between 1710 and 1711 he went twice to Portugal, and in 1713 he

visited Gibraltar, from which he returned in May 1717. On the 26th of August
1717, he was married to " Mrs. Katherine Barton" in Russel Court Chapel, as
proved by the marriage certificate, now before me, written on vellum, signed by
John Heylin, minister, (a fellow-student of Conduitt's at Trinity, and afterwards Pre
bend of Westminster,) and witnessed by Bernard Fletcher, Clark, and Anne Powell.
He sat in Parliament for Whitchurch in the Parliaments which met March 17,
1715, October 9, 1722, and January 23, 1728. He was re-elected in 1717, after
his appointment to the Mint. In 1734, when he was elected both for Southampton
and Whitchurch, he had the same number of votes at Southampton as his compe
titor, Anthony Hanley, but as this gentleman was found not to be duly elected,
Mr. Conduitt made his election for Southampton. He was born in 1688, and died
on the 20th May 1737, in the forty-ninth year of his age. His widow, Mrs. Con
duitt, erected in 1738 a handsome monument to his memory in Westminster Abbey.
Mrs. Conduitt died on the 20th January 1739, in the fifty-ninth year of her age.

398  LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  chap, xxv rr.

                  CHAPTER XXVII.

PERMANENCE OF NEWTON's REPUTATION-- CHARACTER OF HIS GENIUS

   HIS METHOD OF INVESTIGATION SIMILAR TO THAT USED BY GALILEO --

    ERROR IN ASCRIBING HIS DISCOVERIES TO THE USE OF THE METHODS
    RECOMMENDED BY LORD BACON -- THE PRETENSIONS OF THE BACONIAN
    PHILOSOPHY EXAMINED -- SIR ISAAC NEWTON'S SOCIAL CHARACTER
    HIS GREAT MODESTY -- THE SIMPLICITY OF HIS CHARACTER -- HIS RELI
    GIOUS AND MORAL CHARACTER -- HIS HOSPITALITY AND MODE OF LIFE
    -- HIS GENEROSITY AND CHARITY HIS PERSONAL APPEARANCE -- STA
    TUES AND PICTURES OF HIM -- MEMORIALS AND RECOLLECTIONS OF
    HIM -- HIS MANUSCRIPTS AND PAPERS.

    Such were the last days of Sir Isaac Newton, and such

the laurels that were shed over his grave. A century of

discoveries has, since his time, been added to science ; but
brilliant as these discoveries are, they have not oblitera
ted the minutest of his labours, and have served only to
brighten the halo which encircles his name. The achieve
ments of genius, like the source from which they spring,
are indestructible. Acts of legislation and deeds of war
may confer a high celebrity, but the reputation which
they bring is local and transient ; and while they are
hailed by the nation which they benefit, they are repro
bated by the people whom they ruin or enslave. The
labours of science, on the contrary, bear along with them
no counterpart of evil. They are the liberal bequests of
great minds to every individual of their race, and where-
ever they are welcomed and honoured, they become the
solace of private life, and the ornament and bulwark of
the commonwealth.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  399

    The importance of Sir Isaac Newton's discoveries has

been sufficiently exhibited in the preceding chapters.
The peculiar character of his genius, and the method

which he pursued in his inquiries, can be gathered only
from the study of his works, and from the history of his
individual labours. Were we to judge of the qualities of
his mind from the early age at which he made his prin
cipal discoveries, and from the rapidity of their succession,
we should be led to ascribe to him that quickness of pene
tration, and that exuberance of invention, which is more

characteristic of poetical than of philosophical genius.
But we must recollect that Newton was placed in the
most favourable circumstances for the development of his
powers. The flower of his youth, and the vigour of his

manhood, were entirely devoted to science. No injudi

cious guardian controlled his ruling passion, and no un-
genial studies or professional toils interrupted the conti
nuity of his pursuits. His discoveries were therefore the
fruit of persevering and unbroken study ; and he himself
declared, that whatever service he had done to the public
was not owing to any extraordinary sagacity, but solely
to industry and patient thought.

    Initiated early into the abstractions of geometry, he

was deeply imbued with her cautious spirit : And if his

acquisitions were not made with the rapidity of intuition,
they were at least firmly secured ; and the grasp which
he took of his subject was proportional to the mental
labour which it had exhausted. Overlooking what was
trivial, and separating what was extraneous, he bore down
with instinctive sagacity on the prominences of his sub
ject, and having thus grappled with its difficulties, he
never failed to entrench himself in its strongholds.

    To the highest powers of invention Newton added,

400  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVII.

what so seldom accompanies them, the talent of simplify

ing and communicating his profoundest speculations.1 In

the economy of her distributions, nature is seldom thus
lavish of her intellectual gifts. The inspired genius which
creates is rarely conferred along with the matured judg
ment which combines, and yet without the exertion of

both, the fabric of human wisdom could never have been

reared. Though a ray from heaven kindled the vestal
fire, yet an humble priesthood was required to keep alive

the flame.

   The method of investigating truth by observation and
experiment, so successfully pursued in the Principia, has
been ascribed by some modern writers of celebrity to
Lord Bacon ; and Sir Isaac Newton is represented as
having owed all his discoveries to the application of the
principles of that distinguished writer. One of the greatest
admirers of Lord Bacon has gone so far as to characterize
him as a man who has had no rival in the times which

are past, and as likely to have none in those which are to

come. In a eulogy so overstrained, we feel that the

language of panegyric has passed into that of idolatry ;
and we are desirous of weighing the force of arguments
which tend to depose Newton from the high priesthood
of nature, and to unsettle the proud destinies of Coper

nicus, Galileo, and Kepler.
    That Bacon was a man of powerful genius, and endowed

with varied and profound talent, --the most skilful logi
cian, -- the most nervous and eloquent writer of the age

which he adorned, are points which have been established
by universal suffrage. The study of ancient systems had

   1 This valuable faculty characterizes all his writings whether theological, che
mical, or mathematical ; but it is peculiarly displayed in his Treatise on Universal
Arithmetic, and in his Optical Lectures.

          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                          401

early impressed him with the conviction that experiment
and observation were the only sure guides in physical
inquiries ; and, ignorant though he was of the methods,
the principles, and the details of the mathematical sciences,
his ambition prompted him to aim at the construction of
an artificial system by which the laws of nature might
be investigated, and which might direct the inquiries of
philosophers in every future age. The necessity of expe
rimental research, and of advancing gradually from the
study of facts to the determination of their cause, though
the groundwork of Bacon's method, is a doctrine which

was not only inculcated, but successfully followed by

preceding philosophers. In a letter from Tycho Brahe to

Kepler, this industrious astronomer urges his pupil " to
lay a solid foundation for his views by actual observation,

and then by ascending from these to strive to reach the

causes of things ;" and it was no doubt under the in
fluence of this advice that Kepler submitted his wildest

fancies to the test of observation, and was conducted to

his most splendid discoveries. The reasonings of Coper

nicus, who preceded Bacon by more than a century, were
all founded upon the most legitimate induction. Dr.

Gilbert had exhibited in his Treatise on the Magnet1 the
most perfect specimen of physical research. Leonardo da
Vinci had described in the clearest manner the proper
method of philosophical investigation ;2 and the whole
scientific career of Galileo was one continued example of
the most sagacious application of observation and experi
ment to the discovery of general laws. The names of

1 De Magnete, pp. 42, 52, 169, and Preface, p. 30.

J. 2 See Essai sur Us Ouvrages Phyiico-mathematiqna de Leonar d de Vinci, par

    B. Venturi. Paris, 1799, pp. 32, 33, &c. See also Carlo Amoretti's ATemorie.

ttoriche su la vita gli studi e le Open de Leonardo da Yinci. Milano, 1804.

VOL. II.                                            2C

402            MFK OF SlU ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXV II.

Paracelsus, Van Helmont, and Cardan, have been ranged

in opposition to this constellation of great names, and
while it is admitted that even they had thrown off the

yoke of the schools, and had succeeded in experimental
                                        pretensions have been
research,   their credulity and  their  bulk of philosophers"
adduced    as a proof that to    the "

the method of induction was unknown. The fault of this

argument consists in the conclusion being infinitely more
general than the fact. The errors of these men were not

founded on their ignorance, but on their presumption.

They wanted the patience of philosophy, and not her
methods. An excess of vanity, a waywardness of fancy,

and an insatiable appetite for that species of passing fame

which is derived from eccentricity of opinion, moulded

the reasonings and disfigured the writings of these inge
nious men ; and it can scarcely admit of a doubt, that,

had they lived in the present age, their philosophical

character would have received the same impress from the

peculiarity of their tempers and dispositions. This is an

experiment, however, which cannot now be made ; but

the history of modern science supplies the defect, and

the experience of every man furnishes a proof, that in

the present age there are many philosophers of elevated

talents and inventive genius who are as impatient of ex
perimental research as Paracelsus, as fanciful as Cardan,

and as presumptuous as Van Helmont.

     Having thus shown that the distinguished philosophers

who flourished before Bacon were perfect masters both of

the principles and practice of inductive research, it be

comes interesting to inquire whether or not the philoso

phers who succeeded him acknowledged any obligation

Ifto his system, or derived the slightest advantage from
his precepts.  Bacon constructed a method to which

IJFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  403

modern science owes its existence, we shall find its culti

vators grateful for the gift, and offering the richest in
cense at the shrine of a benefactor whose generous labours

conducted them to immortality. No such testimonies,

however, are to be found. Nearly two hundred years
have gone by, teeming with the richest fruits of human

genius, and no grateful disciple has appeared to vindicate
the rights of the alleged legislator of science. Even
Newton, who was born and educated after the publication
of the Novum Organon, never mentions the name of
Bacon or his system ; and the amiable and indefatigable
Boyle treated him with the same disrespectful silence.
When we are told, therefore, that Newton owed all his

discoveries to the method of Bacon, nothing more can be
meant than that he proceeded in that path of observation
and experiment which had been so warmly recommended
in the Novum Organon ; but it ought to have been added,

that the same method was practised by his predecessors ;
that Newton possessed no secret that was not used by
Galileo and Copernicus ; and that he would have enriched

science with the same splendid discoveries if the name

and the writings of Bacon had never been heard of.1
    From this view of the subject we shall now proceed to

examine the Baconian process itself, and consider if it

possesses any merit as an artificial method of discovery,

or if it is at all capable of being employed, for this pur

pose, even in the humblest walks of scientific inquiry.

   1 " The man who first discovered that cold freezes water, and that heat turns it

into vapour, proceeded on the same general principles and on the same method by
which Newton discovered the law of gravitation, and the properties of light. His

HeguUe PhUosophandi are maxims of common sense, and are practised every day in
common life ; and he who philosophizes by other rules, either concerning the material

Jsystem or concerning the mind, mistakes his aim." -- Reid's Inquiry into the Human
 find. Introduction.

404  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP, xxvir.

   The process of Lord Bacon was, we believe, never tried
by any philosopher but himself. As the subject of its
application, he selected that of heat. With his usual
erudition, he collected all the facts which science could

stthhueepmmplyw,w--iitthhheaalalllrrtathhneegesdasguatbhcteiltemytyionfotfaabajluedps,gle--ea,d--heer,ac--nrodshshe-qeucecosomtnibojuinnreeeddd

them by all the magic of his exclusive processes. But,
after all this display of physical logic, nature thus inter
rogated was still silent. The oracle which he had himself
established refused to give its responses, and the minis

tering priest was driven with discomfiture from his shrine.
This example, in short, of the application of his system,
will remain to future ages as a memorable instance of the

absurdity of attempting to fetter discovery by any arti

ficial rules.

    Nothing even in mathematical science can be more
certain than that a collection of scientific facts are of

themselves incapable of leading to discovery, or to the
determination of general laws, unless they contain the
predominating fact or relation in which the discovery

mainly resides. A vertical column of arch-stones possesses

more strength than the same materials arranged in an

arch without the key-stone. However nicely they are
adjusted, and however nobly the arch may spring, it never

can possess either equilibrium or stability. In this com

parison all the facts are supposed to be necessary to the
final result ; but, in the inductive method, it is impossible

to ascertain the relative importance of any facts, or even

to determine if the facts have any value at all, till the

master fact which constitutes the discovery has crowned
the zealous efforts of the aspiring philosopher. The mind
then returns to the dark and barren waste over which it

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       405

 has been hovering ; and by the guidance of this singleit,
 torch it embraces, under the comprehensive grasp of
 general principles, the multifarious and insulated pheno
 mena which had formerly neither value nor connexion.
 Hence it must be obvious to the most superficial thinker,
 that discovery consists either in the detection of some

concealed relation -- some deep-seated affinity which baffles

 ordinary research, or in the discovery of some simple fact
 which is connected by slender ramifications with the sub

ject to be investigated ; but which, when once detected,

 carries us back by its divergence to all the phenomena
 which it embraces and explains.

    In order to give additional support to these views, it

 would be interesting to ascertain the general character of
 the process by which a mind of acknowledged power
 actually proceeds in the path of successful inquiry. The
 history of science does not furnish us with much informa

tion on this head, and if it is to be found at all, it must

be gleaned from the biographies of eminent men. What

ever this process may be in its details, if it has any, there

cannot be the slightest doubt that in its generalities at
least it is the very reverse of the method of induction.
The impatience of genius spurns the restraints of mecha

nical rules, and never will submit to the plodding drudgery
of inductive discipline. The discovery of a new fact unfits
even a patient mind for deliberate inquiry. Conscious of
having added to science what had escaped the sagacity of

former ages, the ambitious discoverer invests his new

acquisition with an importance which does not belong to it.

He imagines a thousand consequences to flow from his dis
covery : He forms innumerable theories to explain and
he exhausts his fancy in trying all its possible relations
to recognised difficulties and unexplained facts. The

406  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVII.

reins, however, thus freely given to his imagination, are
speedily drawn up. His wildest conceptions are all sub
jected to the rigid test of experiment, and he has thus
been hurried by the excursions of his own fancy into new
and fertile paths, far removed from ordinary observation.
Here the peculiar character of his own genius displays
itself by the invention of methods of trying his own
speculations, and he is thus often led to new discoveries
far more important and general than that by which he
began his inquiry. For a confirmation of these views, we

may refer to the History of Kepler's Discoveries ; and if

we do not recognise them to the same extent in the la
bours of Newton, it is because he kept back his discoveries
till they were nearly perfected, and therefore withheld the

successive steps of his inquiries. 1
    The social character of Sir Isaac Newton was such as

might have been expected from his intellectual attain

ments. He was modest, candid, and affable, and without

any of the eccentricities of genius, suiting himself to every
company, and speaking of himself and others in such a
manner that he was never even suspected of vanity. " But

Ithis," says Dr. Pemberton, " immediately discovered

in him, which at once both surprised and charmed me.

Neither his extreme great age, nor his universal reputa
tion, had rendered him stiff in opinion, or in any degree

Ielated. Of this had occasion to have almost daily ex
Iperience. The remarks continually sent him by letters

      The following interesting aneedote is related in Couduitt's MSS. :-- " When Sir
A. Fountaine was at Berlin with Leibnitz in 1701, and at supper with the Queen
of Prussia, she asked Leibnitz his opinion of Sir Isaac Newton. Leibnitz said that
taking mathematicians from the beginning of the world to the time when Sir Isaac
lived, what he had done was much the better half; and added that he had consulted

all the learned in Europe upon some difficult points without having any satisfaction,
and that when he applied to Sir Isaac, he wrote him in answer by the first post, to
do so and so, and then he would find it."

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      407

on the Principia were received with the utmost goodness.
These were, so far from being anyways displeasing to him,
that on the contrary they occasioned him to speak many
kind things of me to my friends, and to honour me with
a public testimony of his good opinion."

    The modesty of Sir Isaac Newton, in reference to his

great discoveries, was not founded on any indifference to
the fame which they conferred,1 or upon any erroneous
judgment of their importance to science. The whole of
his life proves, that he knew his place as a philosopher,

and was determined to assert and vindicate his rights.
His modesty arose from the depth and extent of his
knowledge, which showed him what a small portion of

nature he had been able to examine, and how much re

mained to be explored in the same field in which he had

himself laboured. In the magnitude of the comparison

he recognised his own littleness ; and a short time before

his death he uttered this memorable sentiment : " I do
not know what I may appear to the world, but to myself
I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the sea

shore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a
smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst

the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me."

   1 The following aneedote is recorded by Conduitt, as showing Sir Isaac's indiffer
ence to fame: -- " Mr. Molyneux related to us that after he and Mr. Graham and Dr.

Bradley had put up a perpendicular telescope at Kew, to find out the parallax of the

fixed stars, they found a certain nutation of the earth which they could not account

for, and which Molyneux told me he thought destroyed entirely the Newtonian sys

tem ; and therefore he was under the greatest difficulty how to break it to Sir Isaac.

And when he did break it by degrees, in the softest manner, all Sir Isaac said in
answer was, when he had told him his opinion, ' It may be so, there is no arguing

against facts and experiments, -- so cold was he to all sense of fame at a time when,

as Tillotson said, a man has formed his last understanding.'"  This conversation

must have taken place in 1726, when Molyneux's instrument was in use at Kew ;

but the nutation, though proposed at that time as an explanation of the change of

declination of y Draconis, was not discovered till 1747 by Bradley. -- See Itigaud's

Life of Bradley, p. lxii. and pp. 2, 3.

408      LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       CHAP. XXVII.

What a lesson to the vanity and presumption of philoso

phers, -- to those especially who have never even found

the smoother pebble or the prettier shell ! What a pre

paration for the latest inquiries, and the last views of the
decaying spirit,-- for those inspired doctrines which alone

can throw a light over the dark ocean of undiscovered

truth !

In the religious and moral character of our author, there

is much to admire and to imitate. While he exhibited in

his life and writings an ardent regard for the general in

terests of religion, he was at the same time a firm believer

in Revelation. He was too deeply versed in the Scrip

tures, and too much imbued with their spirit, to judge

harshly of other men who took different views of them

from his own. He cherished the great principles of reli

gious toleration, and never scrupled to express his abhor

rence of persecution, even in its mildest form. Immorality

and impiety he never permitted to pass unreproved. When
Vigani told him " a loose story about a nun," he gave up

his acquaintance, and when Dr. Halley1 ventured to say

Ianything disrespectfulto  religion, he  itnhveaseriathbilnygsc,h--eckyeodu
                       "   have studied
him, with the remark,

have not."
    He considered cruelty to " brute beasts" as a violation

of Christian morality, and such was his tenderness for the

lower creation, that he could not tolerate the sports of

hunting or shooting animals. When Mr. Conduitt one

day was speaking favourably of one of Sir Isaac's nephews,

   1 Mr. Hearne, in a memorandum dated April 4, 1726, states, that a great quarrel
happened between Sir Isaac Newton and Mr. Halley. We have not been able to
find any traces of it. Ifwe suppose the above date to be 1727, the rumour of aquarrel

may have originated in the fact, that on the 2d March 1727, Sir Isaac had called

attention to the omission on Halley's part, as Astronomer-Royal, to send to the
Society a copy of his Annual Observations, as required by the late Queen's letter. --
See Memoirt of the Astronomical Society, vol. viii. p. 188.

                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      409

he urged it as an objection against him, " that he loved

killing of birds."1

The native simplicity of Sir Isaac Newton's mind is

finely pourtrayed in the affecting letter in which he ac

knowledges to Locke, that he had thought and spoken of

him uncharitably ; and the humility and candour in which

he asks forgiveness, could have emanated only from a

mind as noble as it was pure. When Locke wrote to Sir
Peter King that Newton " is a nice man to deal with,

and a little too apt to raise in himself suspicions where

there is no ground," he referred to an imperfection of

character which we have not scrupled to notice, whether

in his controversies with Hooke or with Flamsteed. It

would be a sacrifice of truth, and an empty compliment

to the memory of so great a man, to speak of him as

exempt from the infirmities of our common nature. When

Bishop Burnet has                                said that  he valued him       f--or fsoormheathviinngg
still more valuable                               than all   his philosophy,
the whitest soul he ever knew, -- we may well decline to
search for shades on a tablet so pure. It is far from the

duty of a biographer, who has been permitted to inspect

the private and sacred relics of the dead, to sit in judg

ment on the failings they may disclose. It is enough that

he deals honestly with what is known, and makes no

apology for what is socially or morally wrong. Other

biographers are under no such restraint. In searching

even the recesses of great minds for the manifestation of

1 " Whiston," says Mrs. Conduitt, " had spread it abroad that Sir Isaac abstained

bfrloomod.eaTtihngis,r"absbheitsadbdesc,au"seis  strangled, and from black      puddings, because made of
                                                 not true. Sir Isaac said that  meats strangled were forbid
den, because that was a painful death, and the letting out the blood the easiest, --that

animals should be put to as little pain as possible, and that the reason why eating

blood was forbidden, was because it was thought eating of blood inclined men to be

cruel.-- C. C."

410       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                CHAP. XXVII.

a common humanity, the philosopher may throw light

upon those compensatory adjustments by which great

talents and high position are sometimes united with so

cial and even moral failings. If in estimating the char

acter of Newton, Professor De Morgan has pointed out

more conspicuously than other biographers the failings to

which we have referred, he has yet drawn his character

with such tenderness and truth, that we accept of it
as a noble tribute to the noblest of our race. " It is
enough," he says, " that Newton is the greatest of philo
                               of men ;" -- that   " we can
sophers,  and one of the best
not find  in his character an  acquired failing    ;"--" that

all his errors are to be traced to a disposition which

seems to have been born with him ; and that, admitting

them in their fullest extent, he remains an object of un

qualified wonder, and all but unqualified respect." Nor

is the tribute of the poet less just than that of the ma
thematician. When Pope expressed a wish for " some

memoirs and character of Newton as a private man," he
did " not doubt that his life and manners would make as

great a discovery of virtue and goodness and rectitude of

heart, as his works have done of penetration and the

utmost stretch of human knowledge." 1

After Sir Isaac took up his residence in London, he

lived in a very handsome style, and kept his carriage,

with an establishment of three male and three female

servants. In his own house he was hospitable and kind,

and on proper occasions he gave splendid entertainments,

though without ostentation or vanity. In his diet he was

frugal, and in all his habits temperate. When he was

asked   to take snuff or tobacco, he declined,     remarking
" that  he would make no necessities to himself."   His dress

          1 Pope's letter to Comluitt. See Appkndbc, No. XXVII.

             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                   411

was always simple, but on one occasion, when he opposed
the Honourable Mr. Annesley in 1705, as a candidate for
the University, he is said to have put on a suit of laced

clothes.

    Sir Isaac does not appear to have had much taste for
the fine arts. He used to say of his friend the Earl of
Pembroke, " that he was a lover of stone dolls." ^ Not
withstanding his dislike of sculpture, he seems to have
been considered a judge of pictures. He was chosen a
" Commissioner for Paintings, and having a dispute with
Archbishop Wake, whom he opposed, he told a story of a
Bishop who said on that subject, ' that when this snow
(pointing to his grey hairs) falls, there will be a great deal
of dirt in churches.' After this he went to no more of
their meetings."2

    His generosity and charity had no bounds, and he used
to remark, that they who gave away nothing till they
died, never gave at all. Though his wealth had become
considerable by a prudent economy, yet he had always a
contempt for money, and he spent a considerable part of
his income in relieving the poor, --in assisting his re
lations,3 and in encouraging ingenuity and learning.4
He was scrupulously exact and regular in all matters of

business ; and though he disregarded money, allowing his

1  Conduitt's HISS.      may relate to the putting  up of pictures  in churches,              I
   This anecdote, which
'

have given in the words of Mrs. Conduitt, with whose initials it is signed.
   3 " He was very kind to all the Ayscoughs. To one he gave £800, to another

£200, and to a third £100, and many other sums ; and other engagements did he

enter into also for them. He was the ready assistant of all who were any way re
lated to him, --to their children and grandchildren." -- Annual Register, 177(1, vol.

xix. p. 25.  He gave a regular allowance    to his niece,  toMr"s.auPgilmkienngttonh,er  and on the
12th August   1725, he presented £100 to  Mary Clarke                                    portion."
4 He gave money to Stirling, and brought him from Venice ; and in 1719 and

1720 he presented to Pound, the astronomer, one hundred guineas, in two gifts of
fifty guineas each. -- Rigaud'a Bradley, p. iii., in note.

412                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                      CHAP. XXVII.

rents often to remain unpaid, he had a deep sense of

justice, and was very strict in demanding from his tenants
at Woolsthorpe, even in very small matters, a rigorous
performance of their obligations.1 His conduct, however,
was not always influenced by this principle. When he

had been imposed upon in purchasing an estate at Baydon,
in Wiltshire, for which he had paid double its value, and
was told that " he might vacate the bargain in equity,"
he replied, " that he would not for the sake of two thou
sand pounds go into Westminster Hall to tell that he had
been made a fool of."2 The same unwillingness to have

recourse to legal proceedings shewed itself on another
occasion. He one day missed bank bills to the amount
of upwards of £3000, and he suspected that his pocket
had been picked by W. Whiston, a nephew of Whiston,
who had bought an estate in land of that value without

any visible means of paying for it. Notwithstanding the

magnitude of the loss, he could not be prevailed upon to
prosecute the supposed delinquent, and when Mr. Con-

duitt asked him how much he had lost, he only answered
" too much."3

1 In 1687-8 he had a law-suit with Mr. Storer, his tenant at Woolsthorpe, in order

to compel him to scour the drains, and repair the thatch, and the walls, and palings

Iof the swine-cot and cow-house, which he was bound by his lease to leave in good
o"rdwehro.   have found the  scroll of a long and characteristic letter addressed to a friend,
            had undertaken   the office of an arbitrator." He thanks him for doing so,
and expresses his hearty wish that he " may inherit the blessing promised to peace
makers." --See Appendix, No. XXXIII.
There is another scroll of a short letter to " Cosin John Newton," his heir-at-law,
Iw" rtihttaetn                                                "
              about  May 1720, and of a similar character.  farm  understand," he says,
            Thomas    Hubbard agreed with you to leave his        at Lady-day next, and
Ithat I was to allow him ten pounds for his manure. But now am told that he would

become tenant to it at eleven pounds per annum. This would be departing from the

bargain already made, in order to make a new one. But there being sufficient wit
Inesses of the bargain already made, expect that he stand to
»                                                                   and desire you

             it

                                                '
                                                                               if

                                                                                                         it,

                                                                        I
to demand            of him in my name, and to send me his answer,  he refuses to sign

articles pursuant to what has been already agreed upon."
                                      Id.
Ooiuluia'i 3ISS.

                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 413

    His liberality, indeed, was in some instances excessive.
On one occasion he offered Cheselden as a fee a handful
of guineas out of his coat pocket, and when he refused

Ithem, saying that a guinea or two was the most he ought

to have, Sir Isaac laughing said, " Suppose do give you
more than your fee."1 To Dr. Cheyne, who refused to

take money from him, he was less indulgent. According
to a statement made by Dr. Arbuthnot to Conduitt, he
one day told Sir Isaac that Dr. Cheyne had written an

ingenious book on mathematics, but that he had not money

to print it. " Bring it to me," said Sir Isaac ; and when

the manuscript was brought to him, he offered Cheyne a
bag of money, which he refused, and " Newton would see

him no more."2

    The habits of deep meditation which Sir Isaac Newton
had acquired, though they did not show themselves in his
intercourse with society, exercised their full influence over
his mind when in the midst of his own family. Absorbed
in thought he would often sit down on his bedside after he
rose, and remain there for hours without dressing himself,
occupied with some interesting investigation which had fix
ed his attention. Owing to the same absence of mind, he
neglected to take the requisite quantity of nourishment, and
it was therefore often necessary to remind him of his meals.3

   In his personal appearance, Sir Isaac Newton was not
above the middle size, and in the latter part of his life was
inclined to be corpulent. According to Mr. Conduitt,
" he had a very lively and piercing eye, a comely and
gracious aspect, with a fine head of hair as white as silver,
without any baldness, and when his peruke was off was a

venerable sight." Bishop Atterbury asserts,4 on the other

1 Conduitt's MS.  1 Id.  3 See this Volume, pp. 89 and 93.

· Epistolary Correspondence, vol. i. p. 180. Sect. 77.

414                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVII.

hand, that the lively and piercing eye did not belong to
Sir Isaac during the last twenty years of his life. " In
deed," says he, " in the whole air of his face and make
there was nothing of that penetrating sagacity which
appears in his compositions. He had something rather
languid in his look and manner which did not raise any
great expectation in those who did not know him." This
opinion of Bishop Atterbury is confirmed by an observa
tion of Mr. Thomas Hearne, 1 who says, " that Sir Isaac
was a man of no very promising aspect. He was a short
well-set man. He was full of thought, and spoke very
little in company, so that his conversation was not agree
able. When he rode in his coach one arm would be out

of his coach on one side, and the other on the other." Sir
Isaac never wore spectacles, and never " lost more than

one tooth to the day of his death."
    Beside the statue of Sir Isaac Newton executed by

Roubilliac, there is a bust of him by the same artist in
the library of Trinity College, Cambridge.2 Several good
paintings of him are extant. Two of these are in the hall
of the Royal Society of London, and have, we believe,
been often engraved. Another, by Vanderbank, is in the

small combination room in Trinity College, and has been
engraved by Vertue. Another, by Valentine Ritts, is in
the Hall of Trinity College ; but the best, from which the
frontispiece to Volume I. is copied, was painted by Sir
Godfrey Kneller, and is in the possession of Lord Egremont
at Petworth.3 There are several portraits of Newton at

1 MSS. Memoranda in the Bodleian Library.

2 It is not true, as has been stated, that the original of this bust is in the posses

sion of the Marquis of Lansdowne. The bust of Newton at Bowood Park is a copy

of theone in  the Library of Trinity, executed for his Lordship by Bailey.      which
        have  taken," says Dr. Stukely, " several sketches from his side face,
  I0 "
Iare very like him.
                     being present with him and Sir Godfrey (Kneller) at painting

       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                                      415

Hurtsbourne Park. In the University Library there is
a cast from his face after death, by Roubilliac, from which
the following engraving is taken, after a photograph by
the Rev. Mr. Kingsley.

Every memorial of so great a man as Sir Isaac Newton

has been preserved and cherished with peculiar veneration.

His house at Woolsthorpe, of which we have given an

engraving, has been religiously protected by Mr. Turnor

of Stoke Rocheford, the proprietor. Dr. Stukely, who

visited it in Sir Isaac's lifetime on the 13th October 1721,

gives  the following description of it in his letter                                                                              to  Dr.
Mead,                                                                                                                             is  the
        written in 1727 :--" "lis built of stone, as

way of the country hereabouts, and a reasonable good one.

IThey led me up stairs and showed me Sir Isaac's study,

where suppose he studied when in the country in his

younger days, or perhaps when he visited his mother from

the University. I observed the shelves were of his own

making, being pieces of deal boxes which probably he sent

his books and clothes down in on those occasions. There

were some years ago two or three hundred books in it of

his great picture to be sent to France, desired Sir Isaac to let Sir Godfrey paint his

                                           What said Sir Isaac, would you make
                                           was then in highest favour with him." --
a
                                                 it, it,

                                                   I'

                                                                                               !'
                                                                                                                               '
side face, a profile as we call  for me.
  medal of me?' and refused        though

Stukely's Letter to Conduitl, Grantham, July 22, 1727.

416               ' LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          CHAP. XXVir.

his father-in-law, Mr. Smith, which Sir Isaac gave to Dr.

Newton of our town."1

When the house was repaired in 1 798, a tablet of white

marble was put    up by Mr. Turnor             in the room where                 Sir
Isaac was born,   with the following
                                               inscription :--
" Sir Isaac Newton, son of John Newton, Lord of the

Manor of Woolsthorpe, was born in this room on the 25th

December 1642."

     Nature and Nature's laws lay hid in night,
     God said, " Let Newton be," and all was Light.*

The following lines have been written upon the house :

     Here Newton dawned, here lofty wisdom woke,

     And to a wondering world divinely spoke.

     If Tully glowed, when Phsedrns's steps he trode,
     IfOr fancy formed Philosophy a God :

         sages still for Homer's birth contend,

     The Sons of Science at this dome must bend.
     All hail the shrine ! All hail the natal day,
     Cam boasts his noon, --This Cot his morning ray.

    The celebrated apple tree, the fall of one of the apples
of which is said to have turned the attention of Newton

to the subject of gravity, was long ago destroyed by wind.3

  '1 Turnor's Collections, p. 176.                                                is

      The original of these lines, which we have seen in Pope's own handwriting,
slightly different, and inferior to those in the text.

     Nature and all her laws lay hid in night,
     God said, " Let Newton be," and all was Light.

3 'the aneedote of the falling apple is not mentioned by Dr. Stukely, nor by Pem-

berton, who conversed with Newton about the origin of his discoveries, and mentions
                                               I find, however,
the aneedote of Newton's sitting in a garden.                    a reference to  an apple
in the following memorandum by Conduitt.       " In the same     year, (at his   mother's

in Lincolnshire,) when musing in a garden it came into his thoughts that the same

power of gravity, which made an apple fall from the tree to the ground, was not

limited to a certain distance." See vol. i. p. 27, note.

   After quoting  some interesting  passages from Kepler  on gravity,  Mr. Drinkwater
Bethnne justly    remarks, " Who,    after perusing such  passages in  the works of an

author which were in the hands of every student of astronomy, can believe that

Newton waited for the fall of an apple to set him thinking for the first time on the

theory which has immortalized his name ? An apple may have fallen, and Newton

may have seen it ; but such speculations as those which it is asserted to have been

                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                           417

    Many interesting relics of Sir Isaac have been preserved
with religious care. His reflecting telescope, as we have
seen, is in the possession of the Royal Society of London,
and in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge, there is

a large collection of articles which belonged to him--a

terrestrial globe, a ring dial, a small brass quadrant, a
mariner's compass, a parallel ruler, a pair of compasses,
three locks of his silver-white hair, one of which was pre
sented by Colonel C. Burr in 1835. The door of his
book-case is in the museum of the Roy al Society of Edin

burgh. A descendant of Dr. Bentley possesses a watch

presented to him by Newton in 1717,1 and among the
memorials given to the Royal Society by the Rev. Mr.
Turnor, is a gold watch, said to have been presented by
Mrs. Conduitt to Sir Isaac in January 1708.2

    One of the most interesting and valuable relics of Sir

Isaac is a silver box, beautifully carved, which he present
ed to the Earl of Abercorn, the great-grandfather of Sir
George Hamilton Seymour, G.C.B., who has kindly placed

it in my hands. It is three and a half inches in diameter,
and one and a half inch deep.3 It bears on the lid the

the cause of originating in him, had been long familiar to the thoughts of everyone

in Europe pretending to the name of Natural Philosopher." --Life of Kepler, p. 24.

vol. i.     p.
" This       is
ISee             268.
    1              to
                       acquaint  you,"  says           N. Facio,  " that  have agreed with Mr. Ben

jamin Steele, the watchmaker, at £15, for him to make the watch for Dr. Bentley.
It will be with four pierced rubies and four diamonds, and I hope will be worth the
money.'' -- Letter to Newton, dated Worcester, June 15, 1717.

   * This   date is obviously an error, as             Miss Barton   did   not become   Mrs. Conduitt
till 1717.    Professor De Morgan, who                 examined     says,   " that any  one who looks
                                                                  it,
                                                                    is

                                                                               is
                                                                                    is
                                                                                               is
                                                                                                       it
at the inscription will see that                       not an old watch. It neither ornamented nor
            a

                                          it
                                                   is
placed in shield or other envelope, while the case beautifully chased, and has an

elaborate design representing Fame and Britannia examining the portrait of New
ton." --Notes and Queries, No. 210, p. 430. The dial-plate
                                                                           obviously new. Mr.

Turnor, in whose possession saw the watch, told me that he purchased in the
a
    3

                     in
                                is

                           I
Curiosity Shop at Warwick.                                                              filled up with
      In the woodcut the light parts are silver, and the dark ground

substance which dark in all the compartments and shields containing numbers,

and reddish the merely ornamental portions.                                2D

    VOL. II.

418  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVII.

Hamilton arms, a crown surmounted by a tree crossed
with a saw ; and the bottom of it as well as the lid is carved
with enigmatical numbers, forming a perpetual Julian

                                                 THE BOTTOM OF THE BOX.

Kalendar. When Sir George was our ambassador at
Brussels in 1840, and at St. Petersburg in 1853, he

                        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  419

submitted the box to Professor Quetelet and M. Otto

Struve of Pulkova, who have given a satisfactory explan

ation of   aulplotnhethleegbeontdtsomexocef ptthethbeoxfol:l--owi1ng,   which is one
of those

                     Round For Sou : & Back For Shin : 4
                                                      7:12
           4 : 48           5 : 36   6 : 24                             8

                     From Sun Set or From Moons Rise

1  The    following is  the explanation given  by M. Otto Struve :--       very    complete
   The    engravings    compose a perpetual    Julian Kalendar, and one
"

for the first 38 years of the last century, but which may still be partly used at the

present day and in the future.

                                 " 1. The Lid of the Box.

   " The numbers in the 19 shields which form its periphery, give in the first lines

the dates of Easter for the years from 1700 to 1738. The month of March is there
indicated by :, the month of April by A. In a shield (the 12th) we find also the
sign + in the middle of two numbers of the first line, (1 + 29.) The sign here
indicates that the first number belongs to the month of April, and the second to
the month of March. In all the other cases the two numbers of the first line are

those of the months indicated by the signs above mentioned.

"Each shield refers to two years, which are 19 years distant from one another.

The first shield, which relates to the years 1700 and 1719, is that which is placed
above the crown, (beneath the Hamilton Arms,) and a little to the right. In setting
out from this first shield in a direction to the right, the numbers in the second line
indicate the two years after 1700 to which Easter corresponds in the first line.
Such numbers are found only in each fourth shield between which the numbers cor
responding to the intermediate years ought to be supplied. In place of numbers, the
second line presents to us, for these intermediate years, the initials of the days of the
week which refer to the dates given in the central square of the lid. All the dates

in this central square fall upon the same day of the week, indicated for each year by

the initials which we read in the second and in the third line of the peripheral shields.

The sign + which we find near some of the initials, indicates that the corresponding

year is leap year, and that for this reason the days of the week have made leaps of two

days. In the shields where there are numbers in place of initials, we must supply

the days   of the    week with the assistance of the initials in   the  adjoining shields.
   " The   initials   in the third line of the peripheral shields  are  only the continuation

of those in the second line. The numbers in the third line are the golden numbers,

and correspond equally to the two years indicated in the second line. The large

cross >J« which is in the eleventh shield for the year 1710, indicates that in this
year a new lunar cycle commences. For this year the golden number is 1. As in

the second line in the shields, and also in the third line where there is no mark of

initials, we must supply them with the assistance of the adjacent shields, and vice

versa for  the numbers.     central  square, we must  still  add that   the Roman  numerals
   " With   respect to the

indicate the month, --No. I. signifying March ; II. April, and so on. The Arabic

420                           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                CHAP. XXVII.

    Professor de Morgan's explanation of this compartment
will be found below.1

    The manuscripts, letters, and other papers of Newton

numerals are the days of the month indicated above or below, to which correspond

the initials of the days of the week in the peripheral shields. It is thus that, for

example, for the year 1700 all the dates of the central square are Monday, for 1710
Saturday, &c. This part of the Kalendar may find an application even at present.
For this purpose we must subtract 1700 from the year in question, and divide the
difference by 28. The remainder is the year of the solar cycle for which we must
seek in the peripheral shields the initial of the day of the week which corresponds,

for the year in question, to the dates furnished by the central square.

" In the   central             " 2. The Bottom of the Box.               the numbers     point  to the
                    rectangle the small arrows attached to

true solar time of sunset for the beginning of each month, Old Style, where they

give the number of hours between the true noon and the rising or setting of the

sun, that  the semi-diurnal arc of the sun for the date in question. The months
           is,

                              it
                                      is
are there indicated as on the lid by Roman cyphers. The Arabic numerals
                                                                           by
                                                                                                                4,
                                                                                                                      5,
&c., are the entire hours, the half-hours being indicated                     Jleur-de-lyi, and the

quarters by points, and                   possible to obtain from this table the time required to

two or three minutes nearly. This table suited nearly to the latitude of London,
                                                   is in is
the   computer having neglected the effect of          it  refraction.   the  central  rectangle,  con
   "  The elliptical compartments, both above                 and below

tain the equation of time. The letters                       are the initials of the names of the

month, and the numbers indicate either the days of the month, or the quantity

of the equation of time. The sign of the sun signifies that at the four dates near

which      found, the equation of time zero. These four dates divide the year
        it
into four periods. For each of these periods the elliptical compartments give withit is

                          is
their corresponding dates the maximum of the equation of time expressed in

minutes and in seconds. In the two periods when this equation                            greatest, we
                                                                           it
find also the dates at which the equation                                                 is

                                                                                                  if
                                                             or of the corresponding maximum.
The sign                                           is
                              a little obscure, but                                                   we
                                                    it J,
                                                        J,

                                                          f
                                                           may be satisfactorily explained

suppose to indicate that the numbers which are under do not belong to the

pre"ceTdhineglemgeanxdimounm    of  the equation.  the central  rectangle     gives the  time of high
                              the   right side of

water for the days of full moon, but these times differ considerably from those now

observed.                                                                     still little enigmatic.

   " The legend on the left hand of the central rectangle
1
                                  1?
                                            in

                                                                          it
                                                                                              is

                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                      is
The supposition of M. Quetelet, that the numbers in are more precise indications

of the hours of sunrise and sunset, cannot be correct, for these hours are given with

more precision in the central rectangle. The constant difference of 48 minutes

between each adjacent couple of numbers, makes us suppose, on the contrary, that

these numbers relate to the relative diurnal motion of the sun and moon, which

confirmed also by the words the legend.                                       " Otto Struve.

      " Poulkota, April 1853."

      The word Sou may mean Setting or Southing. Shin means Shining or Rising.

              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  421

have been preserved in different collections. His corres

pondence with Cotes relative to the second edition of the

Principia, and amounting to between sixty and a hundred
letters, a considerable portion of the manuscript of that
work, and five letters to Dr. Keill on the Leibnitzian con

troversy, are preserved in the Library of Trinity College,
Cambridge, and have been published by Mr. Edleston in
the interesting volume to which we have so often referred.
Newton's letters to Flamsteed, about thirty-four in num
ber, are deposited in the Library of Corpus Christi Col
lege, Oxford, and those of Flamsteed are at Hurtsbourne
Park. In the British Museum, and in the Library of the
Royal Society of London, there are many letters of New
ton and his correspondents. Several letters of Newton,
and the original specimen which he drew up of the Prin
cipia, exist among the papers of Mr. William Jones, (the
father of Sir William Jones,) which are preserved at

Upon the more probable supposition that Sou means Setting, the legend directs us
to go Bound for Setting, and Back for Bisint), which would give --

                          FROM BOX.            FROH HOPTON'S " CONCOR-
                                                   DANCY 0 » YEARES."

              i January,  Betting.    Rising.  Sotting.  Rising.

              February,   41. Q,    8h c       4" 0<     8h 0'
                                               4 45      7 13
              March,      4 48      7 12       5 41      6 19
                          5 36                 6 42      5 18
              April,      6 24      6 24                 4 25
                                    5 36       7 35      3 51
Beginning of  May,        7 12      4 48       89        40
              June,                 40         80        4 43
              July,       80        40         7 17      5 41
                          80        4 48       (3 19     6 26
              August,     7 12      5 3(3      5 24      7 34
                                    6 24       4 26
              September,  6 24      7 12       3 50      8 10
                          5 36      80
              October,    4 48
                          40
              November,

              December,

    The last two columns are a part of the table of the sun's rising and setting from

Arthur Hopton's " Concordancy of Yeares," 1615. In the last column of this table

7h 13' is a misprint for 7h 15'.

  If" sou is to be read southing, it means that the southing is 4h, 4h 48', &c., after

rising ; but this is not the most likely meaning.°

422  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  CHAP. XXVII.

Shirburn Castle, in the library of Lord Macclesfield.1 But
the great mass of Newton's papers came into the posses
sion of the Portsmouth family, through his niece, Lady
Lymington, and have been safely preserved by that
noble family. An account of many of the manuscripts
has been given in the preceding pages, and several of
the most important letters and papers will be found in
the Appendix to this work.

   1 This tract, entitled Isaaei Newtoni Propositiones de Motu, occupying nineteen
pages, forms No. I. of the Appendix to Professor Rigaud's Historical Essay on the
Principia.

APPENDIX.


                     APPENDIX.

                         No. L

                     (Referred to in page 32 .)

     Aftek the publication of the second edition of the Principia,

when an erroneous interpretation had been given of the Scholium,

Newton was very anxious that the motive under which he wrote

it,  and the precise meaning which he attached to                      it,  should be

understood.    have, therefore, given in page 30 an explanation
             is ; I
of his views, whichI is  more full than that quoted in the note

from Raphson        sbtautted.hav"eAfnodunbdecaanuosteh,e"r   MS. in   w" hMicrh.  an addi
tional motive                                                he says,              Leibnitz

had published those elements (meaning those in the Lemma)                          a
year and some months before, without making any mention of

the correspondence which had with him by means of Mr. Olden
                         I

                               I
burg ten years before that time, added Scholium, not to give
                                  a

away the Lemma, but to put him in mind of that correspondence,

in order to his making a public acknowledgment thereof before
he proceeded to claim that Lemma from me."1

           DRAUGHT COPIES OF THE SCHOLIUM TO THE LEMMA.

                                                   SCHOLIUM.

  In Uteris quai mihi cum Geometra pcritissimo G. G. Leibnitio,

anno 1676, inter cedebant, cum significarem me compotem esse
methodi analyticae determinandi Maximas et Minimas, ducendi
Tangentes, quadrandi flguras curvilineas, conferendi easdem inter
se, et similia peragendi quce in terminis surdis aique ac in ra-
tionalibus procederent, et Tractatus duos de hujusmodi rebus
scripsisse, alterum quem Barrovius, anno 1669, ad Collinium
misit, et alterum anno 1671 in quo hanc methodum prius ex-
posueram cumque fundamentum hujus methodi Uteris trans

                               The words in Italics arc an interlineation.
     ;
                 1

426  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

positis hanc sententiam involventibus {Data Equatione quotcun-
que fluentes quantitates involvente Fluxiones invenire et vice
versa,) celarem, specimen vero ejusdem in curvis quadrandis sub-
jungerem et exemplis illustrarem ; et cum Collinius Epistolam,

10 Decem. 1672 datam, a me accepisset in qua methodum hanc

descripseram et exemplo Tangentium more Slusiano ducendarum
illustraveram, et hujus Epistolae exemplar mense Junio anno
1676 in Galliam ad D. Leibnitium misisset, et vir clarissimus
sub finem mensis Octobris, in reditu suo e Gallia per Angliam
in Germaniam, epistolas meas in manu Collinii insuper consul-
uisset : incidit is tandem in methodum similem sub diversis
verborum et notarum formulis, et mense Junio sequente speci
men ejusdem in Tangentibus more Slusiano ducendis ad me
misit, et subjunxit se credere methodum meam a sua non ablu-
dere presertim cum quadrature curvarum per utramque metho
dum faciliores redderentur. Methodi vero utriusque fundamen-
tum continetur in hoc Lemmate.

   Almost the whole of the Scholium printed in the first and second
editions of the Principia is put in Italics, in order to show the
change upon it which Sir Isaac had proposed for the third edition.

   In the other two forms of the Scholium, written on the same
sheet with the preceding, the first and second half of it are partly

transposed ; and at the end of one of them after in hoc Lemmate,
are the words et hax mefhodus plenius exponitur in Tractatu.

   It is singular that both Newton and Cotes should have per

mitted the words annis abhinc decem to remain in the second

edition, seeing that in 1713, thirty-seven years had elapsed. In

the draughts, however, of the Scholium under consideration, the

more correct words anno 1676 are substituted.

  I have found another draught of the Scholium, distinctly

written, without any important correction, which differs only
from the printed one in the first edition of the Principia in the
following points : --

    1. After ducendi tangentes the words quadrandi figuras cur-
       vilineas are added.

    2. After procederet, the words methodumque exemplis illus

        trarem are added ; and

    3. Before celarem, the word eandem is inserted.

NO. II.  LIKE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.   427

         No. II.

         (Referred to in page 34.)

   John Wallis, D. D., the author of the following letter, was one
of the most distinguished mathematicians of the seventeenth
century. He was born at Ashford in Kent on the 23d November
1616. He studied at Emanuel College, Cambridge, and was a
Fellow of Queens '. In 1644 he was chosen one of the Secretaries
to the Westminster Assembly of Divines, and in 1649 Savilian
Professor of Geometry at Oxford. Between the years 1654 and
1662 he carried on a keen controversy with Hobbes. His prin
cipal work is his Arithmetica Infinitorum, published in 1655. *
His works, both theological and mathematical, were published
by the curators of the University of Oxford in 1699, in 3 vols,
folio. He died at Oxford on the 28th October 1703, and was
in the 82d year of his age when he wrote the two following
letters :--

                1.--LETTER FROM WALLIS TO NEWTON.

" Sir,            " Oxford, April 30, 1695.

  I" thank you for your letter of April 21st by Mr. Conon.
IBut can by no means admit your excuse for not publishing
your Treatise of Light and Colours. You say you dare not yet
publish it. And why not yet ? Or if not now, when then ? You

add, lest it create you some trouble. What trouble now more

than at another time. Pray consider how many years this hath

Ilayn upon your hands already, and while it lyes upon your hands

it will still be some trouble ; (for know your thoughts must
still be running upon it.) But when published that trouble will
be over. You think, perhaps, it may occasion some letters (of
exceptions) to you, which you shall be obliged to answer. What
if so ? 'Twill be at your choice whether to answer them or not.

The Treatise will answer for itself. But are you troubled with

         1 See this Volume, page 8.

428         LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            APPENDIX,

Ino letters for not publishing it ?           suppose your other friends
call upon you for it as well as I, and are as little satisfied with

the delay. Meanwhile you lose the reputation of and we the
benefit, so that you are neither just to yourself nor kind to the
public. And perhaps some other may get scraps of the notion
            it

                                          ;

                                                                            it,
and publish as his own and then 'twill be his, not yours,
though he may perhaps never attain to the tenth part of what
you be already master of. Consider that 'tis now about thirty
years since you were master of these notions about Fluxions

and Infinite Series but you have never published aught of                        is it
            iIf                worse than nonumque prematur in an
                I;

                           is
to this day, (which
num.) 'Tis true have endeavoured to do you right in that
point. But  had published the same or like notions without

naming you, and the world possessed of another calculus differ-
entialis instead of your fluxions how should this or the next
age know of your share therein   I ?:   And even what have said
                                                                        I

but playing an after game for you to recover (precariously ex
is

 I
postliminio) what you had let slip in its due time. And even

yet see you make no great haste to publish these letters1 which

are to be my vouchers for what say of it And even these

letters at first were rather extorted from you than voluntary.

You may say, perhaps, the last piece of this concerning colour
not quite finished. It may be so, (and perhaps never will,) but
                               and while that printing, you may
pray let us have what        is

                                ;

                                           if,
                                                               is
(if ever) perfect the rest. But during the delay, you chance
                             chance to                             some others   have
to die,  or those papers     as to you  take  fire,  (as                         hath
done,)   'tis all lost both             and   as to  the           public. It

been an old complaint that an Englishman never knows when
                                                                                 it
thing well, (but will still be overdoing,) and thereby loseth, or
is                                                                 own that modesty    a
   a
          is is
               a

                          if
spoils many times what was well before.       I

virtue, but too much diffidence (especially as the world nowit,
         fault. And men will never publish aught till be
goes)

so perfect that nothing more can be added to themselves and

the public will both be losers.  I      hope, Sir, you will forgive me

this freedom, (while speak the sense of others as well as my
own,) or else know not how we shall forgive these delays.
         1                                                                       I

              I

                    I
         The letters on Fluxions in Wallis's Work*, vol. pp. 391-336.
                                                                   ii.

                                                                                            I

NO. II.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                          429

Icould say a great deal more, but if you think have said too

much     alrea"dYy,ouprraryeaflorfgriievned  this kindness  of
                                              and humble
                                                            serv"anJto, hn
u Dr. Gregory gives you his service."                                       Wallis.

         2. --LETTER FROM WALLIS TO NEWTON.

The following letter, written more than two years afterwards,

is partly on the same subject, but is interesting from the message
which it contains from Leibnitz in the postscript of a letter to

Wallis, dated May 28, 1697:-- 1                             " Oioxue, Julii 1, 1C97.
                                                            Hanoverae datas Mai
   " Clarissime Vir,                         literas
" Accepi nuper a D. Leibnitio
28, 1697. In quibus cum nonnulla sint quae te quadamtenus
spectant, liberem tibi suis verbis exponere, viz., 1 Si qua esset

occasio, D. Newtono, summi ingenii viro (forte per amicum) sa-
lutem officiosissimam a me nunciandi, eumque meo nomine
precandi ne se ah edendis prceclaris meditationibus diverti pa-

teretur, beneficio hoc a te petere auderem. Item methodum
Fluxionum profundissimi Newtoni cognitam esse methodo mea

differentiali non tamen animadverti, postquam opus ejus ad
lucem prodiit, sed etiam professus sum in Actis Eruditorum ;

et alios quoque monui. Id enim candori meo convenire ju-

dicavi non minus quam ipsius merito. Itaque communi

nomine designare soleo Analyseos Infinitesimalis (qua; latius

quam Meihodus Tetragonista patet) interim ; quemadmodum et

Vietiana et Cartesiana methodus, Analyseos Speciosa nomine

venit ; discrimina tamen nonnuUa supersunt. Ita fortasse New-
toniana et mea differunt in nonnullis." Haec ea verbatim tran-

scripsi ex nobilissimi Leibnitii Uteris ut videas id ab exteris etiam

desiderari, quod ego non tantum petii sed obtestatus sum aliquo-

ties, aliique mecum, nec tamen hactenus obtinuimus ut quae apud

te primis desideratissima ederentur. Quippe cum hoc aut negas
aut differs ; non tantum tuae famao sed et bono publico deesse

videris. Duas illas Epistolas (longiusculas et refertissimas)

   1 The letter of Leibnitz is dated 28th March, though in the title prefixed to it
by Wallis, and in the following letter, the date is made 28th May.

430                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      APPENDIX,

anno 1676 scriptas (unde ego Excerpta queedam antehac edidi)
curabo ego (nisi me id vetes) subjungi volurnini cuidam meo

(jam aliquandiu sub praelo) quamprimum per praeli moras licebit.

Tuam de Lumine et Coloribus Hypothesin novam (cujus aliquot

specimina jam ante multis annis dederis) quam per annos (si
recte conjicio) triginta apud te supprimere dictum est, spero ut

propediem edendam cures ; ut quam ego insignem Naturali

Philosophiae accessionem jamdudum existimavi et publice de-

beri : Quam et Praelo fuisse diu paratam audio.) Idem dixerim

de pluribus quae apud te latent, quorum ego non sum conscius.

Haec  interim  raptim  monenda duxi.

                       " Tuub ad officia,  " Johannes Wallis.

  " I put it into this form, that if you think it proper you may

desire Dr. Sloan to insert it in the Transactions."1

   The letter is addressed on the back,

          " To Mr. Isaac Newton, Controller
                  of the Mint at The Tower,
                                                        London."

   The first paragraph of this message to Newton, in the pre

ceding letter, is given in Leibnitz's letter to Wallis, as printed

in the third volume of his works, and the following reason is
assigned for withholding the rest of the message : -- [Sequebantur
pauca quce rem Mathematicam non spectant.] --Wallisii Opera,

torn. iii. p. 680.                                 1697, he says, --

"   In Wallis's reply to Leibnitz, dated July 30,  verbis, simulque

   Quae Newtonum spectant, ad eum scripsi tuis

obtestatus sum meo nomine ut imprimi curet quae sua supprimit

scripta. Quod et sa?pe ante feceram, sed hactenus in cassum." --
Ibid. p. 685.

   1 This memorandum is placed at the very foot of the page, apparently for the
purpose of its being cut off.

NO. III.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  431

                              No. III.

                                          (Referred to in page 61.)

   The Abbe Anthony Conti, or Conty, whose name appears so
prominently in the Fluxionary controversy, was a noble Vene
tian, who obtained some distinction as a philosopher and a poet.
He was born at Padua on the 22d January 1677, and, at the
age of twenty-two, he retired to Venice into the Congregation
of the Oratoire, where he became a priest, and remained nine
years. Disgusted with the scholastic philosophy of the day, he
studied Bacon and Locke, and devoted himself to the studies of
mathematics, natural philosophy, and natural history, which he
prosecuted at Padua. Having gone to Paris, where he was a
favourite in society, he met with M. Remond de Montmort, an
eminent mathematician, who accompanied him to England to
observe the great solar eclipse of the 15th April 1715. He
was then introduced to Newton, and was on very intimate
terms with him. He took a great interest in his controversy
with Leibnitz, but being acquainted also with the German
philosopher, he found it difficult to take an impartial course
between the two extreme opinions of the day. We shall meet
with him again when we come to the consideration of Newton's
chronology, which was the ground of a serious difference with

IIits author.1 Conti wrote a philosophical poem entitled Globo

de Venere, and four tragedies, which were published at Venice
in 1739. He died at Padua on the 6th March 1749.

   The following very interesting letter,2 referred to in the text,
was written to Brook Taylor, one of the committee who drew
up the report on the Commercium Epistolicum.

    1 Conti's defence of himself, referred to in note 2, page 305, is published without
his name in the Bibliothique Francaise for May and June 1726. Amsterdam,
pp. 182-193.

   8 From the Life of Brook Taylor, p. 121.

432  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     APPENDIX,

     1. -- letter of the abbe conti to brook taylor.
   " Monsieur,
" Je m'en vais vous expliquer en peu de mots les raisons

qui m'ont engagé dans la querelle de Mons. Newton et de

M. Leibnitz. Mr. Newton me pria d'assembler à la Société les
IlAmbassadeurs et les autres Ministres étrangers.
                                                   souhaitait

qu'ils assistassent à la collation qu'on devoit faire des papiers

originaux, qui se conservent dans les archives de la Société avec

d'autres lettres de M. Leibnitz. Mr. le Baron de Kirmansegger1

vint à la Société avec les Ministres des Princes ; et après que la
collation des papiers fut faite, il dit tout haut, que cela ne suffi-

soit pas, que la véritable méthode pour finir la querelle, c'étoit

que Mr. Newton luy-même écrivît une lettre à Mr. Leibnitz
dans laquelle il luy proposât les raisons et en même tems luy

demandât des réponses directes. Tous les Ministres des Princes

qui étoient présents goûtèrent l'idée de Mr. Kirmansegger ; et

le Roy même à qui on la proposa le soir, l'approuva, ayant dit

tout cela à Mr. Newton, cinque ou six jours après il m'escrivit

une lettre pour envoyer à Mr. Leibnitz à Hanover. Mr. New

ton, peut-il dire que je l'ay prié de m'adressér cette lettre ?

Cependant la nécessité, de l'envoyer à Hanover, et de l'accom

pagner d'une des miennes m'engagea dans la querelle. La lettre

qui fut portée à Hanover par le Baron de Discau, resta plus

d'un mois à Londres. Madme la Comtesse de Kirmansegger la

fit traduire en François par M. Coste : le Roy la lut et l'aprouva

fort, en disant que les raisons étoient très simples et très claires,

et qu'il étoit difficile de répondre à des faits. J'ay lu à Mons.

Newton la lettre que j'escrivois à Mons. Leibnitz ; c'est Mr. de

Moivre qui me l'a voit corrigé et j'en conserve encore la brouillon :

Mr. de Moivre y-avoit ajouté quelque chose à l'égard de la ma

nière équivoque dont Mr. Leibnitz avoit proposé le problême.

Mr. Leibnitz fut fort irrité de la lettre que je luy avois envoyée,

comme il paroit par sa réponse, et par des expressions assez

fortes qu'il avoit avancées contre moy dans ses lettres à S. A. R.

la Princesse de Galles. Il écrivit plusieurs lettres pour sa jus

tification que j'ay donné à Mons. Newton à proportion qu'elles

     1 Kilmansegg or Kilmansegger.

NO. III.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      433

m'ont tombés dans les mains, Mr. Newton en fit une espèce de
réponse qui fut imprimée avec la première lettre à la fin de
l'Histoire des Fluxions ; les lettres que Mr. Leibnitz m'avoit
addressees, furent aussi imprimées dans le même livre ; et Mr.
Leibnitz (evidently a mistake for Mr. Newton) en fit non seule
ment ôter mon nom ; mais encore ne me fit aucune part qu'on
les imprimoit. Quand Mr. de Mesaus1 luy proposa de les im
primer de nouveau en Hollande, il luy donna son approbation,
et dit même qu'il luy fourniroit quelque autre petit papier.
J'ignore ce qui est arrivé d'après, parce que j'ay quitté l'Angle
terre. On dit que Mr. Newton a changé de sentiment et qu'il
se plaint de moy de l'avoir engagé dans la querelle avec Mr.
Leibnitz ; je le prie très humblement de réfléchir à des faits
qui sont incontestables ; et par lesquels il paroit assez que je
n'ay eu d'autre part à la question qu'autant qu'il voulut bien
m'en faire. J'ay essuyé tous les reproches des Allemans, et de

Mr. Leibnitz luy-même pour soutenir ses raisons. Je les ai

aussi soutenus en France où malgré tout ce qu'on a l'addresse de
luy écrire en Angleterre, on n'est pas trop dans ses intérêts

comme il pense. J'ai pense un jour me brouiller avec un grand

mathématicien, chez une Dame, où on parloit de cette dispute ;

il soutenoit que tous les argumens du Commercium Epistolicum

n'étoieut pas concluans ; et que Mr. Newton n'y avoit aucune
part, non plus qu'aux lettres qu'on avoit imprimées par son
ordre. J'aurois bien d'autres choses à dire la-dessus ; mais je

suis las d'entendre parler d'une matière qui n'est pas agréable.
On a voulu me commettre avec Mr. Newton, et je ne sçay pas
pourquoi ; je l'ay toujours honoré et respecté ; et je luy ay
toujours dit la vérité sans aucun intérêt : mais si les plaintes
continuent, je ne pourray pas me dispenser de faire imprimer la
simple histoire d'un fait, qui fera voir au public que je n'ay pas

prétendu me mêler dans cette querelle pour acquérir du nom.

Mr., je su"is Votre très humble et très obéissant servi"teCuro,nty."

  " A Paris, ce May 22, 1721."

          1 Des Maizeaux.

VOL. II.                             2K

434                        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

   The following is the only letter from Conti to Newton which

I have found among the Portsmouth Manuscripts :--

2. -- LETTER FROM THE ABBE CONTI TO SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

     " Monsieur,                     " IIanovee, 10 Decembre, 1716.

" Je vous demande pardon si je n'ay pas pu vous écrire jusque
à cette heure. Je suis tombé malade depuis que je suis icy, et
je ne suis pas encore revenu de ma maladie. Je n'ay vu ni Le

Roy,1 ni La Cour, et je suis obligé de garder la chambre depuis

Ilvin"gtMj.ouLresi.bniz est mort ; et la dispute est finie.  a laissé

plusieurs lettres et plusieurs manuscrits qu'on imprimera, aussi

des manuscrits d'autres sçavants, une qui est Traité de M.

Des-Cartes qui n'est point paru jusque ici. Il y a des Dia

logues sur les articles de la Téodicea ; une instruction au

Prince Eugène sur les exercices militaires ; une instruction au

Czar pour faire fleurir les arts et les sciences dans son pais ;

beaucoup des remarques sur la langue universelle, et sur l'éti-

mologie des mots. Comme je espère que le Roy me donnea la

permission de voir les papiers je remarquerai s'il y a quelque

chose touchant votre dispute, mais peut-être qu'on cachera ce

qui ne fait point d'honneur à la mémoire de M. Leibnitz. On a

commencé de travailler sur sa vie. M. Wolfius aura le soin

d'écrire tout ce qui appartient aux Mathématiques.
" M. Leibnitz a travaillé pendant toute sa vie à inventer des
Ilmachines qui n'ont point réussi.
                                     a voulu faire une espèce de

moulin à vent pour les mines, un carosse qui tire sans chevaux,

un carosse qui se change, un chaire à porteur, et un charette ;
Iljusque des Souliers à ressort.
                                     y a deux modelles de sa ma

chine arithmétique, mais elle est très composée, et on en dit

qu'"ellVeouns'estauàrelaz  fin que la machine de Pascal multipliée.
                           vu l'insolente dissertation, qu'on a imprimée

dans les actes de Lipsic au mois de Juin. M. Bernoulli prétend

à cette heure d'être l'inventeur de calcul intégral. Je suis sûr

que la dissertation vous fera rire.

   1 Conti was a great favourite of the King, who had invited him to Hanover, and
with whom he dined every day.

KO. III.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  435

" Je ne sçay pas si l'ambassadeur de Venise vous a prié de

proposer à la Société Royal M. le Marquis Orsi Sénateur de

IlBologne, et un de plus grand sçavants que nous avons en Italie.

   est célèbre en France par plusieurs livres qu'il a écrit, et il

Ilest un Seigneur qui a beaucoup de mérite et de talent. On dit
qu'il a refusé autrefois d'être Cardinal.  s'est addressé a moi

pour vous prier de cette grace, et je le fais volontiers, car je con-

noi"s  les moeurs et le sçavoir de  M.  le Marquis Orsi.  l'affaire                     de
                                        nouveau touchant
       Si il y aura quelque chose   de
IlM. Leibnitz je vous en informerai avec toute l'exactitude.
                                                                                        n'y

a peut-être un personne plus intéressé pour votre gloire que moy.

J'en ay l'obligation, et même l'inclination. Je suis avec tout la

zèle, et en vous priant de faire mes compliments à Madame votre

nièce.    " Monsieur,

          Votre très-semble et très obéissant serviteur,
                                                                             « CONTI."

436  LIFE OF 81R ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

                                   No. IV.

                                       (Referred to in pages 65, 82.)

   M. Pierre Remond de Montmort, to whom Bernoulli addressed
the letter mentioned in the text, was born in Paris on the 27th
October 1678. He came to London in 1700, when he made the
acquaintance of Newton. He visited Dr. Gregory at Oxford,
who showed him his Commentary on the Principia, and who
afterwards told him in the course of their correspondence, that
he was preparing a new edition of the Principia under Sir
Isaac's eye, a task which he did not live to execute. This fact
is mentioned in a short letter to Sir Isaac himself,1 in which he
begs his acceptance of his newly published work Essai cC Analyse
sur les Jeux de Hazard, and expresses his sorrow for the death
of Gregory. In 1704 he purchased the estate of Montmort, close
to the residence of the Duchess D'Angoulume, whose niece and
god-daughter, Mademoiselle de Romicourt, he married. He cor
responded with Leibnitz, the Bernoullis, and other distinguished
mathematicians, both in England and on the continent, by whom
he was much esteemed, both as a geometer and a member of
society. He was particularly attached to our countryman Brook
Taylor, by whom several of his letters have been preserved. He
paid a second visit to England in 1715, and was a great admirer,
as we shall afterwards see, of the beauty and accomplishments
of Miss Catherine Barton, Sir Isaac Newton's niece. He was
elected in 1716 one of the Academiciens Libres of the Academy
of Sciences. When on a visit to Paris in 1719, he was seized with
small-pox, and died on the 7th October 1719, deeply lamented
by the population of the three parishes which belonged to him.

    The history of the very interesting letter from Bernoulli which
forms this Appendix, is curious, and is given by Montmort him
self in a long letter to Newton, written in bad English, and

dated March 27, 1718. It contains messages from the two Ber

noullis, together with an extract of Nicolas Beruoulli's paper

                                        1 Dated Paris, 16th February 1709.

NO. IV.                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             437

on Trajectories,1 and a part of the following letter which he did

not know had been previously in the hands of Newton.

When Bernoulli had learned that Newton did not approve of

tnhiceatcehdall"entghee  made   to the English   mathematicians, he            commu
                         whole  story of that   affair" to Montmort,           and de

sired him to send to            NNeewwtotonnanbyex"trgaicvtinogf  his letter.     Montmort,
lest he should annoy                                              him the      trouble of an

answer," sent the extract to Brook Taylor, and never learned

from him that it had been forwarded to its destination. The
following is the extract found among Sir Isaac's papers : --

   LETTER FROM JOHN BERNOULLI TO M. REMOND DE MONTMORT.

                                                                                               " AvrU 8, 1717.

  "Je vous proteste, Mons. que je n'ai jamais eu la pensée de

me commettre avec Messieurs les Anglois, ni d'entrer en lice,
quand même quelqu'un d'eux m'attaqueroit, bien loin de les
défier le premier ; le temp et le repos me sont trop précieux pour
les consumer en vaines disputes ; mais voici, ce qui c'est. Mons.
Leibnitz m'ayant demandé si je ne pouvois pas luy fournir quel
que problême pour le proposer à Messieurs les Anglois et en
particulier à M. Keil pour la solution duquel seroit requise une
adresse particulière dont on ne put s'aviser aisément sans la
connoissance de quelques unes des méthodes que nous avions
trouvées dans le temps que j'étois encore en Hollande et que
M. Leibnitz ne trouvoit pas apropos d'en faire part encore au
public, me priant pour cela de menager le secret afin de s'en
servir un jour utilement contre ceux qui voudraient nous braver,
comme il arrive aujourdhuy. Pour faire donc plaisir à Monsr.
de Leibnitz, j'ay imaginé un problême qui me paroissoit avoir les

qualités telles qu'il pouvoit souhaiter. Je luy en fis part avec

une double solution, afin qu'il pût, s'il le jugeoit apropos, le
proposer aux Anglois mais sous son nom. J'ay sujet d'être
étonné de voir que M. Leibnitz m'ait produit comme auteur, et
proposant de ce problême, et cela malgré moy et même à mon
insçu. Vous aurez donc la bonté de désabuser Mr. Newton de

                                                          1 See pagt 68.

438  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

l'opinion où il est à cet égard ; et de l'assurer de ma part que je

n'ai jamais eu le dessein de tenter messieurs les Anglois par ces

sortes de défis, et que je ne désire rien tant que de vivre en bonne
amitié avec luy, et de trouver l'occasion de luy faire voir com
bien j'estime son rare mérite, en effect je ne parle jamais de luy

qu'avec beaucoup d'eloges. II seroit pourtant à souhaiter qu'il

voulût bien prendre la peine d'inspirer à son ami Mr. Keill des

sentiments de douceur et d'équité envers les étrangers, pour

laisser chacun en possession de ce que luy appartient de droit, et
à juste titre, car de vouloir nous exclure de toute prétention, ce

seroit une injustice criante. Voicy cependant le problême dans
les propres termes que je l'ay communiqué a Mons. Leibnitz,

puisque vous temoignez le désirer."

                             Bernoulli's problem.

   Super Recta AG tanquam Axe ex puncto a, educere infinitas
curvas, qualis est abd, ejus naturte ut radii osculi in singulis
punctis b et ubique ducti bo secentur ab axe ag in c in data
ratione, ut nempe sit bo : bc : : 1 : n. Deinde construendae sunt

Trajectoriae ebf primas curvas abd normaliter secantes."

   In his correspondence with Montmort, Bernoulli expressed
the greatest anxiety to be on good terms with Newton. In a

letter, dated March 17, 1718, he desires to know if Montmort

has sent the preceding extract to Newton, and implores him
again to disabuse the English of the false opinion that he and
his nephew have any design of entering into disputes with them,

or diminishing the value of Newton's discoveries ; and he asks

NO. IV.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  439

him, as a special favour, to do this in reference to Mr. Newton,

whose esteem and friendship are very precious to him.
    Montmort, in reply to this letter, stated that these expressions

in reference to Newton and the English would not be considered
very compatible with the Epistola pro eminente Mathematico,
which he had inserted in the Acts of Leipsic, and he gave him
very frankly his opinion of that letter. Bernoulli replied to this
letter in the following words, which Montmort sent to Newton :

   " Je ne m'en suis mêlé en aucun façon, ni de la forme que

mon ami vouloit donner à la réponse, ni des expressions dont

Ilil se serviroit, et que je n'approuve pas toutes. m'a qualifié de

titres que je n'ai jamais eu la vanité d'ambitionner. Avec
cela il a Mr. Keill d'une manier qui ne peut qu'aigrir son esprit.

Cela ne me plaisoit pas. J'aurois souhaité que mon apologiste
eust dit les choses simplement et nettement sans toucher sur

personalités. Certe que je luy aurois recommandé avec em

pressement s'il m'avoit communiqué son dessein, lorsqu'il m'offrit
par une lettre obligeante de vouloir défendre ma cause contre

M. Keill me priant seulement de luy envoyer les preuves authen

tiques lesquels je ne pouvois pas luy refuser."
   Fontenelle justly remarks, in his Eloge on Montmort, that

though he was more connected with the English than with the

Germans by personal acquaintance, yet he was perfectly neutral
between the rival analysts, always speaking the truth to both
parties, and in a tone which made truth acceptable. See p. 274,

and Appendix, No. XIX.

   While this correspondence was going on, Varignon had been
endeavouring to effect a reconciliation between Newton and

Bernoulli. See p. 291, and Appendix, No. XXI.

440               .LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  API-ENDIX,

                            No. V.

              .J         (Referred to in pages 76, 80.)
             b·

   In the 24th Chapter of this Volume, the reader will find some
account of James Wilson, M.D., the editor of Robins' Mathema

tical Tracts, the friend of Pemberton, and the editor of his

Course of Chemistry.

     1. -- Letter from A. B., [James Wilson, M.D.J to
                         Sir Isaac Newton.

     " Sir,                                   " London, December 15, 1720.

    I" saw the other day, in the hands of a certain person, seve

ral mathematical papers, which, he told me, were transcribed

from your manuscripts. They chiefly related to the doctrine of

Iseries and fluxions, and seemed to be taken out of the Treatises
you wrote on those subjects in the years 1666 and 1671.           was

not permitted to peruse them thoroughly, but one of the papers
I particularly took notice
                            a of,  and contained deduction of
                                  a         a I I it  I
your Binomial Theorem from corollary in your Quadratures,
                                                         Ia
with some improvement, as series for the rectangle under any

two dignities of two binomials. These papers, observed, had

been very incorrectly copied, so that endeavoured all could
                                                              II
to dissuade the possessor of them from getting them printed,

of which nevertheless he seemed very fond. therefore thought

it  behoved me to acquaint you with this matter, and, as have

not the honour to be known to you, believed the less trouble

som"eAnwdayntoow,doSir,itwould be that  of    letter.
                         permit me to         that
                                        say,          it      the earnest desire

                                                          is

of everybody conversant in these subjects, that you would be

pleased to publish yourself what you have formerly written                  ;

for this would effectually prevent their being ever printed incor

rectly and unworthy of yourself. Nor ought you to deny that

pleasure to your well-wishers and admirers, in reading your

noble inventions of this kind, whereof you have expressed your

self to have been so sensible at the time you first made these

NO. 7.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     441

discoveries. Your analysis Per iEquationes Numero Teruiino-

rum Infinitas, Quadraturas, &c., give us so exquisite a delight,

that when we read your letters to Mr. Oldenbourgh, and your

remarks on Leibnitz's reply to your letter to the Abbot Conti,

we glow, as it were, with a desire of seeing all that you wrote
Ion these subjects in 1671, and the years preceding.
                                                      have

heard, indeed, that you were prevented from publishing one

Treatise, by reason it had in it the Determination of the Radius

of Curvity, which Huygens published afterwards in his Horolo-

gium. But this objection can now be of no force, since the

world has been lately informed by your letter written to Mr.

Collins in 1672, Decemb. 10, that you had applied your method

ad resolvendum abstrusiora problematum genera de curvitati-

bus, &c., long before the publication of Huygens's book. Nor

indeed was this unknown to Apollonius in respect to the Conick

Sections, as appears from his Fifth Book. It was a very great

satisfaction to your countrymen and friends to observe, that by

the happy discovery of Mr. Collins's papers, you had an oppor

tunity of triumphing over such disingenuous persons, who la

boured all they were able to defraud you of the honour of some

of your inventions. But such is the force of prejudice on some

minds, that you cannot but observe that there are in the world

dishonest men, who, contrary to their own conscience and know

ledge, still raise a clamour on this head. To shame, therefore,

such obstinate people, to make your right to those inventions

evident to all, even the least knowing in these matters, and to

put an end for ever to all disputes, the best method would be to

publish all that you have formerly written on this subject,

whereby we should have an exact and adequate notion of fluxions

and their uses, which cannot be had from what has been deli

vered by others. But as they produced these things abroad

first, those that are learners have recourse to their writings, and

consequently mention them as the authors thereof. This has

happened through your own backwardness in giving to the

world what you had discovered so long ago. However, there is

still a way left to retrieve all ; for, as their pretended methods

are grounded on the notion of indivisibles, so they have given

a wrong idea of what you alone had found out, and have erred

442            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                   APPENDIX,

egregiously, when they even attempted to apply Second, &c,

Differences, as they call 'em, to mathematical figures. This,

tho' they cannot but be now at length very sensible of, yet by

their cavils they would dissemble their being conscious of their

errors. But these would be so apparent to every eye, if you

would publish all your papers, that those who had a mind to be

rightly instructed in these matters, would have recourse alone

to your immortal writings ; so that all succeeding mathemati

cians would constantly mention with honour the Series, Fluxions,

&c., of the great Newton, when the differentials and integrals of

ILeibn"itz  and Bernoulli   shall be quite   forgotten.                              ser"vaAn.t, B."
            am, your most   obedient and    most humble

  I I" P.S. -- had just the liberty to transcribe the Theorem

mentioned at the beginning of my letter, and it was this : --

            P + PQ,A X M + MNf = PAJf

                                      + XXQ A

                                                                               1

                                         X-- 1 XQ

                                                                                  2

                                    \-- 2XQ                                       + X + ^-1XSQB

                                  + At-2XNC

                                    X-- 3 XQ                                                     etc.

                                  +^---3XKI> + X + ^-2XNQC
                                                               4

I" Amongst the papers             likewise observed that there were

some which deduced even the first principles of geometry from

Ithe"fluxions   of points,   &c.  another  person, who                               told  me he had
         have  since met    with

likewise a copy of your manuscripts. But he would not let mo

NO. V.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  443

Isee them, or inform me how he came by them.  imagine,

when you sent any of your friends your papers, the person they

got to transcribe them took a double copy, which is a frequent
practice, in order to make profit by it ; so that they are in dif

ferent hands. To prevent these things being ever published

incorrectly, the only way is to let them come abroad yourself ;

for to declare that such papers as shall be published without
your knowledge or consent, are imperfect and faulty, will not be

sufficient to deter some bookseller or another from adventuring
on the printing them for the hopes of gain. Nor need the pub

lishing them be any trouble to you ; for any of your friends
would gladly undergo the labour of seeing them correctly

prin"teInd. the introduction to your Quadratures, you have given us
an exact idea of fluxions, but it is too short, and does not in

struct us how the superior fluxions are represented by Lines.

The truth the trifling objections that are made by your anta
a
    is

            2. is,
                       is a

                                          if
gonists would never have been raised, you had given us your

papers, where your fluxions are illustrated by various examples.

And not this pity, since you have pleased to permit the
publication of your illustrating the common algebra. Nothing

less than this can make all foreigners and prejudiced persons

acquiesce, and at length to acknowledge you to be the inventor
of method that so admirably suited both to the investigating

and demonstrating the most difficult mathematical truths."

        --Letter from James Wilson, M.D., to
                     Sir Isaac Newton.

"       " Sir,   time  ago                    " London, 21st January, 1720-21.
        As some
                            presumed to let you know that had
                          I
                                I

                                            I
                                                            I
seen copies of several of your manuscripts, and having since

been permitted to transcribe some of them, take the liberty to

send them to you, that you may compare them with the origi

nals, to see after what manner they have been copied. They

contain three problems, which take to be the 2d, 3d, and 4th

444                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         APPENDIX,

Iof your Treatise wrote in 1671. Here is also a paper in English

containing five problems, which guess to be part of that which

you have mentioned in your remarks on Leibnitz's letter to the

Abbot Conti, as dated 13th November 1665. The other papers

Iseemed to have not been so well copied as these, so did not
Iwrite them out. They contained, observed, several problems,

as to find the curvature and areas of curves, and to compare

curves together, &c. There was also a paper containing six

examples, showing how to deduce the areas of curves from the

tables in your Quadratures, with Constructions and Synthetick

Demonstrations. It concluded with saying, that it was here

judged proper to demonstrate by the means of moments, as it

had an analogy to what the ancients have done on the like
Ioccasions.
             have been likewise told by one that he had a copy

of a manuscript of yours, entitled Geometria Analytica, which
I Ihe
"hWighhleyn  prized,  but this never saw.       at Mr.  Innys's  shop,
                 had  the honour of seeing you

you was pleased to object against publishing these manuscripts ;
that you apprehended it would occasion disputes concerning
their antiquity. The followers of Leibnitz are, it is true, an

obstinate sort of people, and no proof, however clear, seems suf

Ificient to make them lay aside their prejudices, yet on such an

occasion cannot think they should be more than ordinarily

exasperated ; for thereby you will not do more than by what you

have said, when you published your Quadratures, and in your

remarks on Leibnitz's reply to your letter to the Abbot Conti.

The publishing indeed of the Commercium Epistolicum raised

their fury, because that not only proved you to be the inventor

of fluxions, but moreover made it appear that their master was

a plagiary. However, notwithstanding this, the defamatory

writings they spread abroad on that occasion were without a

name, as if they were ashamed of them ; and the person who

has been charged as the author of them, has since thought fit to

Ideny it. But suppose this should raise ever so great a clamour,
cannot see that you need be concerned the least about   it,      for,

                                                                     ;
in publishing these papers, you would not pretend to vindicate

to yourself the right to these inventions from their antiquity

for that you rely on the arguments that are drawn from the

NO. V.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                               445

papers contained in the Commercium Epistolicum, which the

Leibnitians themselves do not pretend to say, are not of an older

Idate than their master's letter of June 21, 1677.

   " But then think these papers ought to be published on

many accounts. By that means young mathematicians will be

able readily to perceive the force of the arguments contained in

the Commercium Epistolicum, and in its admirable abridgment,

Ibefore they receive the least prejudice from the cavils of your

antagonists. These, think, are now all reduced to this, that it

does not appear from the Commercium that you were acquainted

with the true characteristic and algorithm of fluxions or differ

ences, before their master. The weakness of this cavil would

appear evident even to the most prejudiced, if you would publish

all your papers. Again, your Book of Quadratures, which all

intelligent persons must own is the perfectest piece that ever

saw the light, seems not to be well understood by foreigners,

(and perhaps not by some at home ;) for otherwise a certain

confident person durst not lay claim to many things contained

in under the notion of his integral calculus. But the pub
it,

                      ;

                                    is
lishing your papers would enable all to see the beauties of that

noble Treatise and this now absolutely necessary, since there

are pretenders in the world to these inventions. Lastly, as

various copies of your manuscripts, more or less imperfect, are

got abroad, nothing but causing them to be printed yourself

can prevent their coming out incorrect and mangled, which

ought   not to be the fate of           such excellent things.
        " am, Sir, with the             profoundest respect,
        II" Your most obedient and most h"umJabmleesseWrvialnsto,n.

                        I
" P.S. -- humbly desire that, when you have perused these

papers, you would be pleased to seal them up, and to leave them

with your servants, that may have them again upon calling for

them some time or other.                                        it

  "At page 48 of the Commercium Epistolicum,                         is
                                                                                  by
                                                                said

Mr. Collins, that the doctrine of Series, &c., was the subject of

your lectures at Cambridge, and that these lectures were reserved

446                   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  APPENDIX,

there, which, if so, they might afford convincing proofs of your

Irig"htIntoytohuerse  inventions.  Leibnitz's  reply  to   your  letter  to  the
                    remarks on

Abbot Conti, think you seem too readily to acknowledge that

Leibnitz might have found out by himself your method of an

arbitrary series ; for in a Scholium of your Principia, you say
that one of the things which you concealed under a cypher, in
your letter of October 24, 1676, was, ' Data iEquatione quot-

cunque Fluentes quantitates involvente, Fluxiones invenire, et

vice versa.' Now, might not Leibnitz by that means be helped

to decypher what was besides concealed in that letter ? Amongst
which was that very method of assuming a series, which he did

not publish till some years after you had helped him to a key in

Ithe"Scholium above-mentioned.     freedom,           for  it  is not my pur
        hope you will pardon this

     to  go  on"    in troubling you thus with impertinent letters.
Ipose               Sir, am y"ouArnmdomstosotbehduimenbtle servant,

                                                      " James Wilson."

NO. VI.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          447

                No. VI.

                (Referred to in page 100.)

letter from sir isaac newton to dr. thos. burnet.

" Sir,
Tour argument,
I"                             acknowledge good against those
                p. 118,

who suppose only hills and mountains taken out of ye sea, and

it may be good ag' those who suppose all ye earth higher than

ye sea taken out thence, but one who would have mountains

and ye sea made by removing earth from one place to another,

might suppose (if it were necessary) all the earth a quarter of a
mile or half a mile lower than the top of the seas, or then the

lowest valleys, or even lower than that, was thrown out of ye deep.

I IBut the opinion being to me absurd, say no more of it
Icould wish was as well satisfied wth your argument about ye
oval figure of ye earth, for it seems hard to me that a constant

force applied to stretch a membrane, (as you figuratively term

ye atmosphere) should make it shrink, unless you suppose it at

first overstretched by a tumultuary force, and so to return by

way of undulation, and that the limus of ye earth hardened while

Iit was at ye ebb. But whatever may be ye reason of the earth's
figure, you desire my opinion what that figure is.  am most

inclined to believe it spherical, or not much oval ; and my chief

reason for that opinion is ye analogy of ye planets. They all
Iappear round so far as we can discern by telescopes, and take
Ifye earth to be like y rest.
                               its diurnal motion would make it

oval, that of Jupiter would much more make Jupiter oval, the vis

cenlrifuga at his equator, caused by his diurnal motion being 20

or 30 times greater than the vis centrifuga at ye equator, caused

by the diurnal motion of ye earth, as may be collected from the

largeness of his body and swiftness of his revolutions. The sun

also has a motion about his axis, and yet is round. What may be

Iargued from ye dimensions of ye earth's shaddow collected by lunar

eclipses cannot tell, nor what from ye measures on ye earth an

swering to a degree in several latitudes, not knowing how exactly

those measures were made or the latitudes of places taken.

448  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                APPENDIX,

I" You seem to apprehend that                           would have the present
Iface of the earth formed in ye first creation. A sea believe

was then formed, as Moses expresses, but not like ye sea, but

with an eaven bottom without any precipices or steep descents,

I Ias think exprest in my letter. Of or present sea, rocks,

Imountains, &c., think you have given the most plausible
account. And yet if one would go about to explain it otherwise,

philosophically, he might say that as saltpetre dissolved in

water, though ye solution be uniform, crystallizes not all over

ye vessel alike, but here and there in long barrs of salt ; so the

limus of ye chaos, or some substances in                                       it,    might coagulate

at first, not all over                                earth alike, but here and there inye
     ye
                                               ye

                                                     ;
veins or beds of divers sorts of stones and minerals. That in

other places wch remained yet soft, the air wch in some mea

sure subsided out of the superior regions of chaos, together

wth earth or limus by degrees extricating itself gave liberty to

the limus to shrink and subside, and leave the first coagulated

places standing up like hills which subsiding would be encreased
by the draining and drying of that limus. That the veins and
tracts of limus in the bowels of those mountains also drying and

consequently shrinking, crackt and left many cavities, some dry,

others filled with water. That after the upper crust of the earth

by the heat of the sun, together with that caus'd action of min                       it, by
erals had hardened and set the earth in the lower regions still
     it
                        ye
                            it ;
going closer together left large caverns between and the upper                                a ye if it

crust filled with water, wch upon subsiding by its weight,
spread out by degrees till had done shrinking, which caverns

or subterraneal seas might be the great deep of Moses, and

you will, may be supposed one great orb of water between

upper crust or gyrus and the lower earth, though perhaps not
very regular one. That in process of time many exhalations

were gather'd in those caverns which would have expanded

themselves into 40 or 50 times the room they lay in, or more,
had they been at liberty. For air in glass may be crowded
a
                                                  ye    takes at liberty, and yet

                                    if

                                                 it

                                                                            a
into 18 or 20 times less room than

not burst the glass, much more may subterranean exhalations

by the vast weight of incumbent earth be keept crowded into
  less room before they can in any place lift up and burst that

NO. VI.        LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              449

crust of earth. That at length somewhere forcing a breach, they

by expanding themselves, forced out vast quantities of water

before they could all get out themselves, wch commotion caused

tempests in ye air, and thereby great falls of rain in spouts, and

all together made ye flood, and after the vapours were out, y°

waters retired into their former place. That the air wch in ye

beginning subsided with ye earth, by degrees extricating itself,

might be pent up in one or more great caverns in the lower

earth under ye abyss, and at ye time of ye flood, breaking out into

ye abyss, and consequently expanding itself, might also force out

ye waters of ye abyss before it. That the upper crust or gyrus

of earth might be upon the stretch before ye breaking out of ye

abyss, and then by its weight shrinking to its natural posture,

might help much to force out the waters. That the subterraneal

vapors which then first brake out and have ever since continued

to do so, being found by experience noxious to man's health,

infect the air and cause that shortness of life wch has been ever

since the flood. And that several pieces of earth either at ye

flood or since falling, some perhaps into ye great deep, others

into less and shallower cavities, have caused many of those phe

nomena we see on ye earth, besides the original hills and ca

vities.

   " But you will ask how could an uniform chaos coagulate at

first irregularly in heterogeneous veins or masses to cause hills.

Tell me then how an uniform solution of saltpetre coagulates

irregularly into long bars ; or to give you another instance, if

tinn (such as the pewterers bring from ye mines in Cornwel to
make pewter of) be melted and then let stand to cool till it

begin to congeal, and when it begins to congeale at ye edges, if
it be inclined on one side for ye more fluid part of ye tin to run

from those parts wch coagulate first, you will see a good part of

ye tin congealed in lumps which after the fluider part of ye tin

which congeals not so soon is run from between them, appear

like so many hills, with as much irregularity as any hills on ye

earth do. Tell me ye cause of this, and ye answer will perhaps

I Iserve forthe
         this
   " All
               chaos.   not  to oppose  you, for  think the main part
                 write
of your hypothesis as probable as that I have here written, if not

VOL. II.                                          2F

450         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  APPENDIX,

in some respects more probable. And tho' the pressure of y°

Iinoon or vortex, &c., may promote ye irregularity of ye causes of

hills, yet did not in my former letter design to explain the

generation of hills thereby, but only to insinuate how a sea

might be made above ground in your own hypothesis before the

flood, besides the subterranean great deep, and thereby all diffi

culty of explaining rivers, and the main point in W* some may

think you and Moses disagree might be avoyded. But this sea

I not [do] not suppose round the equator, but rather to be two

seas in two opposite parts of it where the cause of ye flux and

reflux of or present sea deprest ye soft mass of ye earth at that

      when             crust of it hardened.
     As to             do not think his description
Itime

   "
             ye upper                                                                  of ye creation
            Moses,

either philosophical or feigned, but that he described realities in

Ia language artificially adapted to ye sense of ye vulgar. Thus

when he speaks of two great lights, suppose he means their

Iapparent not real greatness. So when he tells us God placed

these lights in ye firmament, he speaks suppose of their appa

rent not real place, his business being not to correct the vulgar

notions in matters philosophical, but to adapt a description of

the creation as handsomely as he could to ye sense and capacity

Iof ye vulgar. So when he tells us of two great lights, and ye stars

made ye 4th day, do not think their creation from beginning

to end was done the 4th day, nor in any one day of ye creation,

nor that Moses mentions their creation, as they were physicall

bodies in themselves, some of them greater than this earth, and

perhaps habitable worlds, but only as they were lights to this

earth, so therefore though their creation could not physically [be]
assigned to any one day, yet being a part of ye sensible creation
which it was Moses's design to describe, and it being his design

to describe things in order according to the succession of days,

allotting no more than one day to one thing, they were to be

referred to some day or other, and rather to the 4th day than

any other, if they [the] air then first became clear enough for

them to shine thro' and so put on appearance of lights in
ye

                              it,

                                                                       ye
                                                                                   ye
firmament to enlighten the earth. For till then they could

not properly be described under notion of such lights, nor was

their description under that notion to be deferred after they had

NO. VI.               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                  451

that appearance, tho' it may be the creation of some of them was

not yet completed. Thus far, perhaps, one might be allowed to

go in ye explaining ye creation of ye 4th day, but in ye third day
for Moses to describe ye creation of seas when there was no such

thing done neither in reality nor appearance, me thinks is some

thing hard, and that ye rather becaus if before ye flood there was

no water but that of rivers, that none but fresh water above
                      a ye
                                                    ye is,

                                                                   a
ground, there could be no fish but such as live in fresh water
and so one half of fift day's work will be non entity, and God

must be put upon creation after flood, to replenish one half

of this terraqueous globe wth whales, and all those other kinds

of sea fish we now have.                                                     if ?      Of what
   " You ask what was that light created the first day

extent was the Mosaical chaos Was firmament, taken for
                                      a?     ye
                                                    ye
atmosphere so considerable thing as to take up one day's
ye
        ?
work and would not description of creation have beenye

complete without mentioning           it     To answer these things fully,

                                          ?

would require comment upon Moses whom dare not pretend
                                                            I

to understand yet to say something by way of conjecture, one
            :

may suppose that all planets about or sun were created to
                          ye
gether, there being in no history any mention of new ones apye

pearing or old ones ceasing. That they all, and sun too, had          ye ye

at first one common chaos. That this chaos, by spirit of God

moving upon became separated into several parcels, each par
ye

       it a
                  it
cel for planet. That at same time matter of sun also                         ye
                                             ye
                                                        ye
separated from the rest, and upon            separation began to shine

before was formed into that compact and well defined body we

now see it. And the preceding darkness and light now cast upon

chaos of every planet from the solar chaos, was the evening

and morning, wch Moses calls              first day, even before                                 earth
                                      ye

                                                               a

                                                                                             ye
had any diurnall motion, or was formed into globular body.

That being Moses design to describe the origination of this
it
       it,
earth only, and to touch upon other things only so far as they

related to he passes over the division of general chaos into
                                      is,
                                                                                       fountain
                                             ye
                                                              ye

                                                                       ye
                                                                                   ye
particular ones, and does not so much as describe

of that light God made, that                 chaos of sun, but only

wth respect to the chaos of the earth, tells us that God made light

upon the face of deep where darkness was before. Further,ye

452                          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        APPENDIX,

one might suppose that after ye chaos was separated from ye rest,

by ye same principle wch promoted its separation, (w^ might be
gravitation towards a centre,) it shrunk closer together, and at
length a great part of it condensing, subsided in ye form of a
muddy water or limus, to compose this terraqueous globe. The

rest wch condensed not, separated into two parts, the vapors above
and the air, w* being of a middle degree of gravity ascended

from ye one, descended from ye other, and gathered into a body
stagnating between both. Thus was the chaos at once separated

into three regions, the globe of muddy waters below ye firmament,

the vapors or waters above the firmament, and ye air or firma

ment itself. Moses had before called the chaos the deep and the

waters, on ye face of wch ye spirit of God moved, and here he
teaches the division of all those waters into two parts, with a

firmament between them : wch being the main step in ye gene

ration of this earth, was in no wise to be omitted by Moses.

After this general division of ye chaos, Moses teaches a sub

division of one of its parts, that of the miry waters underis,

y<, firmament into clear water, and dry land on the surface of
the whole globous mass, for wch separation nothing more was

requisite then that water should be drained from higher
                             ye ye                                            if ye ye
parts of limus to leave them dry land, and gather togetherye
     ye
              ye                           ye
into lower to compose seas. And some parts might be made

higher than others, not only                   by        cause of flux and reflux,
                                                                ye
                                                     ye               ye

but also by figure of chaos,                   if        was made by division fromye
ye
                         ye                       it

    chaos of other planets, for then could not be spherical.ye it
And now while the new planted vegetables grew to be food for

animals, the heavens becoming clear, for Sun in day, and

Moon and starrs in night, to shine distinctly through them on

the earth, and so put on form of lights in firmament, so

that had men been now living on earth to view the process

of creation, they would have judged those lights created at
     ye
                        ye
this time. Moses here sets down their creation as he had

then lived, and were now describing what he saw. Omit them

he could not, without rendering his description of the creation

imperfect in judgment of vulgar. To describe them distinctly
as they were in themselves, would have made ye narration tedious
                             ye
                                      ye

                                                                      a
and confused, amused vulgar, and become philosopher more

NO. VI.         LIFE OP 3IK ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                       453

then a prophet. He mentions them, therefore, only so far as

ye vulgar had a notion of them, that               it of,            as they were pheno

mena in firmament and describes their making only so far,is,
           ye
                a                                         it, it

                                          ;                               ye
                                                                                        ye

                                                                                            is
and at such time, as they were made such phenomena. Con

sider, therefore, whether any one who understood the process of

ye  creation, and designed to accommodate to ye vulgar not an

ideal or poetical, but a true description of as succinctly and

theologically as Moses has done, without omitting any thing

material wch vulgar have notion                     or describing any being
             ye
                                        a

further then the vulgar have a notion of could mend that
Ifdescription wch Moses has given us.
                                                    be said that                          expres

sion of making and setting two great lights in firmament

more poetical then natural, so also are some other expressions of

Moses, as when he tells us the windows or floodgates of heaven

were opened, (Gen. vii.,) and afterwards stopped again, (Gen.
viii. and yet the things signified                 by
      ;)                                            such figurative expres
                                                            ye
                                           ye                      ye
sions are not ideall or moral, but true. For Moses, accommo
                                                                     ye
dating his words to                            gross conceptions of                    :vulgar, describes

things much after ye manner as one of ye vulgar would have

been inclined to do had he lived and seen                            whole series of

wh"atNMowosefsordtehsecribneusm. ber and length of                   six days By what

    said above, you may make the first day as long as you
ye is
                                               if  there was no diurnal mo
                             ye

                                 a
                                      by
please, and  second day too,
tion till there was terraqueous globe, --that
                                                                     till towards
                                                   if
                                                                    is,

                                                                     it,
    end of that day's work. And then you will suppose                                                           ye

earth put in motion                            an eaven force applied to and that

ye first revolution was done in one of our years, in the time

of another year there would be three revolutions, of a third

five, of fourth seaven, &c., and of 183d year, 365 revolutions,
      is,                                      ye
        a                                                 ye

                                                        I
                                                                      I

                                                                                                            ye
that      as many as there are days in our year,-- and, in all this

time, Adam's life would be increased but about 90 of or years,

wch no such great business. But yet must profess knowis

no sufficient naturall cause of earth's diurnal motion. Where

natural causes are at hand, God uses them as instruments in

his works, but doe not think them alone sufficient for cre
             I

ation, and therefore may be allowed to suppose that, amongst

other things, God gave the earth its motion by such degrees,

454                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        APPENDIX,

Ifand at such times, as was most suitable to ye creatures.  you

would have a year for each day's work, you may, by supposing

day and night was made by the annual motion of the earth
only, and that the earth had no diurnal motion till towards the
end of ye six days. But you'l complain of long aud dolefull

nights ; and why might not birds and fishes endure one long
night as well as those and other animals endure many in Green

land ; or rather why not better then the tender substances wch

were growing into animals might endure successions of short days
and nights, and consequently of heat and cold ? For what think

you would become of an egge or embryo wch should frequently

grow hot and cold ? Yet if you think ye night too long, its but

supposing the Divine operations quicker. But be it as it will,

me thinks one of the Tenn Commandm'* given by God in Mount

Sina, prest by divers of ye prophets, observed by or Saviour,
his Apostles, and first Christians for 300 years, and with a day's

alteration by all Christians to this day, should not be grounded

on a fiction. At least divines will hardly be persuaded to

I[be"]liAevse  so.  writing,  another  illustration  of ye generation  of
                am

Ifhills, proposed above, comes into my mind. Milk is as uni
form a liquor as the chaos was.        beer be poured into and
                                                     ye

                                                                it,
                                                                          in
   mixture let stand till be dry, the surface of curdled sub
ye                            is it

         I
stance will appear as rugged and mountainous as the earth

any place.          forbear to describe other causes of mountains, as

the breaking out of vapours from below before the earth was
well hardened, --the settling and shrinking of
                                                     whole globe
                                                     ye

                                                              7,

                                                                I
after upper regions or surface began to be hard. Nor will
     2,
urge their antiquity out of Prov. viii. 25, Job xv.      Psalm
         ye
xc. but rather beg yor excuse for this tedious letter, which

I  have more reason to do, because have not set down anyyeI

thing have well considered, or will undertake to defend."
     I

   There no signature to this letter, but the whole distinctlyisis
written in Sir Isaac's hand, and almost without any corrections
or interlineations, which very unusual in his manuscripts.

NO. VII.           LIFE OF Silt ISAAC NEWTON.                          455

                               No. VII.

                                         (Referred to in page 104.)

PART OF A LETTER FROM SIR ISAAC NEWTON ON FLAMSTEED's
    SPECULATIONS RESPECTING THE SUN, THE ACTION OF HEATED
    MAGNETS, AND THE MOTION OF COMETS.

   Concerning the experiment that a magnet loses its magnetism

Iby heat, some have indeed supposed the sun to be cold, but

believe Mr. Flamsteed is not of this opinion, for they may as

well affirm culinary fire to be cold. For we have no argument
of its being not, but that it heats and burns things that ap

          and we have the same argument of the sun being
proach    it,

hot. Were we ten times nearer him, no doubt, we should feelif is

him an hundred times hotter, for his light would be there an

hundred times more constipated, and the experiment of the

burning glass shews that his heat        is  answerable to the con

stipation of his light. So then were a body hard        it by          the sun,

                                                                  a
his light being there about 50,000 times more constipated, his

heat would be 50,000 times greater than we feel in hot

summer day, which vastly greater than any heat we know on

earth. Now, though the inward part of the sun were an earthy

gross substance, yet the liquid shining substance which Mr.

Flamsteed supposes to swim upon    is it,    be then hot, will heat
                                      it                it

the matter within as certainly as melted lead would heat an

iron bullet immersed in it. Nor              material whether the

liquid matter on the sun be of any considerable thickness. An

iron bullet would heat as fast in a quart as in an ocean of

melted lead, this difference only excepted, that the bullet would
Ifcool small quantity of lead more than great one.
a                                                                      then

              if

                    it
                                     it
                                                it

                                                               a

                                                                   it
the liquid matter swimming on the sun be but so thick as not

to be cooled by the central parts, (as       must be,)                 will cer

tainly heat the central parts, for imparts heat to the contiguous

matter as fast as  were thicker, and keeps of all cool environ

ing mediums, (the instrument of cooling things,) from coming
near the central parts to cool them. By which means the

456'               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            APPENDIX.

central parts must become as hot, as if the hot fluid matter
surrounding it equalled the whole vortex. The whole body of

the sun, therefore, must be red hot, and consequently void of

magnetism, unless we suppose its magnetism of another kind from

any we have, which Mr. Flamsteed seems inclinable to suppose.

As for a great magnet exercising its directive virtue more

Istrongly than its attractive on a small one, it holds in all cases

  had opportunity to observe, and till a contrary instance can

Ibe brought, am inclined to believe it holds generally. Mr.

Flamsteed puts a case of a little magnet thrown violently by a

great one. In this case, certainly, the motion of the small
magnet neither helps nor hinders any part of the operation of

                           only that shortens the time the
the great magnet upon  it,
                              it,

                                         it
                                               it

                                                     it
                                                                    it
great magnet has to operate in. Were the great magnet thrown

along I if ?  the side of the little one, that might have time
          by
enough to work onit    no doubt            would direct                 as well as

attract it. For do not magnets thus operate when trajected

through the air in ship under sail, more swiftly about the
                       a
centre of the earth      by

                                                          it I
                       the diurnal motion thereof, still more

swiftly about the sun by the annual motion                      And were the

greater of the two magnets stopped, would operate other

wise Surely not. It would only want time to operate in.

IfAnd
       for want of time               directed not, much less would
                 is                                                     it
                    it a
attract or repel.      an instance could be found where pro
                        it                 a

                              is                      I
                                                                   a
jected magnet attracted or repelled by fixed one, but notit if it

directed, would be material. But such an instance, doubt,
will scarce be found. But for want of time to perform the

magnetical operations in,             be neither sensibly attracted, re

pelled, nor directed,    nothing to the purpose. On the other

hand, add, that resting magnet,            have large sphere of
                                           if
                                              it

                                                              a

                                                              it
activity, so that      may have time to perform its operations

before the projectile magnet be out of its reach, will direct
more strongly than attract, and give this instance of it. Let
                                        I

the earth represent the great resting magnet, the mariner's

                 is
                      in

                                    is
                                                                              by

                                                                                 it
needle a small one: this directed as strongly                           the earth

when the ship          its swiftest motion under sail, as when

rests, so far as observations have hitherto been made, and con

sequently were the ship ten times swifter, would still be as

NO. VII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                            457

much directed, and yet so little attracted by the earth as not to

become sensibly heavier thereby. The case is the same with a

comet continuing long within the reach of the sun's magnetism.

   The instance of a bullet shot out of a cannon, and keeping

Ithe same side forward, may be a tradition of the gunners, but

do not see how it can consist with the laws of motion, and

therefore dare venture to say that upon a fair trial it will not

succeed, excepting sometimes by accident. The trial may be

thus made upon a spell or bridge such as school-boys play with :

lay a large ball, one hemisphere of which is white, the other

black. Either hemisphere lying upwards, strike the edge of

the bridge to make the ball rise, and if the ball receive not any

circulating motion from the stroke, you will see the hemisphere

If Iwhich is laid upwards continue upwards as well falling as
rising.   did not know the event of the experiment by the

reason of yet could guess at by what have observed of
a
                it,

               I

                                               it

                                          I

                                                                                                                            :
hand-ball tossed up.

IfTo the foregoing objections may be added this -- the comet

be attracted in its access to the sun, and repelled in its recess,

and so being continually accelerated would be swifter in its recess

than in its access, contrary to what Mr. Flamsteed and others be

lieve. For the magnetic repulse continually urging the comet to

the sun, would make go away faster and faster continually.

   Another objection may be this -- Let be the sun, ABCD
          it

                                          :

                                            S

the' line of the comet's motion, according to the hypothesis,is

ABC that part in which the comet attracted, CDF that part

458  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

in which it is repelled. When the comet comes at C, being
there neither attracted nor repelled, it ought to proceed on in
the line of the determination of its motion CV, and verge

neither to D on the one hand, nor to E on the other ; but when

it is advanced a little farther, and begins to be repelled, the
repulse will not make it verge from the line of its motion's
direction CV towards the sun, but drive it from the sun, that

Iis it does not make it verge from CV towards D, but towards E,

and so go away in the line CE. But should have put the

point where it begins to be repelled a little sooner, as at K. If

to avoid this difficulty the comet be made to pass between the

sun and us, that supposition is urged by the difficulty men
tioned in my former letter. But all these difficulties may be
avoided by supposing the comet to be directed by the sun's

magnetism as well as attracted, and consequently to have been
attracted all the time of its motion, as well as in its recess from

the sun, as in its access towards him, and thereby to have been
as much retarded in its recess as accelerated in his access, and

by this continual attraction to have been made to fetch a com

pass about the sun in the line ABKDF, the vis centrifuga at C

overpowering the attraction and forcing the comet there, not

withstanding the attraction, to begin to recede from the sun."

   The date of the letter, of which this was intended to form a
part, is April 16, 1681.

NO. VIII.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         459

                              No. VIII.

                                  (Referred to in page 114.)
           LETTER FROM SIR ISAAC NEWTON TO DR. COVEL.

  I" have had an account of the solemnity of the Proclamation ;

Iand am glad to understand it was performed w* so much de-

cence by the wiser and more considerable part of ye university,

and generosity on yor part. The next thing is a book of verses.
If you do it at all, ye sooner ye better. Concerning ye new Oaths
IW* you are to administer,
                                    need not give instructions to you

about their legality. But because many persons of less under
standing (whom it may be difficult to persuade) will scruple at

Ithem, will add my thoughts to yours, that you may have the
Ifuller argument for convincing them, if can add anything to

what you have not thought of ; ffor, seeing these Oaths are the

Imain thing that ye dissatisfied part of ye University scruple,
Ithink cannot do the University better service at present than

Iby removing the scruples of as many as have sense enough to be

convinced wth reason. The argument lay down in the follow
                    :--
ing"  propositions       Allegiance  sworn  to ye  King     is  only  such  a
                    and
      1. Fidelity

fidelity and obedience as is due to him by ye law of ye land ; ffor

were that ffaith and allegiance more than what the law requires,

we should swear ourselves slaves, and ye King absolute ; whereas,

by   the   law, we  are ffree men,  notwithstanding those Oaths.
           When,    therefore, the  obligation by the law to fidelity
    " 2.

and allegiance ceases, that by the Oath also ceases ; ffor might
allegiance be due by the oath to one person, whilst by the law

it ceases to him and becomes due to another, the oath might

oblige men to transgress the law and become rebells or traitors ;

whereas the oath is a part of the law, and therefore ought to be

so interpreted as may consist wth it.       by     ye  law  to  King  Wil
   " 3. Fidelity and Allegiance are due

4(50                          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                APPBNDIX,

liam, and not to King James. For the Statute of 25 Edw. 3,

\vch defined all treasons against ye King, and is ye only statute

to that purpose, by the king understands not only a king de-jure

and de facto, but also a king de facto, though not de jure,

against whom those treasons lye. Whence the Ld Chief Justice

Hales, in his Pleas of the Crown, page 12, discoursing of that

statute, tells us that a king de facto and not dejure, is a king
within that Act, and that treason against him is punishable,
tho' the right heir get the crown. And that this has been the

constant sense of the law, Sr Rob'. Sawyer also, upon my asking
                              has assured me. And accordingly,
by ithim about                                                    ; ye                 another

               a                                                       is

                   it,                                                         ye
                                                                                      ye
                                  a
                                                                                      by
                                                               ;
                                                                                                    ye
                                                      7,
statute in the first of Hen. 'tis declared treason to be in arms

against king de facto, (such as was Richard the Third,) tho'
   be in behalf of king de jure. So then by law of land

all things are treason against King William                                 have been trea

son against former kings and therefore the same fidelity, obe

dience, and allegiance w"* was due to them                                  due to him, and
consequence may be sworn to him by law of land. Al

legiance and protection are always mutuall and, therefore, when

K. James ceased to protect us, we ceased to owe him allegiance

by law of land. And, when King W. began to protect us,
      ye
                          ye

we"bTehgeusne  to owe allegiance to him.                          opinion  sufficient  to remove
                considerations are in my
Ifgrand scruple about the oaths.
                                                                  dissatisfied party accuse
ye

    if
                                                        '
                                                              ye
                                                                              ;
                                                                                  ye
                                           I
the Convention for making P. of Orange King, 'tis not my

duty to judge those above me and therefore shall only say

that, they have done ill, Quod fieri non debuit, factu valet.'
And those at Cambridge ought not to judge and censure their

superiors, but to obey and honour them according to the law and

the"  doctrine of             passive obedience.                  the Convention       Parliament
      Yesterday                                                            is
            ye                  bill for declaring                                  a
                     a
                                                                                                 it
was read 2d time and committed. The Committee have not

yet finished their amendments of it. There no doubt but

will pass.  I  am             in  haste,
                              "   Yor most
                                            humble                Servant,
                                                                            " Is. Newton.
" London, Feb. 21, 1688-9."

NO. IX.           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NI5WTON.                 461

                           No. IX.

                       (Ileferred to in page 121.)

          LETTER FROM JOHN LOCKE TO MR. NEWTON.

         " Sir,                          " London, l&th July 1692.

I" Finding noe better conveyance, have sent you the 8th
IChapter by Martin the carrier. It was delivered to his owne
hands yesterday.       would beg yu, if ya have soe much leisure,

to read, correct, censure, and send it back by the same hand this
I Iweeke, else fear the presse will stay.
                                                    deferred it soe long,
Iin hopes to send all together by a safe hand, missing that have

ventured but one chapter at once. As soon as this comes back,
I will send the next.
I" Mr. Boyle has left to Dr. Dickson, Dr. Cox, and me, the
inspection of his papers.  have here inclosed sent you the
Itranscript of two of them that came to my hand, because
Iknew you desired it. Of one of them have sent you all there
was ; --of the other, only the first period, because it was all you
If Iseemed to have a minde to.
If Iwill send you them too.         you desire the other periods,

                             meet with anything more con

cerning the process he communicated to you, you shall have it ;
and if there be anything more in relation to any of Mr. Boyle's

Ipapers, or anything else wherein can serve you, be pleased to

command,             " Sir,
                 most affectionate
         " Your                     and  most       humble"  servant,

                                                             J. Locke.

                       " First Period.

  " §. lb x, cleanse it well with lb j of flowers of ^ in 24 hours.

To these tb x, take 3 ij of minerel soap u 2, shake it with the 9,

so as it may first imbody with      it,  and afterwards, by further

agitation, be spued out by it. This worke may last 24 hours or

      462  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           APPENDIX,

      more. To the same §, adde 3 j more of the soape, and worke

      as before. This doe 7 times. Then before any Durca be added,

      the matter must be kept in agitation as before for at least

      7 days, for 'twill be the better (if it be forced in) adding no
      soap to it. The soap being to make it throw out any feculency

      that may lie concealed in 5 in the forme of a powder, whereby
      the § will remain the purer.

        " lb j of choice and grind with it for 2 or 3 hours, or
      longer, if need be, 3 j of our dry soap, till it have been aaa with

j3 it,  and thrown out again in the form of an unpromising powder.

      Then put to another dram of the soap, and proceed as before.
      Afterwards adde 3d dram, and set aside the powder that will
           it

                  a

be thrown out as formerly, and thus impregnate the liquor with

        after another, till you have incorporated with as far as youit,

           it,
                by

                                       a
can doe    grinding whole ounce."

NO. X.                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                  4C3

                                                           No. X.

                                       (Referred to in page 128.)

        LETTER FROM DR. BENTLEY TO SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

        " Hon- Sir,                                                                " Feb. 18, 169§.

" Understanding y' the publication of my sermons might be
Idelayed a while without any damage to ye bookseller, have

kept them in my hands, and shall keep them a little longer.

And, though there were yet several matters in them, about which

I would have purchased your opinion at no small rate, neverthe
Iless had not presumed any further to interrupt your worthy

design with questions from a stranger. But yr unexpected and

voluntary favour by the last post doth encourage me to request

you, y* you would run over this abstract and thread of my first

unpublished sermon ; and to acquaint me with what you find

Iin it yl is not conformable to truth and your hypothesis. My

mind would be very much at ease, if have that satisfaction,

bef"orPeroyveeddi,scionurysees6  are   out of my power.                            of ye  world                  can
                                       ' That ye present system
                                  son

not have been eternal. So y' matter being eternal (according to

ye Atheists) all was once a chaos, y' all matter was evenly or
                                                                       is,
                                                                                       y*
                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                      a
nea"r   upon evenly diffused in the mundane spaces.'                                      in                   such
          proceed therefore in this 7th to shew, matter
     ye I

                         ye

                               is

                                            ye
                                                         ye
chaos could never naturally convene into this or like system.

To which end we must consider some systematical phtenomena

of       present  world.           And                     our  earth  gravitate,  even                        lightest
   "              bodies         around                                ye is
        (1.) All
                                                                                                         ye
                                                                                                             ye
com" p(2ar.a) tivGerlayv, itaynodr in  their natural elements.                            to                     quan
                                       weight of bodies proportional

tity"  of matter, at  equal distances                           from center.              but                    com
       (3.) Gravity       not peculiar                          to terrestrial bodies,

mon to all planets and sun. Nay the whole bodies of sun

and planets mutually gravitate toward one another and in a
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                                         /

464          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 APPENDIX,

word ' all bodies gravitate toward all. This universal gravita
ytion or attraction is to <f,aivofievov or matter of fact, for ye de
Imonstration of which must referr you to
                                                                       Indeed as

to the cause and origin of this gravity he was pleased to deter-
min nothing. But you will perceive in the sequel of this dis

course y* it is above all mechanism or power of inanimate matter,

and must proceed from a higher principle and a divine energy

I Iand impression.' (I have written these words at large, y' you

may see if am tender enough, how engage your name in this

ma"tter. )   Now if gravity  be proportional           to ye q'* of matter, there

       (4.)
is a necessity of admitting a vacuu.
   " (5.) And to estimate wh proportion ye void space in our sys
tem may bear to ye solid mass. Refined gold (though even y* be

porous, because dissoluble in $ and aqua regia, and ye tented non

impossibility y' the figures of its corpuscles should be adapted

for total contact) is to common water as 19 to 1, and water to
common air as 850 to 1, so y' gold is to air as 16,150 to 1, so y'

ye void space in the textur of con air is 16,150 times as big as ye
solid mass. And because air hath an elastick endeavour to ex

pand itself, and ye space it occupies, being reciprocally as its
compression, the higher it
                                      a      'tis less compressed and more
                                        is,         ye

                                                        it
rarefied, and at hight of few miles has some million partsye

....of void space to one of real bodie and at                     ye   hight of terr.
                                                    ;                  1

femid, (us                hath calculated,) tis so very tenuious,         y'
                                                                               a

sphrere of our common air (already 16,150 parts nothing) ex

panded to thinness of region would more than take up
             ye ye           y'                                        y'
                      ye
                                 ye                                                            ye ye
whole orb of Saturn, which         is        many million millions of times

                                                    :
bigger than all globe of earth and yet higher above y',
rarefaction gradually increases in immensum. So the whole

concave of firmament, except sun, planets, and atmospheres,

ma"y   be    considered as mere void.
       (6.)    Esto hypothesis That every
                          a                            fixt     starr  sun so
                                                                       is
                                   ;                                      a

                                                                                       ye ;

                                                                                     [I y*
the proportion of void space to matter                     y*     found in our sun's
                                                              is

vortex will near upon hold in                y' yerest of mundane space.ye

know what Kepler says, Epitome Astron.                     p.   36, therefore qiuero,
   this hypothesis may pass.] Allow then                        the globe of earth
is if                                                       y*

       entirely solid and dense, and all matter of our sun, playe

NO. X.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 465

nets, atmospheres, and aether, is about 50,000 times as much as

y° hulk of y° earth. Astronomers will bear us witness y' we are

liberal enough. Now the Orbis Magnus (7000 terr. diam. wide)
is 343,000,000,000 times as big as the whole earth, and therefore

is 6,860,000 times as big as all ye matter of our system. But by

the doctrine of ye parallaxis, we cannot well allow less (in y° Co-
pernican hypothesis) than 100,000 diam. of ye Orb Mag : for the

diameter of ye firmament. So y* the whole concave of ye firma

ment is (in ye 3 plic. Prop.) 1,000,000,000,000,000 times as big
as ye sphaere of ye Orbis Magnus, and therefore (multiplying this
by 6,860,000) it is 6,860,000,000,000,000,000,000 times as big as

all ye matter of our system. So y' if all y* matter was eavenly

....disperst in ye concave of ye firmament, every corpuscle would
have a sphaere of void space around it 68,600  times bigger

than its own dimensions : and ye diameter of ye sphrere would

be above 19,000,000 times longer than ye diameter of y° cor
puscle, (supposing y° corpuscle to be sphaerical.) And further,

because of y° equal sphaeres of other corpuscles about y * corpuscle,
ye void space about every corpuscle becomes twice as wide as it

was, having a diam. compounded of ye diameter of its own

sphaere, and y° 2 semidiameters of ye sphaeres of y° 2 next cor
puscles opposite, 60 y' every atom has a void space about it

8 + 68,600 . . . times as big as y° atom, and would be distant

19,000,000 times its own length (if sphaerical) from any other
corpuscle. And by y° same supposition of equal diffusion in ye

whole surface of ye void sphaere about every atom whose diam.

is 38,000,000 times as long as y° diam. of ye atoms, there can be

no more than 12 atoms placed at equal distances from y° central

one and from each other, (like ye center and angles of an icosae-
dron.) So y* lastly, every atom is not only so many million

millions of times distant from any other atom, but if it should

be moved and impelled (without attraction or gravitation) to
ye length of y* distance, it is many more million millions odds

to an unit, that it doth not hit and strike upon one of those 12
atoms. But y° proportion of this void to matter within our

firmament, may hold in all y° other mundane spaces beyond it.

I[The measure of y° Orbis M. 7000 terrest. diam. and of y° firma-

met 100,000 diam. of ye Orbis Magnus take from And: Tac-
vol. n.
                                               2g

466                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                         APPENDIX,

Ifquet, being round numbers.                             you substitute better instead of

Ithe"m,     ye calculation may                    be soon altered.]          ye firm  :  should         be
            am aware, y' half                     of ye diameter of

allowed for y° radij of ye several vortices of next fixt stars, so

y' the space of our sun's vortex should be diminished, as 8 to 1.

But because ye semr. of ye firm, may be immensely greater tha

                        we think
                    the design of
we"suppNosoewda 1.                                abatement not worth considering.is
                                                  all this to shew, which (if ye pre
                    it,

                                 is
                                          y'
mises be granted) evident at first sight, in supposition of
                                                                      a       ye
such chaos, no quantity of common motion (without attraction)            y*       y*
could ever cause these stragling atoms to convene into great

masses and move, as they do in our syste, circular motion being                                         a
impossible to be produced naturally, unless there be either

gra"vit(a2t.i)onAnodr  want of room.                         'tis impossible          that should
                       as for gravitation,

either be coeternal and essential to matter, or ever acquired by

it. Not essential and coeternal to matter for then even our
                                                                      ;

system would have been eternal (if gravity could form it) against

our Atheists' supposition, and what we have proved in our last.
For let them assign any given time, matter convened from a
                                                             y'

                                                                       y*
chaos into our system, they must affirm before given time
                                                                                      by y*
                                                                                           is
matter gravitated eternally without convening, which absurd.

[Sir, make account, your courteous suggestion                                                your last,
     y*             is

      if a I                                  y*
       chaos inconsistent with hypothesis of innate gravity,ye                                          is

included in this paragraph of mine.] And again, 'tis uncon
                    inanimate brute matter should (without divine
ceivable,           y*                                                                       a
                         ;

                         it

                            if it
                                      if
impression) operate upon and affect other matter without mu

tual contact as must, gravitation be essential and inhe

ren"t       in it.     then  gravitation cannot be essential to matter,
            (3.) But
                                                             it by  matter. This self-evi
neither could          ever be acquired                                      a if
                                                                  is
dent, gravitation be true attraction. And                                         it

                                                                                           ye is
                                                                                                     a
                                                                                      be not true

attraction, matter could never convene from chaos into sys

tem like ours, (paragraph 1.) Nay, even now, since forming
of our system, gravitation
                    if                                   inexplicable otherwise than by at
                                                      ;
                                              is
traction. 'Tis not magnetism, as you have shewn. 'Tis not                                       Q
                                                                                                     y"
effect of vortical motion because                                     proportional to ye of

matter, for the earth was hollow, there would be no less weight

NO. X.                    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                     467

of bodie in ye air (according to vortices,) than if it was solid to
ye centre : there would be no less pressure toward ye sun, if y»
whole space of ye sun were a mere void, than if a dense bodie.
Again : A vortical motion, without gravitation antecedent to
                                                                                                  if
supposeth and require, either an absolute full, or at least a dense
                                                                                                             ;
texture of aethereal matter contrary to what proved before,
                    ye                                                                :                         it,

                           it                                                            ye is
                                                  ye
                                                                 ;
                                                              ye
and what appears from                 motions of comets and besides, as

you have shewn, contradicts phaenomena of slower motion

yof planets in Aphelijs qua Perihelijs, and sesquialteral propor                  ye

tion of periodical motions to their orbs. In word, gravity
                                                                                      a

be not attraction, must be caused by impulse and contact but
                          it

y*     can never solve universal gravitation, in all scituations, lateral

as well as descending, &c., according to phaenomena of your                       ye

hyp"ot[hSeirs,is.to my conceptions, universal gravitation, according to

your doctrine,                so impossible to be solved mechanically,
                          I is                                                        I

                                                                                                    y*I
was much surprised to see you warn me what ascribed to you,

for you pretended not to know                                       it ye  cause of it. As to innate

Ifgravity, you perceive         usedy*         wholy against my purpose and ar
gumentation.                                 word, was only for brevity's sake.
                                      y' it

                                           is

But must needs desire your judgment of w' here deliver'd to
       I                                                                              is

ye y*      it             look't little in to Hugenius de la Pesanteur,
       purpose.     it I        a

                                           ;

                                      I
when newly came out, and well remember that cannot be
                                                                                          is I

                                                                                              it
reconciled to your doctrine and Varignon's book read, which,

besides         y*      cannot explain universal gravity,                                         confuted by

    most vulgar phaenomena. He makes long filets of materia

subtilis reach from top of earth's vortex to earth. All
                                ye                                                        ye
                                          ye                                                  ye

                                                    ye
bodies descend are in lower half, because                                                       superior part
                        ye

                          y'
of filets are longer. All ascend in higher half, for con
       ye                                                           y'                            a ye

trary reason. But in middle of them thereye                                ye ye      is        considerable
                                                                                         a

space of equilibria, indifferent both to ascent and descent, wch

he calls espace de repose, and in                                               moon moves in circle

without ascending or descending very well. Therefore, in ye

filets of Sun's vortex, all space between Mercury and Saturn
ye is

                   ye
                         ye

                                             ye
                                                            yB
       an espace de repose a small distance for equilibrium so
                                                                                      ye
                                                                                                                   ;

much longer than                    whole half of filets from Mercury to   ye

       "body    of    Sun.]     we    could                     suppose gravitation               essential to
                 But  though
          (4.)

468               LIFE OF S1H ISAAC NEWTON.                      APPENDIX,

matter, or rather supervene into matter while it was diffused in

a chaos, yet it could never naturally constitute a system like

our"s.       For if matter be finite, and seeing extension is not mat

       (1.)
ter, ye summe of ye mundane matter must consist of seperate

parts divided and disterminated by vacuum ; but such parts
cannot be positively infinite, any more than there can be an

actually and positively infinite arithmetical summe, which is a

contradiction in terms. It may be said y' all bodies have in

finite puncta, so y' there are infinite summs. Indeed at y* rate

all numbers are infinite, as containing infinite fractions. Even

fractions themselves are infinite. But such puncta are not

quanta, so y' the case is different toto genere. Can a positive

summe contain infinite ones, twos, or infinite given fractions ?

ICan it have infinite quota and quanta as ye atoms we speak of

are ? say, then, if matter be finite, it must be in a finite space.

But, then, by universal gravity, in an even diffusion, all matter

ifwould convene in one mass in ye middle of ye space, and,

never so unevenly diffused, all would convene still into one mass,

though not in ye middle of ye mundane space, but in ye center

Iof "ye(2c.o)mNmaoyn,gravity.            it
                  though    we  suppose      once  constituted,  even then,

even now, all would convene together in a finite system.
grant, y* if ye whole world was but one sun, and all ye rest

planets moving about him, they would not convene ; but in
several fixt Starrs y* have no motion about each other, they,
with their systems of planets, would all convene in ye common

center of mundane gravity, if ye present world was not sustained

by  "a  Divine    power.
        [Sir, in  a finite
                            world,  where there are outward fixt starrs,

Ithis seems plainly necessary ; but in ye supposition of an infinite
space, let me ask your opinion.          acquiesce in your authority,

y' in matter diffused in an infinite space, 'tis as hard to keep

those infinite particles fixt at an equilibrium, as poise infinite

needles on their points upon an infinite speculum. Instead of

particles, let me assume fixt starrs, or great fixt masses of opake
matter, is it not as hard y' infinite such masses in an infinite

space should maintain an equilibrium, and not convene toge

NO. X.                         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              469

         y',
            by

                    ye
ther ; so though our system was infinite, could not be pre
                                                        it,
                                                                 y* it
                                                                      is

                                                                                       ye
ser"ve(d3.)buMt oreoverp,owinersuocfhGocdh.]aos, though gravity should supera

                               planets could never acquire their transverse
Ifvene to matter,ye
                 ye                             they were formed in same orbs
motions about sun, &c.

they now move in, they could never begin to move circularly                                              is is ;

ye     aetherial matter could not impress for                              too thin, and

indifferent to east or west, as appears from comets. Nor could

gravity act in horizontal line, as they move in where there
             a

no inclination nor descent. Now, therefore, suppose the planets

to be formed in some higher regions, and first descend towards

the sun, wherby they would acquire their velocities but then
                                                                           ye
they would have continued their descent to                                            ;
                                                                           sun unless                    a

Divine power gave them transverse motion against                                           y*         vast
                                      a
impetus      such great bodies must fall with so on all ac
         y'                                  ye                            ;
                  a
                                                                                     y*

counts there's       necessity     of introducing     it    God.                           same in
                      you cite     from Blondel,            have read                      ye
   " [As to what                                        Ia                                           p.
Hon. Fabri's Astronomia Physica, and Galilaeo's System, 10

and 17, who adds, by the velocity of Saturn, one may comy*

pute at what distance from sun was formed, according to

ye ye  degrees of acceleration found out by himself in the progres

sion of odd numbers. (But he must surely have erred, not
knowing w' you have since shewn,                            velocity of descent as
                                                        y'
well as weight of bodies decreases as                                  square of distance
                                                           yeif ye                       yeI I ye
                                                                     ye                     y'
increases,) and there                           proportion of distances and velo                  y*
             ye

                 y'
                                is

                                            y*
cities of all planets quam proxime, as they all dropt from

       same hight. (But you seem to reject this, saying,                                              the

gravitation of sun must be doubled at very moment they
                  ye                                                   ye

reach their orbs.)  I
                             II
                               confess could make no use of passage

of Galilaeo and Fabri, because could not calculate, so                                                said

no more, but in general as above, and rather because knewye

that there must be some given hights, from whence each of

them descending, might acquire their present velocities. But                                          ;I

own,    y*   could understand                         thing, would not be only
                                                a ye        yn it
         iIf

                           ye
ornamental to discourse, but great improvement of argu
                                                                                           y* ye
ment for a Divine power for think more impossible they
                                   ;  I                 it

should be all formed naturally at same at various distances
                                                 if ye
and 'tis miracle of all miracles they were naturally formedye

470              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          APPENDIX,

Iat such intervals of time, as all of them to arrive at their re

spective orbs at ye very same moment, which is necessary, if

rightly conceive your meaning about doubling y« sun's attrac
tion ; for if Mercury fell first, and when he reached his own

orb, ye sun's attraction was doubled. That continuing doubled,

ye descents of ye succeeding planets would be proportionably

accelerated, which would disturb ye supposed proportion betwixt

Me"rcHuroineds.  velocity and theirs.       of  ye  former  sermon  ;  y9 latter
                 Sir, This is y* contents

Iis an argument of  a Divine goodnes from ye meliority in                    our
                    was necessary to be in natural causality.
system, above what                                                             I

hope shall have no need to give you more trouble in y*. But,

Sir, while I am writing this, I have received a letter from my

bookseller, calling away for ye press. Let me but begg of you,

by the next post, some brief hints what you approve of, and

Iwhat not ; for have resolved to expect your answer, let him
Ibe never so clamorous. Sr, heartily ask your pardon for giving
Iyou the trouble of this, which must increase likewise by another

piece of boldness in desiring your good leave to present you with

                 discourses    when   these 2 last are made publick.
                                  am
I Rmy8  poor           " Sir,
                  " For
                                      your  most  obliged   &  hu. ser',
                                                            "
                                                                   Bentlev.

The Hond. Mr. Isaac Newton,
              Math. Prof, and Fellow
                  of Trinity College, in

" Post-paid 5.'                       Cambridg.

NO. XI.     UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           471

                       No. XI.

                       (Referred to in page 147.)

         LETTER FROM SAMUEL PEPYS TO MR. NEWTON.

    " Sir,                                         " Dec. 21, 1693.

If I" to what you have done, and which can in noe wise
sufficiently acknowledge your favour in, it could bee excusable

to come once more to you upon ye same errand ; it should bee

to aske you whether B's disadvantage (in his contest with A)
bee anything different under his obligation to fling 2 sixes at
one throw with 12 dyes, from what it would bee were he to doe

Iit at twice with 6 dyes at a time out of one box, or at once out
of 2 boxes with that number in each.  being yet (must owne)

unable to satisfy my selfe touching ye difference, i.e., how it

arises, though at ye same time you have putt mee beyond all

Idoubt of A's having ye advantage in ye maine of B. Nor must

conceale my being at ye same losse how to comprehend, even

flinging 12 dyes at one throw out of a single box, (ye sayd dyes

being tinged £ greene, \ blew,) they being lesse provided for
turning up a six with either of these different-coloured parcells

while flung together out of ye same box, then were ye 6 blew to

Ibee throwne out of one box, and ye 6 greene from another ; in

which latter case, presume each of them severally would bee

equally entitled to the producing of a six with A's 6 white ones,

Iandby consequence     of 2 when flung together.               and that
       am conscious    enough that this is but fumbling,
   "
it arises only from my not knowing how to make ye full use of

your Table of Progressions ; but pray bee favourable to my un-

Ireadinesse in keeping pace with you therein, and give mee one
line of farther help.  am most thankefully, deare Sir,
            " Your obliged and m" oasntdhfuamybthleful serv',
                                                   " S. Pepys."

472          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           APPENDIX,

             No. XII.

             (Referred to in page 152.)

     1. -- LETTER FROM DR. JOHN MILL TO MR. NEWTON.

     " MY MOST HONOURED FRIEND,
I" am heartily sensible of your many signal favours and civili
Ities to me when last at Cambridge.
                                     hope you have not forgot

your kind promise of remarking in paper your thoughts of the

Ivarieties you have met with in the Apocalypse. Whatever
Ihave not observed already in my book, would willingly add in
my Appendix, which is going on, and will have many things in

it very considerable. My book, as long as it is with you, is in
I Ifas safe hands as can desire.
                                  you please, you may take the
Ifirst fair opportunity of conveying it hither.
                                                 think the best
way will be by our Oxford carrier, if the waters be low enough.

You may send for him, and put the book, carefully packed up,

into his own hands. And if your servant go along with him

and see it put up in his pack, it will do well ; we cannot be too
Icareful in a matter of this consequence.
                                           have been mighty
I Icurious since saw you last, in observing something which

Ihave all along slighted as trivial hitherto, the points of distinc

tion in the old Alexandrian copy. And now find them extra

ordinary accurate and regular ; there is but one note for all
manner of distinctions indeed, and 'tis at the top of a word, as

our modern Greek colon (:), but then 'tis placed with such exact

ness and caution everywhere, as to distinguish the notions and

ideas in each clause and sentence, infinitely better than we
Icould do with all our modern apparatus of distinctions.
                                                          am
Iso very fond of their way of distinguishing the text, that
I Icould heartily wish, when
             collated the Beza MS., had
Imarked all the distinctions. For a last, may presume to beg

your favour to transcribe any one single page in the Greek, and
to point it exactly according to the copy, 'twill be a mighty

obligation.

NO. XII.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                            473

" My most humble service to my noble worthy friend, your

Imaster, as also to Dr. Covel. He put an Arabic charm in my

nands, which have not yet returned. The next return of the

carrier he shall surely receive with translation of some part
of it.    II
                   I

                                                it,
                                                                 a
                                                                                     is

                                                          I
            hope our common friend Mr. Laughton well. Pray
       him  my thanks for all
giv"e  But    doubt trespass     civilities.     time    and  studies.                   wish
                                 upon your

you all imaginable health and happiness, and remain ever, with

the greatest   sincerity   of a"ffeWctoiortnh,y

               " Your     most obedient          Sir,    servan"t, Jo. Mill.
                                                 humble

" St. Edmond Hall, Oxon.

            Now- 1693.
                7,

" These for the truly honor'd Mr. Professor Newton,
          at his lodgings in Trinity College,
                                                    Cambridge."

          2. LETTER FROM MR. NEWTON TO DR. JOHN MILL.

   "S*'                   ye I have kept yor book too long                             But to
" feare you think
&                             a  it

  I                                                  ;

                                         I
                                             I

                                                                                    :
make some amends for detaining so long, have sent you not

only my old collations so far as they vary from yours, but also

some new ones of Dr. Covil's two MSS ffor have collated

them anew, sent you those readings wch were either omittedI&

in yor printed ones, or there erroneously printed. In collating

these MSS., set the readings down in the margin of yor book,

thence transcribed them into sheet of paper, wch you will
                                 ye
                                     a
find in your Book at end of Apocalyps, together wth my old

collations, a copy of side of Beza's MS. The collations
            &                                                 &;

                                                                   I
                                                                      I
send you of Dr Covil's two MSS. you may rely upon ffor put

them into Mr. Laughton's hand w'h two MSS.,      ye                                    he com

pared them wth MSS. and found them right. In the otherye

collations you will find that Stephens made several omissions &

474               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.        AFPENDIX,

some other mistakes, in collating the Complutensian edition,

tho' its probable that he collated this edition wth more diligence
I& accurateness than he did any of ye MSS. Where have
Inoted any readings of ye Alexandrin MS., desire you would
Icollate that MS. again wth my readings, because never had a
Isight of it.
                could not observe any accurateness in ye stops or

commas in Beza's MS. You may rely upon the transcript of

something more then a side of wch you will find in your Book
at end of the Apocalyps. In your little MS. book, which
it ye                                                             II

                          ye y* it,I
return you, tyed up together wth your New Testament, you will

find those transcripts you desired out of MSS., except two, wch

were in such running hands            could not imitate them, nor
did seeme worth the while,
                                    MSS. being very new ones. --

am, in all "siYncremritoys,t humble & most obedient s"erIvsa. nNt,ewton.
   " Trin. Coll. Cambridge,

     Jan. 29, 169f."

This letter followed by one leaf headed Spicilegia Varian-
     8                                                               It
tium Lectionum in Apocalypsi exis     MSS.   Sin.  "etshCeoevt."
written on both sides, and appears           the                  referred
                                      to be                       2.
                                                                             is

to in line of Newton's letter. After this come two leaves

containing three  bepa"gems yoof ldvaCrioolulastiornesa,d" ingresfeirnredthetoApinocalilnyepse3,d
which appear to

of the letter.

NO. XIII.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    475

                             No. XIII.

                                          (Referred to in page 169.)

       TABLE OF REFRACTIONS SENT BY FLAMSTEED TO NEWTON.

  I have thought it right, for the reasons mentioned in the note

on page 169, to give the following table of refractions, commu
nicated by Flamsteed to Newton, on the 11th October 1694,
which has been omitted in the copy of the letter published by
Mr. Bailey in his Life of Flamsteed, p. 134.

0 Distantia     x Refr.  0 Refr.   0 Distantia    x Refr.  © Refr.
     visa a   © and ?.                  visa a   © and $.  simplex.
    vertice.             simplex.      vertice.

77" 00"       2 00" 3' 30° . 88" 40'» 19' 30°
80 00
81 00         3 40       5 10 88 52 20 50
82 00
83 00         4 00       5 30 89 00 21 30
84 00
85 00         5 00                 89 11 23 20
86 00
87 00         6 00                 89 20 24 20
87 30
88 00         7 00                 89 27 25 30
88 25
              8 00                 89 30 26 30
88 35
              10 00                89 38 27 10

              12 30 14 00 89 44 28 30

              13 30                89 49 29 20

              16 00                89 51 30 00

              17 25                89 55 31 00

              18 45                90 02 32 03

                         * Dist. vera 89".

476           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                 APPENDIX,

                             No. XIV.

                  (Referred to in page 203.)

              LETTER FROM MR. FLAMSTEED TO MR. NEWTON.

     " Sir,                    " The Observatory, Jan. 2, 169J.

  I" was in your neighbourhood on Saturday last, but thought
Iit [not right] to disturb you with a visit when had nothing to
offer [excepting] my respects, and the usual wishes of many
Ihappy years,
                             this.            had not troubled you
Inow, but that on my way home received a letter from Dr.
/Wallis, in which he mentions that have received the packet,

I(that is my [letter] on the parallax of the pole star,) and
at the same time   received another  letter from  one in London,
which desired me                     paragraph
                  not to print any                of the letter

WHICH SPEAKS OF YOUR GIVING Mr. NEWTON ORSERVATIONS OF

Ithe moon. He is a friend of both of you, but he does not give
his reasons why.  thought but to acquaint you with and  :

desire your advice upon it.  Sr, wrote my letter to Dr. Wallisit,
in great haste, and when      had much other business in my
              a                                               I
hands, in November last, and to silence some busy people who
               II
                       ;a I
                            I
are always asking why did not print, took occasion to let
                                       I
                                         I
them know, that since the year 1689, when was first fitted for

iIt,        have been laying in stock of observations to rectify the

places of the fixed stars that in 1694 rectified my solar;
                                              I

tables, and laid foundation for the reclassification of the fixed

stars that in 1695 furnished you with 150 observed places

of the moon, and with the places also calculated from my tables,

in order to the correction and restitution of her theory That

had tables for abridging the labour (usually employed in calcu

lating the stars' places from my data) under my hands and
others, to make the catalogue more useful, and wrote my
letter in English, and the good Doctor having promised me
              a

                                         I
                                            I

                                                                                             a
week's work as recompense for my pains, sent him word

NO. XIV.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                       477

Ithat would excuse that, if he would save me the labour of
Iputting it into Latin. It was then but three sheets which (he

accepting the condition) sent him, and thereby gained time
to copy six months' observations from my books, and furnish

my country calculators with the right ascensions, &c., of the

Istars in the southern constellations, to calculate their longitudes

and latitudes from. In a fortnight's time received two of the

three sheets from the Doctor loose in a wrapper, from Dr.

Gregory, with directions to leave them, when perused, (for him
to return,) at Mr. Hindmarsh's, a bookseller's shop, where the

nonjurats resort, in Cornhill. The third sheet soon followed,

Ibut on perusal of them found it was requisite to add almost
Ianother, to explain some places where had been too short, or

where the Doctor, not having thoroughly understood my meaning,

(by reason he had not seen my instruments, nor was acquainted

Iwith my methods,) had not expressed it as would myself.
IThis took me up more time than expected, which made me to

send my packet by the post, lest Dr. Gregory should not convey
I Iit so soon to the Doctor as desired. However,
                                                  gave Dr.
IGregory notice that had returned and he was as diligent to
          :

               '

              I
                           it,

                           II
                               II
write to Dr. Wallis as above, for what occasion know not.                                   II

shall give you the whole paragraph wherein have mentioned

my accommodation of you with materials, and assure you

have not mentioned you on that account any where besides in

my letter, onely [in] the book have, where shew that weif
allow the nutation, this parallax must be greater, as much as
is. My words are these -- Contraxeram etiam cum D° New-                                     it

tono doctissimo tunc temporis in academia Cantabrigiensi Pro-

fessore necessitudinem cui lunae loca ab observationibus meis

ante habitis deducta 150 dederam, cum locis simul tabulis
                                                  e

meis ad earum tempora supputatis tum 6imilia in posterum

prout assequerer promiseram cum elementis calculi mei in

ordine ad emendationem theoriae lunaris Horroccianae qua in re

spero eum successus consecuturum expectationi suae pares.'

   " Sr, this the paragraph, and all of it. think there not
          is

                  it

                    I

                                       it

                                     I

                                                             (I

                                                                                        is
near so much in as acknowledge to myself, and                                             have

heard from other worthy gentlemen) you have acknowledged to

them, and therefore cannot think was from any intimation of

478               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        APPENDIX,

ifyours, (tho' he says it wd be displeasing to you                     it icere

printed})  but out of a design to   ingratiate with you that he put
an arrest  upon this paragraph.
                                     I think the word Horrocciance
Imay be omitted, tho' put it in because you allow that theory
as far as it goes, you found the faults of it by the differences

from my observation. He was a countryman, and tho' your

theory will be new in that, (tho' you give us the reasons, and
derive it from natural cause,) yet he gave the groundplot, and

it will be an honour both to you and me to do him justice.

I " Sr, My observations lie the king and nation in at least 50OOlb

  have spent above 1000lb- out of my own pocket in building,

instruments, and hiring a servant to assist me now near 24

Iyears. 'Tis time for me (and am now ready for it) to let the
Iworld see have done something that may answer this ex
Ipense, and therefore hope you will not deny me the honour
Iof having said that have been useful to you in your attempts
Ito restore the theory of the moon.
                                                        might have added the

observations of the comets, places given you formerly of the

I Isuperior planets, and observations at the same time with the

moons, but this thought wd look like boasting, and therefore

forbore it.

  I" desire you would please to let me know by a line whether
IDr. Gregory ever shewed you my letter, mean Dr. W allis his

translation of which think have altered in the paragraph
                  it,             I
                     it
                                      is
                         I
above from what was, but cannot say in what words, becauseI

  returned the Doctor his copy, with my transcript of enlarged     it
and altered, together but whenever 'tis printed, you will find
it I              ;
       I
a"gSrer,e  with   the copy above exactly.
              am
                  told Dr. Gregory  to     be           tutor  in  mathematics

to the Duke of Gloucester, which place, was told some months

ago (when the settling of his household was first discourst of)

was designed for me. To make a variance betwixt you and me
and Dr. Wallis, and to engage you to procure him the favour of

Mr. Montague, am apt to believe he recommends himself in
       I
                I

                     I

                                                    it
this business. He thinks, perhaps, will depreciate me, and

keep me from being his competitor. Let him not trouble him

self.      have an interest much beyond his whenever please to
                                                                   I

                                                                       a
move that way, but do not think the Duke yet fit for mathe

NO. XIV.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             479

Imatical tutor, or that he will be this four or five years.
Ihate flattery, and shall not go to court on this account till am
Isent for, or have notice that am desired. That place might,

indeed, afford me the opportunity of procuring help for my

I Iassistance, or could defray the charges out of pay ; but fear

it would be as prejudicial to me otherwise, and therefore shall

not move to traverse the Doctor's designs, except he force me

itItoby   his treacherous behaviour.        speedily,  and you  need
"   Sr,     beg an answer to this letter

tell me no more but that you have seen the paragraph before,

Ior not seen it ; that you gave such orders to Dr. Gregory or not,

that may return an answer to Dr. Wallis ; and hereafter, if

any such flatterers as he come to say any thing to you that may
tend to make a difference betwixt us, pray tell them you will
Iinform me, and you will forthwith be rid of them.
                                                                shall

always use the same course towards you, whereby a friendship

that began early may continue long and be happy to both of us,

I Iwhich, through God's blessing, hope it may, at least shall

always   endeavour it,being ever,
                                               Sr,
        " Your most  affectionate  frien"d    and  humble servant,
                                                   IFlamsteed, M.R.
                                                    IJohn

   " Pray enquire what company Dr. Gregory keeps, that you
may not be deceived in his character. The Scotch think to
carry all before them by the Bp of Salisbury, whom esteem,
(next the Bp of Wester above the rest of the clergy,) but can
not think him wise in placing his countrymen about the young

Duke.

" To Mr. Isaak Newton,
    Warden of the Mint,
           at his house in German Street, near
               St. James's, London. --These present."

   Owing to the great decay of the paper, the first lines of this
letter are hardly legible.

480                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              APPENDIX,

                               No. XV.

                        (Referred to in page 225.)

ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN CHURCHILL, FLAMSTEED,
                                 AND THE REFEREES.

" Articles of agreement made this        day of October,1 in the

fourth year (1705) of the reign of our Sovereign Lady Anne,
by the grace of God Queen of England, Scotland, France, and

Ireland, Defender of the Faith, &c., between the Honourable

Francis Robarts, Esq., Sir Chr. Wren, K'., Sir Is. Newton, K>.,

David Gregory, Doctor of Physic, and John Arbuthnot, Doctor

of Physic, on the one part ; Mr. John Flamsteed, her Majesty's

Astronomer at the Observatory in Greenwich, on the other part ;

and Mr. Aunsham Churchill of                        parish, in London, on

the   third part.  his  Royal  Highness  Prince George  of Denmark,
   "  Whereas

out of his great generosity and propension to encourage arts and

sciences, hath been pleased to defray the charges of printing all

the Astronomical Observations of the said Mr. John Flamsteed

made at the said Observatory, in a book entitled Historia

Ccelestis, and to refer the care and management of the said

impression to the said Fr. Robarts, Esq., Sr Chr. Wren, Sr Is.

Newton, Dr. Gregory, and Dr. Arbuthnot ; and whereas the

said referees, by and with the consent of the said Mr. John

Flamsteed, have treated with the said Mr. Aunsham Churchill
for printing the same, it is hereby covenanted
tween the said parties as followeth :--             and agreed be
                                                    print, or cause
   " I. That the said Aunsham Churchill shall

to be printed, four hundred copies, well corrected, and only four
hundred copies of the said Hisloria Ccelestis, upon the same
paper, and with the same letter with the paper and letter in the

specimen hereunto annexed ; and for every 400 copies of every

      1 Flamsteed says that they were dated November 10.

NO. XV.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                      481

sheet so printed off, shall receive the sum of thirty and four

shi"llinIIg.s.That for making the impression correct, the said A.

Churchill, at his own proper cost and charges, send the corrected

proof of every sheet to the place appointed, or to be appointed

by the said referees, to be there further corrected, compared

with the original, and allowed by the said Mr. J. F. or his order,

before the same be  printed off.       F.,  or his said       order,  shall  have

  " III. That the   said Mr. J.

access to the press at all times, and be allowed to stand by the

same while the said number of 400 copies of any sheet or sheets

shall be printed off, and then to break the press without delay,

let, hindrance, or molestation of or from him the said A. Ch., or

his printer, or printers, their servants or agents, or any of them,

on  "aInVy.  pretence whatever.
              That the 400 copies
                                   of  every     sheet,  within  14   days   after

the same shall be printed off, shall, at the charge of the said

A. Ch., be sent to the order of the said referees, to be kept for
his Royal Highness till the whole be printed off, excepting the

two last copies of the sheet, or two copies last printed off, which,
at the charges of the said A. Ch., shall be sent the one to the

said J. FL, or his order, the other to the order of the said trus

tees, to be examined and collated with the last proof, and with

the original papers of the said Mr. J. F. ; and that every sheet

in which any error shall be found, which is not the error of the

copy, be corrected, and shall be reprinted at the sole cost and

cha"rgVe.s    of the said A. Ch.,  both    for   paper and    printing.
             That the said A. Ch.   shall   set  five sheets  per week, abating

only a sheet for every holiday, provided that the said A. Ch. be

supplied with sufficient MS. copy, and that sufficient dispatch

be made in correcting the proof-sheets.

   " VI. That within two months after the said book shall be in

the press, the said referees, or the major part of them, shall sign
an order for the said A. Ch. to receive of the Treasurer of his

K. Highness the sum of three hnndred pounds, advanced in part

of payment, for the paper and printing of the said book. And

after the impression of the said book shall be finished, the said

referees, or the major part of them, shall sign an order for the

    VOL. II.                                                          2H

482                           WFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    APPENDIX,

said A. Ch. to receive the remainder of the money which, after
the rate of 34s. per sheet, shall then be due to him, the said A.
Ch., for the paper and printing of the whole impression.

   " VII. That the said A. Ch. shall not have, or claim, or endea

vour to have, any right, title, or interest, either in the original

copy or in the printed copies or any part thereof."

  IOn another leaf of the same sheet, though not immediately

following the preceding articles, find the following articles re
lating to Flamsteed, which, like the preceding, are written in
Newton's own hand, and afford ample materials for the defence
of the referees.

        ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN FLAMSTEED AND

                              THE REFEREES.

    " I. That the book shall be printed in two volumes, the first
    ""co21ndsst,i,stTThohefe  three parts, namely :--'
to                             catalogue of the fixed stars.
                              observations of the fixed stars,
                                                                planets,  &c.,  by the

sextant, telescope, and micrometer, from the year 1675 to the

year 1689   inclusively       ; and   planets  and  comets computed                  from
   " 3dly,  The places        of the

tho"se    observations, together with a general Preface.                             and
   "
        The second to consist of two parts, viz. : --

        1st, Observations made by the wall quadrant, telescope,

micrometer in and after the year 1689, until the finishing of the

imp"re2sdsliyo,n. The places of the planets and comets computed from

the"mI.I. That Mr. Flamsteed shall, with all convenient speed,

prepare and deliver in to the said referees or their order, fair and

correct copies of his Catalogue of the fixed stars, and of the ob

servations to be printed in the two volumes, with fair and correct

schemes in folio, of the figures of eclipses, and other telescopic
phenomena, to be graved in copper-plates. And that within

        months he shall deliver in to the said referees a fair copy

of  the observations           to be printed  in the second volume.
                                              Flamsteed shall, with
    " III. That the           said Mr. John                                     all  con

NO. XV.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  4S3

venient despatch, compute, or cause to be computed, the places of

the planets which remain to be computed, and deliver in to the

said referees fair and correct copies of all their true places, com

puted from the observations and well corrected, to be printed in

the two volumes at the end of the Observations.

   " IV. That after the first volume shall be printed off, the said

referees shall sign an order for the said Mr. Flamsteed to receive

of the trustees of his Royal Highness, for the charges of copying

the same, and correcting the press, the sum of fifty pounds, and

for the charges of computing the apparent longitudes and lati

tudes of the planets in that volume, (not exceeding  hundred

1. and lat.) after the rate of Is. 6d. per place ; and for computing
the true longitudes and latitudes of the moon from the apparent

places, not exceeding  places, after the rate of Is. 6d. per

place. And after the second volume shall be printed off, they
shall sign a like order for the said Mr. John Flamsteed to receive

£50 more for copying and correcting the same, after the rate of

6d. (?) per place for computing the places of the other planets
in longitude and latitude, not exceeding
                                            places, and after

the rate of Is. 6d. per place, for computing the true longitudes

and latitudes of the moon, not exceeding    places, provided

the computation be performed exactly to the satisfaction of the

said referees.

   " V. That the said John Flamsteed shall suffer the said re

ferees, or their order, or any of them, to collate the said fair MS.

copies and schemes, and also the printed copies, with all or any

of the original papers in his custody, from whence the said MS.

copies and schemes were taken, and with the first minutes from

whence those papers were drawn up, and for that end shall, at

the request of the said referees, lend the said papers and minutes,

or any part of them, to the order of the said referees, the person

to  whom   they  are lent giving a receipt for the same.
           That  the said Mr. John Flamsteed shall, before
    " VI.                                                   next

Michaelmas,1 fairly describe schemes in folio of a fit size for the

book containing the figures of the eclipses and other telescopical

observations proper to be described, of the same magnitude as in

the MS., and shall assist a graver with his directions for graving

                       1 October 11, 1706.

484                            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                APPENDIX,

the same in copper-plate, and examine the plates and correct
their faults, so that the schemes may be exact, and the said
[graver] shall roll off, or cause to be rolled off, four hundred
schemes from every plate, upon four hundred sheets of the
same paper with that of the book, to be bound up with the
book in such a manner that they may be laid open readily and

conveniently."

   On the back of the folio page which contains the preceding

Iarticles, and immediately after them, find the following para

graph, which is not numbered, but which seems to be an alter
                                                                                     IV.
nat"ivTehmatodtheeosf apidayrienfgereFelsa,msotreethde  instead of the  one in Art.
                                                        major part of   them, shall  also

sign orders for the said Mr. John Flamsteed, to receive of the

said Treasurer of H. R. H. the sum of two hundred and [fifty]

pounds for his charges in agents, servants to calculate observa

tions, copy papers and schemes, and correct the press, the one

half thereof to be paid so soon as the first volume of the said

book shall be printed off,1 and the other half thereof to be paid

so soon as the second volume of the said book shall be printed
off, provided the same Mr. John Flamsteed shall well and truly

observe, perform, fulfil, and keep all and singular the articles,

covenants and agreements above-mentioned, specified and de

clared, which on his part ought to be observed, performed, ful

filled, and kept."

    IImmediately after this, find the following additional article

in  "reTfehraetnctehetosaAi.d  Churchill.
                               Mr. A. Ch.
                                           shall        be  bound in £1000 to        per

form the articles on his part."

  It is obvious that Flamsteed was acquainted with these arti

cles, as he refers to Article V. in his letters to A. and F. Churchill
of the 24th May and the 7th June 1706, and in his letter to
Sir Christopher Wren.--See Baily's Flamsteed, pp. 224, 225,
and 88, line 5.

                    1 See Baily's Flamsteed, p. 261.

NO. XVI.              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           485

                                 No. XVI.

                      (Referred to in page 237.)

The following are the cancelled and the substituted para

graphs in Flamsteed's letter to Sir Christopher Wren, dated

19th July 1708 :--

The following is the concluding paragraph in the original

letter, but cancelled in the copy inserted by Mr. Baily in Flam-
           Autobiography : --
Istee"d's                        but desirous,     that the press  should
           am not only willing,                                       have
Iproceed to finish the first volume of Observations.

Ispoke to Mr. Hodgson to take care of correcting the second

proofs, and with him shall leave the six sheets to be added ;

which when they are wrought off, Sir Isaac Newton has 175

Isheets of the second volume in his hands, that the press may

proceed with whilst am completing the Catalogue, so there need

be no stop on my account, as there never was, nor hereafter

Ishall be, God sparing me life and health, and prospering, as

Ifirm" ly  believe he will, my sincere endeavours.

           am,  wi"thYarllgrdauteefurel spaencdt,   and for all your favours,

                                                   oblig"eJdohhnumFbllaemssetreve'-d, M.  R.

I" think to send a copy of this letter to Mr. Roberts, and

doubt not but he will imparte the contents of it to Sir Isaack

INewton."                                                "

   N.B. -- The
                last  three lines  of the letter,  from     am, &c., to

M. R.," and the postscript, are in Flamsteed's hand-writing.

The following are the concluding paragraphs substituted in

the pretended copy taken from the                  original by Flamsteed

Ihimself: --1                                      Ithe press may proceed :
   " am as willing as you can be that
but to have it hurried on at this time,            when cannot possibly

                      1 See Baily's Flamtteeil.

486                     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      APPENDIX,

I

                   it,
look after and only to find printer in work who at other
                        it
times has neglected        it,would be piece of folly, for which

                                     ;

                                      it

                                             :a

                                         Ia

                                          I

                                                  if

                                                 I:
am confident all the referees would condemn me.        I  must

therefore entreat them that this resolve be suspended till my

return out of the country when God sparing me life and health,

hope, with the assistance of the referees, to put the press into
I
     Iasuch method, as may have no stops, any heed may [be]

giv"en  to my advice.    for   so  long a letter    the occasion has
        beg your pardon

Ifforced me to be more troublesome than ought to one of your
age and employment.      you excuse me now hope no further

occasion will be of repeating      and shall ever own myself,

         " Sir, your most obliged and humble servant,

                                   " John Flamsteed, M.R."

   NO. XVII.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           487

               No. XVII.

               [lieferred to in payea 226, 240.)

   IThe following document, which found in a state of decom

 position, contains an account of the expense incurred by the

 Prince's referees, and also that which was incurred by the Go
 vernment in completing the Historia Ccelestis, as edited by

 Halley. It is in Sir Isaac Newton's handwriting, and on the

 back of a folio containing his observations on Bernoulli's letter
 of the 7th June 1713 :--

               " Charge.
 ......I" received of Edward Nicolas, Esq., at one time,
"      £250, at another, £125-- total  received, .       £375  0   0
   Upon reckoning with the Prince's     administrators,
   I paid back the balance of the account, the

   same being                                             25 3 0

                                                         £349 17 0

               " Discharge.

"  Paid to    Mr. Churchill for paper  and printer,      £194  17  0
"  To Mr.     Flamsteed for his copy,                . 125      0  0
"  To Mr.                                      ..    the
              Machin, for correcting                               0
                                       the copy by

   minute-book, and examining some calculations,1 30 0

                                                         £349 17 0

   " Some time after this Dr. Halley undertook to finish the
book, and the referees of the Prince acted no further, and after

    ' Flamsteeil mentions this sum as given to one of Newton's servants for assisting
him in the calculations.

488          LIFE OF SIH ISAAC NEWTON.                 APPENDIX.

the work was finished and the accounts stated, moneys were
impressed to me without account to pay them off.

                            " Charge.

" Received,                                            £364 15 0

"                           " Discharge.
"
   Paid  to Mr. Churchill for paper and printing,      £98 11   0
   Paid  for designing and graving the draughts
                                                                7£
       and rolling off the plates,       . ..          11(3  4  0
" Paid to Dr. Halley,                                        0
                                                       150

                                                       £364 15 7|

  " Besides £20 paid to' SenT Catenaro, which I did not bring

to account."1

   See Flamsteed's Autobiography, p. 102, where he has given

an impertinent account of   these        hteranwsaascti"onpsa.ssingFlamhissteaecdcoumntest
Newton at the Exchequer,    when

there concerning the disbursement of the Prince's monies." He

told Flamsteed of the additional £20 given to Catenaro, but he

did not tell him that   he  paid     it  out of his    omwnonepyo,ck"etth; roawndn
Flamsteed considers it  as  part    of   the Prince's

away by Newton only to shew his liberality." The above Charge

and Discharge is the account which Mr. Baily tells us he was
not able to get a sight of. -- Baily 's Flamsteed, p. 102, note.

   1 The " Figures for the frontispieces and capitals" were engraved by Catenaro.
who. upon " complaining that the first agreement was too hard a bargain," received
£20 additional.

NO. XVIII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTOH.                        489

                                 No. XVIII.

                                 (Referred to in page 241.)

letter from sir isaac newton to mr. flamsteed.

      " Sir,

  I" By discoursing with Dr. Arbuthnot about your Book of

Observations which is in the press, understand that he has

wrote to you by her Majesty's order, for such observations as are

requisite to complete the Catalogue of the Fixed Stars,1 and you

have given an indirect and dilatory answer. You know that

the Prince had appointed five gentlemen to examine what was

fit to be printed at his Highness's expense, and to take care that

the same should be printed. Their order was only to print what

they judged proper for the Prince's honour ; and you undertook,

under your hand and seal, to supply them therewith, and there

upon your Observations were put into the press. The Observa

tory was founded to the intent that a complete catalogue of the

fixed stars should be composed by observations to be made at

Greenwich, and the duty of your place is to furnish the obser

vations. But you have delivered an imperfect catalogue, with

Iout so much as sending the observations of the stars that are

wanting, and hear that the press now stops for want of them.

You are, therefore, desired either to send the rest of your cata

logue to Dr. Arbuthnot, or at least to send him the Observations

which are wanting to complete    it      that the press may proceed.

And instead thereof you propose any thing else, or make anyit,
excuses or unnecessary delays, will be taken for an indirect
1

    if

                        in
                              a
refusal to comply with her Majesty's order. Your speedy and

direct answer and compliance expected."is

   This draft of letter to Flamsteed must have been written

immediately after the 23d of March 1711, the date of Flam

Flamsteed,  his petition to the Queen, December 29, 1710, distinctly states

that his Catalogue of 3000 Fixed Stars was finished and ready to be transcribed.

490         LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                      APPENDIX,

steed's answer to Dr. Arbuthnot's application in the name of the
Ar-Queen, on the 14th of the same month. In
                                                      the  letter to
buthnot,    which Newton     justly   characterizes
dilatory,"  Flamsteed tells   him                    as "  indirect and
                                     that " a great        more help is
                                                     deal

requisite, and must be procured to calculate the new Tables and

the planets' places therefrom, to render the work complete, worthy
of the British nation, the name it bears, her Majesty's patronage,

and to commend the memory of his Royal Highness to pos

terity;" and he proposes that he should discourse with him a
few hours, and, for that purpose, come and dine with him. The

Royal Observatory was founded, as Newton states, to form a

complete catalogue of the fixed stars, and Flamsteed was made

Astronomer-Royal, or Astronomical Observator, as he was then

called, for this very purpose.

I" have made further advances," he adds, " than 'tis proper to mention here, and

might have presented your Majesty with the whole work perfected before thit time,

Iif his Royal Highness's noblo intentions had not been prevented, and my endeavours

continually obstructed by those who ought, and whose duty conceive it was, to
have seconded and promoted both." -- Baily's Flamsteed, p. 278.

NO. XIX.   LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                491

           No. XIX.

           (Referred to in page 274.)

          LETTER FROM M. MONTMORT TO BROOK TAYLOR.

                                                                              " Avril 12, 1716.

" Ce seroit dommage que ce bon vin fut bu par des commis

de vos douanes : étant destiné pour des bouches philosophiques,

et la belle bouche de Mademoiselle Barton. Je suis infiniment

sensible à l'honneur qu'elle (Mlle Barton) me fait de se souvenir

de moy. J'ai conservé l'idée du monde, la plus magnifique
de son esprit, et de sa beauté. Je l'aimois avant d'avoir l'hon

neur de la voir, comme nièce de Mr. Newton, prevenu aussi

de ce que j'avois entendu dire de ses charmes même en France.

Je l'ai adorée depuis sur le temoignage de mes yeux, qui m'ont

fait voir en elle, outre beaucoup de beauté, l'air le plus spirituel

et le plus fin. Je crois qu'il n'y a plus de danger que vous luy

fassiez ma déclaration. Si j'avois le bonheur d'estre auprès

d'elle ; je serais aussitôt et aussi embarassé que je le fus la

première fois. Le respect et la crainte de luy deplaire m'obli

gerait ce [de] me taire et à luy cacher mes sentimens. Mais
à 100 lieues loin et séparé par la mer je crois qu'un amant

peut parler sans être teméraire, et une dame d'esprit souffrir des

déclarations sans qu'elle puisse se reproché[r] d'avoir trop d'in

dulgence. Il vint icy, il y a quelques jours, une personne de sa
part. Je n'y étois pas, vous pouvez croire qu'il fût bien reçu
par Madoee de Montmort aussitôt qu'il se fut nommé de Mad""e
IlBarton.  ne voulust point dire ce que l'amenoit, il dit seule

ment qu'il reviendrait. Madme de Montmort jugea que c'est

une personne qui fait icy des commissions pour des personnes

de qualité d'Angleterre. Je voudrais bien que MadeUo Barton

voulust m'honorer du soin de luy faire les emplettes et de me

faire son comissionaire. Outre le plaisir de servir une si belle

personne j'aurais celui de m' acquitter envers Mr. Newton d'une

partie des obligations que je luy ai."

492                    LIFE OK SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    APPENDIX,

                                   No. XX.

                       (Referred to in page 278.)

EXTRACTS FROM SWIFT'S LETTERS TO STELLA, IN WHICH MRS.
            BARTON AND LORD HALIFAX ARE MENTIONED.

I" 1710, Sept. 28. -- dined to-day with Mrs. Barton alone at

Iher
   "
     lodgings."1       1. -- To-morrow  go with Delaval, the Portugal
     1710, Oct.

env"oy1,71to0,  dine   with Lord   Halifax   at Hampton    Court."  me        to  go
                 Oct.               Halifax    is always  teasing
                       13. --Lord

down to his country house,2 which will cost me a guinea to his

servant, and twelve shillings coach hire, and he shall be hanged

Ifirst. Is not this a plaguy silly story ? But am vexed at the
Iheart, for love the young fellow, and am resolved to stir up
people to do something for him. He is a Whig, and I'll put
him upon some of my cast Whigs, for I have done with them,
Iand
  I"
     they have, hope, done with this         kingdom for our time."
     1710, Oct. 14.-- What, another !          fancy this is from Mrs.

Barton ; she told me she would write to me, but she writes a

better hand than this."

  I" 1710, Nov. 28. --Lord Halifax sent to invite me to dinner,

where staid till six, and crost him in all his Whig talk, and
made him often come over to me."
I" 1710,

" 1710,
                Nov. 30.-- To-day I dined with Mrs.             Barton  alone."

                Dec. 19.-- visited Mrs. Barton."

1 This is the only place where Swift speaks of Mrs. Barton's lodgings, and it is
important to observe, that Newton was at that very time removing from Chelsea to
St. Martin's Street, so that Mrs. Barton was probably occupying lodgings for a short
time while the house was preparing for her uncle. It is quite clear also, from the
extracts dated October 9, 25, and November 28, 1711, that Mrs. Barton was living
at Newton's house in Leicester Fields. At this time too, Mrs. Barton, at Swift's
request, carried a message from Bolingbroke to Newton. -- See
and Edleston's Correspondence, &c. Lett. xxi. p. 36.            this volume,  p.  267,

2 Had Mrs. Barton lived with Halifax, Swift, who " loved her better than any
body in London," would not have been teased by the invitation.

NO. XX.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                          493

I" 1711, Jan. 23. -- called at Mrs. Barton's, and we went to

ILady Worsley's,1 where we were

   " 1711, Jan. 24. --As for my
                               to dine by appointment."

                               old friends,        never see    them,

except Lord Halifax, and him very seldom."

  I" 1711, March 7. --Mrs. Barton sent this morning to invite

me to dinner, and there dined just in that genteel manner

that M. D. (Stella and Dingley) used, when they would treat
               of body than usual."
  better sort
               3. -- was this morning
1711, April
Isom"e                                 to    see   Mrs.  Barton.      I

love her better than any body here, and see her seldomer. Why

really now, so it often happens in the world that when one loves
a body best--psha, psha, you are so silly with your moral obser

vations."

  I" 1711, April 10. -- have been visiting Lady Worsley and

 Barton to-day."

1711, May 29. --Pr'ythee,
IMrs".
                               don't  you observe  how strangely
Ihave changed my company and manner of living ? never go

to a coffee-house ; you hear no more of Addison, Steele, Henley,

                         Lord  Somers, Lord              &c."
                         ugly  rainy day ;               visit
ILady Lucy, Mrs.                             Halifax,
                                              was to
   " 1711, July
               Finch,                                             Mrs.
               6. -- An

Barton."

  I" 1711, July 18. -- To-day took leave of Mrs. Barton, who is

Igoi"ng17i1n1to,the
         Oct.  country."    or shall lodge by Leicester  Fields.

               9.-- lodge,
.... IDid tell you that my friend Mrs. Barton has a brother
drowned, that went on the expedition with Jack Hill ? He was

a Lieutenant-Colonel, and a coxcomb ; and she keeps her cham

in form, and the
1711, Oct. 14. --
ber                servants say she receives no messages."        it  is
                      sat this evening with Mrs. Barton ;
  I"
Ithe first day of her seeing company ; but made her merry

enough, and we were three hours disputing upon Whig and

Tory. She grieved for her brother only for form, and he was

Ia sad dog."

   " 1711, Oct. 25. -- sat this evening with Mrs. Barton, who is

near neighbour."2

 1711, Nov. 20. --
Imy"                have been so teased with Whiggish dis

1 The wife of Sir Robert Worsley, Bart., and only daughter of Viscount Weymouth.
2 Mrs. Barton lived with Newton in Martin Street, Leicester Fields.

494                LIFE OF Sill ISAAC NEWTON.                                                     APPENDIX,

course by Mrs. Barton and Lady Betty Germaine,1 never saw
the like. They turn all this affair of pope-burning into ridicule,

and indeed they have made too great clutter about                                                 they hadit,

no real reason to  apprehend  some tumults."                                                        if
                               turned out of
   " 1711, Nov.    28. -- am                                                                                  by
            I                                                                                 my  lodging           my
                  II
landlady, but have taken another lodging hard by in Lei

cester Fields."
   " 1711, Dec. 16. -- took courage to-day, and went to Court

with a very cheerful countenance. It was mightily crowded
                                it
                                         it

                                                  I
                                                                                              ;
both parties coming to observe each other's faces.                                                         avoided

Lord Halifax's bow till he forced on me, but we did not talk

together."

After reading the preceding passages,                                                         would be difficult to

understand how Mrs. Barton, whom Swift esteemed and loved,

could have ever resided under the roof of Lord Halifax as his

mistress.

            :                                    Swift, " My old friend Mrs.

                                      is
                                             by
The following letter2 endorsed

Barton, now Mrs. Conduitt,"     the only one of hers that has
been preserved --

"    " Sib,                                    " Geokoe Street, Nommher 29. 1733.
     Mrs. Barber
                   did not deliver your letter till after the intended

wedding brought me hither. She has as much better title to
                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                is
the favour of her sex than poetry can give her, as truth better
than fiction, and shall have my best assistance. But the town

has been so long invited into the subscription, that most people
have already refused or accepted, and Mr. Conduitt has long

since done the latter. should have guessed your holiness wouldI
rather have laid than called up the ghost of my departed friend

ship, which since you are brave enough to face, you will find
divested of every terror, but the remorse that you were abandoned

to be an alien to your friends, your country, and yourself. Not

      Professor De Morgan says that Mrs. Barton's intimacy with Swift was probably
through Halifax. It was more probably through Lady Betty Germaine, whom Swift
had known from her childhood. Lady Betty was daughter of the Earl of Berkeley,
to whom Swift had been chaplain and private secretary. Many of her letters to
Swift are published in his Correspondence.

      Swift's Works, vol. xvii. p. 101. Edit. Edin. 1784.
»1
                                                                                           a

NO. XX.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                           495

to renew an acquaintance with one who can twenty years after

remember a bare intention to serve him, would be to throw away

Ia prize am not now able to repurchase ; therefore, when you
I Ireturn to England, shall try to excel in, what am very sorry
Iyou want, a nurse. In the mean time am exercising that gift

to  "prLeoserdrveHoanrveewyhhoasis  your devoted admirer.
                                    written a bitter copy
                                                           of  verses  upon  Dr.

Sherwin, for publishing, as 'tis said, his Lordship's epistle, which

must set your brother Pope's spirits all a working. Thomson is

far advanced in a poem of 2000 lines, deducing liberty from the

I Ipatriarchs to the present time, which, if we may judge from the

press, is now in full vigour. But forget am writing to one

who has the power of the keys of Parnassus, and that the only

Imerit my letter can have is brevity. Please therefore to place

the profit had in your long one to your fund of charity, which

carries no interest, and to add to your prayers and good wishes

now and then a line to
                    " Sir, your obedient humble serv"anCt., Conduit."

    I" Mrs. Barber, whom            had sent to dine with us, is in bed

with the gout, and has not yet sent me her proposals."1

    1 Mrs. Barber was a great friend and favourite of Swift. She was the author of

a volume of poems, which were dedicated to the Earl of Orrery, and the proposals
here referred to, were probably proposals to publish her poems by subscription. -- See

Swift's Works, vol. xvii. p. 77, and vol. xviii. p. 55.

496       1,1 FE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                       APPENDIX,

                           No. XXI.

                         (Iifferred to in page 291.)
          1. -- LETTER FROM VARIGNON TO NEWTON.

" Nobilissimo Doctissimoque Viro
        " D. D. Newtono Equiti Aurato
" Regiaa
          Soc"ietSa.tisP.  Anglicana)  Pra3sidi Dignissimo
                            D. Pctrus  Varignonius.

   " Exoptatissimam mihi Effigiem tui, qua me donare dignatus

es, vir humanissime ac muniricentissime, gaudenti gratissimoque
animo nuper accepi. Tui spectandi percupidus capsam statim
distraxi, evolutaque tela, in hujus effigiei vultu et fronte et
oculis quasi spirans mihi visum est tuum summum atque

eminens ingenium cum oris dignitate conjuuetum, etiarnnumque

videtur. Paucis post diebus venit ad me CI. Taylorus (quatuor

abhinc vel quinqne mensibus hic habitans) qui eam intuitus
attente, suo usus conspicillo, tibi simillimam esse pro certo

mihi affirmavit ; quod admodum me delectavit ac delectat.
Porro sculptam alteram tui imaginem, jam inde a decern
circiter amiis babebam ex dono amici Angli (Oxoniensis nomine
Arnold) qui cum me ssepius de te magnalia loquentem audisset,
reversus Londinum, illinc earn ad me misit, pergratam mihi fore
existimans : recte quidem. Sed cum Sculpta tui similitudinem
ex vero non effingat aeque ac picto, banc nihilominus semper
exoptavi, qua nunc mihi datur videre tandem illustrissimum ac

doctissimum eum virum quem amplius triginta annos summa
veneratione colebam ob ingentia ejus merita presertim in Mathe-

sim quam promovit et auxit immensum, cuj usque legibus

astrictam primus demonstravit esse Naturam. Quantas autem
pro tan to dono (quod an tea pecuniae sum ma qua vis emissem si
aliunde quam a perhonorifica mihi tua; liberalitatis magni-

ncentia obtincre potuissem) gratias agere tibi debeam, optime

no. xxr.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     497

intelligo et intime sentio. Sed tantas ut eas expedire verbis
nequeam ; nec etiam eas quas habeo tibi maximas pro eo quod
me monuit CI. Moivraeus te non dedignari mei quoque imagin-
em quam nudiusquartus idcirco misi D° Ayres (capellano D. D.
Equitis Sutton, excellentissimi legati vestii apud nos) in longiore
capsula volutatam, quam pridie mihi officiosissime promiserat
se missurum fore Londinum ad Dum Preverau (apud D. D.
Craggs Sanctions consilii Anglicani commentariensem) ut earn
tibi reddat, quam benigne accipias rogo. Vale, mihique tuorum
in me Beneficiorum aeternum memori favere perge.

          " Dabam Parisiis, Die 28th Novemb. 1720, N. S.

   "P.S. --Post Scriptam hanc Epistolam D. Nicole ex Anglia

recens me invisit ac monuit, dum apud te pranderet, aut ccenaret,
propinasse te toti generatim academiae nostrae Parisiensi, specia-
timque CI. Fontenelle, ac etiam mihi ; pro quo honore novas
habeo tibi gratias et ago maximas. Contemplatus etiam Du*
Nicole pictam effigiem tui, de ea censuit penitus idem ac D.
Taylorus, nimirum earn tibi persimilem esse ; quod meum de
ea obtenta, gaudium auxit."

             2. -- LETTER FROM NEWTON TO VARIGNON.

   " Viro celeberrimo Dno Abbati Varignon Kegio Mathesis

Professori et Academic Scientiarum Socio apud Parisienses

      " Clarissime Dn°,  Is. Newtonus S. P. D.
      Accepi Historiam
·  "                     et Commentaria  ex Archivis Academiaj

Scientiarum pro anno 1719, pro quibus gratias tibi reddo quam-

maximas. Accepi etiam schedam primam Libri de Coloribus
elegantem sane et specie nobilem. Et ne Dnu" Montalanus ex-
pensa moleste habeat dabo illi libras viginti sterlingas, et expensa

compingendi libros insuper solvam. Gratias tibi reddo quam-

plurimas quod insinuasti libros plures amicis donandos esse,

scilicet Cardinali Polignac, et filio Cancellarii, et Bibliothecae

Academi»3. Vellem et alios donandos esse filio et nepoti D.

   VOL. II.                                         2I

498    LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                  APPENDIX,

Joannis Bernoulli], et alios Abbati de Comitibus,1 et P. Sebas

tian, et D. Remond. Sed et gratias tibi maximaa reddo quod

onus in te suscipere digneris conferendi correctiones Dni Coste

ct Dni Moyvre inter se, et quod optimum videbitur eligendi ; ut

et emendandi quaecunque alia occurrerint. Metuebam utique

ne correctiones Dni Coste, inter plurima tua negotia, molestiam

nimiam tibi crearent. Sed cum hocce onus in te suscipere non

dedigneris, eo magis me tibi obligasti. Schema tuum libris

singulis praefigendum probo, sed nondum a Pictore deHneatum

est."   Pictorem mox adibo.      Judicis quam D. Leibnitius D.

       In sententia mathematici
Joanni Bernoullio ascripsit, publice accusor plagii. Et epistola

quam D. Bernoullius ad me misit, et qua se talem sententiam

scripsisse negavit, videbatur ad me missa ut remedium contra

injuriam illam publicam : et eo nomine licentiam mihi datam

esse putabam diluendi injuriam illam auctoritate D. Bernoulli,

praesertim cum is me non prohibuerit. Attamen Epistolam

illam non nisi privatim communicavi, et Keilio nullam dedi

licentiam aliquid evulgandi ex eadem, et multo minus scribendi

contra Bernoullium ob ea quae in Epistola illa mibi amice
scripserat. Et hac de causa Keilium quasi liti studentem

veh"emCoenntqeureroibtujurrgDa.viB:esrendouilllleiusjamqumodortiupususmestv.2ocavi hominem

novum, et mathematicum ficturn, et Equitem erraticum. Sed

contra Bernoullium nondum ccepi scribere. Haec omnia dixi

scr"ibe1.ndDo ixceornattrautLiqeuibeniDtiu. mLe, ibent iteiujuss  argumenta repellendo.  no

                                                                  Keilium esse hominem

1 The Abbe Conti. Newton must have forgotten or forgiven the offence which he
had taken at the Abbe", for having " assisted Leibnitz in engaging him in new dis
III.putes." See pp. 305, 306, and Appendix, No.
                                                                  p. 431. The conduct of the Abbe

in reference to his Chronology appears to have revived the former feelings of Newton.

   'John Keill was born in Edinburgh in 1671, and studied mathematics there under

David Gregory, whom he accompanied to Oxford in 1694, having obtained one of

the Scotch Exhibitions in Balliol College. He acquired a high reputation at Oxford

as a teacher of the Newtonian philosophy, by apparatus provided by himself. His
Inlroductio ad Veram Physicam appeared in 1701, and his Introduetio ad Veram

Astronomiam in 1708. He was appointed Savilian Professor of Astronomy at Ox

ford in 1710, and in 171 1 he entered the lists against Leibnitz and Bernoulli, as the

able and stanch champion of Newton, as will be seen in the f rst two chapters of

this volume. He died in 1721, in the 50th year of his age.

NO. XXI.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON. .  49.0

 vum et rerum anteactarum parum peritum cognitorem, id est,
 hominem qui floruit post tempora Commercii quod Leibnitius
 habuit cum Oldenburgio : et idem objeci Leibnitio Beruoullium

judicem constituent!, cui utique commercium illud antiquum
ann"is2.plCuus mtriDg.inLtaeibpnoisttiums orsteenmtenOtiladmenbJuudrgiciiisigmnoattuhmemafutiecriatB. er-
 noullio ascriberet, vocavi judicem ilium mathematicum velfictum
 mathematician, id est, mathematicum qui vere author esset sen-
 tentiae illius, vel fingebatur esse author. Nam cum Bernoullius
 ab authore sententiae illius citabatur tanquam ab authore aversus,

dubitabam utrum ille author esset, necne. Et Bernoullius ipse

 Uteris ad me datis affirmavit se non fuisse authorem.
    " 3. D. Leibnitius in Epistola sua prima ad Abbatem de Co-

 mitibus quaestionem de primo methodi differentialis inventore
 deseruit, et ad disputationes novas confugit de gravitate univer-

 sali et qualitatibus occultis et miraculis et vacuo et atomis et

spatio et tempore et perfectione mundi : Et sub finem Epistolae

Problema Bernoullii ex Actis Eruditorum desumptum proposuit

mathematicis Anglis : Et initio proximae suae ad abbatem Epis-

tolfe contulit hanc novam controversiam cum duello, scribens se
 nolle in arenam descendere contra milites meos emissarios,sed cum

ipse apparerem, se lubenter mihi satisfactionem daturum. Et ad

 haec omnia alludens non contra Bernoullium sed contra Leib-

 nitium scripsi in observationibus meis in hanc ejus Epistolam,
ubi dixi quod Epistoke et chartoz antiquce (ex mente Leibnitii
scilicet) jam abjiciendcesunt, etQucestio (de primo methodi inven
tore) deducenda est ad rixam circa Philosophiam et circa res

alias : et magnus ille Mathematicus quern D. Leibnitius judi

cem sine nomine constituit, jam velum detrahere debet (secundum
Leibnitium scilicet) et apartibus Leibnitii stare in hoc rixa, et
chartam provocatoriam ad mathematicos in Anglia per Leibni
 tium mittere quasi duellum, vel potius bellum, inter milites meos
emissarios (uti loquitur) et exercitum discipulorum in quibus se
felicem jactat ; methodus esset magis idonea ad Qiuestionem de
primo inventore dirimendam quam examinatio veterum et au-

thenticorum scriptorum, et sciential mathematical imposferum
/actis nobilibus equitum erraticorum vice argumentorum ac
Demons trationum implendce essent.

500  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

   " Hoc totum contra Leibnitium scripsi, et non contra Bernoul

lium. Leibnitius Bernoulliuui constituit judicem. Leibnitius
eundem ex judice constituit advocatum. Leibnitius Commer-
cium Epistolicum fugit quasi a judice suo condemnatum. Leib
nitius vice Quaestionis de primo Inventore disputationes novas
de Qmestionibus Philosophicis proposuit, et Problema tan-
quam a Bernoullio misit a Mathematicis Anglis solvendum.
Leibnitius fuit eques ille erraticus qui vice argumentorum ex
veteribus et authenticis scriptis desumendorum, introduxit alias
disputationes, quas ipse contulit cum duello. Ad hoc duellum ille
me provocavit rnethodi in6nitesimalis gratia. Haec methodus
erat virgo ilia pulchra pro qua eques noster pugnabat. Quaes-
tionern de primo methodi bujus inventore per victoriam in hoc
duello dirimere sperabat, et Virginem lucrari non examinatis
veteribus et authenticis scriptis in Commercio Epistolico editis,
per quae Quaestio illa dirirni debuisset. Problemata mathematica
proponi possunt exercitii gratia, sed non ad dirimendas lites
alterius generis : et solus Leibnitius eadem in hunc finem pro

pos"uiHt.aec tibi scripsi non ut in lucem edantur, sed ut scias me
nondum cum Bernoullio lites habuisse. Contra ilium nondum

scripsi, neque in animo habeo ut scribam : nam lites semper

fug"i.D*. Moivreus mihi dixit D. Bernoullium picturam meam op-

tare : sed ille nondum agnovit publice me methodum fluxionum
et momentorum habuisse anno 1672, uti conceditur in Elogio
D. Leibnitii in Historia Academiae vestrae edito. Ille nondum
agnovit me in Propositione prima Libri de Quadraturis, anno
1693 a Wallisio edita, et anno 1686 in Lem. 2 Lib. 2 Princip.

synthetice demonstrata, Regulam veram differendi differentialia
dedisse, et Regulam illarn anno 1672 habuisse, per quam utique
curvaturas curvarum tunc determinabam. Ille nondum ag
novit me anno 1669, quando scripsi Analysin per series, metho
dum habuisse quadrandi curvilineas accurate, si fieri possit,
quemadmodum in Epistola mea 240ctob. 1676,ad Oldenburgium
data, et in Propositione quinta Libri de Quadraturis, exponitur ;
et Tabulas Curvilinearum quae cum Conicis Sectionibus com-
parari possunt per ea tempora a me compositas fuisse. Si ea

NO. XXL  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  501

concesserit, quae lites prorsus amovebunt, picturam meam haud
facile negabo. Vale.

         " Dabam Londini,

        26 Sept. 1721. St. Vet."

   Varignon, in replying to this letter on the 9th December
1721, N.S., acknowledges having received it by the hands of
M. Arlaud,1 " qui gratissime mihi de te narravit, et cum quo ad
multam usque noctem honorificentissime de te sum collocutus."
Then follows the paragraph relating to Bernoulli, which we have
already given in page 292, and the letter concludes with some
details respecting the frontispiece and diagrams for the French
edition of his Optics, then publishing under the superintendence
of Varignon.

   1 M. Arlaud, an eminent Swiss painter, who resided in Paris, and improved some
of the diagrams for Coste's French translation of Newton's Optica, which appeared
in 1722. --See Edleston's Correspondence, Ace. p. 88.

LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

                             No. XXII.

                                     (Referred to inpaget 295, 296.)

           1. --LETTER FROM JOHN BERNOULLI TO NEWTON.

         " Viro Illustrissimo atque Incomparabili Isaaco Newtono
                    S.P.D. Johannes Bernoulli.

   " Opticam tuam Angl. a te rnihi dono datam nuper accepi
missu Celeb. Varignonii, a quo etiam exemplar Lat., sicut intel-
ligo, accepturus sum. Pro utroque hoc egregio munere non
minus quam pro aliis jam saepius mihi acceptis tanquam totidem

tuae erga me benevolentiae signis nunc demum debitas persolvo
gratias, quas, quod fateor, dudum persolvere debuissem. Noli,
quasso, officii hujus neglecti causam imputare animo ingrato et
beneficiorum immemori, a quo semper quam maxime abhorrui ;
noli etiam credere, me ideo minus ingentia tua merita coluisse.
Quin potius, si quid fidei verba mea merentur, id tan turn ex
silentio meo colligas velim, quod te divini ingenii virum, cui
parem non habet aetas nostra, ego prae summa veneratione com-
pellare non audebam ; certe ne nunc quidem auderem, nisi nuper,

quod animum addidit, intellexissem, juxta stupendas ingenii
dotes etiam comitatis et affabilitatis virtutem usque adeo esse
tibi connatam, ut ab inferioris conditionis hominibus, qualem

me lubens profiteor, litteras accipere plane non detrectes. Caste-
rum quanti aestimaverim tuam amicitiam, qua, uti percepi ex
litteris virorum clariss. Monmortii et Moivrei, me antehac
dignatus es, eosdem hos viros antestor, ac praesertim quidem
Moivreum, qui ea de re luculentissimum testimonium coram
perhibere poterit. Sed nescio qui factum, ut post accensam
facem feralis illius belli, quod maximo scientiae Mathematica?
probro ante aliquot annos exortum inter quosdam utriusque
nationis Britannicae et Germanicae Geometras, ego nec Britan-
nus nec Germanus sed Helvetius, qui a partium studio alienissi-
mus sum, et quidvis potius facerem, quam aliorum litibus me
sponte immiscere, gratia tamen tua, ut fama fert, exciderim.

NO. XXII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  503

Quod si ita esset, quamvis contrarium sperem, non possem non
credere, hocce infortunium fuisse mihi conflatum a supplanta-
tione quorundam sycophantarum, qui ex rabida quadam avidi-

tate sibi suisque popularibus aedificandi monumenta ex rude-
ribus destructae aliorum existimationis et famae, nos omnes non-

Anglos insontes cum sontibus, ni statim per omnia applaudere

velimus, acerbissimis contumeliis proscindunt. Itaque non dubito
quin tibi, vir maxime, de me quoque multa falsa et conficta
fuerint narrata, quae gratiam, qua apud te flagravi, si non delere,
saltem imminuere potuerunt. Sed non est ut multis me excu-
sem : provoco ad scripta mea qute extant ; docebunt quam sin-

gulari cum laude de te tuisque inventis, quavis data occasione,

locutus fuerim. Ecquis aliter posset, qui magnitudinem merito-
rum tuorum considerat ? Quam mirabundus autem etiamnum
ilia depraedicem atque extollam quovis loco et tempore, privatim
aeque ac publice, in litteris, in sermonibus, in orationibus, in

praelectionibus, illos loqui sinam qui me legunt, qui me audiunt.
Sane si quid sapio, gratior erit posteritati commemoratio meri-
tissimae tuae laudis a nobis instituta, utpote ex sincero animo et

calamo profecta, quam nonnullorum ex vestratibus immodicus

ardor (non dico te laudandi, nam satis laudari non potes, sed)
tibi omnia, etiam ea quae ipse non desideras, arrogandi, et exteris
relinquendi nihil. Fallunt haud dubie, qui me tibi detulerunt
tanquam auctorem quarundam ex schedis istis volantibus, in
quibus forsan non satis honorifica tui fit mentio. Sed obsecro
te, vir inclyte, atque per omnia humanitatis sacra obtestor, ut
tibi certo persuadeas, quicquid hoc modo sine nomine in lucem
prodierit, id mihi falso imputari. Non enim mihi est in more

positum, talia protrudere anonyma quae pro meis agnoscere nec

vellem nec auderem. At vero non sine dolore audivi, te in

quibusdam Epistolis libro (quem non vidi) cl. Kaphsoni annexis
ita de me loqui, ut inde concludi possit, quod me suspiceris

auctorem nescio cujus scripti sine nomine publicati, et quod
suspicio ista tibi subnata sit ex litteris quibusdam Leibnitii,
qui me Auctorem esse affirmaverit. Quale fuerit illud scriptum
jam non inquiro, interim certum te volo, a me non esse profec-
tum, si praesertim tibi, quem tanti facio, non usquequaque esset
decorum ; absit autem ut credam Leibnitium, virum sane opti

504  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

mum, me nominando fucum vobis facere voluisse ; credibile

namque potius est ipsum vel sua vel aliorum conjectura fuisse
deceptum ; qua in re etsi data opera me offendere noluerit, non
tamen omni culpa vacabat, quod tam temere et imprudenter
aliquid perscripserit, cujus nullam habebat notitiam ; fecisset

utique melius, si antea ex me ipso quid de re esset rescivisset.
Sed festinabat vir bonus, existimans forsan, causam suam ali

quid inde roboris accepturam, parum sollicitus, utrum mihi
incommoda necne futura esset conjecturalis ilia relatio. Sed
tandem absolvo, hoc unum maxime in votis habens, ut, nullo
relicto dubio, tibi liquidissime constet animi in te mei integritas
atque candor conjunctus cum perpetua tui admiratione atque
veneratione, ut constet quoque me grata et memori mente usque
et usque recolere quae in me contulisti favoris et amoris signa.
Non enim sum nescius, quantum tibi debeam non solum pro

splendidis Librorum tuorum muneribus, quibus me subinde
mactasti, sed et pro honorifica mei in vestram Societatem Reg.
Scient. receptione, quippe quam ex tua commendatione mihi

contigisse omnino perspectum habeo. Quod superest, Vale, Vir

Illustrissime, atque mihi immortalium tuorum meritorum cul-

tori studiosissimo fave. Dabam Basileae, a. d. iii. Non. Quin-

til.1 cioioccxix.

           2. --LETTER FROM JOHN BERNOULLI TO NEWTON.

          " Pramobili ac Toto Orbe Celeberrimo Viro D. Isaaco
                    Newtono S. P. D. Joh. Bernoulli.

   " Litterpe Tuae insigni voluptate me affecerunt, Vir Illustris
sime. Ex iis intellexi Te, neglectis litibus mathematicis, eadem

me prosequi benevolentia et amicitia, qua me olim dignatus
fueras. Facis certe prout decet virum candidum et generosum,
qui non facile patitur sibi eos designari, quos amore suo dignos

judicat. Qualis sit epistola ilia, de qua dicis quod sit 7 Junii

1713 data ad D. Leibnitium, mihi non constat. Non memini
ad ilium eo die me scripsisse, non tamen omnino negaverim,

                                               1 July 5th.

NO. XXII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  505

 quandoquidem non omnium epistolarum a me scriptarum apo-
grapha retinui. Quodsi fortassis inter innumeras quas ipsi exar-
 averam una reperiretur, quae dictum diem et annum prae se ferret,
pro certo asseverare ausim, nihil in ea contineri quod probitatis
nomen tuum ullo modo convellat, neque me unquam ipsi veniam
dedisse, ut quasdam ex Epistolis meis in publicum ederet, et

 talem imprimis quae tibi, etsi contra spem et voluntatem meam,
non arrideret. Quocirca denuo te rogo, vir illustr., velis tibi per-
suasum habere, mentem mihi nunquam fuisse aliter de te loqui
quam de viro summo, nedum existimationem tuam vel probita-
tem sugillare. Absit ut dicam, te famam apud exteras Gentes

captasse ; spero tamen, te non respuere elogia a nobis ultro oblata,

utpote sincera et te digna, atque adeo magis acceptanda quam
quae ex immoderato partium studio offeruntur. Quod tibi jam
seni (cui incolumitatem per novum quem propediem auspica-
bimur annum et per multos secuturos ex animo apprecor) non

liceat studiis mathematicis incumbere, acerbe dolebit Orbis eru-

ditus, quem hucusque ditasti tot stupendis inventis. Ego quidem

nondum senex, ad senium tamen vergo, aliisque distringor ne-
gotiis, ut nee mihi amplius fas sit rei mathematical tarn sedulam
operam dare, uti solebam. Quod memoras, vir Amplissime, de
libro Raphsoni, eum scil. iterum impressum esse cum nonnullis
Leibnitii epistolis, in quibus affirmet, me Auctorem esse prae-
dictae epistolae, (quae quid contineat probitati tuae injurium hari-
olari non possum) hoc certe liti sopiendae non conducit ; ipsum
vero librum Raphsoni fortasse nunquam videbo, quia ejusmodi
libri ex Hollandia hue raro deferuntur. Hoc interim considerari

a vestratibus vellem, si per testimonia certandum esset, melius
id fieri adducendo alias epistolas quam a Leibnitio scriptas,
quippe qui in propria causa non haberi potest pro idoneo teste.
Sunt mihi epistolae virorum quorundam doctorum ex nationibus
nullam in hac lite nationali partem habentibus, quas si publici

juris facerem, nescio an illi ex vestratibus, qui tanto cum fervore

ad injurias usque mecum expostulant, magnam inde gloriandi
causam acquirerent. Habeo inter alia documenta authentica
apographum a D. Montmortio nuper defuncto mathematico, ut
nosti, dum viveret perdocto atque nulli parti addicto, utpote
Gallo ; habeo, inquam, apographum ab eo mihi transmissum ali

506  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        APPENDIX,

cujus epistolfe, quam ipse ad cl. Taylorum scripserat 18 De-

cemb. 1718, et quae vel sola magnam litis partem dirimeret, sed
non ex voto Taylori caeterorumque ejus sequacium.1 Ab istis

autem evulgandis libenter abstinebo, inodo vestri desinant, quod

pacis causa optarem, nostram lacessere patientiam. Lubens

credo quod ais de aucto Corollario 1, Prop. xiii. Lib. 1. Operis tui

incomparabilis Princip. Phil., hoc nempe factum esse antequam

hae lites cceperunt, neque dubitavi unquam, tibi esse demonstra-

tionem propositionis inversae quam nude asserueras in prima

Operis Editione ; aliquid dicebam tantum contra formam illius

asserti, atque optabam, ut quis analysin daret qua inverae ve-

ritatem inveniret a priori, ac non supposita directa jam cognita.

Hoc vero, quod te non invito dixerim, a, me primo prtestitum

esse puto, quantum saltern hactenus mihi constat. Unum su-

perest, quod pace tua monendum habeo. Retulit mihi nuperrime

Amicus quispiam ex Anglia redux, me esse ejectum ex numero

Sodalium Illustr. vestrae Societ. Reg., id quod collegerit ex eo

quod nomen meum non repererit in Catalogo Londini viso Socio-

rum (in ampla scheda annuatim imprimi  solita)        pro anno 1718.
                                       librum
Et quominus dubitarem monstravit mihi                 aliquem Angli-

cum impressum an. 1718, cui titulus Magnce Britannice Notitia,
ubi in parte postrema pag. 144 videre est Catalogum Membrorum

exterorum Societatis Regiee, atque in illo nomen Agnati mei, sed

meo nomine, quod miror, prorsus exulante. Liceat ergo ex te

quaerere, utrum ex decreto Illustr. Societatis fuerim expunctus,

et quid peccaverim vel quonam delicto ejus indignationem in me

concitaverim, an vero Secretarius (qui ni fallor turn temporis
fuit Taylorus) propria auctoritate me proscripserit. Quid ? ideone
locum in illustri hoc corpore mihi non ambienti tam honori-

fice obtulissetis, ut postea tanto turpius ex eo me ejiceretis ?
Hoc equidem ob insignem vestram tequitatem suspicari vix pos

sum. Quare enixe te rogo, vir Nobilissime, ut quid ea de re sit

me quantocyus facias certiorem. Vale, ac mihi studiosissimo

tui porro fave. Dabam Basileae, a. d. xxi. Decemb. cioioccxix.

     1 This letter will be found in p. 511, sect. 3.

NO. XXII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  507

           3. -- LETTER FROM JOHN BERNOULLI TO NEWTON.

            " Illustrissimo atque Nobilissimo Viro Isaaco Newtono
                    S.P.D. Joh. Bernoulli.

   " Ad te iterum venio, Vir Inclyte, ut iteratas persolvam

gratias pro novo munere quo me beasti, nec me tantum, sed et
filium meum atque Agnatum. Accepi nimirum tria inter nos

tres distribuenda Exemplaria nitidissime compacta Optices tua>
Pari8ii8 nuper editae, quae CI. Varignonius, paulo ante obitum
suum, cunctis qui sinceritatem cum eruditione conjunctam amant
vehementer lugendum, mihi nomine tuo transmiserat. Etsi

nesciam quid sit quo hanc tuam erga me meosque munificen-
tiam demeruerim aut postea demereri possim ; id saltem per-
suasum tibi habeas, vir maxime, neminem esse qui immortalia
tua inventa ex vero rerum pretio pluris aestimet et simul since-
rius quam ego. Hoc cumprimis quod de Lumine et Coloribus
systema pro ingenii tui sagacitate felicissime eruisti me summum

habet admiratorem ; inventum sane quovis tere perennius et a
posteritate magis quam nunc fit suspiciendum. Sunt enim qui
illud partim ex invidia partim ex imperitia obtrectare non ve-

rentur, quin et cum nihil habent quod pretium ejus imminuat,
audent inventionis laudem tibi surripere eamque sibi arrogare.
En exemplum in quodam Hartsoekero, homine inepto et in
Geometria prorsus hospite, qui in opusculo aliquo in lucem
protruso perfricta fronte sustinet novam tuam Colorum theoriam
eorumque diversam refrangibilitatem sibi dudum notam variisque

experimentis perspectam fuisse, antequam quicquam ea de re
inventum a te aut evulgatum fuisset, quod apud me summam

excitavit indignationem, sicut et hoc quod reliquas tuas rerum
Physicarum explicationes utut ingeniosissimas, praesertim quae
ad systema planetarium spectant, ubi omnia cum phaanomenis

tam mirifice consentiunt, admodum salse et scoptice traducit,
quamvis de rebus istis non aliter argumentetur quam caucus de
colore, nec mirum, siquidem homo sit dyeconeTprjTos et omnis
humanitatis expers, nemini parcens, imo summorum virorum

atque de re mathematica ac philosophica optime meritorum

famam arrodere non dubitans. Ita ut mirer, neminem ex ves-

508  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

tratibus adesse, qui tuam, Vir Illustrissime, existimationem vin-
dicet contra rudem et barbarurn homiuem. Ad me quod attinet,

fateor me ab illo tractari multo acerbius ; nihil enim injuriarum
est, nihil aculeorum quod in me non sparserit, idque non aliam

ob causam quam quod aliquis ex meis discipulis phosphorum
meum mercurialem ab illius morsibus defenderit. Licet indignus

sit homo cui ego respondeam, unum tamen est quod me magno-
pere urit ; scilicet, ut me omnium risui exponat, impudentissime
comminiscitur, me mihimet ipsi tribuisse titulum excellentis
Mathcmatici, et, ut calumniae crimen a se amoliatur, te, Vir

Illustrissime, ejus Auctorem facit, dum locum citat ex tomo 2.

Colk'ctancorum U'. Desmaiseaux, (Recueil de diverses pieces.)

p. 125, 1. 32, ubi loqueris de epistola ilia 7 Junij 1713, quam

Leibnitius a me scriptam esse contenderat, et in qua prout erat

impressa in scheda ilia volante 29 Julij 1713, elogium illud, sed
quod parenthesi includebatur, mihi erat adscriptum. Hinc ma-

litiose colligit calumniator, quasi insinuare volueris, me eo arro-
gantiae processisse ut hunc mihi titulum sumserim, cum tamen
te voluisse contrarium dicere luculentissime pateat ex verbis

quae locum citatum immediate sequuntur, quibus nimirum fateris
in eadem ilia epistola per Leibnitium altera vice edita in Novis

Litterariis citationem parenthesi inclusam esse omissam ; unde
sponte fluit Auetorem epistolae non fuisse Auctorem parenthe-

seos, sed hanc fuisse insertam ab eo qui schedam volantem 29

Julij edidit ; possum itaque haberi pro Auctore Epistolae, et

tamen non haberi pro Scriptore elogii parenthetici. Interim

quicquid sit, calumnia Hartsoekeri in te magis quam in me
redundat, eam enim ex verbis tuis maligne detortis elicere cona-
tur. Quid igitur faciendum statuas, ut innocentia in tutum
collocetur apud eos qui Collectanea Desmaisavii non viderunt,

libentissime equidem ex te ipso intelligerem, si qua responsione

me dignari volueris. Quod superest, te, Vir Nobiliss., rogatum

volo nomine Celeb, nostri Scheuchzeri, vestiro Societatis Regia3

Socii, ut Filio ipsius, qui nunc Londini agit, te accedendi allo-

quendique copiam indulgeas ; id namque in maxima laude sibi
ponet, quod viderit summum Philosophoi um et Mathematicorum
Principem. Vale, et me Nominis tui Cultorem perpetuum amare

perge. Dabam Basileae, a. d. vi. Febr. cioiaccxxni.

NO. XXIII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                                    509

            No. XXIII.

            (Referred to in page 298.)

Brook Taylor, LL.D., the son of John Taylor of Bifrons House

in Kent, was born on the 18th August 1685, and died on the

29th December 1731. In 1701 he was admitted into St. John's

College, Cambridge, where he entered upon the study of mathe
                                         In 1708 he  wrote his treatise
m" aOtincs    and natural philosophy.       In 1712  he was elected a
            the Centre of Oscillation."

ftGeollalotshwsatPolbfaontdheyes.h"Rios yHapliaspSemorcoies"ttyO,imn aptnhodertiaAnnstcthewenotsrakomsf,eW--ayhetiesarr   he presented

                                                                                                                           between two

                                                                                                                         Methodus In-

crementorum, and his treatise On the Principles of Linear Per
spective, were published in 1715. In the following year he paid
a visit to Count Bemond de Montmort and the Abbe Conti in

Paiis, with the first of whom he maintained a friendly corre

spondence. He was chosen Secretary to the Royal Society on the

13th January 1714, an office which he resigned on the 21st

October 1718. In the following letters he appears as one of the

champions of Newton in the fluxionary controversy.

     1. -- letter from brook taylor to sir isaac newton.

      " Sir,

  I"The great loss to our family of my good dear mother, has made

it necessary for me to make haste home, and find the circum

Istances of our family will not suffer me to be in town before

the rising of the Royal Society ; wherefore am under the
necessity to beg the favour of you, Sir, to excuse me for not
attending you in Crane Court, and that you will be pleased to
get M. Desaguliers, or some other person, to do the Secretary's

I Ibusiness at the meetings of the Society ; and hope shall

another time have an opportunity of making the Society some
amends for my present absence.

510               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

I" Upon my coming to London on Tuesday night, found a
letter from Mr. Montmort, dated the 31st March, N.S., wherein

he gives me the following account of what passed at the French
Academy relating to D. Keill's paper, which it seems they

don"'t'  care to  print.  nombre  s'est oppose" a faire imprimer  le mor-
         Le plus  grand

ceau de Mr- Keill dans les memoires de l'Academie par la raison

que Mr- Keill est etranger a l'Académie, et que cela est contre

les Statuts. Je pris la parole, representai 1° que le morceau

est excellent ; 2° que M. Newton est attaque dans les memoires
par M. NM Bernoulli qui non plus que Mr- Keill n'est pas Membre

de L'Academie ; 3° que s'il etoit jamais permis de faire exception

a une regle gene'rale, c'estoit en faveur d'un aussi grand homme

que M. Newton. Je compte qu'il sera imprime s'il est avoue et

reconnu de Mr Newton ou de Mr- Halley au nom de la Societe

IRoy"aTleh.'e1se are Mr. Montmort's own words, which thought it

my duty to communicate to you, not knowing what sort of an
account Mr. Fontenelle may have given in his letter to Dr.

Halley.2 Mr. Montmort, in all his letters to me, seems to take

a particular pleasure in expressing the great respect he has for

you, Sir ; and in one of his last he tells me he has sent to me a

Ihamper of champagne wine, and begs your acceptance of 50
bottles of it.3   can send it from hence either by land carriage
Ior by water, if you will be pleased to let me know whither I
shall direct it.  will send it as soon as it comes to my hand.

IPray, Sir, do me the favour to make my most humble service

acceptable to Mrs. Barton. -- am,
                                  " Sir,
            " Your most faithful and most
         "  Bifrons, near Canterbury,      obedi"enBt roseorkvanTta, ylor

            22d April 1716.

" To Sir Is. Newton."

     1 This letter is published in the Contemplatio Phihso/ihim, pp. 84 88.
     * See Edleston's Correspondence, &c. p. 187.
     3 This is the wine mentioned in p. 491, as intended for Miss Barton.

                                                                             .

NO. XXIII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  511

      2. -- EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM M. MONTMORT TO BROOK
                     taylor, dated Jan. 22, 1717.1

    " Pour moi je soutient icy et je l'ai toujours soutenu haute
ment que M. Newton a été maître du Calcul différentiel et
intégral avant tout autre géomètre, et que dès l'année 1677 il
sçavoit tout ce que les travaux de M. Leibnitz et M. Bernoulli

ont découvert depuis."

         3. --LETTER FROM M. MONTMORT TO BROOK TAYLOR

                                                                         " Mostmort, ce 18 Deer- 1718.

   " Je suis très persuadé, Monsieur, que vous n'avez point eu

dessein de vous faire honneur de ce qui n'étoit point à vous, et
de vous l'approprier ; outre que vous avez l'esprit et le coeur trop
élevé pour être capable d'une telle petitesse, vous êtes trop riche

de votre propre fond pour avoir besoin du bien d'autruy. Je

crois que quand vous avez donné au public vostre excellent livre
Methodus Incretnentorum, vous étiez peu instruit de l'histoire des

nouvelles découvertes. Je croirois même que vous ne Testes

pas assez à présent pour un homme destiné comme vous à jouer
un grand rolle parmy les Sçavants de ce siècle. Les con
naissances historiques inutiles à la vérité pour la perfection de
l'esprit sont absolument nécessaires à un autheur qui faute de
les avoir court risque de porter des jugemens injustes, de bâtir
sur le fond d'autruy contre son intention, de mal apprécier le
mérite des autheurs, et enfin de se tromper dans de faits dont
un lecteur sévère suppose qu'on est instruit parcequ'on devrait
l'être. En voici quelques uns dont il est apropos que vous ayez
con"naMisrs. aHncuey.gens est inventeur de la théorie de centres d'oscil
lations, et de percussion. M. Jaques Bernoulli l'a rendue plus
claire, plus facile, et plus parfaite. Voyez les Mémoires de

l'Académie en 1703 et 1704. M. J. Bernoulli ayant cru qu'on

y pouvoit ajouter quelque chose, a donné en 1714 dans ces

Mémoires un beau morceau sur cette matière. Je crois qu'il a

             1 This letter is published at the end of Keill's letter to Bernoulli.

512     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                         APPENDIX,

Ildonné un second dans les Actes de Leipsic. Je ne sçai quand,
car je ne les ai pas ici.  est vrai que MTM Bernoulli ny M.

Leibnitz n'ont point donné dans les journaux de Leipsic les

analyses de la chaînette, de la courbure d'une voile enflée par le

vent, et de celle que prend un linge pressé par le poid d'un fluide
qu'il contient ; mais il me semble que les solutions qu'ils ont

donnés de ces problêmes sont très justes. J'ai parmy mes vieux

papiers des démonstrations de tout ce que M. Jac. Bernoulli a

avancé en 1691 p. 288 de l'identité qu'il y a entre la chaînette

et la courbe de la voile, et aussi entre la courbe du linge et

l'élastique. Vous trouverez dans la nouvelle théorie de la

manoeuvre des vaisseaux publié en 1714 les analyses des courbes

velaria, catenaria, lintea. Je n'adjouterai point que ces analyses

couvrent depuis plus de 25 ans entre les mains de plusieurs
géomètres de toutes nations ; à qui M. Jean Bernoulli a com

muniqué les leçons manuscriptes qu'il avoit fait, étant à Paris
pour M. Le M. de l'Hôpital. Toutes ces analyses à l'exception

de celle de la courbe élastique s'y trouvent. Je les ai vu dans

un manuscript de ces leçons que le P. Reyneau tira in 1692
d'un ami de M. Bernoulli. Le fait est constant, et j'en suis

témoin avec peut-être plus de cent personnes, mais je n'admets

Ilque"les monuments publics telles qu'est l'impression.   Bernoulli

         y avoit quelque chose a redire à ce que M. Jac.
Ilavoit donné en 1694 touchant la courbure des ressorts.
                                                          a

perfectionné cette matière dans les mémoires de l'Académie de

l'année 1705. Je me souviens dans ce moment que l'analyse des

chaînettes se trouve dans la solution que M. Jac. Bernoulli a don

né en 1701 de son problême des Isopérimètres. Il est vray Mr.

que la solution que Mr. Jean Bernoulli a donné en 1706 dans

les mémoires de l'Académie du prob. des Isopérimètres n'est
Ilpas exempte de faute.
                           a eu le bonheur de s'en appercevoir

le 1er, et avant que d'estre relevé par d'autres. Vous en verrez

une nouvelle et très belle solution dans les Actes de Leipsic

au mois de Janvier de cette année. Sa méthode est fondé sur

la considération de trois élémens contigus de la courbe au lieu

qu'il n'en considéroit que deux dans celle qui a paru en 1706.

Elle n'est presque point différente dans le fond de celle de Monsr.

Herman qui ne me plait pas moins. Elles sont toutes deux

NO. XXIII.             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.      513

entées sur celle de feu M. Bernoulli. Il la regarde comme son

chef-d'oeuvre : c'est un morceau d'une grande force, et qui me par-

oit surpasser en difficulté toutes les productions de ce jour. Je

sçai bon gré au pauvre defaut d'avoir tenu ferme à soupçonner et

dire qu'il y avoit faut et paralogisme dans l'analyse de son frère,

et de n'avoir pas lâché ces 50 ecus qui n'étoient pas bien

gag"nJées. ne sçai si vous sçavez que M. De la Hire en 1702 dans

les Mémoires de l'Académie, et M. Herman dans les Journaux

de Leipsic un peu de temps après, ont enterpris de déterminer la

courbe que décrit un rayon de lumière passant dans notre At
mosphère. Je crois qu'il y a faute dans M. de la Hire. Je ne me
souviens pas de ce qui m'a paru il y a quelques années de la

solution de M. Herman ; vous en jugerez et de ce qu'ils disent sur

la  "deJn'asiytéétdée  l'Atmosphère.
                       fort surpris de
                                        trouver  ce qui suit dans votre lettre.

I I' As to the owning of any one as inventor or improver of the

method, besides Sir Isaac Newton, knew of none. saw nothing

Ianywhere that seemed to me an improvement upon what Sir
Isaac had published.   was sensible that several had applied the

Imethod with good success, and understood pretty much of it ;

but always took Sir Isaac Newton not only for the inventor,
but also for the greatest master of it.' Je pense comme vous
Mr. sur le mérite de Mr. Newton. Je parle toujours comme

d'un homme au dessus des autres, et qu'on ne peut trop ad

mirer. Mais je ne puis m'empêcher de combattre l'opinion

où vous estes que le Public a reçu de Mr. Newton, et non de
M. Leibnitz et Bernoulli les nouveaux calculs, et l'art de les

faire servir à toutes les recherches qu'on peut faire en Géométrie.

C'est une erreur de fait. Il vaut mieux que moi qui n'ay là

dessus aucune prévention, ni rien qui me porte à en avoir, qui fait

profession d'estre votre amis, et qui le suis plus sans comparaison
que des Géomètres Allemands que je n'ai jamais vu ; il vaut
mieux, dis je, que je vous fasse remarquer la fausseté qu'un ad

versaire à qui vous donneriez avantage sur vous et qui vous re-

procheroit avec apparence de vérité que votre zèle pour la gloire

de vostre nation vous rend partiel et vous fait oublier toutes
les règles de l'équité. Je n'examinerai point ici les droits de

    VOL. il.                                      2K

514  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

MTM. Newton et Leibnitz à la première invention du calcul différ

entiel et intégral. Je vous rapporterai quand vous voudriez le

détail des réflexions qu'un long et sérieux examen m'a fourni, et

j'espère que vous n'en serez pas mécontent. Je veux seulement
vous faire remarquer qu'il est insoutenable de dire que MTM. Leib

nitz et Bernoulli ne sont pas les vrays et presque uniques pro

moteurs de ces calculs. Voici mon raisonnement, jugez en. Ce

sont eux et eux seuls qui nous ont appris les règles de différentier

et d'intégrer, la manière de trouver par ces calculs les tangentes
des courbes, leur pointes d'inflexion et de rebroussement, leurs

plus grandes, et leurs plus petites ordonnées, les développés les

caustiques par réflexion, et par réfraction, les quadratures des

courbes, les centres de gravité, ceux d'oscillation, et de percussion,

les problèmes de la méthode inverse des tangentes, tels que ce-

luycy par ex. qui donne tant d'admiration à M. Huygens en 1693

trouver la courbe dont la tangente est à la partie intercepté de

l'axe en raison donné. Ce sont eux qui les premiers ont ex

primé des courbes méchaniques par les équations différentielles,

à en abaisser les dimensions, et à les construire par les logarithmes,

ou par des rectifications des courbes quand cela est possible ; et

qui enfin par de belles et nombreuses applications de ces calculs

aux problêmes les plus difficiles de la Méchanique tels que sont

ceux de la chaînette, de la voile, l'élastique, de la plus viste de

scente, de la paracentrique, nous ont mis et nos neveux dans la

voye des plus profondes découvertes. Ce sont là des faits sans

réplique. Il suffit pour s'en convaincre d'ouvrir les journaux de

Leipsic. Vous y verrez les preuves de ce que j'avance. Personne

hors M. le M. de l'Hospital qu'on peut joindre en partie à ces

Messieurs quoiqu'il ait été disciple de M. Jean Bernoulli, n'a

paru avec eux sur la scène jusqu'en 1700 ou environs. Je compte

pour rien ce que M. Carré en France et M. Moivre en Angleterre,

de même M. Craige donnèrent dans ce temps ou peu auparavant ;

tout cela n'étoit rien en comparaison de ce qu'on nous avoit donné
Ildans les Actes de Leipsic.
                              est vray Mr. que les Principes
Math, de M. Newton ont paru en 1686 [1687] ; ce sçavant ouv
rage peut donner lieu de croire que M. Newton sçavoit dès-lors

de ces calculs tout ce qu'on sçait aujourdhuy, M. Bernoulli même.
Je ne veux pas disconvenir, et c'est une question à part. Mais il est

NO. XXIII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  515

sûr au moins que ce livre n'apprend rien de ces calculs, si ce
n'est le lemme, 2d page 250, lère edit, mais vous sçavez qu'il ne
contient que la l5re et plus simple règle de prendre les différences,

ce que M. Leibnitz avoit fait avec plus d'étendue en 1684. Je

dois adj outer que dans le 2df volume de M. Wallis imprimé en
1693 on trouve plus au long les règles de ces calculs, mays quoy-

que ce morceau soit propre à nous donner une grande idée de

ce qu'en sçavoit alors Mr. Newton, il n'en apprend pas plus que
l'on en trouvoit dans les journaux de Leipsic. On trouve en
1697 une solution de Mr. Newton du problême de la plus viste
descente, mais comme il n'y a point d'analyse, et qu'on ne sçait
point la route qu'il a suivie, cela ne touche point à ma propo
sition qui est que depuis 1684, lère date publique de la nais

sance du calcul différentiel et intégral, jusqu'en 1700 ou environ,
où je suppose qu'il avoit acquis presque toute la perfection qu'il

a aujourdhuy, personne n'a contribué à le perfectionner que MTM.
Leibnitz et Bernoulli, à moins qu'on n'y veuille joindre pour
quelque part M. le M. l'Hospital à qui ils avoient de bonne

heure révélé leur secrets. Qui apparemment en seroient encore
pour tous les Géomètres d'aujourdhuy s'ils avoient voulu les
tenir cachés à l'imitation de Mr. Newton, qui à mon avis a du
avoir la clef de ceux là ou des pareils dès le temps qu'il a donné

son fameux ouvrage, Ph. Nat. Ppia Math. Ou ne peut rien^e

plus beau ni de meilleur en son genre que le traité de Mr. New
ton De Quadratura Curvarum, mais il est venu bien tard. La
date de l'impression de cet ouvrage est fâcheuse, non pour Mr.
Newton, qui a acquis tant de gloire que l'homme le plus am
bitieux n'en pourrait désirer davantage, mais pour quelques

Anglois qui semblent porter envie à ceux qui ont découvert et

publié les 1er* ces nouvelles méthodes qui ont portés si long la

Géométrie."

.016              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.              APPENDIX,

                        No. XXIV.

                                          (Referred to in ixtge 300.)

        letter from james stirling to sir isaac newton.

I"    " Sir,            of your   letter  about     five weeks after   the

        had the honour
Idate. As your generosity is infinitely above my merite, so

reackon myself ever bound to serve you to the utmost ; and,

Iindeed, a present from a person of such worth is more valued
by me than ten times the value from another.             humbly ask

pardon for not returning my grateful acknowledgements before
Inow.
        wrote to Mr. Desaguliers to make my excuse, while, in
I Ithe meantime, intended to send a supplement to the papers
Isent ; but now I'm willing they be printed as they are, being at

present taken up with my own affair here, wherewith won't
presume to trouble you, having sent Mr. Desaguliers a full

Iacc"ountbegthelreeaovfe. to let you know, that Mr. Nicholas Bernoulli

proposed to me to enquire into the curve which defines the

Iresistances of a pendulum, when the resistance is proportional
to the velocity.  enquired into some of the most easy cases,

and found that the pendulum, in the lowest point, had no velo

city, and consequently could perform but one half oscillation,

I Iand then rest. Bernoulli had found that before, as also one
Count Kicato, which     understood after            communicated to

Bernoulli what occurred to me. Then he asked me how in that

hypothesis of resistance a pendulum could be said to oscillate,

Isince it only fell to the lowest point of the cycloid, and then

rested. So conjecture that his uncle sets him on to see what

he can pick out of your writings, that may any ways be cavilled
against, for he has also been very busy in enquiring into some

Iother  parts of the Principles.  this    trouble,  and  pray God to
         humbly beg pardon for
   "

prolong your daies, wishing that an opportunity should offer

NO. XXIV.        LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         517

Ithat could demonstrate my gratefullness for the obligations

have       been pleased to honour me with.

    "
Iyou       am",  with  the greatest respect, Sir,
                 Your
   "                   most humble  and  mos"t  obedient serv',

                                                James Stirling.

Venice, 17 August 1719, N. St.

" P.S. -- Mr. Nicholas Bernoulli, as he hath been accused by

Dr. Keill of an ill-will towards you, wrote you a letter some

time ago to clear himself. But having in return desired me to
assure you, that what was printed in the Acta Paris, relating
to your 10 Prop. lib. 2, was wrote before he had been in Eng

land, sent to his friends as his private opinion of the matter,

and afterwards published without so much as his knowledge.

He is willing to make a full vindication of himself as to that

affair whenever you'll please to desire it. He has laid the whole

Imatter open to me ; and if things are as he informs me, Dr. Keill

has been somewhat harsh in his case. For my part, can wit

Iness that never hear him mention your name without respect

and honour. When he shewed me the Acta Eruditorum, where

his uncle has lately wrote against Dr. Keill, he shewed me that

the theorems there about quadratures are all corollarys from

your Quadratures ; and whereas Mr. John Bernoulli had said
there, that it did not appear by your construction of the curve,

Prop. 4, lib. 2, that the said construction could be reduced to

logarithms, he presently shewed me Coroll. 2 of the said Propo

Isition, where you shew how it is reduced to logarithms, and he
said he wondered at his uncle's oversight.         find more modesty

in him as to your affairs than could be expected from a young

man, nephew to one who is now become head of Mr. Leibnitz's

Iparty ; and, among the many conferences I've had with him,

declare never to have heard a disrespectful word from him of

any of our country but Dr. Keill."

51 S             LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     APPENDIX,

                      No. XXV.

                      (Heferred to in page 300.)

      letter from fontenelle to sir isaac newton.

"     " Monsieur,     par L'Académie Royale       des Sciences  d'avoir
      Je suis charge

l'honneur de vous remercier de la nouvelle Edition que vous

avez envoyée de vos Principes des Mathématiques de la Philo

sophie Naturelle. Il y a déjà plusieurs années que cet excellent

ouvrage est admiré dans toute l'Europe, et principalement en

France, où l'on sait hien connaître le mérite étranger. Mais

présentement, Monsieur, que vous avez une place dans notre

Académie, nous prétendons, en quelque façon que vous n'êtes

plus étranger pour nous, et nos Savants qui ont quelque droit

de vous appeler leur Confrère prennent une part plus particulière

à votre gloire. On peut sans témérité vous prédire qu'elle sera

immortelle par les deux Livres que vous avez publiés, où il brille

de toutes parts un si heureux génie de découvertes, et où ceux-

même qui savent  le plus trouvent tant à  apprendre.  quelque   fois
   " L'Académie  vous prie Monsieur de
                                           lui faire

part de vos nouvelles productions ainsi que font Messrs. Leib

Ilnitz, Bernoulli, et les autres Savants étrangers qu'elle a adoptés.
     n'est pas surprenant qu'elle cherche à se faire honneur de ce
qu'elle vous possèd"e.M--onJseiesuuri,s,
      " Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur,
                                            " FONTENELLE,
" à Paris, ce 4 Fév.         " Sec.       Perp. de l'Ac. Roy.  des Se.

                      1714."

NO. XXVI.          LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                           519

                          No. XXVI.

                          (lieferred to in page 300.)

    LETTER FROM DR. DERHAM TO SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

 "I"Much Hon" Se,         Commerc.     " Upminster, $ Feb. 20, 17 ljj.
As
       was perusing the             Epist. Avch ye E. S. honoured

me with, it came into my mind, that in some of Mr. Collins's

1TM to Mr. Towneley of Lane, (now in my hands,) there was
Isomething relating to that subject ; and looking over Mr. Towne-

ley's papers, found a long lr of Mr. Collins's, giving a sort of

historical account of the matter, That in Sept             Mercator

published his Logar., one of wch he sent to Dr. Wallis, &c. . . .

another to Mr. Barrow, who thereupon sent him up some papers

of Mr. Newton, (now his successor,) by wch, and some other com
munications, &c, it appears ye sd method was invented some

years before by Mr. Newton, and generally applied. . . . Then

follows an account of your method, and of Mr. Gregorie's per

formance in y* kind, with what Mr. Gregory had written to him

about it in  Feb.  1671,  and Jan. 1672,  &c.          to  speak of ;  but if
   " There   is a  great                  long
                          deal more, too
Iyou think the papers may be of use to you, at your request
Iwill bring them wn next come to London, to be looked over
Ior transcribed ; but am engaged not to part with any of them
Iout of my power.
                          have also divers of Mr. Sluse's 1TM, and

Iother papers of his, from Rome and Leige, to Mr. Towneley,

but they being in French, cannot as yet give any account

whether there be any thing relating to your matter in them.
I INot meeting you when was last in town, shall take this
Ioccasion to acquaint you y* have tried Mr. Huygens's glass of
* I122 feet at h, ?, 1, and $, and some fixt ; and hope shortly
Ito have a view of U also.
                            believe it by far the best long glass
I ever looked through, representing these celestials very clear

Iand well. But can hardly think Mr. Huygens could see

520            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NBWTOS.                              AITENDIX,

tollerably through it with the eye-glass accompanying                 it,w**
                                                                                 a is
but inches focus          therefore, make use of eye-glasses of
     6

       I
             I

                                         ;

                         I,

                            Ia

                                                     a
larger focus.  am not yet so well accommodated for strict

observations with this glass as to tell you any thing of Sat.,
                                                                      h

&c., for am forced to raise long ladder and send my man up

with the glass. Neither have                            good eye-glass to my mind,

only some spectacle-glasses. But would you, or some other of

my friends that have interest enough, procure me a small Pre

bend, to enable me to be at charges without injuring my wife

and children, promise you would stick at no charge to get
     S.

         I

                                S.

                         I

                                     if

                                       I it

                                                                 it,
an apparatus for this noble glass, to make as serviceable to

the K. as in me lies; and to accomplish some other matters

also for their service. Be pleased to excuse my presumption

thus upon your friendship and favour, wch desire may be no

otherwise troublesome to you than any thing happens in your

way, and you have no other friend capable of you would, for

the service of the R. as well as myself, think of me, and at

the same  time pa"rdMono,st Hon4 Sr,
                            Your affectionately
                                                        humble        servant,
                                                          " Wm.        Derham.

If" you have any commands, direct to Upminster, near Rum-

ford, Essex,   bythe general post."
                       a
In another letter, which possesses no interest, dated May 11,

1714, he requests Newton   to fulfil his promise of giving him his
" castigations" for third  impression of his Physico- Theology.

NO. XXVII.       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                              521

                                       No. XXVII.

                                       (Referred to in pages 308, 410.)

            LETTER FROM POPE TO MR. CONDUITT.

I" make use of the liberty you gave me, of a free criticisme,

Iin the inclosed ; without any formalityes, or asking an excuse
from you in my turn.                   think nothing can be more proper

than the first part of your dedication, which relates to the

author of the work : Whatever thoughts flow from that, or

take rise from that, render your compliment to the Queen (in

my opinion) the more graceful as well as the more just, (and

Iproper for you as a relation, and intrusted with so valuable a

depositum.) As to what depends not on that, would only

wish you avoided as much as possible the common topicks of

dedications and addresses : Your real subject (I mean both Sir
Isaac Newton and her Majesty) will shine of themselves ; and a
Ishortness, a dignity, and plainness will become them. For

instance cannot but think, y* after yu have said, that Sr Isaac

carried arts and sciences in a few years farther than all others
had in whole ages; it flattens if not contradicts
                                                                         I              to add
                                                                                  it,
aftervvd8 in the present reign they may be advanced to a much
    I I.
greater height.   y*                   wd omit that paragraph wch have marked
             I
               I
between two crosses x. It takes very much from the praise of

Sr N., and fear unjustly, to imagine that any Prince's reign

can   make Newtons, however                    it I it    might  incourage or admire them.
         mean in general only                         that wd    shorten those parts wch are
   "                                                  I

mere panegyric, independent on the occasion the book and

author give you the character of sincerity wch                                          so rightly
      :                                                                  it

         I                                                                    is,
                    is                                                              yu
                                    :
touch upon in the King, wd keep exactly as                               and anything
                                       is I I
in short that characteristical.                         I  prefer (since your commands

are, that shd chuse what                                like) the column on the right

hand only in one place think what you say of the Queen's

encouragement of arts, almost repetition of the same thing
                                                      I
elsewhere.       have marked by inclosing                 a              passage with line
            I                                                    yl
                                                                                             a

and two crosses x X. The rest believe may stand.

522            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                    APPENDIX,

I" Upon the whole           really approve it ; and you ought to
If Ipardon my freedom, since you caused it.
                                                                            am ever so

Imuch in the wrong, it will be at least an instance of my good
intention.     am ashamed to be so particular in things of so

little importance as my objections, which are indeed so very

Islight. But the apprehension that you might soon want the

papers, and the consciousness that could not be serviceable

enough to you to excuse a longer delay, made me write this,

rather than wait for an opportunity of talking with you. Me-

thinks yu should end the dedication with returning once more

to Sir Isaac Newton. What little I've added, is only a hint to
Ithat effect.
               am sincerely of opinion that your dedication is
Ivery just, and decent, and well judged.
                                                                            cd wish it were

Iinlarged with some Memoirs and Character of him, as a private
man.        doubt not his life and manners wd make a great Dis

covery of Virtue and Goodness and Rectitude of heart, as his

Iworks have done of Penetration and ye utmost Stretch of human

knowledge. -- am, Sir, your most obedient humble servant,
        " Twickenham,                                                       " A- Pope.
      " Nov?- 10'*. 1727."

The following are the additions referred to in the letter, and
         upon a separate leaf :--
written                                instructions                         and entertain
         Majesty does not think these
   " Yr

ing pursuits below your exalted station ; and yourself a proof
that the abstruser parts of them are not beyond ye reach of yr

sex," &c.

"    " Formed by such models ?         this  glorious                       prospect gives
     That liberty and knowledge (as

us reason to hope) may be equally and jointly perpetuated ;

and that the bright example set in this reign by the Royal

patrons of both, may be transmitted with the sceptre, to those

of the same great line : to ye end that this age may be as illus

trious, and this nation as distinguished, for every other felicity

and glory ; as it and ever must be, for having been honoured
         of,
                         is,

                                                 it
                                                                        yr

                                                                      is
with such a man as Sir Isaac Newton,                                        the most sincere

prayer         " Madam, may please

                                             Majesty, &c."

NO. XXVIII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                        523

                                  No. XXVIII.

                                  (Referred to in page 341.)

  IIn 1831, soon after the publication of my Life of Sir Isaac

Newton, received the following letter from Dr. Burgess, Bishop
of Salisbury, who had distinguished himself by several learned
and able works in defence of the doctrine of the Trinity.

   " Sir,    acceptance                              " Salisrury, Nov. 30, 1831.
                                  of the enclosed pages, which were
I" beg your
I Ioccasioned by the perusal of your very interest ing Life of Sir

Isaac Newton, which read with great pleasure, till came to
Ithe statement of the contents of Sir Isaac's Dissertation on
1 John v. 7, and 1 Tim. iii. 16.  thought the restatement of

Ihis opinions on these subjects injurious to his memory, as he
had expressly and anxiously suppressed them.                  was desirous of

Icounteracting the present abuse of Sir Isaac's authority by

Socinians and Unitarians, but was unwilling to deliver these

Ipages to the public, without communicating them to yourself. --

  am, Sir,
                    " With very sincere respect,
                                     " Your obedient Serva"ntT, . Sarum."

   The pages thus enclosed by the Bishop, bore the title of

Appendix on Sir Isaac Newton's suppression of his Dissertation
on 1 John v. 7, and 1 Tim. iii. 18. It consisted of ten printed

pag"esT, haendnacmoentaoifneSdir  the following criticisms    on my work.      by
                                  Isaac Newton has been       lately employed

Socinians and Unitarians, in opposition to the doctrine of the

Trinity, on the authority of a Tract, which he anxiously and

deliberately suppressed. Dr. Brewster, in his recent publica

tion of the Life of Sir Isaac Newton, has, it is much to be
regretted, done the same injustice to the memory of Sir Isaac

524                    MFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                   APPENDIX,

by his restatement and revival of the general contents of the

suppressed Dissertation on the controverted verse of St. John,
and by omitting to notice Sir Isaac's suppression of the Tract.

IThe preceding Remarks on the general Tenour of the New

Testament had hardly left the press, when first met with Dr.
Brewster's Life of Sir Isaac Newton in the 24th volume of

the Family Library. The popularity of the work, of which

Dr. Brewster's volume is a very interesting portion, has induced

me to add this Appendix to my Remarks, in order to counter
act, as far as may be, the injury done to the name of Sir Isaac
              and its influence on public  opinion."
New" tTohne,  revival and restatement of   these abortive  criticisms are

injurious to the memory of the writer, because it omits to notice
that the Tract which contains them was deliberately and anxi

ously suppressed." --Pages 81, 82.

  IAs soon as received the preceding letter, and its enclosure,
I informed the Bishop of the great mistake which he had com

mitted, in charging me with having injured the memory of Sir

Isaac Newton, by omitting to notice that he had suppressed his

ITract. directed his attention to page 274 of the work, in which
I had not only mentioned the fact, but had even printed at full

Ilength Newton's own letter to Locke suppressing his Disserta

tion. To this letter received the following answer :--

     " Sir,                             " Palace, Salisbury, Dec. 10, 1831.

"... I Iam still more sorry that should have overlooked,
Ior rather not have seen, at the time printed my Appendix,

Ithe account in your work to which your letter directs me, and

which have since read, of the suppression of the Dissertation.

The pages of your work (281-284) containing the statement of
Sir Isaac Newton's opinions and paraphrase, were shewn to me

by a friend, and as they contained no allusion to the suppression
Iof the Dissertation, was led to suppose that you had altogether
I Iomitted to notice it. When
Icertainly                              reprint my Appendix, shall
                                        -- am, Sir,
              correct  my  oversight."   Your obedient

                                                        Servant,
                                                        " T. Sarum."

NO. XXVIII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                       525

I am unwilling to characterize the incompatibility of the

Istatements contained in these two letters, but having overlooked

the offence at the time, may now express my surprise, that

after having committed such a gross error, Dr. Burgess never

thought of correcting  it,  either by reprinting the few pages of

his Appendix, or by inserting a fly leaf in his volume.

   The  cphraordguecedofbyha"vitnhge  injured Sir   Isaac Newton, and of
having                                revival and  restatement of his abor

tive criticisms," an influence on public opinion which was
necessary for Dr. Burgess to counteract, too ridiculous to re
quire refutation. The Bishop himself, in his " Tracts on the
                                                   is

                                                                        it

Divinity of Christ,"1 has quoted from this very Dissertation, in

order to shew that     is it          not Antitrinitarian, and yet he de
                            is
nounces others for following his example. He has referred also,

times without number, to the subject of Newton's Arian ten

dencies, and thus compelled his readers to peruse the very Dis

sertation of which he afraid. Such an attempt to stifle the

truths of history of very rare occurrence. Dr. Horsley, the
             I
great champion of the Trinity, did not scruple to give importis

ance to Newton's Dissertation, by publishing along with the
                                                                                                             it

                                                                                                                                        a
Principia and should have betrayed the trust committed to
        I;
me, had not given an account of the theological writings of
                            by one Bishop as " knowing more
man, who     was described  all," and by another as having                                                   of  the
Scriptures     than them                                                                                      "  the

whitest soul" he ever knew.

     He even says that Newton wrote against John v.
have done. Page xxi. Tracts, &c. Lond. 1820.
1                                                                                                            as other orthodox persons
                                                                                    1
                                                                                                         7,

526                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                    APPENDIX,

                                 No. XXIX.

                                        (Referred to in page 347.)

IRENICUM : OR ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY TENDING TO PEACE.

                                                    THESIS 1.

   " The cities of the Israel before the Babylonian captivity were
governed by elders, who sat in the gate of the city, and put the
laws of Moses in execution, and had a place of worship in or near
the gate, and sometimes a high place for sacrificing upon a
neighbouring hill. -- See Deut. xix. 12, and xxi. 19, 20, 21, and
xxii. 18, 19, and xxv. 7, 8, and Ruth iv. 2, and Josh. xx. 4, and
Psal. vii. 4-8. And in this sense it is said that the gates of

hell, that is the magistrates in the gates of idolatrous cities, shall

not prevail against the true Church of Christ.

                                 thesis 2.

" The government of the Jewish Church being dissolved by

the Babylonian captivity, was restored by the commission of

Artaxerxes Longimanus, king of Persia, to Ezra, authorizing him

to set magistrates and judges to judge the people who knew the

laws of God, and to teach them who knew them not, and to

execute judgment upon those who would not do the law of God

and the law of the king, whether it were unto death or to banish

me"ntF, oorr  to   confiscation  of goods, or to imprisonment.  the  discre
              the   forming of   this government being left to

tion of Ezra, it may be presumed that he would pursue the an
cient form of Jewish government so far as it was practicable. --

See Ezra x. 14.

                                         thesis 3.
   " The government then set up by Ezra was by courts of judi
cature, composed of elders ; the highest court being the Sanhe
drim, composed of 70 elders, originally instituted by Moses ; and

NO. XXIX.     LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         527

the second court being composed of 23 elders in the outward

gate of the temple ; and the other courts sitting in the synagogues
of the cities, and being composed of the elders of the city, not

more in number than 23, nor fewer than three. --See Matt. x. 17,

and xxiii. 34 ; Luke xii. 11, and xxi. 12.

              THESIS 4.

" The government set up by Ezra continued till the days of

Christ, and was then extended over all the Roman Empire ; and

the Jews, by the permission or connivance of the Romans, erected

synagogues wherever they were sufficiently      nthumeierrsoyunsagtoogudeos.i--t ;
and the elders of cities were called rulers of

See Acts xv. 21, Matt. x. 17, and xxiii. 34, and Luke xii. 11,

and xxi. 12.

                                                    THESIS 5.

   " The same government continued among the converted Jews
of the circumcision in the regions of Phoenicia, Syria, &c., till
the end of the fourth century, or longer, and the chief ruler of the
synagogue was called by them the Prince of the Synagogue.

                                         thesis 6.
   " The same government was propagated from the Jews to the
converted Gentiles, the name of synagogues being changed to
that of churches, and the name of Chief Rulers and Princes of
the Synagogues unto that of Presidents and Bishops, the Bishop
being the President of the Council of Elders, called in the Greek
Presbyters, and the Presbyters in the Council being at length
called Prebendaries, from the allowances made to them out of the
revenues of the Church for their attendance. But the name of
churches was of a larger extent, being given also to single as
semblies in private houses, and other places not attended with a
Board of Elders, and collectively to the churches of a kingdom
or nation, or in the whole world.

                                         thesis 7.

  " It is therefore the duty of bishops and presbyters to govern

the people according to the laws of God and the laws of the king,

528  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX.

and in their councils to punish offenders according to those laws,
and to teach those who do not know the laws of God ; but not to
make new laws in the name of either God or the king.

                                          thesis 8.

   " The Church is constituted, and her extent and bounds of

communion are defined by the laws of God, and these laws are
unchangeable.

                                      thesis 9.
   " The laws of the king extend only to things that are left in
different and undetermined by the laws of God, and particularly
to the revenues and tranquillity of the church, to her courts of
justice, and to decency and order in her worship ; and all laws
about things left indifferent by the laws of God ought to be re
ferred to the civil government.

                                         thesis 10.
    " The king is supreme head and governor of the Church in all
things indifferent, and can nominate new bishops and presbyters
to succeed in vacant places, and deprive and depone them when
ever they may deserve it.

                                         thesis 11.
    " The being of the Church doth not depend upon an uninter-
rapted succession of bishops and presbyters for governing her ;
for this succession was interrupted in the time of the Babylonian
captivity until Ezra, by the commission of Artaxerxes, appointed

new governors. And therefore if it should be again interrupted,

the Christian people, by the authority or leave of the king, may
restore it. The Christian church was also in being before there
was a Christian synagogue.

                                         thesis 12.

   " All persons baptized are members of Christ's body called the

Church, even those who are not yet admitted into the communion
of the synagogue of any city. For all members circumcised were
members of the Church of the Jews in the time of the Babylonian

NO. XXIX.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               529

captivity before Ezra restored their polity. And in the days of
Ahab, when there remained only 7000 in Israel who had not
bowed the knee to Baal, these were the true Church of God,
though without an external form of government ; and the wor
shippers of Baal under their external form of government were
a church of idolaters, such a church, as in scripture, is called the
synagogue of Satan, who say they are Jews and are not, a false
church with regard to the God whom they worshipped. And
the three thousand baptized by Peter were a Christian church,

though they had not yet a bishop, or presbyter, or synagogue,

or form of government.

                                         thesis 13.
   " By imposition of hands men are admitted into the commu

nion of the synagogue of a city, and by excommunication they
are deprived of that communion, and return into the state they
were in by baptism alone, before they were received into com
munion by imposition of hands, except the sin for which they
were excommunicated ; and by new imposition of hands they
may be received into communion again without new baptism,

and therefore by excommunication they do not lose the privilege

or benefit of baptism.

                                         thesis 14.
   " Men are not to be excommunicated without breaking one or
more of the articles upon which they are admitted into commu
nion. For this would be to alter the bounds of communion settled
by the laws of God in the beginning of the Gospel.

                                         thesis 15.
   " To impose any article of communion not imposed from the
beginning is a crime of the same nature with that of those Chris
tians of the circumcision who endeavoured to impose circumcision,
and the observation of the law upon the converted Gentiles. For

the law was good if a man could keep but we were to be saved

not by the works of the law, but faith in Jesus Christ, and to
impose those works as articles of communion, was to make them
necessary to salvation, and thereby to make void the faith in

   VOL. II.
           by
                 it,

                                                2
                                               L

530  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

Jesus Christ. And there is the same reason against imposing
any other article of communion which was not imposed from
the beginning. All such impositions are teaching another

gospel.

                                         thesis 16.

   " To refuse communion with any church or synagogue merely

upon account of the laws of the king in matters indifferent,
unless these laws are imposed not merely as laws of the civil
government, but as articles of religion and communion, is dis
obedience to the king, and schism in relation to the Church.

                                         thesis 17.

   " To distinguish churches from one another by any difference
in customs or ceremonies, or in other laws than the laws of God,

is improper, and tends to superstitions. And if the distinction

occasions a breach of communion, the person insisting upon it
as a matter of religion is guilty of the schism. For the distinc

tion being taken from things which are only of human authority
and external to religion, ought not to be considered as a part of

religion, nor to enter into the definition of a Church.

                                         thesis 18.

   " The fundamentals or first principles of religion are the arti

cles of communion taught from the beginning of the Gospel in

catechising men in order to baptism and admission into com
munion ; namely, that the catechumen is to repent and forsake

covetousness, ambition, and all inordinate desires of the things
of this world, the flesh, and false gods called the devil, and to

be baptized in the name of one God, the Father, Almighty,
Maker of Heaven and Earth, and of one Lord Jesus Christ, the
Son of God, and of the Holy Ghost.-- See Heb. v. 12, 13, 14, and

vi. 1, 2, 3.

                                             THESIS 19.

   " After baptism we are to live according to the laws of God

and the king, and to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our
Lord Jesus Christ, by practising what they promised before bap

NO. XXIX.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  531

tism, and studying the Scriptures, and teaching one another in
meekness and charity, without imposing their private opinions,
or falling out about them.

                                         thesis 20.
   " The commission to teach and baptize was given to the
Apostles as the disciples of Christ, and to their disciples, and
the disciples of their disciples, to the end of the world, there
being no bishops or presbyters or church government yet insti
tuted among the Christians. But after the institution of govern
ments, the governors appointed men to catechize and baptize,
except in cases of necessity, where the original right returned.
For Tertullian has told us that in his days the rule was, In casu
necessitatis quilibet laicus tingit."

   These Theses were called Positions in the original MS., but
the term Thesis was afterwards substituted. We have placed
them according to their number, and not as in the manuscript.

5;] 2  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  APPENDIX,

                                 No. XXX.

                                           (Referred to in page 350.)

                    QU/ERIES REGARDING THE WORD OflOSaiOS.

    Quaere 1. Whether Christ sent his apostles to preach meta
physics to the unlearned common people, and to their wives
and children ?

   Qilere 2. Whether the word o/wxWo? ever was in any

creed before the Nicene ; or any creed was produced by any
one bishop at the Council of Nice for authorizing the use of that
word ?

    Quaere 3. Whether the introducing the use of that word is
not contrary to the Apostles' rule of holding fast the form of
sound words ?

    QuiERE 4. Whether the use of that word was not pressed
upon the Council of Nice against the inclination of the major
part of the Council ?

   Quaere 5. Whether it was not pressed upon them by the
Emperor Constantine the Great, a catechumen not yet baptized,
and no member of the Council ?

   Qh^re 6. Whether it was not agreed by the Council that
that word should, when applied to the Word of God, signify
nothing more than that Christ was the express image of the
Father ? and whether many of the bishops, in pursuance of
that interpretation of the word allowed by the Council, did not,
in their subscriptions, by way of caution, add tst eartv

o/ioiao-ios.

   Qilere 7. Whether Hosius (or whoever translated that Creed
into Latin) did not impose upon the Western Churches by

translating 6/j.oso-io<; by the words unius substantive, instead of
consubstantialis ? and whether by that translation the Latin
Churches were not drawn into an opinion that the Father and
Son had one common substance, called by the Greeks Hypostasis,
and whether they did not thereby give occasion to the Eastern

NO. XXX.            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          533

Churches to cry out, presently after the Council of Sardica, that

the Western Churches were become Sabellian ?
   Qu^re 8. Whether the Greeks, in opposition to this notion

and language, did not use the language of three Hypostases,
and whether in those days the word Hypostasis did not signify

a substance ?

   Qu^re 9. Whether the Latins did not at that time accuse
all those of Arianism who used the language of three Hypos
tases, and thereby charge Arianism upon the Council of Nice,
without knowing the true meaning of the Nicene Creed.
   Quaere 10. Whether the Latins were not convinced, in the
Council of Ariminum, that the Council of Nice, by the word
ofw&o-io?, understood nothing more than that the Son was the
express image of the Father ?--the acts of the Council of Nice
were not produced for convincing them. And whether, upon
producing the acts of that Council for proving this, the Mace
donians, and some others, did not accuse the bishops of hypo
crisy, who, in subscribing these acts, had interpreted them by

the word ofioisaios in their subscriptions ?
   Quaere 11. Whether Athanasius,     Hilary, and in general
the Greeks and Latins, did not, from  the time of the reign of

Julian the Apostate, acknowledge the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost to be three substances, and continue to do so till the
schoolmen changed the signification of the word hypostasis, and
brought in the notion of three persons in one single substance ?
   Quaere 12. Whether the opinion of the equality of the three
substances was not first set on foot in the reign of Julian the

Apostate, by Athanasius, Hilary, &c. ?
   QutfiRE 13. Whether the worship of the Holy Ghost was not

first set on foot presently after the Council of Sardica ?
   Quaere 14. Whether the Council of Sardica was not the first

Council which declared for the doctrine of the Consubstantial

Trinity ? and whether the Council did not affirm that there
was but one hypostasis of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost ?

   QUiERE 15. Whether the Bishop of Rome, five years after the
death of Constantine the Great, a. c. 341, did not receive appeals

from the Greek Councils, and thereby begin to usurp the uni

versal bishopric ?

034          LIFE OP SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     APPENDIX,

   QuiEBE 16. Whether the Bishop of Rome, in absolving the
appellants from excommunication, and communicating with

them, did not excommunicate himself, and begin a quarrel with

the Greek Church ?

Quaere 17. Whether the Bishop of Rome, in summoning all

the bishops of the Greek Church to appear at the next Council

of Rome, a.c. 342, did not challenge dominion over them, and
begin to make war upon them for obtaining it ?

Qilere 18. Whether that Council of Rome, in receiving the
appellants into communion, did not excommunicate themselves,

and support the Bishop of Rome in claiming appeals from all

the world ?

Qilere 19. Whether the Council of Sardica, in receiving the

appellants into communion, and decreeing appeals from all the

churches to the Bishop of Rome, did not excommunicate them

selves, and become guilty of the schism which followed there

upon, and set up Popery in all the West ?

   Qilere 20. Whether the Emperor Constantius did not, by
calling the Council of Millain and Aquileia, A.c. 365, abolish

Popery ? and whether Hilary, Lucifer,                             were

not banished for adhering to the authority of the Pope to receive

appeals from the Greek Councils ?

Qilere 21. Whether the Emperor Gratian, a.c. 379, did not,

by his edict, restore the universal bishopric of Rome over all

the West ? and whether this authority of the Bishop of Rome

hath not continued ever since ?

Quaere 22. Whether Hosius, St. Athanasius, St. Hilary, St.

Ambrose, St. Hierome, St. Austin, were not Papists P1

     The Qua;rics after No. 14 are not numbered in the original.

NO. XXXI.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  535

                            No. XXXI.

                                         [Referred to in page 362.)

     DE METALLO AD CONFICIENDUM SPECULUM COMPONENDO ET

                                                  FUNDENDO.

   " fy cupri partes 11 vel 12, stanni optimi partes 4, arsenici
albi partem 1. Cupro liquefacto injiciatur arsenicum, et cum
baculo ligneo bene commisceautur agitando. Dein Stannum
etiam in frusta divisum injiciatur, et massa iterum agitetur
celeriter, atque omnibus sic bene commistis in formam absque
mora infuudantur.

   " Nota 1. Quod Stannum celerrime liquefiat, et massam
deinde per fumos suos porosam reddat si diutius stet super ignem
ut intentius incalescat.

   " 2. Massa itaque si iterum fundenda est non debet plusquam
ad "liq3u. efPaoctteiostnecmupriunmcaleasncteerqeu.am miscetur cum stanno, purgari
liquefaciendo et injiciendo in 12 uncias cupri liquefacti, primo
unciam unam arsenici ac duas tresve uncias antimonii crudi,
deinde tres vel quatuor uncias salis nitri per vices, donee totus
sal deflagraverit. Tunc massa frigefacta abjiciatur scoria sali-
nosa, et iterum fundatur metallum injicianturque novi salis nitri
duae tresve unciae per vices, donee totus deflagraverit, ut prius ;

eritque satis depuratum si sal supernatans post refrigerium albus
exierit ; sin secus, tertio liquefaciendum est cum sale. Sed in-
terea summe cavendum est a fumis arsenici.

    " Ex cupro sic purgato componi potest metallum cum arse-
nico et stanno ut supra ; sed compositio habebitur fortius re-
flectens et (quantum conjicio) magis resistens terugini si omisso
arsenico injiciatur ad duodecim partes cupri liquefacti, primo una
pars Zineti seu Margaritae albae et una pars reguli antimonii
per se sine p* facti, deinde quatuor partes stanni ut supra.
Signum optimae compositionis est ut metallum instar vitii laeve
appareat ubi frangitur.

536                           LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.       APPESDIX,

" 4. Si metallum in formam infusum, inter refrigerandum in

fragmenta sponte dissiliat, id arguit nimium esse stanni pro

quantitate cupri. Quare tunc aliquantulum novi cupri, puta

duodecima pars totius massae per se pendenda est huic fuso

inji"ci5e.ndMaerteallilquuma  massa diffract a.        satis  crassum  ne  inter
                              sic formatum debet esse

terendum et poliendum vel minime flecti queat. Majori eniui

aKpifieia debent metalla ad usus opticos formari quam vitra.

Quae ego pro tubo septein fere digitorum fudi, erant quadrantem
digiti circiter crassa, duosque digitos lata. Prim6quidern forma-
bain tenuiora, et minus lata, sed ex illis nihil perfectum con-

stiuore potui."

                                                                           ^^

NO. XXXII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  537

                           No. XXXII.

                                      ^Referred to in pages 393, 396.)

         OBSERVATIONS ON THE FAMILY OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

   In the year 1705, Sir Isaac Newton gave into the Herald's

Office an elaborate pedigree, stating, upon oath, that he had
reason to believe that John Newton of Westby, in the county of
Lincoln, was his great-grandfather's father, and that this was
the same John Newton who was buried in Basingthorpe Church
on the 22d December 1563. This John Newton had four sons,
John, Thomas, Richard, and William Newton of Gunnerly, the
last of whom was great-grandfather to Sir John Newton, Bart,
of Hather. Sir Isaac considered himself as descended from the
eldest of these, he having, by tradition from his kindred ever
since he can remember, reckoned himself next of kin (among the

Newtons) to Sir John Newton's family.

    The pedigree, founded upon these and other considerations,
was accompanied by a certificate from Sir John Newton of
Thorpe, Bart., who states that he had heard his father speak of

Sir Isaac Newton as of his relation and kinsman ; and that he
himself believed that Sir Isaac was descended from John New
ton, son to John Newton of Westby, but knoweth not in what
particular manner.

    The pedigree of Sir Isaac, as entered at the Herald's Office,
does not seem to have been satisfactory either to himself or to
his successors, as it could not be traced with certainty beyond
his grandfather ; and it will be seen from the following inter
esting correspondence, that, upon making farther researches,
he had found some reason to believe that he was of Scotch
extraction.

EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM THE REV. DR. REID OF GLASGOW TO

           DR. GREGORY OF EDINBURGH, DATED MARCH 14, 1784.

   I" send you on the other page an anecdote respecting Sir
I IIsaac Newton, which do not remember whether ever hap

538  LIFE OF SIH ISAAC HEWTON.                                      APPENDIX,

Ifpeued to mention to you in conversation.  his descent be not
I Iclearly ascertained, (as think it is not in the books have
seen,) might it not be worth while to inquire if evidence can be

found to confirm the account which he is said to have given of

himself? Sheriff Cross was very zealous about it when death

I Iput a stop to his inquiries.
   " When lived in Old Aberdeen above twenty years ago,

happened to be conversing over a pipe of tobacco with a gentle
man of that country, who had been lately at Edinburgh. He

told me that he had been often in company with Mr. Hepburn

Iof Keith, with whom had the honour of some acquaintance.

He said that, speaking of Sir Isaac Newton, Mr. Hepburn men

tioned an anecdote, which he had from Mr. James Gregory,1

professor of mathematics at Edinburgh, which was to this
purpose : --

   " Mr. Gregory being at London for some time after he re

signed the mathematical chair, was often with Sir Isaac Newton.2
IOne day Sir Isaac
Iknow that am
     said to him, ' Gregory, believe you don't

     connected with Scotland.' --' Pray how, Sir

Isaac?' said Gregory. Sir Isaac said he was told that his

grandfather was a gentleman of East Lothian ; that he came to
London with King James at his accession to the crown of Eng

land, and there spent his fortune, as many more did at that

time, by which his son (Sir Isaac's father) was reduced to mean

Icircumstances. To this Gregory bluntly replied, ' Newton a

gentleman of East Lothian ? never heard of a gentleman of
East Lothian of that name.' Upon this Sir Isaac said, ' that

being very young when his father died, he had it only by tradi
tion, and it might be a mistake,' and immediately turned the

conversation to another subject.

  I I" confess suspected that the gentleman who was my author
Ihad given some colouring to this story, and therefore never

I Imentioned it for a good many years.

   " After removed to Glasgow, came to be very intimately

acquainted with Mr. Cross, then Sheriff of Lanark, and one day

    1 The nephew of the celebrated James Gregory, the Inventor      of the Reflecting

Telescope.
   * This must have been after October 1725.-- See pp. 38;",, 387.

NO. XXXII.        LIFE OF SIK ISAAC NEWTON.                     539

Iat his own house mentioned this story, without naming my

author, of whom expressed some diffidence.
   " The Sheriff immediately took it up as a matter worth

being inquired into. He said he was well acquainted with Mr.

Hepburn of Keith, (who was then alive,) and that he would
write him to know whether he ever heard Mr. Gregory say that

he had such a conversation with Sir Isaac Newton. He said he

knew that Mr. Keith, the ambassador, was also intimate with

Mr. Gregory, and that he would write him to the same purpose.
   " Some time after, Mr. Cross told me that he had answers

from both the gentlemen above-mentioned, and that both re

membered to have heard Mr. Gregory mention the conversation

between him and Sir Isaac Newton, to the purpose above nar

rated, and at the same time acknowledged that they had made

no farther inquiry about the matter.
   " Mr. Cross, however, continued the inquiry, and a short time

before his death, told me that all he had learned was, that there

or was lately, baronet's family of the name of Newton in
a is,
          is
             a
                             a

                                      (I
West Lothian or Mid-Lothian,              have forgot which     That
                                          (I

                                                            :)
there       tradition in that family, that Sir Isaac Newton wrote

letter to the old knight that then was,      think Sir John

Newton of Newton was his name,) desiring to know what

children, and particularly what sons he had, their age, and what

professions they intended That the old baronet never deigned
                  :

to return an answer to this letter, which his family was sorry

for, as they thought Sir Isaac might have intended to do some

thing for them."

Several years after this letter was written, Mr. Barron,
            a

                               I

                                                            it

                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                a
relation of Sir Isaac Newton, seems to have been making in

quiries respecting the family of his ancestor, and in consequence
of this the late Professor Robison applied to Dr. Reid, to obtain

from him more particular account of the remarkable conversa

tion between Sir Isaac and Mr. James Gregory, referred to in
the preceding letter. In answer to this request, Dr. Reid wrote

the following letter, for which was indebted to the late Sir
John Robison, Sec. R.S.E., who found
                                          among his father's

manuscripts.

540                LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.          APPENDIX,

letter from dr. reid to professor robison respecting the
                   family of sir isaac newton.

   " Dear Sir,

I" am very glad to learn by yours of April 4, that a Mr.

Barron, a near relation of Sir Isaac Newton, is anxious to in

quire into the descent of that great man, as the family cannot

Itrace it farther, with any certainty, than his grandfather.
Itherefore, as you desire, send you a precise account of all
Iknow ; and am glad to have this opportunity, before die, of

putting this information in hands that will make the proper use

of shall be found of any use.
   " Several years before left Aberdeen, (which
it,                                              did  1764,)

  if

      it

                 I

                   I
                                          I

                                                                                        in
                                                                                                                 a
Mr. Douglas of Feckel, the father of Sylvester Douglas, now a

barrister at London, told me, that, having been lately at Edin

burgh, he was often in company with Mr. Hepburn of Keith, a

gentleman of whom had some acquaintance, by his lodging

night at my house, at New Machar, when he was in the rebel

army in 1745. That Mr. Hepburn told him, that he had heard

Mr. James Gregory, professor of mathematics, Edinburgh, say,

that, being one day in familiar conversation with Sir Isaac

Newton at London, Sir Isaac said, Gregory,''     believe you
                                                 that said
don't know that am Scotchman.' -- Pray, how   I
     :
                                                  is
           I
                                                        I.
                               a
                                                                ?'
Gregory. Sir Isaac said he was informed that his grandfather
(or great-grandfather) was a gentleman of East (or West)
Lothian that he went to London with King James at his

accession to the crown of England and that he attended the
                                  :

Court in expectation, as many others did, until he spent his

fortune, by which means his family was reduced to low circum
stances. At the time this was told me, Mr. Gregory was dead,

otherwise should have had his own testimony, for he was'my
I
    I

                 in

              I
                  I

                                                  is

                                     I

                                                                          it
mother's brother.       likewise thought at that time, that had

been certainly known that Sir Isaac had been descended from

an old English family, as think said in his Eloge before the

Academy of Sciences at Paris, and therefore never mentioned

what had heard for many years, believing that there must be

some mistake       it.

NO. XXXII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                541

  I I" Some years after came to Glasgow, mentioned, (I believe
Ifor the first time,) what had heard to have been said by Mr.

Hepburn, to Mr. Cross, late sheriff of this county, whom you

will remember. Mr. Cross was moved by this account, and im

I Imediately said : ' know Mr. Hepburn very well, and know
Ihe was intimate with Mr. Gregory ; shall write him this same

Inight, to know whether he heard Mr. Gregory say so or not.'

After some reflection, he added, ' know that Mr. Keith, the

Iambassador, was also an intimate acquaintance of Mr. Gregory,

and as he is at present in Edinburgh, shall likewise write to

Ihim this

   " The
night.'     waited on Mr. Cross, he told me that he
next time

had wrote both to Mr. Hepburn and Mr. Keith, and had an

answer from both, and that both of them testified that they had

several times heard Mr. James Gregory say, that Sir Isaac

Newton told him what is above expressed, but that neither they

nor Mr. Gregory, as far as they knew, ever made any farther
inquiry into the matter. This appeared very strange both to

Mr. Cross and me, and he said he would reproach them for

their indifference, and would make inquiry as soon as he was

Iable". He lived but a short time after this, and in the last conver

sation had with him upon the subject, he said, that all he had

Iyet learned was, that there was a Sir John Newton of Newton

in one of the counties of Lothian, (but have forgot which,)
some of whose children were yet alive ; that they reported that
their father, Sir John, had a letter from Sir Isaac Newton, de

siring to know the state of his family, what children he had,

particularly what sons, and in what way they were. The old

knight never returned an answer to this letter, thinking proba

bly that Sir Isaac was some upstart, who wanted to claim a

relation to his worshipful house. This omission the children

regretted, conceiving that Sir Isaac might have had a view of

            for their benefit.
            mentioned occasionally
I Idoi"ngAfsteomr eththising
                                    in conversation  what

knew, hoping that these facts might lead to some more certain

I Idiscovery, but found more coldness about the matter than
Ithought it deserved.
                       wrote an account of it to Dr. Gregory,

542            LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.               APPENDIX,

your colleague, that he might impart it to any member of the

Antiquarian Society, who he judged might have the curiosity to

trace the matter farther.

   " In the year 1787, my colleague, Mr. Patrick Wilson, pro

fessor of astronomy, having been in London, told me on his re

turn that he had met accidentally with a James Hutton, Esq.

of Pimlico, Westminster, a near relation of Sir Isaac Newton,

to whom he mentioned what he had heard from me with respect

Ito Sir Isaac's descent, and that wished much to know some
if Ithing more decisive on that subject. Mr. Hutton said,

Ipleased to write to him he would give me all the information he
could give.    wrote him accordingly, and had a very polite

answer, dated at Bath, 25th December 1787, which is now
I Ibefore me. He says, ' shall be glad, when return to Lon
Ifdon, if I can find in some old notes of my mother, any thing
that may fix the certainty of Sir Isaac's descent.     he spoke so

to Mr. James Gregory, it is most certain he spoke truth. But

Sir Isaac's grandfather, not his great-grandfather, must be the
If Iperson who came from Scotland with King James I.
      thing to the purpose, I                                     find

any"  In consequence of this   will take care it shall reach you.'

                               Iletter expected another from Mr.

Hutton when he should return to London, but have never had

any. Mr. Wilson told me he was a very old man, and whether
I Ihe
"beThdiesadis  or alive,  know not.         and,  for  the facts  above-
               all know     of the matter,
I Imentioned, pledge my veracity.
                                          am much obliged to you,

I IDear Sir, for the kind expressions of your affection and esteem,
which,  assure you, are mutual on my part, and         sincerely

sympathize with you on your afflicting state of health, which
makes you consider yourself as out of the world, and despair of

seeing me any more.
I" have been long out of the world by deafness and extreme
Iold age.      hope, however, if we should not meet again in this

Iworld, that we shall meet and renew our acquaintance in an
other. In the meantime,        am, with great esteem, dear Sir,

yours affectionately,                                  " Tho. Reid.
   " Glasgow College, \2th April 1792.''

NO. XXXII.  LIFE OF SIU ISAAC NEWTON.                                          543

  IThis curious letter published in the Edinburgh Philoso

phical Journal for October 1820. It excited the particular

Iattention of the late George Chalmers, who sent me an elaborate

letter upon the subject ; but as was at that time in the expec

tation of obtaining some important information through other

channels, this letter was not published. This hope, however,
has been disappointed. A careful search was made at my request

through the charter-chest of the Newtons of Newton in East

Lothian, by Mr. Richard Hay Newton, the representative of that

family, but no document whatever has been found that can throw

the least light upon the matter. It deserves to be remarked,

however, that Sir Richard Newton, the alleged correspondent of

Sir Isaac, appears to have destroyed his correspondence; for

though the charter-chest contains the letters of his predecessors

for some generations, yet there is not a single epistolary docu

ment either of his own or of his lady's.

Hitherto the evidence of Sir Isaac's Scottish descent has been

Iderived chiefly from his conversation with Mr. James Gregory ;

but am enabled to corroborate this evidence by the following
information, derived, as will be seen, from the family of the

Newtons of Newton. Among various memoranda in the hand

writing of Professor Robison, who proposed to write the life of
Sir Isaac, are the following : --

   " 1st, Lord Henderland informed me in a letter dated March

1794, that he had heard from his infancy that Sir Isaac con

sidered himself as descended from the family of Newton of

Newton. This he heard from his uncle Richard Newton of

"NeHwetons,aid(whthoawt aSsirthIisradacsonwroofteLotrod  William   Hay of Newhall.")
                                                                    to learn whether
                                                         Scotland

any descendants of that family remained, and this                                was
                                                         a

                                                                            (it
thought) with the view to leave some of his fortune to the

family possessing the estate with the title of baronet. Mr.

Newton not having this honour, and being shy man, did not

encourage the correspondence, because he did not consider him

sel"f  as of kin to Sir  Isaac," &c.                     to me by Hay Newton,    Esq.
       2d, Information    communicated

of that Ilk, 18th August 1800."
   " The late Sir Richard Newton of Newton, Bart., chief of

544       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                       APPENDIX,

that name, having no male children, settled the estate and

barony of Newton in  East                      Lothian county upon        Hhaiys."r1e--lati"onI,t
Richard Hay Newton,  Esq.,                     son of Lord William

cannot be discovered how long the family of Newton have been

in possession of the barony, there being no tradition concerning

that circumstance further than that they came originally from
                                                                          these lands." --
E" nTghlaencdeleabt raatveedrySidrisItsaanatc  period, and settled on
                                                Newton was a distant      relation of the

family, and corresponded with the last baronet, the above-men

tioned Sir Richard Newton."

  I I IIn writing

Robison says,
      to  James Watt on                                 the  3d May 1797, Professor
             believe told                               you  that had been on the
     --"

hunt to find documents of Sir Isaac Newton's Scotch extraction,

and that he himself firmly believed that his grandfather was a

younger son of Sir                             Newton of that Ilk, in East Lothian,

and wrote to the last man of the family requesting information

Iwhether some of the younger sons did not attend James VI.

when he succeeded to the Crown of England ? am still in

hopes of finding that letter."2

The preceding documents furnish the most complete evidence

that the conversation respecting Sir Isaac Newton's family took

place between him and Mr. Gregory ; and the testimony of
Lord Henderland proves that his own uncle, Richard Newton of

Newton, the immediate successor of Sir Richard Newton, with

whom Sir Isaac corresponded, was perfectly confident that such

a correspondence took place.

   All these circumstances prove that Sir Isaac Newton could

not trace his pedigree with any certainty beyond his grand

father, and that there were two different traditions in his family,

one which referred his descent to John Newton of Westby, and

the other to a gentleman of East Lothian who accompanied

King James VI. to England. In the first of these traditions

he seems to have placed most confidence in 1705, when he drew

out his traditionary pedigree ; but as the conversation with Pro
fessor James Gregory respecting his Scotch extraction took place

1 This entail was executed in 1724, a year or two before Sir Richard's    death.
* Origin and Progress of the Mechanical Inventions of James Watt.         By James
Patrick Muirhead, Esq., A.M. Vol.
                                               ii.      252. Loud. 1804.
                                                    p.

NO. XXXII.              LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.         545

twenty years afterwards, namely, between 1725 and 1727, it is

probable that he had discovered the incorrectness of his first

opinions, or at least was disposed to attach more importance to

Ithe other tradition respecting his descent from a Scotch family.

   In the letter addressed to me by George Chalmers, find the

following observations respecting the immediate relations of Sir

Isaac :--" The Newtons of Woolsthorpe," says he, " who were

merely yeomen farmers, were not by any means opulent. The

son of Sir Isaac's father's brother was a carpenter called John.

He was afterwards appointed gamekeeper to Sir Isaac, as lord

of the manor, and died at the age of sixty in 1725. This John

had a son John, who was Sir Isaac's second cousin, and who

became possessed of the whole land estates at and near Wools

thorpe, which belonged to the great Newton, as his heir-at-law.

John became a worthless and dissolute person, who very soon

wasted this ancient patrimony, and, falling down with a tobacco-
pipe in his mouth when he was drunk, it broke in his throat,

and put an end to his life at the age of thirty years, in 1737."1

The following account of Sir Isaac's heir-at-law is given by

the Rev. Mr. Mason, Rector of Colsterworth, in a letter to Mr.

            dated        March                  three  days after Newton's
            This        morning                  from  you the melancholy
IdCeoantdhu:i--tt,"              23, 1727,
                                      received

Inews of that truly great and good gentleman's death, Sir Is. N.

  have, according to your desire, made Sir Isaac's heir and re

presentative, who is the bearer of this, acquainted with
                                                          abut,

                                                                          ;

                                                                            it,
                                                                                       is
God knows, poor representative of so great man but this
a
                     a
case that often happens. There are two families of the New-

tons in this parish, both descended from the second and third

brothers of Sir Isaac's father. The second brother was Robert

Newton, from whom the bearer of this, John Newton, de
                                                          is
scended. The third was Richard, from whom descends Robert        by

Newton, now living in this parish, so that, without dispute,

John Newton, the bearer, heir to the estate not devised
                        1
will."
                                       is
                        See this volume, page 410, note.

VOL. II.

546               LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.     APPEKDIX,

                    No. XXXIII.

                          (lieferred to in page 412.)
     LETTER FROM SIR ISAAC NEWTON TO A FRIEND.

I I" Before received yoTM had an account from Mr. Parish of

ye arbitration, and thereupon wrote to Mr. Parkins to know how

ye indentures run, and to Mr. Storer, to know distinctly what it
Iis that his son Oliver deposes.
                                  had a speedy answer from Mr.
IParkins, whereby understand that Mr. Storer is bound to

leave all things in a tenantable repair, by a clause which you

Ido not mention ; but from Mr. Storer have not yet received
Ian answer, and therefore cannot write to you what designed

Ifor"pWuthteinngan end to  these differences.   at Wolstrope, y* is at
                  met Mr.  Storer and his sons
ILady-day last, was satisfied with the removal of ye wheat
Ihoval and with yc thatch of ye houses in view, as went up ye
I Iyard to ye house.
                           do not say y' there was no faults, for am

short-sighted, and did not (y4 1 remember) go close to ye barn,

Inot being then minded to call Mr. Storer to a strickt account

for repairs. Thence we went into ye orchard, and was pleased
with ye repairs of ye slated house, but told Mr. Storer's sons y*

Ihe was an ill husband with ye drain below, and he promised it

should be scoured. Then turning to Robin's house pointed to

two very faulty places in the thatch, and Mr. Storer's son con
fessed it rained in, and promised it should be mended. Thence

1 went into ye dwelling-house to receive Mr. Storer's rent, and

Iwhen he was going to pay it he told me y* his son found boards

for ye gutters of y° Lucome windows, wh was to pay for, but

Iye bill was lost, and so desired y* would allow 30" for these

Iboards. After some words, put it to him whether he could
honestly affirm y' ye boards were worth so much. He answered

Ihe could not, but he hoped would not stand with him for a
I Ismall matter. To wch presently answered y* would not

NO. XXXIII.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.           547

stand with him, and so remitted 30* of his rent on account of y"

bill wch he said was lost. About a fortnight after coming to

IColsterworth, was three or four times at Wolstrope, and one of
Ithose times going into ye garden found ye walls ruinous, and
Iin going through ye pales between ye garden and ye house,

observed y' they and ye great gates were much out of order. At

Iy' time also ye pales were wanting to ye swine-coat and some of

ye long pales pluck' off from yc cow-house. At y ' time heard also

y' they had carried away yc fence from ye new quick in ye clay-

field, and made money of it. Mr. Storer represents y' ye hedge

was decayed and grown useless before ; but this is to excuse one

Ifault with another, for Mr. Storer was to keep it in repair,
I Ipaying for ye wood. After understood these things, was
Icalled out of ye country before could speak with Mr. Storer,
Iand afterwards, in hay time, had notice y* ye Linghouse was

ruinous, for want of repair, and that Mr. Storer's son refused to

repair it. Soon after a friend viewed the tenements, and sent

Ime an ace* of those things out of repair whh had observed,
Iand some other things also whh had not noted. And at that
Itime, or some time after, understood that Mr. Storer's son

refused absolutely to do any repairs, and had treated Will.

Cottam with ill language about it. Whereupon, considering

that they had not repaired Robin's house, and left divers other

things out of repair, and that Mr. Storer's son, living w' his

father, and being his father's agent, cd not persist in a refusal of

Irepairs, with' his father's knowledge and encouragement, re

solved to call the father to a general acc' for repairs, whh cd not

Ibe done but by suit, and because the son was concerned in the

aforesaid hedge, resolved to sue them both, and this the rather

Ibecause his son had disparaged the living at Lady-day in my

hearing, being of opinion that he did it as well behind my

back as before my face, to hinder me of tenants who might put

me upon calling them to account for repairs. This was the
Ioccasion of the suit which tell you, that you may understand
I was not rash in beginning
I                                                as Mr. Storer endeavours to
                      I

                                            it,
per"suadheeahris'tifsriernedpsr.esented  shd be well pleased w' repairs at

Lady-day, and allow Mr. Storer 30" on that acc', and say that

548       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                             APPENDIX,

things were better in repair than when Mr. Burch left them.

But I have told you that the 30' was in discharge of a bill, and

respected only the slating of the house, \vhh was done at my

Icharges, and if I was pleased with what had repaired, what is
Ithat to Mr. Storer ? Because eased [him] of repairs of the
side of the house, there is the more reason that he shd leave

Iother things in good repair. He was indeed at the charge of

carriages, but that was a bargain, and have, on the other hand,

Iallowed him 30" for boards, whh perhaps were not worth half

the money. And if was kind to him in that, he is very dis
ingenuous to turn it to my disadvantage. For this is to snap

     by the fingers for  giving him
      Whether said       that things
Ime                                   bread.  left  better  in  repair  by
                                       were
   "
IMr. Storer than by Mr. Burch do not remember, and if it be
Iunderstood generally, it's manifestly false. For cd not say so
Iof Eobin's house, because  complained of its being out of
Irepair, nor of the garden walls, because had not then viewed
Ithem, nor of the gates and pales, because did not see any
Irepairs of late done to them, nor cd say so of the repairs of
Ianything for whh now sue. But of the slated house, and, if
Iyou please, of all the houses taken one with another, might, and

do now say, that they were better in repair when Mr. Storer left

than when he entered. But then I add, that this is nothing to
IMr. Storer's purpose, for 'tis my charge of lllb 10" in slating,

which makes amends for all the rest. And if have repaired the

main building substantially, that must not excuse Mr. Storer
from repairing what belongs to his own share. So you see that
what Mr. Storer alleges himself amounts to nothing. In short,

I Ias did not begin this suit without just occasion, so now have

I Ifbegun it do not intend to end it without satisfaction.

Mr. Storer will send me a satisfactory answer to my last, I'll
endeavour to make a final end in my next, but if he goes on to

Imisrepresent things, I'll solicit Mr. Parish to give you another
meeting.  thank you for undertaking the office of an arbitra

tor, and that you may inherit the blessing promised to peace

makers, is the hearty wish of--

     "Cambridge, Jan. Uth, 81."

NO. XXXIV.                 LIFE OF S1K ISAAC NEWTON.                          549

                                  No. XXXIV.

                           (In reference to pages 381, 382.)

    ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS MADE IN THE THIRD EDITION
                                     OF THE PRINCIPIA.

    IAfter perusing Pemberton's letters to Newton, drew up a

list of the additions made to the Principia in the third edition,

and of the more important alterations upon the second, in so

far as they could be gathered from the letters. It occurred to

me, however, that some of his distinguished successors in Cam

bridge must have had occasion to notice these additions and

J.alterations, and 1 accordingly applied to C. Adams, Esq. of

Pembroke College, who has obligingly favoured me with the
                                  communication :--
Ifol"lowihnagveinmtearedsetinngo                      of      the  several  editions
                                  regular comparison

of the Principia, except with reference to some special points.
ISome of the differences, however, which have noticed between
Ithe"
    2d and 3d  editions, will mention below.                       the  true  princi
    The proof  that Newton was acquainted with

ples of calculating the motion of the moon's apogee, and that he

had actually determined that motion to a considerable degree of

approximation, is supplied by a scholium which follows prop. 35

of the 3d book in the first edition. In the subsequent editions
this scholium is greatly enlarged, but the evidence on the point

Iabo"vIenmtheentcioonreredspiosnduennfocretunbaettewleyenoNmeitwtetdo.n and Cotes, published
by  "MMr.aEndylehsatoven,     can find no allusion to the old      scholium.1
                           supposed that Newton intended             to find the

motion of the moon's apogee in the 2d corollary to prop. 45 of

his 1st book, p. 141, but this is a complete mistake. In the 1st

and 2d editions no reference whatever is made to the moon in

this corollary, and in the 3d edition is added the remark,
' Apsis lunae est duplo velocior circiter,' for the express purpose
of pointing out that the corollary is not applicable to the case of

    1 There is a slight allusion to it in the Correspondence, Sk. p. 109.

550                                 LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                            APPENDIX,

the moon. In fact, the disturbing force, the effect of which is

found in this corollary, is only one part of the sun's disturbing

force on the moon, and to the other part the method of the

cor"ollTaory    is  plainly inapplicable.                              at page 419,           (451 of
              the   2d edition of the Principia,

3d,) there is added a very elegant proposition by Machin and
Pemberton, respecting the motion of the moon's node. It may
be thus stated : -- The mean rate of motion of the sun from the

moon's node is a mean proportional between the rates of motion

Iwith which the sun separates from the node when in syzygy
and quadrature respectively.                                may mention that when stated

in this form, the proposition is equally applicable to the motion

I Iof
   the  moon's apogee.                          (See p. 553,  bottom.)            which          have
                                                some of the   other changes
   "    will now mention

noticed in the 3d edition.
   " Lemma 11, Cor. 4, p. 31, 2d edit, last line, 'quamque alias

ses"quPiraoltpe.ra4m,   dicunt,' is omitted in 3d edit.                       '  centripetae  sunt'  to
                       Cor. 1, p. 38, two lines, from

'  in  ratione,' are omitted.
       Cor. 2, p. 39, one and
    "                                           a    half line,  from            ' centripeta? sunt' to

'  in  ratione,'       is omitted.
       Prop. 8,         p. 44, line
    "                                           14,  ' Circulo'    is changed     into        ' Semi-

circulo ;' and in the scholium, p. 45, ' Et simili argumento corpus
movebitur,' is changed into ' Et argumento haud multum dissi-

mili   corpus invenietur                         movere.'   ' ad axes  alteros,'  is substituted
   "   Prop. 10, Cor. 2,                        p. 47, for

'  ad  idem punctum                 axis communis.'
                                     corollary 1, prop.
    "  At the end of                                               13,        p.  59, 53,1 is added,

'  E"adPermoqpu. e    velocitate.'2
                    14, Cor. p. 54,
                                                after       ' qtXsp,'   is        added  ' qua)  dato

tem"pPorroepd. e1s7c,ribpi.tu5r7.', line 8, ' Sit istud            l,'        changed into Sit
                                                                                              '
                                                                       is is                                r.

coni sectionis latus rectum.'                   is          64, 57,           added the sentence,

   " At the end of prop. 17,                         p.
 Nam corpus,' &c*
'
    »1

             is si

                                by
      The first number for the page                  the number in the 3d edition, and the second
number that in the 2il edition.                                                     Id.

   Suggested                        Pemberton.                          a

NO. XXXIV.                  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                                  551

      " Scholium to prop. 21, p. 65, at the beginning the sentence
end"inNg eawrithth'epoetnedst'oifs
                                     added.                                    to prop. 31, p. 112, 104,
                                     the scholium

    W"ardA'st      name is omitted.                                   19  to prop.        66, p.  182,       167, is
                   the end of corollary
                 ' Nisi quatenus
add"eAd,t        end of corollary    motus fluendi,' &c.                                   183,   168,    are added
    15 "linInes,bo' oNkisi            20 to same prop., p.

                            quod loca maximarum,' &c.                                  scholium
                                 216, 226, the Leibnitz
                          ii.                                                              is             replaced
                                p. p. p.                                                            is
'                                                    aa
      """anTATooottheppenrrroo.dpp..of114s3,c, holi2u27m649,,   250,     short scholium added.
  by                                                           252,      scholium added.
                                                               to prop.
                                                                          22, 292, 270, the sentence
                                                                               p.                                          ii. is
                                                                                      is

    add"eAd,t    A'  Caeterum  per experimenta constat,' &c.                                     280,   the  clause,
                   the end of  corollary prop. 29, 303,
                                                               is 3,               p.

    Q"uaPeaegteg2e9n2e,ra2lidoredsitit.,,'                     &c., omitted.                      Philosopho-
                                     is                         Denique cum receptissima
                                          '
    rum eetatis hujus,'                    changed into Denique cum nonnullo-
                                                                          is
    rum" ,'Pa&gce. 314, Lemma               5,                 the second paragraph'              added, Haec

    ita,"'  &c.                                                                 7
       "    Page                                                                         p.
            Page
                                                                                             is is
                                                                                                 is

                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                                    '
                     316,   Cor.          duplicata'                           omitted in the 3d line.
                     317,   prop.    39, scholium                              of lines added.
      "                              1,'
                                          'a
      "     Page 325, Exp. 13, Mense Junio                                      1710,' added.
            In book iii., at the end of Eegula                                 iii. 389, 358,                        added,

is 'Attamen gravitatem corporibus essentialem esse minime affir-

    ino,' &c. Also Eegula iv. added.
      " Phenom.                                                is is
                     8, 5, 4,      390, 359, Pound's observations of the elonga
                         p. p. i.,
    tions of Jupiter's satellites are given. The account of phen.p.
                                 is
      enlarged. To phen. iii. added, Hos enim luce sole,' &C.1
                                                                          '                            a
                                                                               is
      "     Phen.    iv.,   the periodic                       times of the planets are           added.
            Prop.              397, 364,                       Huygens's determination             of the
      "                                                                                                                force

    of gravity by means of the pendulum, cited at greater length,

    &c. scholium added.
      " Prop.
                            399, 365, short scholium added.
                                     1,                                                is
                                         p. a
      " Prop. corollary                                        406, 370, the masses of the planets

    are changed.                                                          l<y

                                     1                         Suggested       Pemberton.

552                       LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                  APPENDIX,

" Prop. 10, p. 407, 373, ' Ostendimus utiquein scholio,' &c, is

added.

   " Prop. 17, p. 411, 377, a short paragraph is added on the
rotation of Jupiter and of the Sun. Also reference is made to

Me"rcaPtroorp.  and   Cassini.  378.  Some changes are made in the ac
                 19,  p. 413,

count of measurements of degrees ; and in the 3d edit., Pound's

measures of the polar and equatorial diameters of Jupiter are

given.

   " Prop. 20, p. 418. A paragraph in p. 384 of 2d edit., ' Hrec

ita se habent,' &c, is omitted ; as is also another in p. 387, on
the figure of the earth, derived from the measures of Picart and

Cassini.
"
"    Prop. 24,        p.  424, 390, ' Vis solis  vel lunae,' &c. is  added.1
     Scholium         to  prop. 35, of 3d edit.    The paragraph
                                                                     ' Si com-

putatio accuratior desideretur,' &c, in p. 425 of 2d edit., is

omitted.
"
"    Two  corollaries are       added to prop. 37, p. 471 of 3d edit.
     The  fig. to Lemma         10, p. 490, 431 of 3d edit., is simpler

than in the former editions.

   " In p. 497 of 3d edit., the places of stars compared with the

comet of 1680, are given        according to Pound.                  of  the
   " Prop. 42, p. 523, of       3d edit., Bradley's observations
comet of 1723 are given. A paragraph at the end of this prop,

at p. 481 of edit. 2, attributing the acceleration of the moon's

motion to an increase of the mass of the earth, due to the

condensation of vapours from the interplanetary spaces, is omitted

in the 3d edit.

  I I I" Many of the above changes and additions are very trifling,

but thought might as well mention what had noted."

  IFrom the letters of Pemberton, have collected the follow

ing additions and alterations, which are not mentioned by Mr.
Adams. The pages are numbered as in the second edition.

   Page 9, line 14, vas placed after postquam at Pemberton's

                request.

                                               1 Suggeste l by Pemberton.

NO. XXXIV.  LIFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  553

Page 17, after Lemmate 23, ejusque corollario is added. Pemb.1
     ,, 19, line 10, after retardantur, a whole page nearly is
              added on the fall of heavy bodies ; and for hujus
              cetatis, in line 14, is substituted cetatis superioris.
             Newton had made it cetatis novissimce, but Pemberton

              says that superioris is Ciceronian.

    ,, 20, line 16, after corpus A, we read (ut ita dicam) in
           chordam arcus TA quce velocitatem ejus exhibet, ut

              habeatur, &c. Line 10 from bottom, guiescens added
             after corpus B. Pemb.

      ,, 42, Cor. 3 is considerably changed at Pemberton's desire.
     ,, 46, line 4, alice inserted after diametri. Pemb.
     ,, 51, line 7, opposita substituted for conjugata. Pemb.

      ,, 51, 52, the diagrams greatly simplified. Pemb.
     ,, 59, 60, Pemberton suggests a change on Prop. 17, which

                is not adopted.
     ,, 64, line 16, after Positione three new lines are added in

              place of the last seven lines of Cos. 1. Cos. 2 is also

                changed. Pemb.
     ,, 79, a paragraph of six lines is added to Prop. 24, by

               Newton ; but Pemberton proposes to have the leaf

               cancelled, and demonstrates, at some length, the truth
             of the paragraph which he wishes to substitute. See
               this Volume, p. 381.

    ,, 87, lines 14 to 18 slightly changed. Pemb.
    ,, 147, lines 13-15 altered by Pemberton.
   ,, 249, Cor., two lines, ' Si centro C, &c.' are added at the

                beginning.
   ,, 299, line 14, a slight alteration by Pemberton.

    ,, 300, par. 2. See p. 155, note.
   ,, 303, line 16 from bottom, finge is substituted for concipe.
   ,, 305, line 14, after debet, the paragraph is greatly en

                larged.

    ,, 321, the second paragraph of Exp. 3 is greatly altered by
                Pemberton.

   1 The word Pemb. indicates that the alteration was made at the suggestion of
Pemberton.

554                 LIFE OP 8IR ISAAC NEWTON.                       APPENDIX,

Page 326, after the table, there is inserted an account, occupying

          Intwo pages, of Desaguliers' experiments in 1719.

              the fine paper copy of the third edition, the word am-

           bientis following concavce, in the third line of the

           Additions, is struck out. See Horsley, Newtoni Opera,

           torn.  5, 4 ii.  427, note.

,, 333, line 21, at expandent, Pemberton adds an explanatoryp.
            note.

,, 364, line              from bottom, after revolvantur,           inserted
                                                                    is
           manente lege gravitatis.                                     is 1,

,, 367, line after proxime, the words uti calculis quibusdam                    it
          initis, are changed into uti calculo quodam inito.

,, 376, Pemberton proposes to leave out the last sentence of
         the page Et hi motus, &c., but was not done.
                                                        it

,, 376, Prop. 14, Pemberton proposes to alter Cor.                  but
           was not done.

,, 377, the whole of Prop. 17                  is       new, and greatly en
                                                    is
           larged.            greatly changed. A paragraph of five

,, 378, Prop. 19
           lines, and placed at the beginning of the Proposition3,
                          is
           about Norwood's measurement of degree,                   new.
                                                              is a
           The first paragraph          is in  the 2d edit, greatly altered.

,, 379, the first paragraph altered.

,, 381, the two last paragraphs are greatly changed, and
           Pound's measures of Jupiter's oblateness are given in

           a  table followed  by        two new paragraphs.

,, 384, paragraph first, and the three last lines of paragraph

           second, omitted at Pemberton's suggestion.

,,   386,   387,  m" oVreirgthaanferrepaa,g"ea      omitted,  and a large para
           graph                                               Pemb.
                                               &c, added.

,, 389, line a prioribus Astronomis non observatce substi

            tuted for nondum observatce.                      a     brief hint at the

,, 389, line 32-34, Pemberton suggests "

           principle whence the precept contained in this line was

           deduced," but      it      not given.1

                                  is

           Newton had complied with Pemberton's suggestion, all the difficulties con1
nected with the motion of the moon's apogee would have been avoided. The parn-
  If

NO. XXXIV.         UFE OF SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                     555

Page 390, line 19, an additional reference is made to the new
              Cor. 20, Prop. 66, Lib. 1. Pemb.

,, 415, at the end of this page is added a scholium with
           Machin's two Propositions on the motion of the moon's

            nodes. Pemberton suggested the reference to what had

            been done in his Epistola ad Amicum de Cotesii In-

,,  427,    fvoleinrnet"is2,8,5p"8p2.20564;"a7n2adnud7t.  supra    in  P" r8o5p4.721,9","foisr  s"u8b5st8it2u0t.e"d
                                                          in line
                                                                   8,

,, 430, 431, the latter half of Cor. 7 is greatly altered.
,, 433, the diagram and letters are altered. Pemb.
,, 464, line 23, fere is omitted. Pemb.
,, 467, line 7, Pemberton says that this is inconsistent                                        with

           Optics, Qu. 11, but no change is made.

., 469, line 23, and 471, lines 27, 28, objected to by Pemberton,

            but not changed.

,, 472, Pemberton criticises the explanation of the ascent of

            vapour from comets' tails, and proposes to substitute

            Sectionibus Conicis for Ellipticis, but no change is

            made.

,, 474, line 17, Lusitania for Portugallia. Pemb.
,, 481, Before the paragraph beginning line 7-19, Vapores,

           &c., mentioned by Mr. Adams, is inserted an account,
           occupying a page, of the great star in Cassiopeia, seen

            in November 1572, by Cornelius Gemma. The para
            graph beginning with Vapores, and ending with Mi-
            grare, immediately follows it ; but the last paragraph,

            beginning with Decrescente, is omitted.
In place of omitting, as he has done, the long paragraph,

«'· Si computatio," as in the Scholium, to Prop. 35, lib. iii. pp.

415 and 463 of third edition, Sir Isaac drew it up in a different
Iform, which
              find    written as                          fdoallotews: 1--on"  the   back       of one of
Pemberton's letters,   without a                                                    radius      ad sinum
                                                                               Ut

graph to which Pemberton's suggestion relates, viz., " Diminui tamen debet motus
Augis sic inventus in ratione 5 ad 9 vel 1 ad 2 circiter, ob causam quam hie expo-
nere non vacat," clearly implies that Newton knew the reason.

   1 In this letter Pemberton calls Newton's attention to lines 24, 25, 26, 27, of page

341, and asks him to compare them with the second paragraph of the Scholium to

556            LIFE OF S1R ISAAC NEWTON.       APPENDIX.

distantiae Lunae a Sole ita angulus quidam Q ad Variationem

....secundam si Lunae lumen augetur, addendam si diminuitur.
Sic habebitur  longitudo Lunae Angulus vero Q ex obser-

vationibus detenninandus est. Et interea pro eodem     "usurdpoaersi

Itpotest angulus 1' 45" donee accuratius determinetur."
I"nowt hyappiteawra,"s
               says Mr. Adams,      to whom        sent the paragraph,
               not inserted, as it  describes  what is now called the

Parallactic inequality, and the co-efficient given is not far from

the truth. Owing to the want of the paragraph, the process of

finding the moon's longitude terminates very abruptly."

Prop. 34, Book ii. p. 300 ; " for," he says, " if what is inserted in these lines

before us be universally true, without any restriction, how can what is delivered in
that paragraph be of any use in the forming of ships ?"

                                            INDEX.

Aberration, Spherical, i. 38 ; of Colour,                      Balderston, John, 209.
                                                               Barber, Mrs., ii. 494.
44.                                                                                             ii.
                                                                                                   i.
Absorption of Light, i. 177.                                                                            i.
                                                                                                                                i.
Achromatic Telescope, More Hall's, i.                          Barberino, Cardinal, 277.
                                                               Barrow, Dr., on Colours, 24, 27, 35, 37,

112; Dollond's, 113; Fraunhofer's, 116.                            68, 467.
                                                               Bartholinus, on Double Refraction,
Acids, on the naturei.            ii. 367.
       i.

           i. i.
                          ;

                              of,
                                 ;
Adams, Mr., 347, 367 ii. 549.                                     315.
                                                               Barton, Mrs. Catherine, ii. 213,
Addison, Mr., 334 ii. 164.                                                                                               272,
                                                                   281, 341, 342, 489, 491, 510.
-iEpinus, 239.

Airy, Mr., 52, 123, 347, 360.                                  Baylc,  i. ii.287, note.
                                                                                       ii.
Alari, Abbe, ii. 388.                                          Bchmen, Jacob,                   371.
                                                                                              ; in i.
Albert, Prince, 105.                                           Bellarmine, Cardinal, 275.
        i.                                                     Bentley, Dr., assists editing the Prin-
           i.
                                                                  cipia, 313, 337, 340 Newton's Let
                i.                                                ters to him, ii. 124, 249-252, 463.
Alchemy, 389; ii. 121, 372.
                                                               Berkeley, Bishop, ii. 164.
Alison, Dr., 226, 232.
Aluminum, ii. 372.                                             Bernard, M., 125.
Annesley, Mr., ii. 411.                                        Bernoulli, John, 332 ii. 19, 51, 54,
Apocalypse, ii. 327.
                                                                   69, 192, 291, 295, 299, 501-508.
Arago, M., 204, 347, 367, 375.i.                                                    i.
Arbuthnot, Dr., ii. 193, 223, 225,                                                        i.
Archimedes, ii. 4.                                                                                     ;

                                                         489.

                                                               Bernoulli,  James,               ii.  34, 511.
                                                               Bernoulli,  Nicholas,               ii. 71, 300,
Arius, ii. 342.                                                Bernoulli,  Daniel,                  361.         510, 517.

Arland, M., ii. 501.                                                       i.
                                                                                      i.
Asteroids, 371.                                                Bessel, M., 366.
        i.
                i.                                             Bethune, Mr. Drinkwater, ii. 416.
Aston, Francis, 385 Newton's letter
                       of, ;
to him, 387 ii. 235.                                           Bignon, Abbe, ii. 208.
        i. ;
Aston, Lord, 341.                                              Binocular Vision, 219, 432.
                                                                                                i. i. i.
Astronomy, History before Newton,                              Biot, M.,   i. i. ii.70, 83, 131, 134, 139, 171,

i.  250 after his death, 344.                                      173, 184, 265, 316, 340, 362,                 365.
     ;
                                                               Blair, Dr., 115.
.Athanasius, Paradoxical Questions                       re    Boerhaave, Dr., ii. 96.
                                                               Bond, Mr., 370.
    garding, ii. 342.                                          Bontemps, M., 116.
Atterbnry, Bishop, ii. 414.
                                                               Borelli on Gravity, 282, 442.
Attractions, Elective, ii. 369.                                                       i.

Ayseough, Mr., the Guardian of Newton,                         Bouillaud, 282, 443.
              16, 20; ii. 410.                                 Bouvard, M., 366.
i.                                                                         i.

     5,                                                                               i. i.                      ;
          6,                                                   Boyle, Robert, 145, 155, 409                              121,
                                                      ,                                                             ii.
                                                  i.
Barikgton, Dr., ii. 91, 101.                                   124, 374, 461.

Bacon's Philosophy, ii. 400.                                   Bradley, Dr., 364.     i.
Baily, Mr. Francis, Pref. xi
                                                         363;  Braybrooke, Lord, ii. 142.
    ii. 160, 221, 227, 242.                                    Briggs, Dr. Henry, 219, 429.

                                                                                                                                    -

558                                                INDEX.

Brorsen, M., i. 376.                                         Comets, 329 within the Solar Sys
                                                                   i.
Brougham, Lord, his Discoveries on the                                  ;
   Inflexion of Light, Pre/, x., xiv.,
    i. 208 ; his Analysis of the Principia,                                   ;
   470; ii. 201.                                                                                i.
                                                             tem, 374 Encke's, Biela's, Faye's,
Brown, Dr. Thomas, i. 231.
Brown, Mr. Robert, Pref. xii.                                Vico's, Brorsen's, and Peters's, 374.
Buchanan, George, i. 260.
                                                             Conduitt, Mr., Pref. viii., 12, 13, 17        i. ;
Burgess, Dr., ii. 335, 523.                                     ii. 274, 342, 388, 392, 397, 521.
Burnet, Dr. Thomas, i. 30 ; 99, 105, 445.
Burnet, Bishop, ii. 37, note; 409.                           Conti, Abbe, ii. 59, 288, 301-308, 429, 497 .

                                                             Copernicus's Discoveries and Life,

                                                             253 ii. 401.
                                                             ;

                                                             Coste, M., 73, 497.ii.
                                                             Cotes, Roger, Editor of the 2d edit, of
                                         i. ; ii.
                                                             Principia, 314 his Correspondence
                                                                      ; i.        ;
                                                                          ii.
                                                             with Newton, 316; Notice of his

                                                             Life, 460         261.

Camprell, Cspt., 242.                                        Covel, Dr., ii. 113, 459, 471.
                           i. i.
Cardan, ii. 402.                                             Craig, John, 340, 465 ii. 257, 315.
                                                                        i.            ;
                                                                                          ;
Caccini, Friar, 275.                                         Crell, Samuel, ii. 389.
                    i.

Cassini, Dominique, 322.                                     Crompton, Mr., 301 ii. 101.
Cassini, James, ii. 207.                                                     i.
                                  6. i.
                                       i.                    Cumberland, Richard, ii. 130.

Cassegrain's Telescope, 47.

Castelli, Abbe, 275.
                    ; i.                                     D'Alemrekt's Discoveries, 235, 349,
Cavalieri,  i.  467 ii.                                                    i. i. ii.
                                                                                        ; of,
Cavelier, M., ii. 303.                                       364.
                                                                                                 ;
Cavendish, Mr., 363.                                         Daniel, Prophecies                    i.ii. 327.
                    i.
                                                             D'Aumont, Duke, ii. 255.
Challis, Professor, 367.
Chaloner, William, his Charges against                       Daunou, M., 310.
                                                             Davy, Sir H., ii. 368.
   Newton, ii. 197, 201 his execution,                       Delambre, M., 287 ii. 309.
                                  ;
                                                             De Maizeaux, M., ii. 288, 507.
201.

Chamberlayne, Mr., ii. 53, 57, 59, 289.                      De Moivre, M.,       21, 248 ii. 291, 294,
CHarta Volans, ii. 51, 296.                                     497, 499.

Chaulnes, Duke de, 173.
                           i.

Chemical Studies of Newton, ii. 360.                         De Morgan, Professor, Pref. xiii., ii. 32,
Cheselden, Dr., ii. 391, 411.                                   48, 58, 75, 81, 221, 241, 276, 279,

Cheyne, Dr., ii. 413.                                           338, 410, 417.

Chossat, M., 219.                                            Derham, Rev. Dr., ii. 193, 519.
                i.

                                                             Desaguliers, 339, 341 342 ii. 508, 6.
Chronology of Newton, ii. 301, 312.                                i.                i. ,              51
                                                                     i.                       ;
Churchill, Mr., ii. 235.                                     Descartes, 22, 27, 29, 38, 135, 139,
                                                                 142, 222, 330, 466.             i.
Clairaut, M., 328, 350, 360.
             i.                                              Deslandes, M., 256.
                 ;7 i.                                       De Vico, M., 376.
                                                             De Witt, 464, 465.
Clark, Mr.,             ii. 360.                                   i.
                                                                         i.
Clark, Sir George, ii. 221.                                                  ii.

Clarke, Dr. Samuel, 248, 333, 336                  ;
                           i. ; i.                     ii.

   259, 286.                                                 Diamond, Properties of the, 214.

Collins, J., 68, 127                ii. 15, 49.              Diffraction see Inflexion.
             i.                                                    ;
Collins, Sir, ii. 131.
                                                             Dispersion of Light,        109; Internal,

Colours, Vossius on, 39                          Barrow on,      126, 185, 192.
   27 Newton on, 40.                              175, 176;
                                                             Ditton, Mr., 259.
Colours of Natural Bodies,                                              ii.

;

arrangement     ii.        178.                              EolESTON, Mr., publishes the Corre
                      of,                                        spondence of Newton with Cotes,
Colson, Mr.,        16.

                                                          INDEX.                                         559

Pref. xiii., i. 20, 30, 99, 223, 247, 297,                     Hadley, Mr., his Telescope, 53 his
300, 313, 316, 461, 464; ii. 31, 54,                                                                    ; i.
                                                                  Sextant, 241.                             i.

73, 137, 139, 140, 180, 200, 215, 223,                         Hainzell, Peter, 258.i.                           ;;
                                                               Hales, Dr., ii. 81. i.                                   ;;
    241, 250, 267, 311, 389, 421,                 549. j
                                                  ii. 217,     Halifax, Earl of, 455; ii. 117, 148,
Ekins, Dr., 309.
Ekins, Rev. Jeffry, Pref. xiv.
             ii.                        i.                         188-192, 216, 268, 492.
                       i.                      ;
                                                               Halley, on the Law of Gravity,
342, 381.                                                                                                293

Encke, Professor, 374.                                         edits the Principia, 299, 354 his Cor
    a i.
                      i.
Enler, 351, 356.                                                  respondence with Newton, 437, 472

Eye of Sheep measured, 420.                                       his Verses in honour of him, 457 ii.

                                                                  110, 194-196, 240.

                                                               Hansen, Mr., 366.
Facio de Duii.i.iee, ii. 36.                                                i,
                                                               Harris, Dr., ii. 244.i.
Faye, M., 375.
             i.                                                Harris, Joseph, 226.
                7,                                             Harrison, John, ii. 263.
                                                               Hartsoeeker, M., ii. 74, 207, 282, 507.
                  i.
                                   it,
Fcllowes, H. A., Mr., Pref. vii., x., xii.,

i.      292.

Fenil, Count,       37.                                        Harvey, Lord,i.      493.
                                                                               ii.
Fcrmat, ii. 11.                                                Hauy, Abbe, 216.

Flame, on the cause of ii. 368.                                Heat, Scale of, ii. 362.

Flamsteed, Pref. xi., on Comets, 301              i. i.   ;    Helmholtz, M., 123.
   ii. 28, 158-183, 202-206, 219-242, 476.
                                                                              ii.
Fluxions discovered by Newton, 28.                                              i.
Fluor spar, 192.                                               Herman, M., 511.

                                                               Herschel, Sir William,         i.        59, 173,

             i.                                                   377.
                   i.
Fontenello, Iff., 332        ;          290, 437, 518.         Herschel, Sir John,
                                 ii.                           Hind, Mr., 377.                375, 377.
                                       ii.                              i. i.
Fountaine, Sir Alexander,                   406.
                                                                                          i.
Francis Alban, Father, ii. 106.                                Hipparchus, 252.
                                                               Hire, M. De la, ii. 513.
Fraunhofer, M., 117, 205.                                      Hoare, Mr., ii. 192.
Freret, M., ii. 305.
    i.
                 i.
Fresnel, 187, 203.                                             Hobbes, Mr., ii. 148, 149.

                                                               Hooke, Dr., 14, 135 on thin Plates,
                                                                  ;                       ;
                                                                           ;
Galileo's Discoveries and Life,
Gascoigne, Mr., 81.                                                        i.
                      i.                                 270.     156, 160 on the Inflexion of Light,
                                                 i.
                                                                  194 on Gravity, 283, 293 his Circu
                                                                                              ii.
Geoffroy, M., ii. 207.                                         lar Pendulum, 284 App. No. viii.  ;
                                                                                       ;
George, Prince, ii. 209, 219, 226.                             Hopton, Arthur, ii. 421.    ;
Gerhardt, M., ii. 32, 81.
                                                               Horsley, Dr., 70, 249              327, 525.
Germain, Lady Betty, ii. 280, 494.                                          i.
Gilbert, Dr., 268 ii. 401.
                                                               Hudde, M., ii. 8.

                                                               Hussey, Rev. Mr., 366.
             i. i.    i. i.                                                         i.
                          ;                                                             i.
                                                                                                     ;
Godolphin, Mr., ii. 216.                                       Huygens, Christian,            215 App. No.
Grant, Mr. Robert, his History of As
                                                                  viii.; ii. 105, 131,217,511,514.

Ill,tronomy, 347, 355.
Gregory, David,              249, 334   ;                 96,
                                                  ;
    119, 153, 158,203, 478.                          ii.       Inflexion of Light, 193 Hooke's

Gregory, James, 50, 127                                           Experiments, 194; Grimaldi's, 198;
Greves, Mr., 341.                                                 Newton's, 199; Dr. Thomas Young's,
                                                                  202 Fresnel's, 203 Arago's, 204
                                                                  Fraunhofer's, 205 Lord Brougham's,

                                                                  209.

                                                               Irenicum, ii. 342, 526.
                                        ii. 9.                    ;
                                                                                             ;
               i. i.
Grimaldi, M., 197.                                                                            ; i.
Guhrhaucr, M., ii. 39, 41, 45, 48, 287.                                                                        ;
Guldinus, ii. 4.
                                                                                                                                  ;

Gully, Mr. Henry, ii. 262.

560                                            INDEX.

James VI., i. 260.                                     Maclaurin, Colin, 52, 57, 360.
                                                       i.
Jamin, M., on the Colours of Metals, i.                                i.
                                                       Madler, 377, 380.
     188.                                   ,          Magnets, Effect of Heat upon, ii. 455.

Jeflrys, Judge, ii. 108.                               Mairan, 332.
                                                       i.
Jones, William, i. 226; ii. 418.                                           i.
                                                       Malus's Discoveries, 217.
Jupiter's Satellites, i. 272.                          Masham, Lady, ii. 318.

                                                       Maupertuis, 332.
                                                                   i. i.
                                                                            i.
                                                       Mayer, Christian, 348.

{Calendar, Julian, ii. 311, 418.                                Tobias, 327, 351, 378.
                                                       Mead, Dr., ii. 247, note, 376, 379, 413.
Kater, Capt., i. 51.                                   Menzikoff, Prince Alexander, ii. 257.
Keill, Dr., i. 335, 341 ; ii. 43, 44, 50, 53,          Mercator, Nicolas, 128 ii. 25.

    69, 81, 497.                                                          ii.       ;
                                                                            i.
Kepler's Discoveries and Life, i.              263,    Microscope, Reflecting, Newton's, 243.
   441, 446 ; ii. 406.                                                                   i.

King, Lord, i. 236 ; ii- 320.                          Milky Way, 273.
Kneller, Sir Godfrey, ii. 413, 414.                    Mill, Dr., ii. 141, 152, 472.
                                                       i.
                                                       Millington, Mr.,i.     142-145.
                                                               i.
                                                       Mint, disturbances in the, ii. 194, 197.

Laorakoe, M, i. 319, 349, 357.                         Molyneux, 56; ii. 162, 407.

                                  ii. 413.             Monk, Dr., Bishop of Gloucester, Prtf.
                         ; of,                         xiii., 315, 463 ii. 93, 125, 210.
Lansdowne, Marquis                                                           ;

Laplace, M.,  i.         343, 345, 352, 354,           Montmort, M. Remond de, ii. 65, 274,
                    2,

358, 361-367 ii. 110, 113.                             297, 434, 508.
              i.
                 i. ;                                  Moumouth, Lord,
Lassels, Mr., 62, 370.                                                        ii.   17.
                                                                                 1

Laughton, Mr., 237 ii. 92, 96, 191.                    Montague, Charles. See Halifax.
                                                       Moore, Sir Jonas, ii. 174, 257.
Law, Rev. Mr., ii. 371.
                                                       More Hall, Mr., 112.
Lo Clerc, M., ii. 324.                                 Morland, Dr. Joseph, ii. 359, note.i.

Leibnitz, 149, 331; ii. 17, 21, 23-31,
     i.
                                  3,

39, 42, 65, 78, 80, 100, 282, 431, 497-

    499.                                               Napier, Baron, ii. 4.

Leucatello's Balsam, ii. 89.

Leverrier, M., 354, note, 367, 371.i.                  Neptune, History of its Discovery, 366.
                                                                                         i.
L'Hospital, Marquis, ii. 21, 34, 133, 515.             Newton, Dr. Humphrey, ii. 85, 90.    ;4 i.
Libration, Moon's, 127.
Linus, Father, 79.      i. i. i.                       Newton, Sir Isaac, his birth,               his
Locke, John, 236, 339; ii. 115, 117,
              i. i.                                    education,  ;8 ;7  his inventions and ex

                                                       periments,         enters Trinity College,

121, 149, 284, 320 327, 352, 376, 461.                 Cambridge, 20 his early Discoveries,
                                                                          ;

Lockier, Dean, 38.ii.                                  23-29 his expenses at College, 18, 32
Longitude, Bill respecting the,                        elected Fellow of Trinity, 30 made
Longitude, Board of, 350-352                           ;                                 ;
                                                                                                     ;
                                            ii. 257.
                                      ;      ii. 264.  Lucasian Professor, 37 discovers the
                                                                                by
Longomontanus, 261.i. i.                               different refrangibility of light, 43, 74;;
Louville, Chevalier, 332.                                                                ;
Lucas, Anthony, 82.                                                                              ;
Lymington, Viscount, ii. 278.
                                                                                                         ;
                                                       his reflecting telescope, 46 elected
                                                       Fellow of the Royal Society, 70 in

                                                       volved in disputes                his optical dis

                                                       coveries, 77 his scheme for improving;
                                                       the Royal Society, 102 his mistake in

Macaulay, Mr., ii. 105.                                supposing that bodies have the same
Macclesfield Correspondence, ii. 418.
Machin, Professor, ii. 51, 157, 264, 269.              dispersive powers, 110: on the moon's

                                                       libration, 127 his letter on plant
                                                                         ;

INDEX.                                   561

ing, 129 ; he opposes the doctrine       misrepresented by Biot, 134 ; his letter
of undulations, 135; his correspon       to Pepys, 147, App. 471 ; and Locke,
dence with Hooke, 140 ; his hy           147; his study of the lunar irregula
                                         rities, 157 ; his correspondence and
potheses on light, 151, 340 ; on the     difference with Flamsteed, 157, 185 ;
colours of thin and thick plates, 166,   Charles Montague appoints him War
172 ; on the colours of natural bodies,  den, and afterwards Master of the
                                         Mint, 191, 193 ; the case of Chaloner
176; on the inflexion of light, 193;     and the Coiners discussed, 197 ; his
                                         second difference with Flamsteed,
on absolute refractive powers, 212 ;
on double refraction and polarisation,   202 ; is elected one of the eight
215 ; his experiments on the eye, 218,   Foreign Associates of the Academy of
420; on binocular vision, 219; on        Sciences, 207 ; again represents the
                                         University in Parliament, 209 ; is
the semi-decussation of the optic        knighted at Cambridge by Queen
nerves, 226, and App. 423 ; on the       Anne, 210; his love-letter to Lady
influence of strong light upon the       Norris, 211 ; fails in being restored to
retina, 236 ; his reflecting sextant,    Parliament in 1707, 218; his third
239, and microscope, 242 ; his prisms
for Newtonian telescopes, 244 ; his      difference with Flamsteed, 219; de

astronomical discoveries, 250, 289 ;     fence of him against the charges of
is induced by Halley to publish them,    Mr. Baily, 228; Bentley's letter to
305; the Principia published, 311;       him on the completion of the second
new edition by Cotes, 314; analysis      edition of the Principia, 248 ; his resi
of its contents, 319; his philoso        dence in London, 252 ; his evidence
                                         on the Longitude Bill, 259 ; his niece,
phy long stationary, 345 ; his letter    Mrs. Catherine Barton, defended, 27C-
to Aston, 385 ; his letter to Boyle,
409; ditto to Briggs, 423; his cor       281 ; replies to Leibnitz's attack on
respondence with Halley, 437, 472 ;      his philosophy, 283 ; corresponds with
his discovery of fluxions, ii. 10 ; his
mathematical writings, 14 ; commu        J.Varignon and Bernoulli, 290, App.
nicates his discoveries in series to
Leibnitz, 17; account of the contro      496-508; and with Fontenelle and

versy regarding fluxions, 23-47 ; the    Derham, 300, App. 517, 519; his chro
Commercium Epistolicum, 51 ; re          nology, 301 ; his theological writings,
newal of the controversy, 52-84 ; his    published and unpublished, 313-359;
rooms in Trinity College, 85 ; letters   on Daniel and the Apocalypse, 327 ; on
from Mr. Wickins and Dr. Newton          the corruption of two texts, 331 ; his
                                         opinions on the subject of the Trinity,
on his College life, 88 ; on the theory  339, App. 531 ; his theological MSS.,
of the earth, 99 ; is one of the de      342 ; his chemical and alchemical stu-
                                         dies,360; on the scale of heat, 363; his
puties to resist the Royal Mandamus,     ill health and recovery, 377 ; Pember-
104 ; represents the University in       ton edits the third edition of the Prin
Parliament, 112; his letters to Dr.      cipia, 378 ; is attacked with stone,
                                         384; his testimonial to Maclaurin,
Covel on the accession of King Wil       387 ; is visited by the Abbe Alari
                                         and Crell, 388; attends the Royal
liam, 114; his acquaintance with         Society, March 2d, 391 ; his death
Locke and Huygens, 115; attempts         on the 20th, 392; his body lies in
to get him some appointment, 116;        state, 393 ; his funeral and burial in
their failure, 118; death of his mo
                                                                2n
ther, 119; corresponds with Locke
on alchemy, 120; his four letters to
Bentley, 123 ; his ill health, 131 ;

VOL. II.

562 INDEX.

Westminster Abbey, 393 ; monument                                   Peel, Sir Robert, 104.
                                                                                            i.
                                                                                                        i.
to his memory, 394 ; statues, pictures,                             Pemberton, Henry, Dr., 318; ii. 378,

and other relics of him, 395 ; his pro                              383.

perty and successors, 396 ; his philo                               Pembroke, Lord, ii. 115, 409.

sophical, social, and moral character,                              Pepys, Samuel, ii. 143-149, 471.
                                                                    Pfaff, Professor, ii. 287, note.
398; memorialsofhim,414; Leibnitz's

Scholium, draughts of              it,   425 his                    Phosphorus, 190.
                                               ;                                     i. i.
                                                        ;;
correspondence with Wallis, 429; let                                Picard, M., 291.

ters to him from Dr. Wilson, 438                                    Pilkington, Mr., ii. 98, 193, 393.

his letter to Thomas Burnet, 445                                    Plato,  ii.  129.

on the effect of heat on magnets,                                   Playfair, Professor, 333, 348, 355.
455; his letter to Dr. Covel, 457;                                  Polarisation of Light, 217.
letter to him from Dr. Bentley, 463                                                           i.
                                                                                                  i.

                                                             ;; ;   Poleni, ii. 379.

ditto from      S.                                                  Pons, M., 374.
                           ;

                                      ;
                                          ;

                                               ;
                                                  ;
                     Pepys, 471 his corre                                        i.
                                                                                              ii.
spondence with Dr. Mill, 472 letter                                 Pope, Alexander,               410, 416, 521.

to him from Flamsteed, 476 his let                                  Portsmouth, Earl of, Pref, vii., x.

ter to Flamsteed, 489 Varignon's                                    Principia, History of the, 304, 314;
letter to him, 495 his answer, 496                                                                         ; i.
                                                                    abstract of;            319, 465 analysis of
                                                                                      it, it,

                                                                                                      ;
letters to him from John Bernoulli,                                 i. it,  470 ii. 248, 378 changes in the

501-508 letter to him from Brook                                    3d edition of 382, 549.
Taylor, 508 ditto from James Stir
          ;;                                                        Provostayes and Desains on thin plates,
                 ;

                                             ;
ling, 515 ditto from Fontenelle, 517                                        163, 171.
ditto from Dr. Derham, 518 his Ireni-
                                                                    Pryme, M. De la, ii. 136.

cum or Ecclesiastical Polity tending                                Ptolemy, 253.
to peace, 525 his queries regarding                                              i.
iptirui, 532 his method of making
                ;;                                                  Qcetelet, M., ii. 417.

speculum metal, 535 observations on
                         ;

the Scotch origin of his family, 537                                Ramaqe, Mr., 61.
                                                             of, ;                     i.
his letter to Friend, 546.                                                                i.
                a                                                   Rantzau, Count, 261.
                                                                    Raphson, Mr., ii. 502, 504.
Nitrous Gas, on the optical properties

i.  189.                                                            Reflecting Telescopes, 45 metal for
                                                                                                       i.
                                                                                                            ;

Norris, Lady,   ii.  211, 213.                                      them, 535.

Norris, Sir William, ii. 213.                                       Reflexion of Light, cause               of,     211.
                                                                                                               i.

                                                                    Refraction, double, 94, 215.i.
                                                                    Refractions, table of atmospheric, ii. 169,
Olbers, Dr., 371.
              i.                                                       475.
                i.                                                  Refractive Powers, absolute, of bodies,
Oldenburg, 51, 98, 128;            ii.   27.
                                         i.
'Ofteirui, queries concerning, ii. 532.                                     212.

                                                                    Refrangibility of the rays of Light, dif
Optic Nerves, their decussation,                     432.           i.
                                                                                i. i.
Ormond, Duke        of,  ii. 105.                                                              i.
                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                i.
Orsi, Marquis, ii. 435.                                                ferent, 40, 73.                 ii. 403, 540.
                                                                    Reid, Dr., 226, 231
                                                                    Reyneau, P., ii. 510.

Paget, Mr., 298, 447,              454,         460          ii.    Rheticus, George, 256.
                i.
                                                          ;

111.                                                                Rigaud, Professor, Pref. xiv., 291, 297,
                                                                       303, 306; ii. 165, 166, 267, 437.
Pappus, ii. 4.
                                                                    Rizetti, M., ii. 307.
Paracelsus, ii. 402.

Pardies, Ignatius, 78.                                              Roberval, ii.
                                                                    Robison, Professor,
Pechel, Dr.,  ii.                                                                                      115; ii. 376, 540,
                        i.
                                                                                                   6.

                                                                                                 i.
                    106, 109.

                                                        INDEX.                                           563

Rodolph, Emperor, 261.     i.                                   Stokes, Professor, his Optical Disco
Roemer, Olaus, ii. 226.                                            veries, i. 125, 185.
Rogers, Rev. Henry, ii. 45.                 i.  229, 333,
Renault's Theory of Vision,                                     Storer, Mr., ii. 412, 546.
                                            i.  224.
    336, 338.                                 i.   62 his       Struve, M., his Stellar Astronomy, i.
                                                     ;             379.
Ross, Mr., his microscopes,
Rosso, Lord, his telescopes,                                    Struve, Otto, M., i. 370, 379 ; ii. 417.
                                                                Stukely, Dr., i. 5, &c. ; ii. 89, 91, 93,
    spiral nebulse, 378.
Roubilliac, ii. 413.                                               413.
                                                                Swift, Dean, ii. 267, 270, 278, 492.
                                                                Swinden, Van, ii. 131.

Sabike, Colonel, 361.
                        ii. i. i. i.
Saturn's Rings, 273, 370.                                       Tayloe, Bbook, Dr., ii. 286, 298, 427,

Saunderson, Mr., 336.                                           509-11.

Scheuchzer, M., 508.                                            Telescope, Galileo's, i. 271 ; Gregory's,
                                                                   50 ; Newton's, 45 ; Short's, 52 ; Had
Scholium respecting Leibnitz, different

                it,                                             ley's, 53 ; Huygens, 58 ; Herschel's,
                              i.                                59 ; Ramage's, 61 ; Lord Rosse's, 62 ;
                                      of,
                                       ii,
Forms of ii. 425

Schonberg, Cardinal, 256.

Scripture, Corruptions                      323.                Dollond's, 112; Blair's, 115.

Sedgwick, Professor, ii. 86, 131.                               Theological Works of Newton, ii. 313,

Sextant, Reflecting, Newton's, 239                              354.
                                                  i.    ;

   Hadley's, 241 Campbell's, 242.;                              Thomson, James, ii. 495.
Seymour, Sir George H., ii. 417.
Sharp, Mr. Abraham, ii. 222.                                    Tides, i. 324, 361.
Sheldrake, Mr., 223, 424.                                       Toricelli, ii. 7.

Short, James, his Reflecting Telescopes,                        Tschirnhaus, M., ii. 31, 39.
                        i.                                      Tnrnor, Mr. Edmund, Pref, viii.,         i. 11,
                          i. ii.
                                      ;                            21,396; 415.
52, 57.                                                                   ii.
i. i.                                                                        i.
Simon, Father, ii. 325, 333.                                    Turnor, Rev. Mr., ii. 85, 417.
     6,                                                         Twining, Mr., 230.
Sloane, Sir Hans,                     46, 207, 243.             Tycho Brahe's Observations and Life,

Slusius,   ii.  it, 9.
                   it,
Smith, Professor, 461 ii. 86, 396.                              i.  258.

Smith, Rev. Mr., Newton's stepfather,

          14.

Society, Royal, Newton's Scheme for                             Uranus, 366.

                                                                Urban VIII., Pope, 277.

                                                                Uylenbroek, M., ii. 39, 132.
improving                  101.                                           i.
                        i.                                                                 i.
                           of,
                               ii.

                                       of,
                                        i.
Solar System, Motion                        378.

Somerset, Duke                        110.

Souciet, Father, ii. 307.

Spectrum, Solar, 40 Controversy re                              Van Helmont, ii. 403.
                        of, ; i.
                                 ;                it,           Varignon, Abbe, ii. 71, 290, 295; App.
garding               111 dark lines in 117           ;
                                                         ii. ;
new analysis               119.                                 No. 21,496.

Speculum Metal, ii. 535.                                        Vigani, Mr., ii. 92, 408.

Stars, Binary System of, 376.                                   Vincent, Dr., 305.
                                      i.                                  i.

Stella, (Mrs. Johnson,) ii. 492.                                Vincent, Mrs., (Miss Storey,) Newton's
                                                                   attachment to her, 13 ii. 89.
Stewart, Professor Dugald,                  i.    335                                 of, i.   ;

    149.                                                        Vinci, Leonardo da, ii. 401.
Stirling,
               James,      ii.        300, 307, 411,            Visible Direction. Law         of,    233 Visi
                                                                                                  i.  ;

516.                                                            ble Distance, Law 234.                           /

   564                                                        INDEX.

   Vision, Newton's Experiments on, i. Wolf, M., ii. 44, 57, 66.

     218, 420; Brigg'a Theory of, 219;                              Wollaston, Dr., i. 117, 226, 230.

      Single, 231 : Inverted, 233.                                  Woolsthorpe, the property and birth
   Voltaire, M., i. 332 ; ii. 275, 331, 355.                           place of Newton, i. 5; ii. 414.

   Vossius, Isaac, on Colours, i. 39.                               Woodward, Dr., 243.
                                                                          i.
                                                                    Worsley, Lady, ii. 493.ii. i. ii.

                                                                                                        ;
   Wake, Archbishop, ii. 409.                                       Wortley Montague, Lady Marv, ii. 304,
                                                                        375.

   Wallis, Dr., i. 23, 455,             456 ; ii. 8, 120,           Wotton, William, 463.

       202, 425.                                                    Wren, Sir C, 293, 446, 449             ii. 206,
   Ward, Seth, i. 70.
                                                                       221, 226,263,483.

   Watts, Isaac, i. 341.                                            Wright, Edward,      4.

   Weld, Mr., i. 386 ; ii. 208, 275.

   Whewcll, Dr., i. 123, 135, 231.

   Whiston, William, i. 336, 338 ; ii. 18,                          Year, on the Ancient, ii. 310.
      208, 259, 265, 338, 409, 411.

   Wickins, John, i. 31, 450; ii. 86.                               Young, Dr., on Thin Plates,  i.  147, 159,

   William III., ii. 37, note.                                          199, 202.

   wWilson, Dr. James, ii. 75, 80, 378, 383,                        Yworth, William, ii. 372.

                   He                                   ERRATA.           L^

                                                              VOL.
                                                              $
   Page 31, lino 21, for Dr. read Mr.                              I.
   ,, 32 and 33, note, for Dr. Wickins, read Ds. Wickins.

i  77~J .? ,,          53, line  9, 9,  for a very, read an. t^
               ,,      68, line         for undulating, read undulatory.

     ,, 101, note, for two, read six.
     ,, 109, line 18, for Stoker, read Stokes.

                                 2, 1,           read them; line 14, for them, read it.
     VIII., VII.,, 151, line 11, for1
   ,,              229, note, for No.       it,     read No.
   ,,
                   302, note            have since found the letter referred to. It      dated March
                                                                                     is                                1681.
                                                                                                                   7,

   ,, 340, note                         for five, read four.

   ,, 345, line 11, for gains, read gain. ·
   ,, 380, line 20, for 57, read 4.9.
   ,, 437, line from bottom, for has read have. .4

                                                              vol. n.

   ,, 54, line 14, and 72, line for 3d November, read 10th July.1,

   ,, 64, note, lino 11, for serious, read curious.1,
   ,, 79, line 10, transpose the words first and second.
   ,, 221, last line, after calculators, read Sc. &c.
   ,, 270, line for Mathematies, rend Astronomy.
   ,, 381, line 15, for 26th, read 2ith.

                                     RDINBURGB T. COsSTARLR, PttlNTBR TO IIRR MAJRSTT.
                                                 :


