Life of Thomas Young, M.D., F.R.S., &c.; and one of the eight foreign
associates of the National institute of France. By George Peacock
...

Peacock, George, 1791-1858.
London, J. Murray, 1855.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044058254616

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
HARVARD
COLLEGE

LIBRARY
           LIFE

                                                                   OP

THOMAS YOUNG, M.D., F.R.S., &c.
              0

          LIFE_ «...» - »

                                                                                          OK

THOMAS YOUNG, M.D., F.R.S., &c.,

                      AND ONE OF THE EIGHT FOREIGN ASSOCIATES OF THE
                                        NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE.

       BY GEORGE PEACOCK, D.D.,

                                                     K.HA, F.O.S., F ILAA, F.C.PA. FTC,
                                                         f>F,AN OF ELY,

                              I.OWNDKAN PROFKHMOI:OF ASTRONOMY IN THE DJCIVF.RMtY OF CAMBRITH>K,
                                            AVD FORMFRLY FFI.LOW AND TVTOR OF TRINITY COM.FGK.

                            c. LONDON:
      JOHN IVIURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                                  · 1855.
     i·nmmmunt mm*
               ft* . .

        UNIFORM WITH THE LIFE OF DR. YOUNG.

                                         This Day, 3 Vols. 8vo. 45/,

THE MISCELLANEOUS WORKS OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.

                Edited by DEAN PEACOCK and JOHN LEITCH, Esq.

/LONDON : PRINtED BT W. CLOWES AKD SONS, STAHKORD STREET, ft > O.^
AMD CHARING CROSS.  «^

                    V
                                                             TO

       HUDSON GURNEY, ESQ.,

THE OLDEST AND ONE OF THE MOST VALUED OF THE FRIENDS

                                                                     OF

                  DR. YOUNG,

                     THIS MEMOIR OF HIS LIFE

                                            IS INSCRIBED

 WITH EVERY SENTIMENT OF RESPECT AND REGARD

                                                      BY

                                           THE AUTHOR.
                PREFACE.

It Iis now more than twenty years since somewhat

rashly undertook to write the Life of Dr. Young.
For many years, however, after making this engage

Iment, found myself so much occupied by the duties
Iof a very laborious college office, that had no leisure

to commence the work ; and when the possession of
leisure would have enabled me to have done so, my

Ihealth became so seriously deranged that felt myself

unequal to any continued and severe literary labour.
The undertaking was consequently abandoned, and it
was proposed to transfer it to other hands ; but it was
not found easy to secure the services of a person who
possessed sufficient scientific knowledge to enable him
to write the life of an author whose works were so
various in their character and not unfrequently so
difficult to understand and analyse, as those of Dr.
Young.

   It had always been the opinion of Mr. Gurney, one

of the most intimate of Dr. Young's friends, that the
best monument which could be dedicated to his me
mory would be a complete edition of his Miscellaneous
Works, the greatest part of which had been published
anonymously, in scientific journals and elsewhere, in a
form not easily accessible to literary or scientific stu

Idents. In consequence of this opinion, in which
vili 1'REPACE.

entirely concurred, an arrangement was made by Mrs.

IYoung, somewhat more than three years ago, in virtue

of which undertook to edit the scientific portion of
Dr. Young's Works, whilst his Hieroglyphical Memoirs
and Correspondence were entrusted to Mr. Leitch. As
it was in the first instance intended to prefix to this
edition of Dr. Young's Works a short introductory
notice only and not a formal memoir, of his life and
writings, such explanatory notes and selections from

his correspondence were added as were deemed neces
sary for the general illustration of his literary life and
labours. The notes and letters which were added

with this view to the volume edited by Mr. Leitch,
were of very considerable extent and importance.

   When this work was completed --and a great delay

had been occasioned by the destruction of the greatest
part of the impression, first struck off, by a fire in the

warehouse in which it was deposited --Mrs. Young re
sumed her original design --to which she had always

adhered with affectionate constancy and which she

had never altogether abandoned --of doing honour to
the memory of her husband by a Memoir which should

combine a detailed narrative of his personal history

Iwith a review of his various publications. She urged

her wishes with so much earnestness, that was at

Ilast persuaded--under a sense of the responsibility

which had incurred by disappointing her hopes for

so many years --to undertake the task, subject to

Ithe condition, however, that should be at liberty to

Itransfer the materials which had collected and the

Iportions of the work which in the mean time might
PREFACE.                                         ix

have finished, to other hands, in case of being again

disabled by the recurrence of those serious attacks of
I Itillness from which had previously suffered.
                                                 is

now about fifteen months since my labours were re

sumed, and they have been continued ever since with

Ifew and not very considerable interruptions ; and

gratefully acknowledge the goodness of God for grant

ing me the renewed enjoyment of the blessings of

Ihealth and strength, which has enabled me to com

plete my task, imperfectly it is true, but trust not so

much so as altogether to defeat the pious views in
which it originated.

  IThe materials which have employed in editing Dr.

Young's Works, and in the preparation of his Life,

have been chiefly --in addition to the information sup

plied by his Works, his Journals, and Letters to his

uncle, Dr. Brocklesby, in early life -- a short autobio
graphical sketch of his life, written for one of the
sisters of Mrs. Young, headed An Article intended for
a Future Edition of the Encyclopcedia Britannica, the
greatest part of which is included in Mr. Gurney's
very pleasing Memoir -- and a large collection of letters
addressed to him by Arago, Fresnel, Humboldt, Sir
David Brewster, Dr. Brinkley, Mr. George Ellis, Mr.

Gifford, Captain Kater, Schumacher, Bessel, Mr.
Macvey Napier, Sir William Gell, and many other
correspondents. Mr. Gurney furnished me with a

nearly unbroken series of confidential letters addressed

to him by Dr. Young, from the year 1804 to the end
of his life, which have been of the greatest service to
X PHEFACE.

me, as recording without disguise his thoughts and
opinions upon almost every subject upon which he
was engaged, or about which he was interested. The
late lamented M. Arago placed in my hands several
letters from Dr. Young, which have become important
documents in the history of the progress of the undu-

latory theory of light. An equally liberal course was
followed by Sir David Brewster, though some of the
letters thus furnished were in opposition to views of
his own. The late Mr. Macvey Napier sent me the

letters relating to Dr. Young's contributions to the
Supplement of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, of which
he was the editor ; and the Astronomer Boyal some
others relating to proposed alterations in the Nautical
Almanac and other astronomical questions. Other
letters were forwarded to me by Mr. Shepherd, of
Frome, the late Dr. Bostock, and other correspondents.
Dr. Young, in his letters to Sir William Cell, would
appear to have occasionally imitated the plaisarUeries
of his lively and ingenious correspondent, and to have
been somewhat less guarded in his expressions than
was usual with him in his other letters, which are re
markable 1.or the fairness and temperance with which

Ihe speaks of men and of things, even when writing to

his most intimate friends. Finally, beg to return
my best thanks to the family of the late Mrs. Chambers,
Mrs. Earle, and the Countess of Buchan, the sisters of

Mrs. Young, who have placed at my disposal a series
of letters, written with all the affectionate freedom and
confidence of a brother to his sisters, and which present
the most lively and agreeable references to the society
                     PREFACE.  xi

in which he was moving, and to the various subjects of
interest which arose out of the events of the day.

  IIt is hardly necessary for me to add that, throughout

the whole progress of the work, have received the
most important information and assistance from Mr.

Gurney.
    From various members of Dr. Young's family, and

Imore especially from his nephew, Mr. Thomas Young,

of Sackville Street, have received very valuable infor

Imation, with respect to the events of his early life.
       have also to express my thanks to Mr. De

Morgan, Dr. J. A. Wilson of Dover Street, London,

Dr. Clarke of Cambridge, the Astronomer Royal, and
others, who have furnished me with information.

  I have elsewhere expressed my obligations to Mr.

Leitch, which have been further increased by the
assistance which he has given me in the progress of
this work.

     Deanery, Ely,
December 13th, 1WA.
               ( xiii )

               CONTENTS.

....II.--Medical Education--London                           Paor

III. --Medical Education --Edinburgh                               1
Chapter I. --Early Education

....IV. --Medical Education --Gottingen .  .         32

                                              .47

....VI.--Optical Discoveries --First Epoch                   76

V.--Medical Education --Cambridge . . . .115
....VII. --Lectures : Cohesion op Fluids
                                                             138

....IX.--Philological Essays. Reviews                        188

VIII. --Marriage. Medical Life and Works . . . 211

                                                             230

X. HlEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES                                 258

XI. -- Commissions. Board or Longitude     ...               345
                                                             369
XII. --Optical Discoveries -- Second Epoch . . .             403
                                                             416
....XIII.--Researches on the Value of Life and Assurance
                                                             447
XIV. --Miscellaneous Memoirs                                 489
 XV. --Events in later Life. Death
Appendix -- A

Appendix-- B                                                 511

                                        to face Title-page,
                                        to face. Page 22.
           MEMOIR

                                                           OF

DR. THOMAS YOUNG.

       CHAPTER I.

       EARLY EDUCATION.

Dr. Thomas Young, the subject of the following Me

moir, was born at Milverton, in Somersetshire, on the

13th of June, 1773. He was the eldest of ten children

of Thomas and Sarah Young; his mother (whose

maiden name was Davis) was the niece of Dr. Richard
Brocklesby, a physician of great eminence in London.

His parents were both members of the Society of Friends,

occupying a respectable station in the middle ranks of

life. They were strict observers of the principles of their

sect, in which their children were very carefully edu

cated ; and their eldest son appears to have adopted in

his earlier years, all the characteristic observances and

tenets of this society, though he afterwards abandoned

it. Some of those principles which recognize the im

mediate influence of a supreme intelligence as a guide

in the ordinary conduct of life, are not a little calculated,

when not properly regulated, to encourage feelings of

self-confidence and pride in the achievement of intel
lectual as well as moral triumphs ; and it was to the

operation of these early impressions that Dr. Young

was accustomed in after life, to attribute, in no slight

Life.                    B
2  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. I.

degree, the formation of those habits of perseverance
in labouring to conquer every difficulty, however for
midable it might appear to be, by which he was so

remarkably distinguished, and which enabled him,

even from his boyhood, to work out his own educa
tion with little comparative assistance or direction from

others.

   The details of this education -- which made him at an

early period of life an accurate classical scholar; perfectly

familiar with the principal European languages ; well
acquainted with mathematics, and with almost every

department of natural philosophy and natural history ;
profoundly versed in medical and anatomical knowledge,
and in possession of more than ordinary personal and

ornamental accomplishments --must necessarily possess

no common interest and value ; not merely as explain
ing the formation of his own intellectual habits and

character, but as illustrating the progress of the human
mind in one of the most remarkable examples of its

development ; and it may be considered fortunate,

that the materials for a very minute history of his
early studies and occupations exist, in his very ample
journals, in his letters to his relatives and others,
and in the notes which he has left behind him, upon
most of the books which he read for the first twenty
years or more of his life.4

    * Amongst these are two thick volumes, entitled Studio, Quotidiana, con
taining an account -- in many cases with copious extracts --of every book
which ho read from the year 1789 to the summer of 1794 ; with notices of
his botanical and entomological observations, the greatest part of which is
written in Latin. There are also, in three smaller volumes, ample notes
of all the medical and anatomical lectures which he attended in London
in 1793 and 1794: to these may be added minute and very carefully
written journals of his studies at Edinburgh and at Gottingen, and of his
journeys in Scotland and Germany in 1795, 1796, and 1797 : and also a
nearly unbroken series of letters to his uncle Dr. Brocklesby during the
greatest part of this period.
CHAr. I.                  EARLY EDUCATION.                             3

   The following fragment of an autobiography is

nearly a literal translation from a short account written
in Latin, as a record of his studies as far as the end of

his fourteenth year, with the addition of a few explan
atory particulars which have been derived from other

sources.

  I" For the greatest part of the first seven years of my life,

was an inmate in the house of my maternal grandfather, Mr.

Robert Davis, a merchant of great respectability, who lived at

IMinehead in Somersetshire. At two years of age had learnt
Ito read with considerable fluency, and subsequently used to

attend the school of a village schoolmistress, besides being

taught at home by my aunt Mary Davis. Under their in

Istructions read the Bible twice through, and also Watts's
IHymns, before was four years of age. Being naturally fond of
Ireading, was supplied with the usual run of children's books,
Iand well recollect the effect produced on my mind by the first
Iperusal of Gulliver's travels. From my earliest years was

in the habit of committing pieces of poetry to memory, such as

IPope's Messiah, his Universal Prayer, Parnell's Hermit,

Rack's Lavinia, and many others. When six years old learnt

by heart the whole of Goldsmith's Deserted Village, which was
the work of six weeks during the hours of my absence from

Ischool" At a later period, was taught to repeat some Latin
I Iverses, which found no difficulty in remembering, though did

Inot, at the time, understand the meaning of the words. When

not quite six years of age, began to learn the rudiments

of the Latin grammar, in Lilly's Grammar, under the instruc

tion of a dissenting clergyman of the name of Knyfton, who

Ipossessed, however, neither talents nor temper to teach anything

well : at the same time read with him Gay's Fables and

IGoadby's Weekly Miscellany, and he also began to teach me
writing.      always look back with pleasure to this period of my

life, and to the affectionate care and instructions of my aunt

   * In a quarto edition   of this poem in possession  "ofThhiiss  family, his grand
                          following memorandum :--                 poem was repeated
father had inserted the

by Thomas Young to me, with the. exception of a word or two, before the

age offive."

                                                                   B2
4           MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                        Chap. I.

Mary Davis, a most admirable woman, who is now no more, and

also of one of her most intimate friends and relatives, an inmate
Iof the same house, and who afterwards married a Mr. Thomp
son, at whose school  was subsequently placed. My grand
Ifather (with whom was a great favourite) was fond of classical
Ilearning, and encouraged my taste for study by every means in
his power   well recollect the distich which he used constantly

to repeat to me,

           " A little learning is a dangerous thing, --
             Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring."

I IThe principles which imbibed, and the habits which formed

under the guidance of these dear and excellent relatives, have

more or less determined my character in future life, whatever

it may be,
               " Quo semel est imbuta recens, servabit odorem
                     Testa diu."

  I" now entered upon a totally new scene of life. In March
I1780, when not quite seven years of age, was placed by my

father at a miserable boarding-school kept by a person of the
name of King, first at Stapleton near Bristol, and afterwards

Iat Downend near Kingswood. At this school remained for a
Iyear and a half. here was taught arithmetic, but even at this
I Iage began to be my own teacher ; for had mastered the last

rules of Walkinghame's Tutor's Assistant before I had reached

the middle of it under my master's inspection. He was a good

writing master, but quite ignorant of Greek and Latin, which

Iwere taught, however, by his step-son on two days of the week.

During the first two months, was very ill employed in learn

ing Fisher's English grammar, and not much better in learning

Ithe syntax of Lilly : afterwards began to read, at the same

time, Loggan's Corderius, and Clarke's Introduction ; having
Ifinished Corderius,  read through two books of Pha;drus's
IFables.
            at last gladly quitted a master, who was extremely
Imorose and severe, under whom
                                     had made very little pro

gress, and whose manners and character were little calculated

to gain the confidence and affection of his scholars. His school

            afterwards broken
            this period, had
Iwas

   "
   shortly                     up.   Robinson  Crusoe,         Gesner's
   During                      read

Death of Abel, iStories on Shakspeare, the Seven Stages of Life,
Chap. I.               EARLY EDUCATION.                                                                 f)

Needham's Select Lessons, and Tom Telescope's Newtonian

IPhilosophy.

   " The next half-year, spent almost entirely at home. My
father had a neighbour of the name of Kingdon, a man of great

ingenuity, who, though originally a tailor, had raised himself

by his talents   and   good conduct to a respectable    situation in
                 that  time a land-surveyor and also  land-steward
life --being at

to several gentlemen in the neighbourhood. His daughters had

Ialways treated me, when a child, with great kindness, and was
Iin consequence very fond of going to his house, where found

Imany books relating to science and particularly a Dictionary

of Arts and Sciences, in three volumes, folio, which began

to read with the most intense interest and delight ; at his house

I also found several mathematical and philosophical instruments,
Ithe use of many of which learnt, with the assistance of his

                 his nephew.
                 1782, when
Idau"gIhnteMrsaarcnhd
                              nearly  nine years  of age,  was sent

Ito the school of Mr. T. Thompson, at Compton in Dorsetshire,

where continued for nearly four years, having only left it for
six months, during the year 1784 Mr. Thompson was a man

of liberal and enlarged mind, who possessed a tolerable collec

tion of English and classical books, which his pupils were

allowed to make use of. It was his custom likewise to allow

Ithem a certain degree of discretion in the employment of their

time : -- the following is the list of books which read with Mr.

Thompson in the school.
    " The remaining part of Phaedrus's Fables and of Clarke's

Introduction, Cornelius Nepos, Selecta e Scriptoribus Romanis,

Virgil, Horace expurgated by Knox, the Eton Selections from

ICicero, the Westminster Greek Grammar (the greater part

of which committed to memory), the whole of Beza's Greek

and Latin Testament, the Cyropsedia of Xenophon by Hutchin

Ison";the First Seven Books of the Iliad,  which 1 began in 1786.
        also translated into Latin the      whole of Garretson's
Iand Ellis's Exercises. In Mathematics read Walkinghame's

TDuiltwoor'rsthA'sssiBsotaonkt-,keEewpiinngg'.s--MTahtehemusahteicr s,ofotmheittsinchgoogl uwnnaseray,  and
                                                                                                        very

ingenious young man of the name of Josiah Jeffrey, who was in

the habit of lending me books, and amongst them Benjamin

Martin's Lectures on Natural Philosophy, and Ryland's Intro
6           MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                 Chap. I.

Iduction to the Newtonian Philosophy.             was particularly

delighted with the optical part of Martin's book, which contains

many detailed rules for the practical construction of optical

Iinstruments ; also learnt the first elements of Algebra from

IVys"e and  Ward.    was  a  good  mechanic, and  it was from him
      Mr.   Jeffrey

that acquired my fondness for turning and for making tele
Iscopes, He had made also an electrical machine, which very
Ifrequently used.
                     was in the habit of grinding and preparing

Ivarious kinds of colours for him, which he used to sell to the

boys and to others ; from him likewise learnt the first prin
ciples of drawing, and copied under his directions several speci

mens from the copper-plates of a book entitled The Principles

I Iof Design. He was also a bookbinder, an occupation in which
  assisted him. After he left the school, succeeded to some

Iof his employments and perquisites, and used to sell paper,

Icopper-plates, copy-books, and colours to my schoolfellows, by

which means contrived to collect in 1786, as much as 5*.,

which, added to 10« <od. given me by my parents, enabled

me to buy some Greek and Latin books, which were sold to
me by Mr. Thompson at extremely low prices, and likewise

I IMontanus's Hebrew Bible, for which gave bs. ; for was at
Ithat time enamoured of Oriental literature, and had already

read through Buxtorf s Compendium, and Taylor's Tract at
Ithe end of his Concordance ; and before
                                                  left Compton
Ischool, had succeeded in getting through six chapters of the

Hebrew Bible."                         at this school,  Iduring my
                                       at Minehead,          became
   " In the intervals of my residence

occasional visits to my grandfather

>. acquainted with a saddler of the name of Atkins, a person of
   considerable mechanical skill and ingenuity, whose journal of

    * Some of his letters, written in very rude Latin, and addressed to a
young friend at Milverton, have been preserved, in which he gives an
account of his occupations, very similar to that in the text. In answer

to some observations against studying Hebrew, he says: -- "No puta

linguam Hebraicam inutilem fore mini vol iniquam alio. Nonne ea
lingua oracula edita sunt divina? Nonne est mater omnium prope lin-
guirum ? Nonnulli dicunt esse linguam ' quS locutus est Deus,' sed hoc
audaciam existimo. Biblia emi Hcbraica cum Montani vcrsione pro 5»."
This is sufficiently remarkable for a very young schoolboy nearly self

taught.
Uhap. I.         EARLY EDUCATION.                                 7

the heights of the barometer and thermometer, of the state of

the weather, and direction of the wind for three times a

day during the whole of the year 1782, is published in the

Philosophical Transactions for 1784. Amongst many other

Iinstruments which he possessed was a quadrant, which became

the constant companion of my walks, and with which attempted

Ito measure the heights of the principal eminences in the
neighbourhood.   had imbibed also a wish to study botany

from a conversation with Morris Birkbeck ; and in order to
Ienable me to examine the minute organs of plants,
                                                                  was

anxious to construct a microscope from the description of Ben

I Ijamin Martin. For this purpose procured a lathe, and

succeeded in getting the requisite materials by the assistance

of my grandfather and one of my father's clerks. My zeal for

Ibotany during these operations was replaced by my fondness
for optics, and subsequently by that for turning.      well recollect

likewise, that, having seen a demonstration in Martin which

Iexhibited, though unnecessarily, some fluxional symbols,
Inever felt satisfied until had read, a year or two afterwards,

a Short Introduction to the Method of Fluxions.

   " My father had purchased at an auction, a volume of
Priestley on Air, the reading of which delighted me greatly, and

Ifirstturned my attention to making      chemical experiments.
         was in the habit of rising an  hour sooner than my school
   "

fellows in summer, and of going to bed an hour or two later in

Iwinter, for the purpose of mastering my lesson for the day ; my
school business was thus soon finished.            was at that time

Ihowever perfectly ignorant of prosody, as well as my master,

and possessed no very accurate grammatical knowledge of the

Gre"eOk naenodf  Latin languages.   of  the  name  of  Fox,  had  made

                 my schoolfellows,
himself master of the Italian language : with his assistance

Iand that of Veneroni's Italian and French grammar, was

enabled to read Lettere a" una Peruviana, and some other works.
II
  had   before acquired some  slight knowledge of French.
        read through Penn's   Reflections and Maxims.
  "

  "Upon my return home, after finally leaving Compton
ISchool, devoted myself almost entirely to the study of Hebrew
Iand to the practice of turning and telescope making.             read

through thirty chapters of the Book of Genesis without points.
s         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. I.

That most excellent man, Mr. Toulmin, who had heard of the

nature of my studies, though perfectly unknown to me, lent me
Masclef s Hebrew, Chaldee, Syriac, and Samaritan grammars,

Iand also some works of Gregory Sharp" and Mr. Bayley,b

which studied with great diligence. Mr. John Fry lent me
Robertson on Reading Hebrew without Points. Mr. Toulmin
also lent me, The Lord's Prayer in more than 100 Languages,

Ithe examination of which gave me extraordinary pleasure.

had also read through the greatest part of Sir William Jones's

Persian Grammar."

   Amongst the many accounts which have been pub

lished of the premature acquirements of extraordinary

boys, it might be very possible to find some which are

even more remarkable than that which is given in the
                      In most cases, however, the
preceding narrative.

vigour of the plant seems to have been somewhat

exhausted by the unnatural excitement of its early

growth, and the instances are very rare where the mature

fruits have fully corresponded to the expectations which

had been formed. In the subsequent history of

Young's education, we shall discover no symptoms of

decay, either in the desire or power of acquiring know

ledge, and the firmness of purpose with which he

persevered in mastering the most difficult and repulsive

studies, seems to have advanced with his increase of
Ityears.
          was, perhaps, a fortunate circumstance for

him that the modest station in life of his parents and

connexions, and the severe habits of the sect to which

they belonged, saved him in some degree at least from

the misfortune of being paraded as a prodigy ; a fate to

   * Upon the original powers of letters, wherein it is proved, from the
analogy of alphabets and the proportion of letters, that the Hebrew ought
to be used without points. -- 1750.

   b An Entrance into the Sacred Language, containing the necessary
Rulos of Hebrew Grammar in English, by the Rev. C. Bayley. Trinity

College, 1782.
Chap. I.  EARLY EDUCATION.

which wonderful boys have been more or less commonly
exposed, in order to gratify the impatient vanity and
ostentation of their friends. As it was, however, his

acquirements and his talents had already begun to

excite considerable attention, not merely amongst his

relatives, but also amongst other persons to whom

they were made known ; and his parents had already
begun to think seriously of the line of life which might

be most advantageously taken by a youth of such

uncommon promise.

   It was about this time that a young lady, Priscilla

Gurney, a niece of Mr. David Barclay, of Youngsbury,
near Ware, in Hertfordshire, was ordered by her medical

attendants to spend a few years in a quiet part of the

country, for the benefit of her health, and she went
to reside with a sister of Mrs. Young, who had long
been her intimate friend. The acquirements and in

dustry of her friend's nephew, at that time absorbed

in the study of the Oriental languages, were noticed by
this lady, and she joined Sir William Watson, who had

married her mother, and to whom also Young's family
were well known, in strongly recommending him to
Mr. Barclay, who was then making arrangements for
the domestic education of his grandson, Hudson

Gurney, and looking out for a proper companion of
his studies, under a private tutor who was to be en

gaged for that purpose. It so happened that the

private tutor first engaged found a situation of a more
permanent nature, and never came ; so that the two
boys being left together, whose ages differed only by
a year and a half, Young, who was then little more
than fourteen, took upon himself provisionally the
office of preceptor. They were afterwards joined by
Mr. Hodgkin, who has since become known to the
10  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                   Chap. I.

public as the author of the Calligraphia Graeca, and

of some other extremely useful publications connected
with the business of classical education. To this
gentleman, though himself young, and engaged in the
completion of his own education, Mr" Barclay entrusted,
in connexion with other duties, the general superin
tendence of the studies and conduct of his grandson,
though Young continued to retain the direction of
his classical studies during the whole period of his

residence at Youngsbury."

 Mr. Hodgkin has communicated to me the following statement of his

relation to the two students at Youngsbury, with a view of correcting a

somewhat erroneous impression which might be conveyed by a short

printed Memoir of    Dr. Young, published in                  1832, which   is founded   upon
an autobiographical   sketch which was found                  amongst his                From
                                                                           papers :-- "

Dr. Young's narrative it might be inferred that John Hodgkin had under

taken the office of tutor to both Dr. Young and Hudson Gurney, but

ultimately relinquished the classical department to Dr. Young, from whom

he was glad to receive instruction ; whereas Mr. Hodgkin never undertook
to be Dr. Young's tutor, -- but the person who, previously to Mr. Hodgkin's

being applied to, had been engaged to fill the post of tutor to both, having

                     Dr. Young undertook, provisionally, the instruction
afterwards declineda

of his young friend in Latin and Greek, in which he acquitted himself soit,

                                                           a
much to David Barclay's satisfaction that he did not consider necessary
                                                                           it it
to look for further aid in that respect, though he did not think desirable

to subject him to the sole direction of youth of little more than his own  :
age -- the one being about thirteen and the other about fourteen he there
fore invited Mr. Hodgkin (whom he knew to be at that time intending to
place himself under the instruction of Dr. Knox) to relinquish his plan
of going to Tunbridge, and to undertake in part the office of tutor to

Hudson Gurney, situation which would afford Mr. Hodgkin an opportu

nity of pursuing his own classical studies, and of deriving some advice and

assistance in them, from the extraordinary youth, whose stability of

conduct and intensity of application seemed to place every desirable

object of literary or scientific pursuit within the reach of his astonishing

mental powers. Mr. Hodgkin's wish to have the error, which he has

mentioned, obviated, does not proceed from any desire to underrate his

obligations to Dr. Young he has always been sensible of them, and would
have rejoiced in having an opportunity of repaying the Doctor in similar
    ;                                                                      it :
                                                  ;
                                                                                    a
                                                           ;
way but his just reliance upon his own resources rendered him inde
pendent of the aid of others. An example will illustrate this -- Scon after

Mr. Hodgkin went to Youngsbury, Dr. Youug once asked him bow to

solve an algebraical problem but be had scarcely proposed before he
Chap. I.   EARLY EDUCATION.         11

The five years which he spent at Youngsbury, from

1787 to 1792, were considered by himself as the most
profitable in his life, with respect both to mental and

moral cultivation and improvement.  The greatest

part of the year he remained in Hertfordshire, in the

bosom of a singularly quiet and regular family. A few

of the winter months only were spent in London,

which was, however, in no other respect London to

him than as giving him access to a few booksellers'

shops and occasional lectures, and as supplying the

materials for his studies.

He sometimes, though rarely, visited his family in

Somersetshire, and he was brought by his occasional

residence in London, and by other causes, under the

more immediate notice of his uncle, Dr. Brocklesby, a
circumstance which exercised, as will be seen hereafter,

the most important influence upon his future life and

fortunes.

   The first entry, which appears in his Journal, after
the commencement of his residence in Hertfordshire,

contains a statement of his having written out specimens
of the Bible in thirteen different languages." He had

said he could make it out himself, and wished for no assistance. A very

few hints from Mr. Hodgkin on the subject of penmanship were sufficient
to regulate his ordinary writing ; and by Mr. Hodgkin's introducing to his
notice Ambrose Serle's little treatise on the subject, Dr. Young not only

improved his own mode of forming the Greek characters, but produced
that beautiful system which he has exhibited in the Calligraphia Grasca."

   Though Mr. Hodgkin, with great modesty, disclaims all share in Dr.
Young's education and the formation of his character, it would be unjust
to him not to add that Dr. Young considered himself under great obliga

tions to him for his advice and assistance.

    Mr. Barclay, in writing to Young's father with reference to these

arrangements, complains of the difficulty of finding suitable tutors amongst

the members of the Society to which they belonged, more especially for a
boy somewhat advanced in his studies, in consequence of the little en

couragement given to men of learning and science among them.
   " The copy-book which contains them is now before me : it contains
12  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. I.

already acquired much of that accuracy and beauty of
penmanship for which he was afterwards so remarkable ;
and it is recorded of him as an anecdote, that when he

was once requested by a friend of Dr. Brocklesby, who
perhaps presumed somewhat upon his very youthful
appearance, to exhibit a specimen of his handwriting,

he very delicately rebuked the inquiry, by writing a sen
tence, in his best style, in fourteen different languages.

    The new duties which he had now undertaken,

recalled his attention from his Oriental studies to the
close and accurate study of the Greek and Latin lan
guages, and he appears from this time to have devoted
himself with singular determination to the acquisition
of a thorough knowledge of their syntax and gramma
tical construction. He read over, with his fellow stu
dent, the principal Greek and Latin books which he

had formerly read at Compton ; he also recommenced
the study of the Iliad of Homer, the whole of which
he read through, referring in the first instance to
Clarke's Latin Translation and Notes and Pope's ver
sion, and subsequently, on a second perusal, using his
Lexicon and the Greek Scholia alone ; and he continued

to follow a similar method generally, as far as he was
able, in his earlier Greek studies, until he had so far

mastered the principles of construction of the language,

as to be able to rely entirely upon his Lexicon. In this

manner, he read through the Olympic Odes of Pindar,
the Enchiridion of Epictetus, and Toup's Longinus,"

extracts in English, French, Italian, Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Chaldee,
Syriac, Samaritan, Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and ^Ethiopia Those in
the Greek and Oriental languages are accompanied with a Latin translation
and a homophone transcript in the characters of the English alphabet.
His Greek characters were yet not well formed, but the specimens from
the Eastern languages aro beautifully written.

  · It was formerly the custom in most schools to make the study of
Longinus succeed to that of Homer, as if with a view to comprehend at
Chap. I.  EARLY EDUCATION.  13

at the same time studying with great care, the Port
Royal Greek Grammar and practising daily Greek
Prose composition in Huntingford's Exercises." To
these authors succeeded Warton's Theocritus and

Mounteney's Demosthenes, upon both of which he

wrote a very enlarged commentary.

   It would be easy to give a similar enumeration of

the authors which he read in Latin, French, Italian,

Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, Botany, Entomo
logy, and English Literature ; but it may be more in

teresting to the reader to possess these details, not in

the order of subjects, but of time --as far as they can be

collected from his own journals and from other sources.
The number of books which he read was very small,
but he adhered strictly through life to the principle of
doing nothing by halves. Whatever book he began

to read he read completely and deliberately through ;
whatever study he commenced he never abandoned ; and

it was by steadily keeping to this principle, a most

important one in education, that he was accustomed,
in after life, to attribute a great part of ins success,
both as a scholar and a man of science.

   The following is a list of nearly all the books which

he read, chiefly at Youngsbury, between the years
1787 and 1790, when he was not yet seventeen years
of age. The more regular and ample notes of his
studies commence at the end of this period.

once the extreme points of Greek literature : in later times the more
rational practice has prevailed of confining the elementary studies of boys
to Homer, and the best classical authors of the best ages.

   * His MS. copy of these Greek exercises still exists ; it is beautifully

written, everywhere showing the most minute attention to accentuation

and grammatical accuracy. It exhibits the usual abbreviations of the

early printed Greek books, which are finished with the most elaborate
correctness. These exercises were finished in two years.
14  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. I.

   Besides Homer, Pindar, Epictetus, and Longinus,
he read the Hecuba and Orestes, in King's Euripides ;

the (Edipus Tyrannus and Coloneus and Antigone
of Sophocles, the Phcenissae of Euripides and the
Septem contra Thebas of .Eschylus, in Burton's Pen-
talogia ; the Heroides and Metamorphoses of Ovid, the
Satires of Juvenal and Persius, the Georgics of Virgil,
the Plays of Terence, the whole of Caesar and Sallust,
the First Book of Martial, and some of the Orations of
Cicero, with Schiller's Praecepta styli bene Latini,"
as introductory to the practice of Latin prose compo

sition.

    Several French books, such as Marmontel's Belisaire,

Fenelon's Telemaque, the Numa Pompilius of Florian,

with Chambord's French Exercises. In these studies

he had the occasional assistance of a French master.

    Simpson's Euclid, begun in February, 1788, and
finished in April, 1789. Simpson's Conic Sections

and Algebra, Bonnycastle's Algebra, and Popular
Astronomy, and Nicholson's Introduction to Natural

Philosophy. Trimmer's Introduction to Natural His

tory, and Lee's Introduction to Botany.
   Barclay's Apology, Gough's History of the Quakers,

Clarke and Wormal's Heraldry, Goldsmith's Rome,
Rollin's Ancient History, Sir Joshua Reynolds' Dis
courses, and three or four other very trifling school

books.

    When little more than sixteen years of age, Young's

   * A very useful book, which Young appears to have studied with great
effect : it gave him a very nice and even critical perception of the prin
ciples of the Latin language. His subsequent Latin translations and

remarks, though greatly deficient in ease and elegance, are generally re
markable, considering the age and circumstances of the writer, for their

grammatical accuracy.
Chap. I.  EARLY EDUCATION.                             15

studies were seriously interrupted by an illness of an

alarming nature, which seemed to threaten consump

tion. The maternal care of Mrs. Barclay, aided by the

medical advice of Baron Dimsdale," who resided in the

neighbourhood, and also of his uncle Dr. Brocklesby,

succeeded in restoring him to health, though he was

for a long time subjected to a rigorous diet. The fol

lowing letter from his uncle, alluding to this illness,

and the abstemious habits which were prescribed to

him in consequence of  it,   is  a  proof of the interest

which he had already begun to feel in the extraor

dinary progress of his studies, and the somewhat

peculiar development of his character.

" Dear Thomas Young,             " London, 13th October, 1789.

" received your letter from Youngsbury in due time,
aI
and am glad your state of health continues mending however
                                                   ;

                                                                   a
severe your abstemious habits of self-denial may seem to the

inexperienced yet, as your strength increases and your spirits

keep up, why should you have a wish to alter or run
risque of dangerous relapse not that am of opinion eating
                       a            I

                          ;
a little fish twice or thrice week would hurt you, but you

must make the trial cautiously and follow that which seems on

experience not to be prejudicial. Be not deceived  ;I  argue

not for any singularity, but could wish your bodily constitution

and the frame of your mind did not exact so many peculiarities,

which for your own case you actually do, or at least think,

incumbent on you to practise. Recollect that the least slip     in
(as who can be secure against error) would in you, who seem
all things to set yourself above ordinary humanity, seem more

   * He had been physician to the Empress Catherine the Second of:
Russia, by whom he was ennobled he was well known to Young, and
much interested by his great attainments. In his Treatise on Consumptive:
Diseases, Young has described the treatment of his own case he was twice
bled, and strictly confined, for two years, to a diet of milk, buttermilk,

eggs, vegetables, and very weak broth.
                                      *

16  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.          Chap. I.

monstrous or reprehensible than it might be in the generality
of mankind. Your prudery about abstaining from the use of
sugar on account of the Negro Trade, in any one else would

be altogether ridiculous, but as long as the whole of your mind

keeps free from spiritual pride or too much presumption in

your facility of acquiring language, which is no more than the
dross of knowledge, you may be indulged in such whims, till

your mind becomes enlightened with more reason. My late
excellent friend, Mr. Day, the author of Sandford and Mer-

ton, abhorred the base traffic in negroes' lives as much as you

can do, and even Mr. Granville Sharp, one of the earliest

writers on the subject, has not done half as much service in the

Ibusiness as Mr. Day in the above work. And yet Mr. Day

devoured daily as much sugar as do ; for he reasonably con

cluded, that so great a system as the sugar culture in the West

Indies, where 60 millions of British property are employed,

could never be affected either way by one or one hundred in

the nation debarring themselves the reasonable use of it. Re
formation must take its rise elsewhere, if ever there is a general

mass of public virtue sufficient to resist such private interests.

Read Locke with care, for he opens the avenues of knowledge,
Ithough he gives too little himself.
                                      beg to present my kind
Irespects to the worthy family where you are, and conclude,

wishing you very well,

    " Dear Tommy, your loving Uncle,
                           " Richard Brocklesby."

    The practice of abstaining from the use of sugar,
which is so happily exposed in this very sensible letter,

was adopted by many persons at that period, rather as
a testimony of their hatred of the slave trade, than with

a view to its abolition by making the further continu
ance of it unprofitable.

   His classical studies, between 1790 and the autumn
of 1792-- when he finally quitted Youngsbury -- com
prehended -- besides the remaining books of the Iliad

and Odyssey of Homer --the Hymns and Batracho-

machia which pass under his name and the works of
Chap. I.              EARLY EDUCATION.                             17

Hesiod, Apollonius Rhodius, and Lycophron, the
whole of the Greek Tragedians and the Comedies of

Aristophanes, together with the ^Eneid of Virgil and
some portion of the works of Cicero. He likewise read

through Simpson's Fluxions and the whole of the
Principia and Optics of Newton, the great work of

Bacon De Augmentis Scientiarum, the Philosophia

Botanica, Systema Vegetabilium, Genera and Species
Plantarum, of Linnaeus, the Methodus Studii Medici of

Boerhaave, the Mineralogy of Cronstedt, the Systems of
Chemistry by Lavoisier and Nicholson, with the Prae-
lections of Higgins, Walker, and Black." He collected

and described, and sometimes figured, the principal
plants in his neighbourhood, and recorded in his journal
their distinctive botanical characters. The same system
was subsequently extended to the science of entomology,
which he studied in Fabricius with no inconsiderable

success. He also read, during the same period, the

principal tragedies of Corneille and Racine,b some of
the plays of Shakspeare, the Paradise Lost of Milton,
Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England,
Mr. Burke's Reflections on the French Revolution,

and his Treatise on the Sublime and Beautiful ; with

three or four other works, and not more, of an occa

sional interest. In conformity with the severe system

which he had adopted, he made few or no sacrifices

to the pleasures of the imagination, and was con

tented to rest in almost entire ignorance of the popular
literature of the day.

    He had now acquired a very considerable mastery of

* The Praelections of Black were in MS. ; they were not published  until

a much later period.

b Hia remarks on French authors are written in French.  C

Lifb.
18  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. I.

the Greek language, and of all the refinements of its

complicated syntax and grammar under the very
various forms which they assume in the writers of

different countries and ages.

   He appears to have read nothing hastily or curso
rily. His memory, both of facts and of words, was

singularly tenacious, and whatever he had once mas
tered he never forgot. He was repelled by no difficulty,
but relied boldly upon his clear knowledge of the prin
ciples and construction of the language to guide him
to its right interpretation. The effects of this system
are fully manifested in his Annotations on the Greek
Tragedians and Aristophanes, which are given in his
Journal, proving that he was already prepared to scru
tinize a corrupt or difficult passage with the security
and confidence of one whose judgment was fortified by
a full knowledge of his subject.

  It was his invariable habit to write exercises, or to

compose, in the languages which he studied, with a view
to test the accuracy of his knowledge of their idiom and

syntax -- a practice which no student can safely dispense

with. It was with this view that he wrote his journals

in Latin, and his criticisms on the French and Italian

authors which he read, in French and Italian. We

have already had occasion to notice the exemplary care

with which he went through the whole of Huntingford's
Exercises in Greek Prose Composition ; and it was the
Monostrophics of the same author, a collection of trans
lations into Greek verse, which first called his attention

to compositions in the Iambic metres of the Tragedians,
for which his long study of the Greek poets had fully

prepared him.
    The first exercise of this kind, which he would ap
Chap. I.  EARLY EDUCATION.                                  19

pear to have finished with much care, was Wolsey's

address to Cromwell :--

                " Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear

                      In all my miseries," &c,

ending with
                  " Thou fall'st a blessed martyr."

This exercise was written out, on vellum, in his best

style of penmanship, and forwarded to his uncle,
whose letter, in acknowledging it, will best show the
deep interest which he had already begun to take in
his education and fortunes.

" Dear Thomas Young, Jim.,

      "I duly received a pleasing letter from you with a

beautiful manuscript on vellum, a paraphrastic translation of

IWolsey's farewell to Cromwell ; better judges than am,

give it much praise for the spirit of Euripides, which they say
it breathes, but it is much to be lamented that you have not

essayed to translate--

          ' Had I but served my God with half the zeal
           I serv'd my king, he would not in mine ago

           Have left me naked to mine enemies.'

" But Mr. Burke has taken the Greek manuscript from me,

Iand means to show it to divers learned men of his acquaintance
for their philological criticism.  should be glad to have a

copy of the same on vellum, as neatly written, with the addition

of your essay to the above : but do it at your leisure, con

amore, con studio, e diligenza. Mr. Burke wishes you to try

what you can make of Lear's    horrid   imsoplermecnatiionnvos caotnionhi:s--bar
barous daughters, beginning  with this

          " Nature, hear ! dear goddess, hear a father ! "

If you can give the Greek the like compass of energetic ex

pression as my favourite Skakspeare has done in his native

tongue, Mr. Burke will laud you and judge most favourably of
your performance. He advises you to study Aristotle's Logic,

his Poetics, and above all books, Cicero's moral and philosophic
20               MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                              Chap. I.

works. Your mind is not yet strained to any false principles,

and he thinks you should be reared and cultivated in the best

manner, so as to form your views, to emulate a Bacon or a

Newton in the maturity and fullness of time ; for he thinks it

worth while for a comprehensive mind to be disregardful of any

pecuniary emoluments of a profession, if you can but be satis

fied with a small competence, and feel your mind prone to and
Isatisfied with enlarged and useful speculations.
                                                                                 talk to you
Inow as if you were strong in the manhood of your mind, but

advise nothing, only to try the powers of your faculties and

follow the bias that may lead you to the best for yourself and

the world, if you have talents that by being properly cultivated

ma"y    adorn your country and benefit mankind.                                        you  may
       Have a care, however, that my frankness towards

not puff you up with vanity, which has been the rock that many
I Ioth"ers
       have split on, and   hope you will steer clear from.                                 not
       wished to have seen  you, but finding Mr. Barclay has
Ibro"ugWhrtityeoufr,equwernittem, uonrarlesetsrsaainyseda,nmd yketehpoutghhemts
                                                                                 to you.  perusal
                                                                                 for my

and for the sight of Mr. Burke, who has taken a great fancy

to you, and will be glad to aid you with his best advice in all
Iyour ways : road his last Appeal.
                                         leave this at Red Lion
ISquare, where am going to inquire how Hudson
                                                                                          and
                                              I
hop"e   well.           would  be  willing  to                      is,aid
       Dr. Ingenhousen                                           I
                                                                                 your  inquiries

whether physical, moral, or philological.       hope you availed

you"rselhf aodf  the opportunity whilst  he was at Youngsbury.
                   fever since last saw  you, which has left exceeding
    I

                  a

                    I
                       I

                                I
weakness in my knees, so that can hardly walk one hundred

yards together, but must learn to be satisfied what past.
                                                     in
                                                                    is

Pray God to have you under his immediate care, and that no

imprudence of yours hereafter may frustrate the work that in

you, with care, may be wrought Farewell from

                                         " Richard Brocklesby."

   The exercise, alluded to in this letter, was the occasiona

of introducing Young to Dr. Charles Burney, who had
written very elaborate critique on the Monostrophics
of Huntingford in the 68th volume of the Monthly
Chap. I.  EARLY EDUCATION.  21

Review, and which produced from their author an Apo
logy which also became the subject of a further critique
from the same pen, not less minute and laborious than
the former. The same eminent scholar had also criti

cised, in the same Review, Dr. Glasse's Translation of
the Samson Agonistes of Milton, a work exhibiting no
small amount of classical taste and culture, but furnish

ing, like other attempts of the same kind, abundant

matter for objection and comment. Young would ap
pear, from his Journal, to have very carefully studied
these examples of Greek versification and the critiques
upon them, and to have added not a few to the long
list of errors or improprieties in grammar, syntax, or in

the use of words and phrases, which had escaped the

more experienced scholarship of the reviewer ; and we
find that it was one of the first uses which he made of

his improved knowledge of the Greek tragic metres, to
execute the task recommended to him by Mr. Burke

in translating Lear's imprecations upon his daughter.

               " Hear, Nature, hear ! dear goddess, hear a father !
                  Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend

                      To make this creature fruitful.
                   Into her womb convey sterility, --
                      Dry up in her the organs of increase,
                      And from her derogate body never spring

                A babe to honour her ! If she must teem,

                      Create her child of spleen, that it may live,
                      And be a thwart disnatured torment to her :
                      Let it stamp wrinkles on her brow of youth,
                   With conduit tears fret channels in her cheeks,
                      Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
                      To laughter and contempt, that she may find
                      How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
                      To have a thankless child."

   The translation which follows is correct and

scholar-like, but rather remarkable for the peculiar

circumstances under which it was produced, than as
22      MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                           Chap. I.

adequately expressing the terrible energy of the ori

ginal.

                   AEAPOY APAI.

        'AXv u ttixouirx rut fiporuv xpd-rn

        "Axoue S»i vvv ta<rSe irxrp<pxs tkpxs.

              Setiptov, eiye upovriBov fi\datxi itote
        'Ex tovSe ripxrot e%avxo~r-naeiv toxov,
        r*W(Mm /LAetayvcUfl', eireuxyova xirxtHxt.
        Auxive xw\x rextoiroix vribvos,

        "Ej^at Se fj-»wot 1% xiteuxtov atlifJ.xTos

        Tf.xvov Te^i/xor yw^oCoflxov Zl<Tl$llV   fipctyos,

        Ei S' e<rr' ivatyxn) t7)vSe texvoEirSai

        "Aato^yov aiel xai ictxpxs y^oXfis ye(Jiov,

        'PfTiSaJ adigous eyy^x^xrrir<o txyli

        ^Anrpos fJLttanraj, <Kxnayt>v            tytpov.

        Aax^ua Se Stpu.' air OfjL(j.xruv ataXpvi aei
        AiirxpxTs TTxpaxXs x\oxxs hrx/xoi fiaQiis.

        K.7)X<yv S'awatvtft/v, t£v te iwrptpoiv novwv

        KatcupgoveitO) xa! (catayeXara titos.

        "Onus tirxupri t^uSe tw x^xprlxs
        rriaQovoa
                   o\J>e' ireq, axtpus nor ex(id9r>

        "0<ra irxQrtiA olji/tegov Io-ti ^»iyiJ-XTos

        Q>ovi'ov Spxxovros, ») Ttxvtuv ayjzpio-rix.

    A second specimen, of which a fac-simile of his

own vellum copy in his own handwriting is given on

the opposite page, is a translation of Wolsey's Soli

loquy,  beginning

        " Farewell, a long farewell, to all my greatness !
          This is the state of man ;-- to day he lvuts forth
          The tender leaves of hope -- to morrow, hlossoms,

        And bears his blushing honours thick upon him :
        The third day comes a frost-- a killing frost ;

        And when ho thinks, good easy man, full surely

        IHis greatness is a ripening, nips his roots ;
        And then he falls, as I do.    have ventured,

        Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,

        These many summers in a sea of glory,
        But far beyond my depth : my high-blown pride
        At length broke under me, and now has left me,
        Weary and old with service, to the mercy
      OYAEIOY MOJVOAOriA.

ay^f tcl fovea. CvXKol retiwiooc tyvtv
riftoov ovuvjc&q £lv%e9Jiv?iX''aSow&rar

tQilcaov ocoll Qlfoc, ipayudzi ftccgv ,

XAxtl xtxotiooc> xxgla rilmZti toXolq

Soitjt }u\affffn, Jcgi>Q %'cdoc. puqfrev ffkoxaa'
xojitoc 6[ zealot; ov extyvtrriHtlv coati
Bff%i<rjjLm$ teXoixi ft tv xlvfomcp,

5 XccfJLTcgoxfiloc, xai rgvtyrjc, KSvy cxia\

fytb SvelaXoavou) rov ro!(rct9?iiov rv^riv
Chap. I.                 EARLY EDUCATION.

          Of a rude stream, that must for ever hide me.

          Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye !
          I feel my heart new open'd. Oh ! how wretched

          Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours I"

This exercise, which was undertaken on the recom

mendation of Dr. Charles Burney, is not always suc
cessful in expressing fully the sense of the original,
and besides one false quantity, is not without some

metrical improprieties, which a practised imitator of

the Greek tragic writers would have avoided. Some of
these faults are corrected in the alterations suggested
in the Note below."

    The two last months of the year 1791 he passed with
his uncle Dr. Brocklesby in London, by whom he was
introduced to the most distinguished literary society of
his day. He has recorded, in his Journal, several con
versations on subjects of Greek criticism, with Porson,

Baker, Burney, and Lawrence, which show that he was
already prepared to enter the lists with those distin
guished scholars, and to contend with them on not

very unequal terms.b

* The following alterations and corrections were inserted in the margin

of the manuscript : those marked with an asterisk (*) were made upon

the recommendation of Sir George Baker, and those marked with f upon
that of Dr. Charles Burney.

Line 1. Or ^alpot to Xohiw iras ifpas ti8of/as.i-

,, 2. Substitute \atpot Tf irkovros, otrrttp+        ifuA ptyat.
t,, For av&pameia read rav fjporoitrt.          rjv
5. 4. 3.
,, Or ra ^Xeopa tf>v\\' avBpumos tkiri&os tpvfi. *
r,,
          For irop<pvpeots   err avdeat read iroptpvpoto-iv av6Wi.+

,, 14. Or ovras iya ir6kk' fyKtKivSvvfvK ertj.t

,, 16. For Kopiros       dpaios ov read aka£ovtia  8  rjv.*
                         8'
                                     p'

                                        is
,, 17. For to-xto-ptvos read fo-xurpivt), to agree with the correction made

          in the preceding line.

,, 19. Or avravda Kvpa                      cut KaTaj9pox6Yo-ei.t
b
                      k
,, 22. Or avrijs Kpartiv rj&r) KaraiaSavopai craxpas.

12th Decembek, 1791.-- Dr. Lawrence, Sir George Baker, Torson, and

Murphy supped with my uncle Murphy read Johnson's Latin poem on
                             ;

the completion of his Dictionary.                                    Young
    24                   MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                                            Chai>. I.

       After quitting his uncle's house, he resumed his
    residence at Youngsbury, and continued there until the

    Young. Will turba scholarum do ?

    Porson. No ; the five or six examples that may be brought are not

sufficient to, justify the making k sch short.

    Young. What are we to make of immensaqne stagna ?

    Purson. Most of the            MPoSrSso. nhasvaeidi--mm"eHnesa                                stagna.  rbv    rpayov    (k  ilo-aaiv
    Speaking of Brunck,                                                                          gives us
rjytro Onpoavvaw --what can we make of this?
    Young. It must mean that he hunted him twice.

   Porson. rjytro might mean that he dragged him for                                                              himself,  but never

brought him to another : we could not say rjyero o-or
    Young. That 's certain.

    Lawrence. Perhaps avSero.

    Porson. The MS. has tov rpdyov «SiWiiii> Syer ddnpoo-vvaiv.
    ILawrence. Philodennis was a fine fellow :-- t) piv purpuras re rpoirovs
Kat rjdta arepyeiv.             read rr/ptiv.                                                          i

    IPorson. I cannot believe that any writer of the Augustan age would
lengthen koi rjdea.                read arloytiv rldt) re rpoirovs re. Nothing is more
common than to find re and koi confused ; if some copyist had written ijtfrj
rt koi rpowovs, the change would then be natural into the vulgar reading."
    On another occasion, when                        with                                        "DrW. eLadworennoctek, noawndexsapcetalykinwghaotf
the measures of the ancients,             supping  said --
                                          Porson

their cubit      "orI    opyvia was."     is  generally  translated                                    a fathomfrom stretching
    Young.               believe opyvia

outPotrhseona. rm"  thus."         that,  you have opoyviai in Aristophanes.                                                Photius in
                    To confirm

hisPYoMorusSno.gn..Le"x"iTcUohnnednooupwboteyevdmilayui stt;errapenaadod-vtOWhveaprfetiotopiSsa  ovr<os Apiaro<pdvt]s."     beginning

                                                                                                 jrofitr iirropoyvioi ?"

                                                                                                 a line in Aristophanes

with Uarovropyvibv which is impossible, though Toup would tell you that
    vYoowuenlg.mi"ghIst
Ia                       be made   short before py."                                                   numerals   were introduced  ?
                         it known  at what time the Arabic

    cannot help thinking they were immediately derived from the Greek."
(Young then exemplifies his views of the derivation of the figures, but
adds in a marginal note that Vossius and others had made the same sug
             it  is known   to be unfounded.)
gestion :                    Arabic figures were
    Porson.      " But the                                                                       very  different  at first from  their

present form, and the Greek characters have varied as much. How would
you suppose the Latin & to have been formed ?"
   Young. " I think this y· is very clearly tr."                                                       ; the fr was at one time
   Porson . " That is not the immediate derivation

written at, and this only wants the eye to make it &."

   Many   similar conversations with Dr. Burney                                                        are also mentioned. Thus,
speaking   of Morell, Young said -- " Morell has                                                        made a curious blunder :
Chap. I.                     EARLY EDUCATION.                                           25

summer of 1799, devoting himself with his accustomed
regularity and diligence to his classical, botanical, ento

mological and other studies. In the autumn of the same

year he finally quitted his residence in a family which had
become endeared to him by a truly parental kindness.

   It was at this point that Young's general education,

as far as it may be considered as the basis of his sub

sequent studies, may be said to terminate, and his

Iprofessional, and perhaps may add, his ornamental
Ieducation to begin ; and have been thus minute in
Idescribing its whole course and progress, as conceive

it presents many instructive lessons with respect to the
proper conduct of education generally -- though, on the
other hand, it may be viewed as giving the history of
the training of a very remarkable mind and therefore
in a great measure inapplicable to ordinary students.

   What then were the primary causes of the extraor
dinary success of an education conducted for so many
years with so little communication with other minds,
with so little assistance from extrinsic sources ? The

principal of these must be referred to the peculiar

constitution of his own mind ; to his great industry ;

to the conviction, which he always felt, that what one

man had accomplished, another might accomplish also

he cites as rjdofiai Kal ttpiroum i<al x"'Poflai> ^ good Greek, when Aris
                         it  to Santos
toplihuarnneesy.cal"ls  He    gives you  (teXos, as completely barbarous."  too ; when  the
                                         in another passage artxpun long

truBeYuourrennaegd.ti/n. g""TisIhtatoitsixiRsoiucethxia.c"redlleln'otr."son's."

   * This was a favourite theme with Young both in early and later life.

In a letter to his uncle, written in 1702, hecpuotes some homely lines from

some stanzas addressed by Dr. Barnard to Sir Joshua Reynolds, as expres
sive of his opinion with respect to his own art :--

                             11Thou say.st not only skill is gained,        " This
                               But genius too may be obtained,
                                     By studious imitatioo."
26  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                                                           Chap. I.

to the determination of mastering every branch of
knowledge, whose acquisition he thought necessary or

desirable.

   He had little faith in any peculiar gifts of genius,

believing the original difference between human intel

lects to be much less considerable than it was generally
supposed to be. His temper, also, in early youth was

singularly unruffled and tranquil ; he had no boyish
tastes or amusements ; he was seduced by no dreams of
the imagination from the assiduous cultivation of the

understanding.
   There were many other causes to which his suc

cess was attributable. Amongst them may be men

tioned his clear and beautiful penmanship, and that

nice and almost artistic appreciation of form which

a                                    whether as result of prac
             a

                                it,
is connected with                    is a

tice or gift of nature, which enabled him, even when

    boy, to write his Greek and other excercises, not

merely with the most minute attention to accentual

and other diacritical marks, but which extended likewise

to the most complicated contractions of the early Greek
printers. know of no practice which more calculated

to form those habits of accurate observation which are
    I
so essential to give the last finish to the edge of critical
            ;
scholarship and when we come to the examination of

his researches in later life into the Hieroglyphics of

Egypt, we shall find the influence of the same habit in

the exquisite copies which he made of the Rosetta and

    multitude of other inscriptions, and which contri
a
                    a

                      I
                                              I

                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                  I
buted not little to his great discoveries in that de

partment of research.

" This goes further," says he, " than Dr. Johnson and                                                                     now may be

allowed to hope that have not been totally mistaken, nor too decided, in

an opinion which was formed as early as can recollect to have thought

upon the subject."
Chap. I.  EARLY EDUCATION.  27

    Another important practice, to which the accuracy of
his scholarship was not a little indebted, was the rigorous
attention which he paid to the grammar and syntax, of
the languages, whether ancient or modern, which he
studied, and the patient perseverance with which he

practised composition in them. It is rarely that a stu

dent who is not compelled to do so by the rigid system
of a school, will restrain his impatience of becoming ac
quainted with the contents of ancient authors, for the
purpose of reducing his knowledge of the language in
.which they are written to the test of composition : a task

which --in its earlier stages at least, when words are

imperfectly remembered, when phrases and their con
struction are imperfectly understood, when it is diffi

cult, if not impracticable, to distinguish between what

is correct and what is incorrect, between what is easy

and classical and what is harsh and barbarous --is

always more or less laborious and distasteful to a
student who rarely appreciates the importance of the

end to be attained. It is probably for this reason

tbat great facility and nicety in the practice of com
position in the classical languages is seldom attained,
unless under the severe discipline of a public school,

 where such exercises are not only greatly encouraged
but rigorously enforced. Dr. Young may be con

 sidered as almost an unique example of an unassisted
 student, in whom this difficulty was overcome by a
 rare union of foresight and of perseverance in the use

 of the means which were necessary for that purpose
 with a steady view to the end to be attained.

    The extent to which the practice of composition in

 the classical languages, as an essential part of a sound

 classical education, should be encouraged or required,

 is a question upon which public opinion has long been
28  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. I.

and is likely to continue to be, much divided. Are such

compositions to be considered as auxiliary to the at

tainment of a critical knowledge of the syntax and
construction of a language merely, or as a means of

cultivating the taste by the imitation of those models

of pure and refined expression and sentiment to which

Ifthe whole civilized world has been so long accustomed
to do homage ?  the first of these views be taken

there can be little doubt but that translations from

our own into the classical languages, would most

certainly accomplish the object proposed, as they allow
of less licence in the use of words and phrases than
mere imitations or original compositions. But even

upon the range of such translations some limitations

must be imposed : for the forms of many languages, more

especially that of the Greek, are as various as those of

our own from the time of Chaucer downwards, and even

if it were desirable, it would not be practicable, to attain

to an equal mastery of them all ; and the same observa
tion is still more applicable to translations into verse,

where the forms of versification are so multiplied. It is

therefore to prose translations into the language of the

best and purest authors of the best ages, whether of

Greek or Roman literature, that we must look for that

vigorous and well-disciplined training in their gram
mar and syntax, and of those other niceties in the use

of words and phrases which is essential to the acquisi
tion of accurate scholarship -- and beyond these it
would seem hardly necessary to proceed --and though
it may be quite true that there are many proprieties

and even beauties which a student who neglected

similar exercises in imitation of the great tragic, heroic,
or elegiac poets of Greece or Rome, would fail to notice

or appreciate, and some delicacies of construction which
Chap. 1.                  EARLY EDUCATION.                             29

he might altogether overlook, yet it should always be
kept in mind that the business of education is one of

selection, where much must be postponed and much
must be sacrificed, in order to lay a secure basis for

the more important parts of the vast fabric of human

knowledge."

   This self-education, however, eminent as was its

success, was not without very serious disadvantages.1"
He had no sufficient opportunity of freely recipro
cating his thoughts with other minds than his own,
at that period of life when such interchanges are

most cordial and spontaneous : when every impulse
of feeling, every creation of the fancy, every dream
of the imagination, every hope that we cherish, every
apprehension that we entertain, is thrown open to

our equals in age and in fortune ; when the expe
rience of life, its trials and its disappointments have
not chilled the ardour of our affections, or clouded

the brightness of those visions of happiness or dis
tinction in which youth so much delights to indulge.

If he had to regret no loss of time or opportunities in

the pursuit of knowledge, to deplore no sacrifices to
the seductive influences of boyish sports or idle com-

* See Observations on the Statutes of the University of Cambridge, p. 157.

     b  In a letter  to   one of his  bsaroytshe: --rs,"  Robert, the  course of whose studies he
                      to  direct, he                                   have readily fallen in with
had     undertaken                                        Although I

the idea of assisting you in your learning, yet it is in reality very little

that a person who is seriously and industriously disposed to improve may

not obtain from books with more advantage than from a living instructor :

something is wanting for the direction of application in the right l ath, but
it must be the strength of the traveller and not of the guide that must

conquer the difficulties of the journey. Masters and mistresses are very

necessary to compensate for want of inclination and exertion ; but whoever

would arrive at excellence must be self-taught, as I lately heard main

tained by one of the first scholars in Europe." Little reliance can be safely

placed upon Young's opinion in a case where he judged of other minds and

dispositions by his own.
30  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. I.

panions, he had, on the other hand, no means of observ
ing the difficulties which they experience in the progress
of their studies or of fixing upon those points, in the
communication of knowledge, which though clear and
obvious to himself, were likely to be obscure or unin

telligible to others : he was throughout life destitute
of that intellectual fellow-feeling (if the phrase may
be used), which is so essential to form a successful

teacher or lecturer, or a luminous and interesting

writer.

   His mathematical was, if possible, still more unas

sisted than his classical education, and we can only
form an estimate of the correctness and soundness of

his knowledge, by his philosophical writings in after

life, which, though always obscure and generally defi
cient in elegance and concinnity of form, yet touch
upon many of the most abstruse applications of ma
thematics to natural philosophy, and are often remark
able for the simple means by which the most difficult
problems are solved. There is, in fact, no department
of his very various researches and labours, in which the
resources of his genius (for a less forcible term would
be inappropriate) are more remarkable than in this.

We fear, however, that it would be difficult, if not
impossible, to point out the causes of his success. A

desultory mathematical education rarely leads to sound

or accurate knowledge. One or more fundamental prin

ciples imperfectly understood or altogether miscon

ceived, are generally found to affect the stability of the
whole structure which is raised upon it. The very

basis of demonstration is unsound, and there is an end

of all certain distinction between truth and error. If,
therefore, in the remarkable instance before us it pro
duced a different result, it is rather referable to the
Chap. 1.  EARLY EDUCATION.  31

peculiar character of his mind than to the discipline
to which it was subjected.

   We find from his journals that he studied mathe
matical, much in the same manner as other, books.

The six books of Euclid were begun on such a day,

and were finished on another ; and we hear no more

of them. Algebra, trigonometry, fluxions, were treated
in a similar manner. The Principia of Newton must
have presented to a student thus prepared greater
difficulties than to the contemporaries of its author,

to nearly all of whom it was a sealed book : however,
he not only read it deliberately through, but we
find in his Journals remarks on some of the leading

propositions contained in it, which show that he had
very fully understood, not merely their general pur

port, but also the full force of the demonstrations. A

retentive memory and great clearness and precision of

thought would appear to have superseded in his case

the necessity of a more progressive training. In other

respects the effects of this irregular intrusion into
the inmost recesses of philosophy were such as might
have been anticipated : he never felt the necessity
nor appreciated the value of those formal processes of

proof which other minds require.
32  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. II.

                      CHAPTER II.

                    MEDICAL EDUCATION-- LONDON.

In the autumn of 1792, Mr. Young took lodgings in

Westminster for the purpose of prosecuting his medi
cal and anatomical studies, and became an attendant at
the lectures of Dr. Baillie, Mr. Cruikshanks, and sub
sequently of John Hunter, in the Hunterian School of
Anatomy. The choice of his profession was greatly
influenced by the washes of his uncle, Dr. Brocklesby,
who had already undertaken the charge of his educa
tion, and had given him reason to expect the reversion
of such a portion of his fortune as would secure him a
moderate independence. He had access, also, through
the same kind relative, to the most distinguished lite
rary circles in the metropolis, including Mr. Burke,
Mr. Windham, Mr. Frederick North (afterwards Lord
Guildford), Sir Joshua Reynolds, Dr. Lawrence, Sir
George Baker, Dr. Vincent, and others ; as well as
the leading members of the profession which he had
chosen.

   His manners, at this period of his life, are described

by one who knew him well, as very quiet and pleasing ;
like those of the more cultivated members of the society
to which he still outwardly adhered, though he had al
ready abandoned many of the peculiar tenets by which

they are distinguished. His conversation, on classical

and scientific subjects, showed a confidence and precision
which were far beyond his years ; whilst his ignorance
Chap. II.  MEDICAL EDUCATION: LONDON.     33

of popular literature and of the habits of thinking of his

equals in age and station, was in striking contrast with

the range and accuracy of his other acquirements.

  It was in conformity with the advice of Mr. Burke,

with whom his uncle lived in habits of great intimacy,

and who, on that account, had taken a more than com

mon interest in the conduct of his studies, that he had

undertaken the systematic study of the philosophical

·land other works of Cicero ; the model on which, accord

ing to the testimony of one of his friends, that distin

guished writer and statesman had laboured to form

his own character, in eloquence, in policy, in ethics
and in philosophy. This task he completed with his

usual diligence, as the critical and other observations

entered in his journals sufficiently testify. He was
in the habit of copying, in his common-place book,

the most striking passages which he met with in his

perusal both of classical and modern authors ; and in

the selection which he has made from the works of this

great expositor of the opinions of the ancient world,
it is not difficult to discover indications of the pre-

valent disposition of his own mind and character :--a

moral tone of very unusual strictness and purity, with

great firmness of purpose and reliance upon his own

powers, such as we find sketched in a passage which

he has quoted as peculiarly expressive of his own aims

Iin the formation of his habits and the conduct of his

studies. " For my part, judges," says Cicero, " think
the man, if any such there be, who possessed that

strength of mind, that constitutional tendency to tem

perance and virtue, which would lead him to avoid all

enervating indulgences, and to complete the whole

career of life in the midst of labours of the body and

efforts of the mind ; whom neither tranquillity nor

Life.                                  D
3I  MEMOIR OF PR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. II.

relaxation, nor the flattering attentions of his equals
in age and station, nor public games, nor banquets
would delight ; who would regard nothing in life as

Idesirable which was not united with dignity and vir

tue ; -- such a man regard as being, in my judgment,
furnished and adorned with some special gifts of the

gods.""

   In the autumn of 1793, he entered himself as a pupil

at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and devoted himself^
systematically to the preparatory studies of his future
profession. Amongst other lectures which he attended
--in addition to those which have been mentioned be
fore--were those of Sir Alexander Crichton and also of

Dr. Latham, on the Practice of Physic ; on Midwifery,
by Doctors Clark and Osborn ; and on Botany, by Sir

J. E. Smith. Mr. Wilson, the eminent anatomist, the

father of Dr. Young's successor at St. George's Hospital,
was the demonstrator of Anatomy. He took ample notes
of the lectures which he attended. Occasionally they are
written in Latin ; and Greek quotations and phrases

are not unfrequently introduced. It maybe presumed,

that before the beginning of the lecture, he sometimes

amused himself with mathematical calculations and

demonstrations, as many such appear among his notes.

His Prcelectiones Anatomicce open with a notice of an

introductory discourse by Dr. Baillie, which is thus

characterised :-- Introductio generalis prcecipue historica

et monitoria, satis elegans, laude non indigna. Then

    Ego, si quis, judices, hoc robore animi, atque hac indole virtutis ac
continentia? fuit, ut rcspueret omnos voluptates, omnemque vitai suae

cursum in laborc corporis atque in animi contentione conficeiet : quem
non quies, non remissio, non a:qualium studia, non ludi, non convivia
delectarent : nihil in vitd expetendum pntarct, nisi quod essct cum laude
et cum dignitate conjunctum : hunc, mca scntentia, diviuis quibusdam
bonis instructum atque ornatum puto. Pro M. Caelio.
CUAP. II.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : LONDON.                35

follows a demonstration by Mr. Wilson, on the muscles
of the back, with references to numbers in Winslow's

book, which mark out the course of inquiry to be pur

sued by the student on his return from the lecture."

The medical and anatomical books which he read,

in conjunction with his hospital duties and lectures,

were few in number, including, amongst some others,
those of Winslow, Albini, Cheselden, Monro the elder,

Harvey, and Haller. He still continued to reserve, from

his other studies, no small portion of his time to com

plete his knowledge of the philosophical and historical

writers of antiquity. We also find numerous extracts

in his journals from nearly all the minor Latin poets ;

with several sketches of monographs on various depart

ments of entomology and natural history, some of which

were communicated to the Gentleman's Magazine. b

   In the course of his professional studies and dissec

tions, his attention had been called to the anatomical

structure of the eye, considered as an instrument of

vision. It is known to be composed of a succession of

curved refracting substances, of various densities and

Ifpowers, which form upon the retina an inverted image
of the objects of vision.  the adjustment of this

machinery be imperfect or deranged, the picture thus

formed, as well as the impression of sight which it

produces, is defective likewise. Thus, in long-sighted

persons, the focus of the rays which the eye collects,
from objects at the ordinary distance of clear vision,

   * Quoted from Mr. Pettigrew's very pleasing sketch of Dr. Young's
Life, which he published in the Medical Portrait Gallery.

   b His first appearance, as an author, was a Note on Gurn Laudanum,
with a verbal criticism on Longinus, signed with his initials, inserted in
the Monthly Review for 1791. The criticism was admitted by Dr.

Charles llurney (with whom he frequently corresponded on questions of
Greek literature) to be perfectly correct. Works, vol. ii. p. 439.

                                                                                          D2
3G     MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. II.

is formed behind the retina ; whilst in those who are

short-sighted it is formed before. In nearly all such

cases, this defect can be remedied by an artificial addi

tion to the natural lenses of the eye, which tend to
shorten its focal length .in one case and to lengthen it

in the other.

    But there is a residual difficulty, even in well-con

stituted eyes, which remains to be explained. By

what adjustment of its machinery does the same eye

view both near and distant objects, without being

sensible of confusion or obscurity ; for it is utterly

inconceivable that the same optical apparatus should
form the images of near and distant objects at the same

distance from the iris.

    Much of the confusion, which would otherwise arise,

is probably corrected by habit, and very possibly may
form an important element in those delicate laws of

aerial colouring and effect, by which the impression of

distance as well as of form is produced. It is only

when this confusion is very considerable, as in the case

of very near or of very distant objects, that we become

sensible of an effort within the eye itself, or in the

                   ;

                         it,
parts connected with by which  partially, not
                               it

                                   is

                                                if

entirely, corrected in other words, when we look at

very distant objects, the eye assumes a state which

would make near objects appear confused, and con
versely. It
               is  inferred, therefore, that the eye pos

sesses within itself, or in its adjuncts, the capacity of

altering its focal length.

    Leeuwenhoek, in the seventeenth century, had very

accurately described and delineated the fibrous struc

ture observable in the crystalline lens of various ani:

mals and Dr. Henry Pemberton, of Oxford--the friend
and commentator of Newton --at a subsequent period,
C'UAP. II.           MEDICAL EDUCATION : LONDON.                           37

had conceived those fibres to be muscles, by whose

action those changes in the" form of the eye are pro
duced which are required for the adequate explanation
of the phenomena of near and distant vision. Young

would appear to have been aware of Dr. Pembcrton's

hypothesis, though he had not studied his writings ;
and in dissecting the eye of an ox, when very recently
slaughtered, he fancied that he had discovered, in the

arrangement and attachment of those fibres, very satis
factory evidences of their muscularity. The Memoir in
which liis views were explained was read to the Itoyal
Society on the 30th May, 1793, and was published in the

Transactions for that year. It is written in very plain

and lucid language, more like the style of a practised
writer and anatomist than of a youth just entering
upon his professional studies. The merit of this essay

was considered to be sufficient to justify his election
as a Fellow of the Society in the following year."

   Circumstances gave to this first acknowledged pub

lication of our author a greater degree of importance

than it altogether deserved.

* The following is Lis certificate, copied from the Records of the Royal
             :--
Soc"ieMtyr.          Young, of Little Queen  Street,  Westminster,  a gentleman
             Thomas

conversant with various branches of literature and science, aud author of a

paper on Vision, published in the Philosophical Transactions, being desirous

of becoming a Fellow of the Royal Society, we recommend him from our

personal knowledge, as worthy of that honour, and likely to become a

useful member of the So"cieWty.. Combe.               Jas. E. Smith.

                         O. Baker.                    Evebard Home.
                         Adair Crawford.              Richard Brocklesdy.

                         Stephen Weston.              F. Montague.

                         R. Farmer.                   M. Baillie.
                         Chas. Towneley.              John Walker.
                         E. W. Gray.                  W. Heberden, Jun.
                                George Shaw.
"March 19, 1794.         for and elected, June 19, 1794."
             " Balloted
;5s  MEM01R OF DB. THOMAS YOUNG.                           Chap. 11.

   It had no sooner appeared, than the great anatomist

and physiologist, John Hunter, claimed the discovery,

as his own, and after notifying his claim, he ad

dressed an application to Sir Joseph Banks to be

allowed to give the Croonian Lecture at the Royal

Society for the following year, expressly upon the mus

cularity of the crystalline lens. A very small portion

only of this lecture was completed at the time of his

death, which took place in the following autumn," and

the further prosecution of the investigation was re

sumed by his brother-in-law, Sir Everard Home, in the

Croonian Lecture of the following year, in connexion

with a series of apparently very accurate and well-

designed experiments made by himself and Mr.

Ramsden, the eminent optician. The result of these

experiments seemed very decisively to negative the

existence of those  changes of the form of the eye,                                            in
passing from near
                    to distant vision--and conversely                                          --

which the hypothesis in question was designed to

explain, and it was consequently very generally aban

doned. Young himself, in the first instance, yielded

to the force of this evidence, and in more than one

publication afterwards announced that he no longer

ventured to maintain his opinion in the face of such

distinguished authorities. b

* See a short notice by Sir Everard Hume, entitled 'Some facts relative

to the late Mr. Hunter's preparation for the Croonian Lecture,' where the
fragment which he had prepared is given. -- Philosophical Transactions for

1794, p. 21. On the day of Hunter's death the following lines appear

among Young.s notes on the medical lecture he was attending, showing his

deep sense of the loss which  the science of physiology    and medicine had
thereby sustained : --        " Hei milii ! Quantum

     l'raasidium Ausonia et quantum tu )wrdis, Iule.''

17b96I,nhehissayGso:t--tin"geSnentDenistsiaertnautipoenr,  to be noticed hereafter, published  in
                                                           de lentis crystalline usu in oculo  ad
Chap. II.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : LONDON.                          3!)

The reclamation by John Hunter of the proof of the

correctness of this hypothesis, and the notice, by Sir
Everard Home, of his proposed memoir on it -- which

was read to the Royal Society in the early part of the

following year -- gave rise to a rumour that Sir Charles
Blagden -- who was generally well acquainted with all

that was passing in the philosophical world, and very
much given to retailing it -- had spoken of the subject
in some detail, at a dinner party at the house of Sir

Joshua Reynolds, on the 6th of November, 1791,

where Dr. Lawrence, Dr. Walker King, Boswell, Dr.

Brocklesby, and Young, were also present. The cir

culation of such a report and the plagiarism which it

implied, was so injurious to Young's character, that he

felt it necessary to address letters to all these persons,

requesting them to say, whether the subject of vision

and any recent researches connected with were men   a

tioned on the occasion referred to. A very distinct   it,

denial was given by all the parties, as i'ar as could be

authorized by the vague recollections of conversation

reported to have taken place more than two years before,
                       Blagden --who would
and Sir Charles       to the report --assured        appear to  have
given currency                                      Young that
                                                                " he

was by no means so clear as to be sure that he had

told him Hunter's opinion." The imputation was dis

tinctly withdrawn by him, and was speedily forgotten
                                                    a

                                                       is

                                                                                                           ;
no one, in fact, who was acquainted with the scrupulous

regard for truth for which Dr. Young was always dis

tinguished, could ever have given moment's credit

to it.

diversas rcrnm videndarom distantias occommodando proposita, nequo nova

nequc vera videtur."  '     similar acknowledgment  also made at the end

                         A
of his Memoir in the Philosophical Transactions for 1801, read in Novem

ber, 1800, entitled Outlines of Experiments and Inquiries respecting

Sound and Light.'
40  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                          Chap. II.

    We shall anticipate somewhat on the current of our

narrative, to refer to Dr. Young's subsequent views on
this controverted subject. We have before noticed his

candid abandonment of his first opinion : he resumed

it,

                    a
    however, afterwards, and embodied his reasons for
doing so in very able and elaborate memoir, " On the
Mechanism of the Eye," which was read to the Royal

Society on the 27th November, 1800, and published in

their Transactions for the following year.
   The experiments of Sir Everard Home and Mr.

Ramsden had seemed to prove, that, in the adjustment

of the eye to different distances,                       the curvature of
    a

                                is

                                      ; it

                                                     is
the cornea and the length of its axis --and not of the
crystalline lens --which changed and further that the

eye of man which had been couched, or deprived of its

crystalline lens, was perfectly susceptible of this adjust

ment, which therefore could not be dependent upon it.

It was the assertion of this startling and apparently

unanswerable fact, upon such high authority, which
at first induced Dr. Young to revoke his original

opinion but was very serious objection to its
adoption, that would require an amount of change in
    is

       ;

               it it

                                 a
the cornea, and an extension of the sclerotica, which

there no adequate anatomical provision to produce,
or safely to apply. Dr. Young, by means of an im

proved form of Dr. Porterfield's optometer, an instru
ment admirably adapted to measure the focal length of

the eye, and by numerous experiments, both on eyes
which had and which had not, been couched, was ena

bled to negative any sufficient change in the curvature
of the cornea in all cases, and further, decisively to

show that couched eyes had no power of adjustment to
near and distant objects. He thus altogether reversed
the conclusions of his predecessors in this inquiry, and
Chap. H.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : LONDON.  41

resumed his own." Sir John Herschel, who has care

fully examined the arguments and evidence adduced
in support of these opposite results, (and there is no

judge more competent and dispassionate,) pronounces
in favour of the views of Dr. Young, which are also
supported by M. Axago, with his usual precision and

vehemence of argumentation. It would not be fair,

however, to keep out of view the serious anatomical
and other arguments which may still be urged against
this conclusion ; thus the chemists will object that the
fibres of the crystalline lens do not present, when sub
jected to the usual tests, the character of muscles : and
the physiologists, that the palpitations which usually

accompany muscular contractions, if those fibres were

muscles, would produce unsteadiness in the picture

upon the retina.

   In the spring of 1794, when proceeding from Ox

ford, on a visit to his friends in the West of England,
he passed through Bath, where the Duke of Richmond
was drinking the waters, under the advice of Dr.

Brocklesby, by whom he was commissioned to make
inquiries of his local medical attendant respecting the
state of his patient's health. The Duke, who had
heard of his inquiries, requested to see him. The
following letter gives a very favourable impression of

Young's manners and conversation :--

"My Dear Doctor,  " Bath, May 5th, 1794.

I" need not write much about myself, as your nephew,

who dined with us yesterday, will give you a good account of

   * It is proper to observe that Sir Everard Home, in a paper in the

Philosophical Transactions for the following year, adhered to his first
opinion : he says that Mr. Henry Englefield, a very skilful observer, re
peated some of the experiments made by himself and Mr. Ramsden, and
arrived at the same conclusions.
1:1          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. II.

Imy health.  have, however, still returns of headache and my
IIlegs continue very weak. But must tell you how much pleased
we all are with Mr. Young.  really never saw a young man

more pleasing and engaging. He seems to have already ac

quired much knowledge ' in most branches, and to be studious

of obtaining more : it comes out without affectation on all sub

jects he talks upon. He is very cheerful and easy without

assuming anything ; and even on the peculiarity of his dress

and Quakerism he talked so reasonably, that one cannot wish

Ihim to alter himself in any one particular. In short, end as
I began, by assuring you that the Duchess and I are quite

charmed with him, and shall be happy to renew our acquaint

                 retu"rn    to London.
Iance with him whenwe
                            am, yours mo"stRsiciniicmeorenlyd,,
" Dr. Brocklesby."                                               &c.

    After a short sojourn with his parents in Somerset
shire, he made a six weeks' tour in Devonshire and
Cornwall, with his friend and fellow student, Hudson

Gurney. He has described at great length the princi
pal incidents of this journey; and few things, which his
previous studies enabled him to observe, would appear
to have escaped his observation. The heaths of Corn
wall are not rich in rare plants, but he collected such
as were new to him. The richest mining district in
Europe, however, afforded an ample harvest of minerals.
He noted the characters of such rocks as appeared to
lrini to be remarkable, but the science of geology, at
that period, had not yet furnished the clue by which
such observations could be usefully interpreted. His
taste for the beauties of architecture, or natural scenery,

had not been cultivated, and they are rarely or very
coldly noticed ; but his interest was strongly excited
by remarkable machinery or processes in manufactures

or mining operations, which he generally very fully
described. He was much struck, even in those days,
Chap. II.         MEDICAL EDUCATION : LONDON.                                     43

either of strict conservatism or revolutionary madness,
by the anomaly presented in our system of parliamen
tary representation by a multitude of small boroughs
in Cornwall, and the enervating effects which that
system appeared to produce upon their industry and
material prosperity.

  It can hardly be expected that letters addressed to

an aged relative of somewhat formal habits, should
possess a very lively character, or afford many specimens
which are likely to interest a general reader ; we shall
confine our extracts, therefore, to one passage relating
to St. Michael's Mount, in Cornwall, as somewhat
characteristic of his promptitude and skill in Greek

versification.

   " In the morning we went to see St. Michael's Mount, on
the summit of which Sir John St Aubin has a castle ; we of
course sat in the chair --

              ' Where the great vision of the guarded mount
                Looks towards Nauinanco's and Bayona's coasts.'

IIt is commonly said that the man who sits in this chair shall
always be master of his wife.   threw this into a distich, while

there, in order to inscribe it on the lead covering the tower on

which it stands.

           "Ootiq tc tnpt)\6v roh' tSoq rri\t'o-KOirov rjrai,

           isKetvov att Kparttivh\o\ov Xeyerat.
                 in
The
   "                                        ijc
                                                                by
                                                                            a

                                                   I

                                                                              it
      mount a fine   object from all the neighbouring           coast           We
                    through Penzance to the Land's             End.
      We proceeded

ought to have taken the northern road,  Chapel Carn Brae,

the highest hill the neighbourhood, affording wide view of

both channels, but not knowing its situation, we missed by

going through Buryan, straight to Sennan, where wc dined at
The first public-house in the kingdom. Here also made a

distich to leave behind me,

           'EvBaSt Tr)\vyeruc i\0i>v tic vetpara yaii/c
41  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                       Chap. II.

This I afterwards turned into Iambics,

    Ioyyioc tic  Topvuov fttta,

    lloppwdtv i\$uv yijc iir ta\arov ntlov
    Mvrji/.' evvopeiac rove i' typai^t rovt ori\ovs"

   He visited Salisbury, on his return, on the 13th
June, the day on which he attained the age of twenty-
one years. Though the day was far spent when

he arrived, he proposed to ride over the plain to

IStonehenge, but was prevented by a storm of rain : "

bad no disposition," says he in writing to his uncle,

I" to be wet through and benighted for the pleasure of

groping over this monument, except that had a mind
for a frolic to commemorate my twenty -first birth-day."

On the following day he returned to London to settle
down again to his studies with renewed ardour for the
remainder of the summer.

    Towards the latter end of August he paid visits,
amongst other friends of his uncle's, to Dr. Herschel
at Slough, Mr. Burke at Beaconfield, and to the
Duke of Richmond at Goodwood : the Duke, who was

then and had been for several years Master-General of
the Ordnance, was confirmed, upon this second visit, in

the favourable opinion he had before expressed of his
manners and attainments, and offered him the appoint
ment of his private secretary, which was at that time
vacant. He was himself attached to philosophical
pursuits and well acquainted with the construction and
use of astronomical and surveying instruments, and
the great Trigonometrical Survey, which came under
his department, was greatly indebted for its successful
prosecution to the support which he gave to both
privately and officially. Young was highly gratified by
an offer of so flattering nature, and which presented
so favourable an opening to the most distinguished
                 a

                                                     it,
Chap. II.        MEDICAL EDUCATION: LONDON.              45

society as well as to the honours and emoluments of
public life. Mr. Burke, who had formed a very high

estimate of his original powers and attainments, as well
as Mr. Wyndham, who were consulted on the subject,

advised him not to accept the appointment, and recom

mended him rather to proceed to Cambridge, and study

the law ; but he finally determined to adhere to the pro
fession which he had first chosen, to which the position
of his uncle appeared to offer so favourable an intro
duction. He was also not yet fully prepared to aban
don the Society in which he had been educated, which
the acceptance of such an office would have rendered

necessary." The offer was therefore gratefully declined,
with the expression of a willingness to accept the office
for a limited period, or until such time as might be

necessary to enable the Duke to find a person who was
likely to suit him. This proposal, however, was de
clined in a letter remarkable for its good sense and

considerate kindness. "

  In the course of this summer, he prepared for the

Linnaian Society, a scientific description of a new spe
cies of Opercularia -- a plant from Australia -- which
was read on the 7th of October, and published in their
Transactions for 1797. He was soon afterwards elected

Fellow of the Society. The interest which at one period
of his life he had taken in the study of Natural History
would appear to have afterwards given way to other

I"* In a letter  to his mother,  which was written on this occasion, he says : --
                 lately refused  the pressing offer of a situation which would
    have very

have been the most favourable and flattering introduction to political life
Ithat a young man in my circumstances could desire.
                                                     might have lived

at a duke's table, with a salary of 200?. a year, as his secretary, and with
Ihopes of a more lucrative appointment in a short time.
                                                         should have

been in an agreeable family, have had time enough for study, a library, a

laboratory, and philosophical apparatus at my service ; and I was not

ashamed to allege my regard for our Society as a principal reason for my

not accepting the proposal."
in  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. II.

and more pressing studies, as this was the first and
the last memoir relating to it which he contributed to
the Transactions of the Linnaean or any other society.

    The publication of the Calligraphia Grasca was de
signed by his friend Mr. Hodgkin, chiefly as a vehicle
for examples of the correct and elegant formation of
the Greek characters, in accordance with the forms

given in the most carefully written manuscripts, and
also as exhibited in specimens of his own penmanship.
He addressed a prefatory letter to the editor, in very
neat Latin, stating the objects of the work, and giving
very minute details of the formation of the letters,
descending even to the cutting and holding of the pen.
The first part of the work, which was finished in 1794,
was inscribed by the editor to Dr. Young, in very
grateful and affectionate terms : the second part, en
titled Poecilographia Graeca, exhibiting the various
alphabets and contractions which are found in the
Greek manuscripts of different ages, was not published
until a much later period, in consequence of the delays
of the engraver. The examples were chiefly derived
from Astle's Palaeographia,a with various important
additions contributed or suggested by Professor Porson

and Dr. Charles Burney.

   * There is a letter from Mr. Astle to Young, granting permission for
the use of the materials in his book, which, he says, had been collected
and copied by John Caravallo, a Greek, from the ancient manuscripts of
Dr. Mead and Dr. Askew.
Chap. in. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH   47

          CHAPTER III.

          MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.

It was now determined that he should attend the

medical lectures at Edinburgh during the ensuing
winter session, and proceed, in the following year, to
Gottingen to complete his course of professional study,
and take his degree. The regulations of the College
of Physicians in London confined the privileges of their

fellowships to graduates of Oxford and Cambridge ex
clusively, granting to those of other Universities the
rank of Licentiates only, and that upon the condition
of a two years' residence in the same University at
which they subsequently took their degree. These

regulations had been recently modified, and Young's

friends in the College, or those who gave him informa

tion respecting them, would appear to have somewhat

mistaken their purport. The consequence was that,.,

after the lapse of two years spent in Edinburgh and

Germany, he felt it expedient or necessary to proceed

to Cambridge, where he took the degree of Bachelor

of Physic, and afterwards of Doctor, after the regular
Itforms.
          was not therefore until a much later period

of life than usual, that he was admitted to the full

honours of his profession.

    Before taking up his residence in Edinburgh, he
made a short tour in some of the northern counties,

particularly Derbyshire and Yorkshire, examining with
48  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. III.

his accustomed activity and intelligence, the collections
of art or natural history, mines, mineral springs, manu
factures or other curiosities, which came in his way.

A fellow traveller, the Rev. Mr. Thorp," Vicar of Bux

ton, who had ascertained his relationship to Dr. Brock-
lesby, showed him many civilities, and introduced him
to Mr. Bakewell, of Dishley near Ashbourn, the pre
cursor of those useful men who have devoted themselves

to the improvement of the breeds of stock, and agricul
ture. They were received by him in the true style of

an honest farmer's hospitality.

  I" viewed with pleasure," says Young, " his improvements
Iin the various branches of his occupation ; felt his rams and

sheep regularly as they were shorn, and went through all the
forms of examination. . What he has done is shown best by two
sheep which have always lived together, one of his own im
proved breed, the other of his original breed from which all his
stock was derived by selected mixtures without crossing with
any other breed. He entirely neglects the wool, but has dimi
nished the bone and increased the fat in a surprising degree.
Some bones are cleaned as specimens, and some pieces of
meat were hung up, four inches thick in fat. Another grand
object which he has effected is to bring a stream of water by a
cut a mile in length, so as to water nearly every part of his farm ;
the trenches are kept in the neatest order ; he has made a com
parative experiment of river and spring water, which has been
somewhat in favour of the latter. The water remains twelve or
twenty-four hours in summer, in winter sometimes a week, and
is then properly drained off. By this management he mows it
four times in the season ; not for hay, for though the land would
produce two crops of hay, the climate would not permit them
to make more than one ; but he never suffers his cows to graze
on the land, finding that they spoil it and waste the grass, and
therefore feeds them in stalls with mown grass." After men-

     * He had bred three sons to physic, one of whom, the father of the
present Archdeacon of Bristol, was for many years a very eminent physician
 at Leeds.
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.           40

tioning some other curious particulars, he adds, " The farm is

not large, about 460 acres, but probably supports about twice
as many animals as most others of the same extent : the ex

pense must be considerable, but the income is said to be 5000/.

a-year, and very possibly may be more ; for it is said that he

has let three rams only for the season for more than 1000/. ;

yet at one time from the liberal entertainment of numerous

visitors, and perhaps from the chance attending all schemes,
Ihe was much reduced in circumstances, but now
                                                    hope he

thrives."

At Derby, Young visited Dr. Darwin, of the first

volume of whose Zoonomia we find a very elaborate

critique in his journals. It is a singular and not very

philosophical compound of metaphysics and physiology,

and has passed with his other writings -- notwithstand
ing the magnificent versification of his poetry -- into

an oblivion, which is not altogether deserved and in
                                                    At the
strange contrast with their former popularity.

conclusion of his last visit to him he says, --

  I" was highly gratified with the remainder of the day which
I spent almost entirely with Darwin. He gave me my choice

of looking over three cabinets, of cameos, of minerals, and

Iof plants ; the two last viewed very superficially, but spent

some time with him in admiring a collection of impressions
bought in Italy : he says that he borrowed much of the imagery
of his poetry from the graceful expression and vigorous concep

tion which they breathe."

On parting he gave him a letter of introduction to a

friend in Edinburgh, the terms of which he quotes,

with very pardonable satisfaction, in a letter to his

uncle: --"He unites the scholar with the philosopher,

and the cultivation of modern arts with the simplicity

of ancient manners."

At Durham, he met with Mr. Hugh Salvin, a

fellow student at the medical school in London, who

Life.                                            E
50  MEMOIR OF Dli. THOMAS YOUNG.           Chap. III.

was proceeding, like lumself, to pass the approaching

winter at Edinburgh.

    "He has studied," writes Young, "at Cambridge, and is

well read in ancient and modern languages ; he joins his know
                                                     We
ledge with much modesty and agreeable dispositions.

called on T. Burgess,"  whom we expected   to find at home in the
                        was gone into the
College here ; but he                      country--I, however,

left my name, with Hodgkin's plate of my Greek Translation
from King Lear. The Cathedral is a noble pile of Gothic
building, but far too heavy to be comparable to York ; still it

affords a grand object in many rich views, with the town, the ad
jacent woods, bridges and banks of the river Wear ; which all
together form as numerous and picturesque groups as any other
city in the kingdom. They are now rebuilding many parts of

the abbey. Most of the land in the neighbourhood is the property
of the Dean and Chapter and of the Bishop : this is considered

very inimical to improvement ; a year and a quarter's rent being

paid every seven years as a fine, and the incumbents being
mostly old men and not disposed to grant encouragement of

which they will not reap the benefit."

    He arrived at Edinburgh on the 20th October, and

established himself in lodgings in St. James's Square.
His reputation, which had preceded him, and the various

letters of introduction with which he was furnished,

opened to him the best society of the place. Amongst
the students were many with whom he had been pre
viously acquainted in London, when attending the

medical lectures : Bostock, afterwards a physician in
London, and a physiologist of some eminence, with
whom he long maintained a very animated correspond
ence ; Bancroft, a man of considerable attainments,

with whom he lived in habits of great intimacy : he was

the son of the author (amongst other works) of a trea
tise, entitled Experimental Researches on the Philosophy

   " Afterwards successively Bishop of St. David's and Salisbury, and a
well-known Greek scholar : he was at that time a prebendary of Durham,
and rector of Winston in the same county.
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION: EDINBURGH.                                         51

of Permanent Colours, which Young made the subject

of favourable critique in the Quarterly ; Turner, who

was afterwards a distinguished physician at Liverpool ;

Gibbes, of Bath, and many others.

I" have found," says he, ' a much more select and desirable
Iparty of fellow students here, than
                                               have met with before ;

I Ithere are five or six Oxford and Cambridge men, with most of
whom associate.      dined to-day (Nov. 4.) with Voght, a

German from Hamburg, who attended Higgins's lectures last

winter : he has taken a house, and is to spend the winter here ;

ISchmeisser is to join him shortly. They have been travelling

together through Great Britain and Ireland, and have been

much entertained this afternoon with Voght's very intelligent

Iaccount of the state of Ireland, of the management of the poor
in Hamburg, and other interesting conversation.  cannot yet

I Ipretend to judge from the few introductory lectures of the dif

ferent courses that attend ; but am inclined to suspect that

they are well worth once attending. Gregory is a very agree

able and well informed man ; he seems to have vigorous and

rapid thought."

The Edinburgh School of Medicine enjoyed, at that

time, a very high character. Gregory, who held the

                 it,
                            is

                                           aa
first rank in was one of family. singularly distin

guished in the history of the sciences, which has given

during the last two centuries, nearly twenty professors

to our universities. He was superior classical scholar,

and his well-known treatise, entitled Conspectus Me-

dicinae Theoretic®,  remarkable for the purity and

ease of its Latinity. His opinions on medical ques

tions were entitled to consideration, as much from his

great practical experience, as from the arguments with

which they were supported. Dr. Duncan, the professor

of the Institutes of Medicine, very favourably
                 ;

                                                      is

                                                                              e
                                                                            2
noticed by Young. Dr. Black, one of the most illus

trious of the founders of the science, was Professor

of Chemistry and though he had at one time been
52  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.            Chap. III.

celebrated for his skill in addressing a class and con

ducting his experiments, he was now old and infirm,

and before the end of the session, his duties were dis
charged by a deputy --Dr. Rotheram.
                                        Monro, the

son of the founder of the Anatomical School in the

University --the author of a celebrated work on the
bones and the nerves --was Professor of Anatomy, an

office which he filled for forty years, at first conjointly

with his father, but latterly with his son, who still sur

vives him, though he has for some years retired from

the University. He was generally considered as the

greatest of the Monros, and the last of the great phy

sicians who united, like the late Dr. Baillie, a profound

knowledge of anatomy with that of medicine. He was

engaged in many controversies on anatomical subjects,

frequently involving claims to priority of discovery.

The chemical lectures were given by Dr. Home. The

names of other occasional lecturers are mentioned by

Dr. Young, particularly that of John Bell, the eminent

surgeon, whose demonstrations in anatomy appeared to
                                     In writing to his
him to be of first-rate excellence.

uncle, he says ;--
I" believe North * and Baker are prejudiced against Edin

burgh : with respect to the study of physic, it appears to me

beyond comparison preferable to Oxford or Cambridge, and in
Iother respects little inferior. For anatomy am very glad that
I have done with
                  it,

                      aI
                  for should never learn of Monro
                                     I it  a

                                                :I
think him far inferior, as lecturer, to Baillie. expect much

   * The Hon. Frederick North, afterwards Lord Guiidford, man of
extremely popular manners, and patron of scholars and men of learning.

Sir George Baker, an eminent physician, had been Fellow of King's
College, Cambridge in forwarding to him copy, in his best penmanship,
of his translation of King Lear's curse, he subscribed the following distich,
expressive of his opinion of his scholarship --
    :                                a
                              a
                                 :a
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.                 53

from Gregory's practice, and something from Black and the
clinical lectures: these are given by Home, who has some
merit, with something ridiculous in his manner."

   On another occasion, much later in the session, he

says :--
  I" have not time for many scientific pursuits, besides the

Ilectures which closely attend. Some little information on
Ichemistry derive from Black's copious course --hardly anything

from Monro -- something considerable in the medical line from

Gregory and Duncan."

   It is probable that Dr. Young, though generally

very candid in his judgments, was somewhat preju

diced against Monro, whom he accuses of a disposition

to appropriate the discoveries of other authors as his

own.

"  " When    lecturing upon  the eye, he noticed," says   Young,
             having claimed   the discovery of its being
   Hunter's                                               fibrous,

and said that it had been known for a century, and that he had

always taught the same : this was received with applause from

Ihis pupils, who always encourage his avarice of priority : in this

case, though Monro deserves nothing, was not displeased that
Hunter's pretended originality was disallowed. He is not yet

Icome to the crystalline of the eye. called upon him last night

to show him my paper, which he said he had lately been reading,

and thought it ingeniously treated, but he said he should study
Iit more particularly, and left him my copy with a few additional
Inotes for his perusal.
                         told him of Hosack's paper, and bor
Irowed it for him ; for have nothing to fear from Hosack's ob
I Ijections, and if had should not wish my theory to overpower

Ia better. Monro was very polite, and asked me for my direc

tion ; dare say he will think the better of me for having been

in any manner opposed by Hunter."

   He soon afterwards received Sir Everard Home's
Croonian Lecture, which he lost no time in studying :
it appeared to him to put an end to any question
respecting the action of the crystalline lens in accom
54               MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.    Chap. III.

modating the eye to different distances. He commu
nicated this change of opinion to Mr. Monro, and

heard no more of it until nearly the close of the

session.

    " He then spoke of my paper," says Young, " with as much

respect as it deserved, and took the pains to make some ob

jections to which were partly worthy of attention, and partly
          : it,
groundless not making any use of the concession which had
                                   is
made to Home's opinion, but passing over       in

                                                   I
                                                a very slight,

and, think, very uncandid manner, the experiments stated
    I     a

in the Croonian lecture, insinuating, as too common with him,

that he had himself made observations of a similar nature."

    Young afterwards, as we have seen, resumed his

original views.
   Though his studies, during Ms residence in Edin

burgh, were chiefly professional, they were combined

with many others of lighter and more general
nature. He read through the whole of Don Quixote,
                 ;

                   a
                                a
with the aid of grammar and dictionary, in the

original Spanish and the numerous extracts from,
and references to, it, which appear in his journal, show

how much he was impressed with its exquisite and in

comparable humour.    This was followed by the Orlando
Furioso of Ariosto.
                     In letter to his uncle, he says --
                 '                              I
                                                        I
                            a
                                                                                   :
II " have lately been studying harder than usual, and have

deferred writing to you, as well as many other engagements,
till had read the Orlando Furioso.' This have now ac

complished, with no small satisfaction Ariosto had one of the;
most exuberant, rich, and luscious imaginations of any of the

poets ancient or modern as for his moralities,  thought that
                 by                             iIf

                      ;                                         ;

                                                              I
our morals depended upon those of our favourite authors,

should think him one of the most dangerous of writers but this

has been said before Cervantes, who makes the Curate deter

mine that as long as he retains the charms of his native languageit
       impossible for the severest critic to have the heart to conis

demn him."
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDIN13URGH.      55

He had already begun, also, the study of German, as

a preparation for his future residence at Gottingen, and

availed himself of his frequent intercourse with his

friend Voght to acquire a knowledge of its pronuncia
tion and conversational phrases. He had mastered it

sufficiently, before he left Edinburgh, to speak it with

some degree of fluency.
   We shall proceed with further extracts from his

letters and journal.11                     " November 13th, 1794.
                                and unexpectedly gratified by
I" Last night  was      highly

meeting Lord Monboddo and Burgess of Oxford, at Dr. Gre

gory's : the Doctor sent for me as a Grecian to meet them. We

Ispent the evening in talking of ancient authors, and their editions.

  introduced the mention of Aristotle to Lord Monboddo as a
Ifavourite of his ; he was warm on the subject
                                                do not think

him a man either of the deepest learning or the finest taste, but

Ias a singular character, and a well-known writer, am pleased

with being acquainted with him. We sat some time, before my

name, was mentioned to Burgess, without literary conversation ;

Ibut he said he had a presentiment that was that nephew of

Dr. Brocklesby, whose Greek writing Porson had shown him.

    * Dr. Young continued his journals during his residences in Edinburgh
and Gottingen, with very full accounts of his subsequent travels in
Scotland and Germany. They are contained in two small volumes,
written generally with great neatness, and in some cases, as in his extracts
from Spanish, Italian, and other authors, with very unusual care : he
wrote German with great nicety, in the scriptive German hand, which is

usually much more embarrassing to students even than the barbarous
Gothic characters in which their books are printed ; a practice which long
operated, in some degree at least, to produce a marked separation between
their literature and that of the rest of Europe, until the barriers were
broken down by the overflow of the rich treasures which it contained.

Amongst the earliest entries in these journals are several pieces of music

which he copied as exercises for his flute, and which are equal in neatness
and finish to the finest engraving. His hand was truly that of an artist,
and his memory of the minutest peculiarities of form singularly tenacious :
he was thus enabled to copy inscriptions in hieroglyphics and in the Demotic

characters of Egypt, not only with great rapidity, but with an accuracy
and truth which are altogether marvellous.
56          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. III.

He has subscribed to Hodgkin's work," and thinks it likely to
Ifsucceed.
            Hodgkin should call, pray tell him that he has long

promised me a letter."

   On a subsequent occasion, he says :--
  I" meet with very few Grecians here : many well informed

men, but hardly any deep scholars ; however, they respect
learning where they believe it to exist."

   Dr. Gregory and Dalzel were among the exceptions
to this observation. The last-mentioned was professor
of Greek, a correct and elegant scholar, who fully appre
ciated Young's attainments and showed him the most
flattering attentions during the whole time of his resi
dence in the University. He was at that time en
gaged in the preparation of the second volume of his

ANAAEKTA 'EAAHNIKA, or Collections from the

Greek Poets, from Homer downwards, with annota
tions, partly original and partly selected : an extremely
useful publication which was for many years very ex
tensively used in our classical schools, and which has
hardly yet been superseded. The task of making the
selections from the Greek epigrammatists was under

taken by Young, and he added many learned notes,
with the suggestion of many judicious and some
happy emendations. The assistance thus rendered

was very gratefully and gracefully acknowledged.1"

   " Calligraphia Graca. Supra, p. 48.

   b Qua; autem hie exhibentur decerpta sunt ex Brunkii analectis a Thoma

Young, viro plane egregio et qui juvenis adhuc dignus habitus fuit, qui
in Societatem Regiam Londinensein cooptaretur. Quum is nuper in h4c
Academia Studiis operam daret, omnibus qui consuetudine ejus utebantur,
propter ingenii acumen, et variam doctrinam, mihi imprimis ob vitas inte-
gritatem et insignem Literarum Gracarum peritiam maximi habitus ;
Ego variis laboribus Academicis implicitus otioque minus abundans, eum
rogavi ut ex emensa Brunkii collectione ea seligaret epigrammata, quae
ad propositum hujus poetici nostri Delectus maxime conferrent. >'cque
meo desiderio (quat fuit ejus erga me voluntas) defecit juvenis eruditus,
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION: EDINBURGH.                 57

The epigram, which is subjoined, originated in an

                          it
                                                 it it,
occurrence which the journal, which records assures

us was not unreal and Dalzel, who printed at the
           ;

- end of the notes on the selections which Young had

made for him, pronounced       to be conceived in the

true spirit of the Greek epigrammatists.

                      *IAHMA.

XOec  ftoi irpotyiptoKt KaXqcWtc        {/   \apieaaa,

   Tou ce fiikiaaoytvovi ovltv i<j>t)v iGiXot.

'AW &7rd (tou otOfiaros tibc poi fttW, K^t ttpiX^oa,
Kqv yXvKiov to <pi\ijfi' toKoaaKiQ fit'Xtroc.

   Young made very few contributions to the Mus^s,       :
though generally very prompt, especially in later life,
to answer by trifles in verse the sudden calls which the       is

importunities of female society make upon men of

celebrity, whether they be poets or not. His ear was

not attuned to the easy flow of good versification the
song which we subjoin of very slight texture, and
given in his journal, with the music adapted to it.
      I'
                      " SONG.
          I
                   is obliged to beg my Bread.'
      " Air. -- Were

      " Were of fortune's ample stores

      And bounteous nature's gifts possessed,

      I'd ask the maid my heart adores,
      And care should leave my soul at rest --
                                             :
      In one dear gentle maid                    a:

      I'd think past pain o'erpaid.

      if," Or of lowly lineage born,

        Chill want forbad her worth to shine,
        For her the gay, the great I'd scorn,
        And fondly hope to make her mine --

              In one kind gentle maid
              I'd deem all pain o'erpaid.

et in poetis Graecis apprimc versatus. Quae hie rccepimus, corum pleraque
ille humanissimo indicavit, quin et propria manu nitidissime descripsit,
mihique tradidit Corollam variis flosculis pulcherrime se contextam.
58  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                 Chap. III.

    I" Hut wealth, nor can hope to share

       Nor she to lose can ever dread,
      And nought is left but blank despair, --
      For hope and fear alike are fled.

            I'll seek thee, peaceful tomb !

              And hail thy silent gloom.

    " Nor distant scenes, nor length of days

      Shall cruel mem'ry's power destroy ;
      Nor beauty's charms, nor glory's blaze,
       Shall rouse my heart to transient joy.

            I'll seek thee, peaceful tomb !

              And hail thy silent gloom."

    He had resolved, before quitting London for Edin

burgh, to give up some of the external characteristics of

the Quakers, though, in corresponding with his family

and members of the Society, he continued the usual form

of addressing them. He feared the tears of his mother,
                                           who clung--as
to  whom he was    tenderly attached, and  of her sect --to
is  very commonly
                    the case with females

the outward marks of membership as possessing all the

sanction of religion. It rarely happens, in fact, that

the garb and phraseology of Quakers can long survive

extensive intercourse with literary and refined society ;

but in passing the conventional boundaries which sepa

rate them from other sects, they sometimes abandon the

peculiar religious doctrines in which they have been

brought up, without adopting those of the Established
Church, or of the sect with which they afterwards appear

to communicate. Such changes, therefore, are apt to

give rise to charges of hypocrisy when they are not fully

carried out, or of infidelity and relaxation of morals

when they are so, and which are unhappily not always

without foundation. From the first of these charges,

Young did not altogether escape when he joined in the

innocent pleasures of society ; though he still retained

his predilection for the other great and distinctive prin
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.  59

ciples of the Quakers ;--their steady humanity and love

of peace and order and the general purity of their moral
conduct. Such principles continued to make them, in

his judgment --in spite of much that was absurd and
unreasonable --the most respectable of all sects and the
best suited for a man of truly dignified and philoso

phical turn of mind ; but he speedily found that the
total change of habits and associations which followed

the abandonment of external communion with them,

leads almost inevitably, as is nearly always the case, to
a total and permanent separation from them. So neces
sary in fact, as all experience shows, are forms and
discipline to protect the integrity of special religious
and other communities from the disturbing effects of
the fashions and opinions of the world.

   This result would appear to have followed in Young's

case even more rapidly and to a greater extent than he
probably had ever ventured to anticipate. He mixed
largely in society, not merely amongst his fellow
students, but amongst the professors of the University
and the principal inhabitants of a city and neigh
bourhood proverbial for hospitality. He began the
study of music and took lessons on the flute, and
thoroughly mastered the theory of the one, and to

some extent the practice of the other, though he was
not naturally gifted with a musical organization. He
took private lessons in dancing, and what constituted

a not less serious offence against the principles of his

sect, he repeatedly attended performances at the

theatre. In writing, soon after he left Edinburgh, to
his friend and fellow-student Dr. Bostock, he says :--

  I" have seen Mrs. Siddons in Douglas, The Grecian Daughter,

The Mourning Bride, The Provoked Husband, The Fatal Mar

riage, Macbeth, and Venice Preserved. She was neither below,
60             MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.           Chap. III.

Inor much above, my expectation.  can form an idea of some
Ithing more perfect. My friend Cruikshanks, when went to

take my leave of him, took me aside ; and, after much preamble,
I Itold me he heard had been at the play, and hoped that
I Ishould be able to contradict it
                                  told him had been several
Itimes, and thought it right to go, &c, &c, as civilly as could.

I know you are determined to discourage my dancing and singing,
Iand am determined to pay no regard whatever to what you
Isay. You think shall never be able to play the flute well,
I I Iand am pretty sure that may if choose ; as to dancing, the

die is cast."

    Young, as might very naturally be expected, was as

much exposed to the ridicule and witticisms of his new

friends, as he was to the suspicions and reproaches of his

old : but no relaxation of morals followed, such as was
imputed or anticipated; the purity of his conduct, ac

cording to the uniform testimony of those who knew

him best, was xmimpeachable. Though passionately fond
of female society, it was in a marriage of affection that

he looked for happiness, and not in those irregular in

dulgences which are only very generally overlooked

because they are so common. Whatever he thought

to be right he resolutely practised.

"  " What greater instance," says he, in    quoting  the Spectator,
                                            than to  pass his whole
   can there be of a pusillanimous temper,

life in opposition to his own sentiments, or not to dare to do

what he thinks he ought to do !"

    His time, during the Edinburgh session, was so

much occupied, by the medical lectures, by the study
of German, Spanish and Italian, by the acquisition of
personal accomplishments, by the claims of a very
extended society and a very large correspondence with
his friends, as to leave little opening for the reading of
many works whether of professional or general litera
ture. The only medical book of importance which we
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.     (51

find noticed in his journal is Cullen's First Lines of the

Practice of Physic,

   " A work," to use his own words, " of great merit and sound

philosophy ; if others improve on him, and in the same manner
as he has done on his predecessors, the science of physic will

arrive at a beautiful simplicity ; it may be a very positive cer

tainty."

Even at this advanced period of his studies, when he

was already recognized as an authority in Greek criti

cism, and entitled to some of the honours of a master

in philosophy, we are occasionally startled by some of

the consequences of the severe and isolated character

of his previous education. Works of an elementary

nature, or of light and general literature, which have

formed stock books in the early training or amusements

of other students, came under his notice from time

to time with all the charms and surprize of novelty.

The following are entries from his journals.

   4th Jan., 1795. -- " A friend unexpectedly sent me Johnson's

IRasselas to read : began this evening, and shall soon dis

patch it."  »

Then follow numerous extracts of some striking

passages, which no intelligent reader could fail to

notice.

16th Feb., 1795. -- "Began Guthrie's Geographical Gram

"Imar."                finished Guthrie: a very improving

   12th Ap., 1795. --

            well   written, but not free from absurdities."
            1795.
                   -- began, and the next day finished,
"Ibook, tolerably
   14th May,
Johnson's Journey. It exhibits some strength of mental powers,

Ibut with a mixture of pedantry, bigotry, and prejudice. have
Inot extracted from it much information of what may find

in the Highlands, but the manners of the country are well

depicted."

The Scotch had not then forgiven Johnson's habitual
(52           MEMOIR OF DH. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. 111.

disparagement of their country, and Young appears to

have caught some portion of their prepossessions : the

work which he has criticized so severely will long con

tinue to be read and admired for many just observations

and occasional tenderness of feeling, in spite of the na
tional prejudice which it too frequently exhibits.

     The lectures for the winter session terminated at

the end   of  April "to the mutual      satisfaction," says
Young, "  of                           They were resumed
              professors and pupils."

for the summer session early in May. He was accus

tomed to look back, with great pleasure, to the winter

he passed in Edinburgh. He had profited considerably
from the lectures. For the first time in his life, he had

enjoyed free and liberal social intercourse, altogether

unfettered by the formalities of Quakerism ; he recipro

cated visits, and in many cases formed friendships, with
the most distinguished men in the Athens of the North,

which at that time had reached the culminating point

of its literary glory. .

     He now prepared for his journey to the Highlands,

and other parts of the north of Scotland, examining

maps and making notes of such objects of natural or

antiquarian interest as the ordinary guide books and

Grose's Antiquities would readily supply.
   He started on his journey on the 5th of June, pro

ceeding by Hopetown House, through Falkirk, to the

iron works at Carron.

   " My thoughts," says he, " were frequently turned back on

Edinburgh, and I believed that I could very cheerfully bear to

be compelled by the laws of the College in London to spend

Ianother winter there ; but pleasure is not always the most

favourable to improvement. was as Renouard* observed on

   * He had resided for some time at Edinburgh with his pupil Mr. Cust,
afterwards Earl Brownlow : he was a man of considerable learning, and
had been a contemporary of Porson at Eton and Cambridge, who often
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION: EDINBURGH.  63

Imeeting me, in me totus teres atque rotundus, and it may be
worth while to describe my equipment.  was mounted on a

stout, well-made black horse, fourteen hands high, young and

I Ispirited, which had purchased from my friend Cathcart : had

before me my oiled linens, the spencer with a separate camlet
cover ; under me a pair of saddle-bags, well filled with three or

four changes of linen, a watetcoat and breeches, materials for

writing and for drawing, paper, pens, ink, pencils and colours ;

packing-paper and twine for minerals ; soap, brushes, and a
razor ; a small edition of Thomson's Seasons, a third flute in a

bag, some music, principally Scotch, bound with some blank

music paper, wafers ; a box for botanizing ; a thermometer ; two

little bottles with spirits for preserving insects ; a bag for picking
up stones ; two maps of Scotland -- Ainslie's small one, and

Sayer's ; letters of recommendation. The bags had pockets at

Ithe end, one containing a pair of shoes, the other boards with
straps and paper for drying plants.  found my bags at first an

incumbrance, but became afterwards more reconciled to them.

They are to a saddle what pockets are to a coat, and who ob

jects to wearing pockets? But they were wetted the first day,
and stained their contents ; this will make me more careful in

future."

He carried with him an ample packet of recom

mendations to the most distinguished houses he was

likely to visit on his tour.

" have already," says he,

more than forty introductory
I I"
                              soon after beginning his journey,
                               letters, and am obliged to take
I Imore and more as deliver them ; and as have many ac
Iquaintances at Edinburgh who are interested in my journey,
Ithink it necessary to keep a pretty full account of what see
Ithat 1 may amuse them with some part of it when call there

on my return."

   His kind friend Professor Dalzel, in recommending
him to his brother Professor, Hunter of St. Andrews,

and speaking in the most flattering terms of his attain-

amused himself with laying traps for his almost irresistible passion for
classical quotations. He was for many years Vice-Master of Trinity
College, and much respected for his kind and generous disposition.
64      MKMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.              Chap. III.

ments,  proceeds  to  say  --"  The  possession  of such

                           :

talents and accomplishments has not in the least

affected his manners, which are simple, unassuming and

most agreeable, and he is much esteemed by his literary

friends here." Some of his letters, to his great amuse
ment, described him as a " Quaker of fortune and

character" -- "A gentleman of fortune and a man of

letters." With such introductions in a country whose

warm and liberal hospitality had not yet been cooled
down by the crowds let loose upon it by steam-boats
and railways, it is not surprizing that he should have

been almost everywhere cordially welcomed.

    After admiring the works at Carron, even in those

days presenting a very striking scene of energetic

labour, he passed by Stirling and Kinross, with Loch-

Leven and its castle, (the scene of Queen Mary's cap
tivity,) to Falkland, the ancient residence of the

Scottish kings, and thence to St. Andrews.

  I" Professor Hunter showed me the library," says Young, " a

large and elegant room, which reminded me of what had seen

at Oxford and Cambridge. It is supported by small contri

butions from the students in addition to its privilege of claiming
a copy of every book which is entered at Stationers' Hall : the

students were formerly divided into three classes, primarii,
secondarii, and ternarii, something like noblemen and fellow-

commoners, pensioners, and servitors or sizars in the English
Universities; the first of these classes is now abolished, the

sons of gentlemen commonly enter as seconders, and those of
farmers as terniers ; the seconders pay a fee of three guineas
to the lecturer, the terniers but half that sum ; their whole

board at the table furnished by the economist, costs them 10/. a
session ; the hire of a room in the college and of furniture
from the town, with coals and candles, will cost about 31. more.

When Johnson wrote, the board was only 8/. The students

wear a scarlet gown, as at Glasgow and Aberdeen ; there are
apartments for about 27 in the United College ; the students
at the Philosophy College are generally from 70 to 140 ; at
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION: EDINBURGH.            65

the Divinity College from 30 to 40, who have passed at least
three at the other, and must pass four years here before they can
be taken on trial by a presbytery.' '

   From St. Andrews he proceeded, by way of Dundee
and Perth, to visit the noble domains of Scone, Tay-
mouth and Dunkeld, with the pass of Killiecrankie,
and the varied scenery of the Tay, the Tummell, the

(xarvie and the Bruar. At Blair he was introduced

to Mr. MacLaggan, the minister of the parish, a man
of considerable intelligence.

   " He has made," says he, "the Gaelic, which is his native

tongue, his particular study : he tells me that it much resembles
the Irish and Welsh, except in pronunciation ; but that a friend
of his, who has attended more to the Welsh, conjectures that this
language was mixed with that of a colony from the north of Italy,
which he supposes to have settled in Wales at a very early

period."

   He gave him much information also respecting the
origin and growth of turf j the vast primaeval forests of
Scotland, the remains of which are found in such

abundance in removing the turf ; the remains of extinct

animals which it contains --which were then rarely
noticed -- as well as respecting the druidical or other

monuments of the ancient religion of the country, which
are observable in many places of the neighbourhood.

A visit to the Falls of the Bruar, near Blair, seems to

have steeled his heart against the inspection of similar

objects in future :--

    " He     h"adof  enough," says     he, like many other overtaxed
                     paltry cascades.   From Blair to Braemer, through
travellers,

Glen Tilt, a long and weary ride of extremely rugged and

difficult country, my horse was obliged to creep up or to slide

Idown steep hills, to push his way through rocks, or to step deli
cately over boggy ground : for once in my life,     had the

pleasure of being in a bog, so that my feet touched the ground;

Like.                                            p
66  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Crap. Til.

 but we soon got out. In this glen, a village of moderate size
 once existed ; the Duke of Athol, who is said to retain more
 of a highland chieftain than any other laird, whether from a
 wish to have the country vacant for his red deer (of which we
 saw many herds, which obliged the peasants to keep a constant
  watch over their com), or to punish them for not entering the
 army as he wished, drove them all from their habitations to
 seek a milder master."

     Hardships, such as these, which a traveller on horse

 back must have been daily prepared to encounter, were
 more than compensated by the hospitable reception
 which generally awaited him at the conclusion of the day.

   I" have thought," says he, " that travelling through an un

 known country presents not unfrequently circumstances not
 unlike the stories of knight-errantry ; not indeed seen in so
 glaring colours, but making a similar impression on the mind

 and raising similar emotions. To lose one's way in a dark

 night, to have to pass through rocks and bogs, to ford deep
 waters, to cross steep mountains, to stand long in waiting for
 an asylum at a late hour in a miserable hut ; to be prepared
 for deranged accoutrements, a lame horse, his shoes loose, his
 back galled, his spirits flagging ; and again after a short time
 to be welcomed with as much hospitality, and entertained with
 as much splendour as any lord of a castle could receive a
 knight-errant ; to be at ease from every care and in the enjoy
ment of every amusement that men of sense and women of
elegance can afford ; all these vicissitudes exercise the same
qualities, require the same virtues, and excite the same emotions
as the obsolete chivalrous tales of fabulous ages."

   At Brechin he found one of the few round towers

which are seen in Scotland. It closely resembles the

round towers of Ireland, and, as is generally the case

with them, it is near the church. It is of considerable

height, and the layers of stones of which it is built are
spirally disposed. At Findhaven he examined one of
those vitrified forts, which have so much embarrassed

antiquaries.
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.            G7

  "It is situated on a hill, called the Castle Hill, and is

chiefly composed of siliceous grit, which is not everywhere
firmly consolidated by vitrification. The kind of stone seems
to prove that it was not burnt for strength, because they would

probably have chosen the more verifiable whinstone, which I

Ibelieve may be had here ; and do not think the walls seem

much stronger for semi-vitrification."

   After examining the ruins of the monastery at Ar
broath, the most considerable in Scotland, he pro
ceeded by Montrose, Lawrence Kirk, and Stonehaven,
to Aberdeen, visiting Ury with no small degree of

interest as the residence of the representatives of

Barclay, the Apologist of the Quakers, the grandfather
of his friend, Mr. David Barclay, of Youngsbury.

  I" At Aberdeen," says he, " staid three whole days, and
I thought my time not ill employed ; the town is very flourish

ing, some of the professors are capable of raising an university

to celebrity, especially Copeland and Ogilvie ; but the division

and proximity of the two Universities (King's College and

Marischal College) is not favourable to the advancement of

learning ; besides the lectures are all, or mostly, given at the

same hour, and the same Professor continues to instruct a class

for four years in the different branches. Were the Colleges
united and the internal regulations of the system new
modelled, the cheapness of the place, the number of small bur

saries for poor or distinguished students, and the merit of the

instructors, might make this university a very respectable semi

Inary in some branches of science ; the fee to a professor for a
five months' session is only  guineas.  was delighted with

the inspection of the rich store of mathematical and philo

sophical apparatus belonging to Professor Copeland of Maris

chal College, made in his own house and partly with his own

hands, finished with no less care than elegance, and tending to

Iillustrate every branch of physics in the course of his lectures,
which must be equally entertaining and instructive.  fell in

again here with Gillies of Brechin, and dined with him and a

party of lairds to whom he introduced me. I remained occu

                                        F2
MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. III.

pied in my own defence and in studying the various appear
ances of human nature until three o'clock in the morning."

   It is hardly necessary to add that Young was

habitually temperate ; a virtue not sufficiently appre
ciated in those days, either in Scotland or elsewhere.

    We shall not attempt to follow his course through
Peterhead, Banff to Elgin, and thence by Fort George,
Cromarty, Skibo and Wick to John o' Groat's house ;
and back again through Thurso, Skibo, Dingwall,
Beauly, Inverness, Calder, Forres, to Elgin again.
During his first visit at this latter place, he went to
Gordon Castle, but the Duke and Duchess were from

home. Upon his return he was more fortunate, and
the extracts from his journal which follow, present an
interesting picture of a family distinguished, not merely
as occupying the highest rank in society, but for the
good sense, frankness and cordiality of manners, per
sonal beauty and accomplishments of its members. He
had been specially recommended to them by Lady
Caroline Lennox, the mother of the present Duke of
Kichmond and the eldest daughter of the House.

   " In the morning, without stopping at Elgin, I rode to

Fochabers, and was in time for dinner at Gordon Castle. The
Duke, the Duchess, Lady Madeline (Sinclair) and her son,
Lady Louisa,* Lady Georgiana,b Lord Alexander, and Mr.
Hay, his tutor, compose the family there at present. They
had a large party to day. When a moderate time had been
spent over the bottle, we found the ladies dancing. They
were dancing reels when we came in ; after one or two had

Ibeen gone through found myself standing up with Lady

Madeline, and the Duke with Miss Gordon ; the Duchess
afterwards danced, and Lady Georgiana danced some high
dances with great elegance. Most of the party staid over

                         * Afterwards Marchioness of Cornwallis.
                         b Afterwards Duchess of Bedford.
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.              (59

Inight, which seems to be the custom in this country. In the

morning went down to the inn at Fochabers to look after my

Ihorse and luggage. In returning met the Duke ; he showed

me the site of the old town of Fochabers, much nearer to the

house than the present, which he has built within a few years.

After breakfast the Duke showed me his lathes, and a variety

of objects which he has turned ; the apparatus is most splendid,

Imade at Aberdeen under Copeland's directions, and the Duke
is an expert workman.    went to the library and had begun a

letter to my uncle, when his Grace came in to ask me to go

with him and see a stag shot : the groom was sent with four or
five couple of fox-hounds to draw the woods, while the Duke

was stationed at a proper place to intercept the deer, and two

servants at different places to watch if they took another course.
We waited here an hour or two in vain, and the Duke blew his

bugle horn to call off the huntsmen to another cover. Here

we had better fortune ; we soon heard the dogs in full cry and

a fine buck made his appearance ; he stood still at some dis
tance ; the Duke fired with his rifle, and heard the bullet

strike him ; the animal moved and then stood gazing ; he shot

again and missed ; the stag did not move at first, but the dogs

coming up drove him off. The German servant then fired and

missed him, but seeing blood from the Duke's shot, he let

loose a bloodhound. When they are wounded, the bloodhound

commonly overtakes them and kills them, but to-day all the

dogs, after a long pursuit, returned without their game.. We

spent much time in endeavours to recover it by trailing the
slopes, but in vain. We returned about four. Col. Duff and

ICol. Hay from Banff were at the Castle. We joined the ladies

early. I brought down my notes as far as had written them,

for their amusement, and they took the trouble of looking at
Iseveral parts of them.
                         read them some of my extracts in
I Iverse, and thought the better of my selection when
                                                       found

that Lady Louisa had some of them by heart as well as many

other poems of various descriptions of which she repeated
Ienough to show a fine taste and an excellent memory.
                                                       had
not yet seen the beauties of Gordon Castle. I met the ladies

before breakfast to take a walk along the Holly-bank : t here
                      of the kind I
are the finest trees                 have ever seen.  entertained
                      looking over   my memorandums,
   " The Duchess
  70           MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                 Chap. 111.

  me with an account of a romantic tour she had made with her

  sister, through many of the finest parts of Scotland ; of the

  manner in which she spent her time in solitude, and her studies

  during the infancy of her children : she took me into her library

  Iand presented me, for my amusement on the road, with a copy
of  Petrarch,  on which shall always set   a high value.
               Lady Georgiana's birthday,    the flag was
    " It was                                               hoisted,

  Lord Alexander's regiment of little boys was paraded, and

employed in racing and dancing on the green ; and in the even

ing a ball was given to the servants ; all the family went down

stairs, and amused themselves with observing the agility of the

lads and lasses. Every person employed about the house,

except one man, is married, and most of them are descended

from those who have served the family before them. The
Duchess proposed, in honour of the day, that Sir George Aber-

Icrombie and should dance a reel with the two younger ladies ;

for they danced nothing but reels : afterwards the duke danced

with one of the upper servants ; some time after our party

joined again in the amusement at the same time with two

others ; when it was late and Sir George was tired, we took a

girl in his place and resumed the sport ; Lady Madeline sat by

Iand made the music play till the other sets quitted the field,
and left us victorious to reel through the whole room.     have

now written as much of dancing in my Tour as Johnson has in

his ; and as much more as a young man may be expected to

Iwrite of it than an old one.

   " The next day was not the first that had fixed for setting

off, the time allotted for my whole journey was already more
Ithan elapsed ; had for a long time heard nothing from my uncle,
I Iand had many reasons for hastening.
                                           could almost have
Iwished to break or dislocate a limb by chance, that might be

Idetained against my will ; I do not recollect that have ever
Ipassed my time more agreeably, or with a party whom thought

more congenial to my own dispositions : and what would hardly

be credited by many grave reasoners on life and manners, that

a person who had spent the whole of his earlier years a recluse
from the gay world, and a total stranger to all that was pass
ing in the higher ranks of society, should feel himself more at

home and more at ease in the most magnificent palace in the

country, than in the humblest dwelling with those whose birth
Chap. ill. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.  71

was most similar to his own. Without enlarging on the Duke's
good sense and sincerity, the Duchess's spirit and powers of
conversation, Lady Madeline's liveliness and affability, Louisa's

I Ibeauty and sweetness, Georgiana's naivete and quickness of

parts, young Sandy's good-nature, may say that was truly
sorry to part with every one of them."

    Quitting these scenes of enchantment, our traveller
returned to Inverness, and proceeded by Fort Augustus
under the foot of Ben Nevis to Fort William and

Ballachulish, through the picturesque valley now so well
known as that of the Caledonian Canal : after visiting
(from the latter place) the valley of Glencoe, he pro
ceeded to Oban : a six-hours' sail took him to Aros in
Mull, whence he crossed the island to Torloish, the seat
of Mr. M'Lean, where he found a numerous party, and
all the luxuries of refined society.

   I" The next day procured a boat which took me to Staffa ;
I climbed up to the furthermost part of the cave, and was

delighted with the grandeur and beauty of the scene ; the regu
larity of the columns forming the walls, the waves dashing
 below,_and the island of Iona, with its venerable ruin, terminat

Iing the view at a distance, forming a most striking combination

 which faintly attempted to sketch ; the whole island is com
 posed of basaltes ; the pillars are mostly irregular hexagons of
 different sizes, some straight, some curved, some erect, some
 inclined, some horizontal ; the vertical ones forming a kind of
 stratum which stands on the bed of amorphous basaltes and is
 covered by another which forms (where the pillars have been
 washed away) the roof of the cave."

    He speaks highly of the accuracy of Pennant's plates
 and descriptions, in his Tour in Scotland, but the island

 itself, its cave and other wonders, were little known and

 very rarely visited before Sir Joseph Banks described
 them. The taste of the public had not yet been
 formed for the search and admiration of beautiful

 scenery.
72     MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                         Chap. 111.

    We next find him lodged at Inverary Castle, the

magnificent residence of the Duke of Argyle, to whom

he had been introduced by the Duchess of Gordon.

    " The Duke is about 73, his two daughters, Lady Augusta

IClavcring, and Lady Charlotte Campbell," and Lord John with
his tutor, were with him, as well as some other visitors.  was

surprised to find my old acquaintance, Mr. Crawfurd Campbell

of Ashnish, with him, and also Dr. Longlands, his domestic

Iphysician : after breakfast the party were to ride, and the doctor

gravely submitted to my determination whether would go at

a slow pace with him and the Duke, to view the country

I Ileisurely on the way, or ride with the ladies, and be galloped
over.  told him that of all things liked to be galloped

over, and therefore should be of the youthful party : accord

ingly Ashnish and myself attended the two ladies. We first

rode down by the side of the loch, Lady C. showed me one of

the barns, which are singularly spacious, with frames for drying

corn of a peculiar construction ; my horse approached nearer

to the ground than he had ever done before ; it may be guessed

what made his rider careless. After dinner the Duke rode
Iagain, and the younger men of the party took a walk ; left
Ithem about nine, and joined the ladies at tea.
                                                 was showing

ILady C. some of my sketches ; she begged to see my notes,

and showed the greatest part of them. All the family are

Imusical ; the ladies sing admirably ; cards and the fine piano

occupied the evening. After supper, besides other songs, heard
a most beautiful canzonet by Jackson, beginning ' Love in

I Ithine Eyes.' It was twelve o'clock when we retired. After

breakfast took my leave ; not without regretting that had
so little time to observe the beauties of Inverary. Lady Char

lotte is handsomer than Lady Augusta, she sings better, but

she has less good sense, and less sweetness ; an innocent

giddiness sometimes gives her the appearance of a little

affectation : she is to Lady Augusta what Venus is to Minerva ;

I suppose she wishes for no more. Both are goddesses."

    He arrived in Edinburgh by way of Dumbarton,
Glasgow, Hamilton, and Lanark, on the (5th August,

       * Lady Charlotte Bury.
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.  73

    but remained there no longer than was necessary to see
    his more intimate friends in the city and neighbourhood,
    and to arrange his affairs preparatory to his final depar
    ture. He then proceeded southwards, through Selkirk,
    Hawick, Langholme and Longtown to Carlisle, from

    whence he diverged for the purpose of seeing the principal
    English lakes. Though extremely minute in the record
    of all that he saw and did, we find few passages which

    enable us to judge of the impressions which beautiful

   scenery produced upon him : but it is sufficiently

    manifest that the phases of life and society, collections
v of natural history and philosophical instruments, and

    works of art, such as his previous studies enabled him
    to appreciate, attracted much the greatest share of his

    attention.

       His tour of the lakes ended at Kendal, where he found
   Mr. John Gough, a man of very remarkable attainments,
    though he had been blind from his infancy ; he was
    at once a mathematician, a naturalist, and a scholar :

     I" knew," says Young, "his sisters in London; they supply,

    with some other assistance, his want of sight ; and the accuracy
    of his sense of touch, together with the inventive powers of his
     mind, have rendered him so much a master of what he pursues,

     that he would rather be supposed to have a supernumerary
     sense than to want one."

   He afterwards controverted, with considerable acute-

ness and ability, some of Young's speculations on the
propagation of sound.

   He made a short visit to his friend Bostock at

Liverpool, and was introduced to the most distinguished

people there. Its docks were then objects of admira

tion, though insignificant compared with what they
are now, when adapted to the wants of the greatest
commercial emporium in the world.
74           MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                Chap. III.

   " We visited also," says Young, " the Asylum for the Blind,

erected in imitation of that at Paris, before any other in Eng
land; they are taught to spin, to make mats, baskets, and

various other articles, and some of them play upon the harpsi
chord ; one poor boy had acquired considerable execution ; it

is a most interesting and useful institution. -- We dined with
Mr. Roscoe ; the company consisted of Mr. Yates, Bostock,
Arthur Aikin, Dr. Shepherd," Dr. Garnett, late of Harrow-

gate, and myself. Roscoe is a friend of Fuseli, and has several
of his paintings ; his song on the French Revolution is well
known ;b he is now moderate in his political sentiments ; he is
about to publish the Life of Lorenzo de Medicis."

   From Liverpool he proceeded across the Mersey to
Chester, on his way to North Wales ; he left Manchester

behind him, with some regret, not merely as a great

depot of manufactures and machinery, but also as the
only considerable town in the United Kingdom which

he had not visited or did not propose to visit. The
journal of his Welsh tour, which was very short, offers
nothing which is worth extracting. He returned by

way of Shrewsbury, to the Coalbrook Dale, on a visit

to the magnificent iron works established there.

   " This valley runs north of the Severn between steep hills,

and with its houses, woods, and iron-works, makes both by day

Iand night a remarkable scene. Mr. R. Reynolds, at whose

house was most hospitably received, took me to the top
of a neighbouring hill, from whence we had a good view of the
Severn, and the Iron Bridge, the first ever erected, of a light

and elegant structure, though said to be much heavier than was

necessary. My chamber at night presented an appearance

    * He was afterwards called Poggio Shepherd, in consequence of having

written the Life of Poggio Bracciolini : he was a man of very lively con

versational powers, and somewhat allied, Loth in his opinions and studies,

with  Mr.    "ROos'ecroet.he

          b                   vine-covered  hills and gay regions of France

             See the bright star of Liberty rise," &c.

It was written to celebrate the anniversary of the 14 th August, him! attacked

Mr. Burke with great severity.
Chap. III. MEDICAL EDUCATION : EDINBURGH.            75

Isimilar to what observed at Carron, but greater and more

picturesque. The next day, my friend, Mr. Nehemiah Lloyd,

walked with me to Ketley, and we viewed the various processes

going on there ; the forges, the puddling, the engines, the in

clined planes for raising boats instead of locks, part of an iron

Ifaqueduct which they are constructing, and various other opera
tions and experiments on a magnificent scale.  the grand

system of these iron-masters requires any improvement, it may

perhaps be made by attending a little more to neatness and

elegance, but the useful and convenient must be allowed to out

weigh. Mr. W. Reynolds, in the afternoon, showed us his

laboratory, his library, and his minerals, and told me that be

fore the war he had agreed with a man to make a flute one

hundred and fifty feet long, and two and a half in diameter, to

be blown by a steam-engine and played on by barrels, and that

he is determined at a future time to prosecute experiments of

this nature."

It is interesting to discover in these observations

the early recognition of the importance of combining
higher views of art with our manufactures, which

unhappily continue to be too much neglected.
   He accompanied Mr. Lloyd to Birmingham, where

he sold his horse, and proceeded by coach to London ;
passing one day at Beaconsfield with Mr. Burke,

where he found a French emigrant nobleman, the

Duke de Coigny ; he reached London on the 4th
September, and found a large party at the house of
his uncle, who was anxiously expecting his return.
After passing one week at Worthing, he went with
the same kind relative on his annual visit to Good

wood, where he met the Duke and Duchess of De

vonshire, Lady E. Foster, Mr. Grenville, and Mr.

Spencer, besides the members of the family : they
returned to London on the 23d. The next fortnight

was spent in preparations for his Continental tour.
76              MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                      Chap. IV.

                               CHAPTER IV.

                MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.

" I left London," says Young, " on the afternoon of the 7th

of October, 1795, and arrived at Norwich the next morning.

Gurney soon met mef and we spent the greater part of the

day at Keswick, in a circle, part of which was gay and part

Igrave. At the time when first became acquainted with these
Ifamilies, came very decidedly under the latter designation,
Iand then little imagined that should live to play a minuet on

                               were dancing it ; but stranger
Ithe flute, while the young
things than this happen every day. walked over to Earlham ,

and back again with Gurney and we returned there at night ;

the next day we set off with Joseph Gurney to Yarmouth, and we

Ihad time enough to stroll and see the place, which exhibits no

thing that is remarkable ; on the next morning embarked in

the packet for Hamburg, quitting for the first time my native

land, expecting to be more than two years from and hoping
                                            <
to see Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and France, and to return
                                                     it,
    shorter passage than the present deplorable war would
by                                                            :
   a
             a
permit me."

   After six days, and not more than the usual suffer
ings of first voyage, he reaehed Hamburg, where he
was most cordially welcomed by his friends and fellow-
students, Voght and Schmeisser, who were natives of
the place, and connected with some of its opulent fami-

   * The residence of the junior branch of the Gurney family, so justly
distinguished for the public and private virtues of its members. Of those
who arc no more, may be sufficient to mention the names of Mrs. Fry,
Mrs. Samuel Hoarc of Hampstead, and John Joseph Jurney of the living

   would be unbecoming to speak.
it
                           it
Chap. IV. MRDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.  77

lies. It was under their auspices that he formed his

first acquaintance with German society ; the impression

was decidedly favourable.

   On the 21st he took the boat to Harburg, to join
the Stuhlwagen to Hanover :

" It is a waggon with a leather covering, the back part like

a coach, holding six, with curtains instead of glasses, and with

Iout doors ; the front seat holds three, with a curtain also to

keep out the rain. did not much dislike the conveyance, as the
motion suited me better than that of a coach ; but to be two

nights and part of two days travelling less than ninety English

miles would make any carriage disgusting. The country con

sists entirely of sand, and being almost entirely without water, is

incapable of any great improvement ; the accommodations on

the road are uniformly wretched, but you get good coffee, and
you are not in need of much more. At length, about noon on
I Ithe 23rd arrived at Hanover.
                                 went immediately upon my

arrival with a letter from Mr. Burke to Mr. Brandes, the

ISecretary of the Regency ; he was not then at home, but saw

Ienough of him afterwards to make me rejoice in his acquaint

ance, both for the various information gained from him, and

the civility he showed me."

   Mr. Burke described Mr. Brandes as one of the

best informed men in Germany, and particularly well ac
quainted with the complicated system of the various go
vernments of the empire. From Hanover he proceeded
to Gottingen, which he reached on the 27th of October.

    After delivering his letters of introduction to some
of the principal professors from Mr. Brandes, Professor
Dalzel, Dr. Vincent, and others, he established himself,
for the six months' session, in a house belonging to Pro
fessor Arnemann, adjoining that in which he himself
resided. On the 29th of October he matriculated, and,

on the 3rd of November, entered upon his academical
studies and occupations. The labours of the day were

distributed as follows :--
7s                 MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.           Chap. IV.

    " At 8, I attend Spittler's course on the History of the Prin

cip"alAStta9te, s   of Europe,   exclusive of Germany.
                   Arnemann     on Materia Medica.
    " At 10, Richter on Acute Diseases.
    " At 11, Twice a week, private lessons from Blessman,
                                                                the

           academical dancing-master.

    " At 12, I dine at Ruhlander's table d'hote.

    " At 1, Twice a week, lessons on the Clavichord from Forkel :

           and twice a week at home, from Eiorillo on Drawing.
    I" At
       At  2,      Lichtenberg    on Physics.  manege,   under the instruc
    "      3,        ride in the  academical

    "      tions of Ayrer, four times a week.
    "
       At  4,  Stromeyer on Diseases.          History.
    "  At  5,  Blumenbach on Natural
    "
       At 6, Twice Blessmen with other pupils, and twice Forkel.

       Spittler, Arnemann and Blumenbach, follow, in lecturing,

Itheir own compendiums, and Lichtenberg makes use of Erxle-
ben's.         mean to study regularly beforehand."

    For some time he was unable to seize the full import

of the lectures from want of familiarity with the Ger

man language ; but this difficulty was speedily con
quered by confining himself strictly to the use of it in

society, even when conversing with his fellow-country

men -- not more than four or five in number -- who were

students at the University.
   The following letter describes his academical and

other occupations :--

" Dear Bostock,                   " Gottingen, 14th December, 17!)5.

       I" They say that to begin a letter is more difficult than

to write all the rest of it ; will therefore omit that form and

Iproceed to the more essential parts. Tayleur sends you his very
best compliments.  do not see him very frequently, except at

the lectures, for we are both of us a little recluse, and his real

or imagined indispositions frequently confine him still more ;

besides, we have now entered into an engagement not to speak
English in each other's company, which has already been ex

pensive to me ; for we were four Englishmen, not reckoning
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.                79

Dr. Ash, whom no creature sees ; Colhoun, the son of a Nor

folk Squire, had been here nearly a year, Tayleur and Kinglake

about four months, and myself more than one, so that we could

all contrive to be understood in German, and solemnly executed

an obligation to speak no English in each other's hearing on
pain of forfeiting twopence every half hour, when all of a

sudden two Scotchmen came in upon us, and one of them speak

ing not a syllable but English, and obliging me and Colhoun

out of civility to incur frequent penalties ; the other two, who

are more solitary beings, have escaped We are not riotous nor

absurd, as Englishmen in foreign countries generally are said
to be, but it will require some influence to restrain young

H 's propensity to drinking. You will be pleased, as a

Ilover of the fine arts, to hear that I am taking lessons in draw

ing ; you will not be surprised that receive in this study as

well as in music and dancing, full approbation from my masters,

for application and accuracy, at the same time they honestly tell

me that ease is wanting ; and you will also readily believe that
I have the assurance not to be discouraged with this character
Iwhile they all assert that may confidently expect sufficient
Iadvancement in due time.
                           will not enter much into particulars,
because no person is a competent judge in his own case ; but I

draw only figures, and with the assistance of my master's touches,

Ithey do not look amiss. am learning the Klavier or Clavichord.
I have four lessons a week for this instrument, and two for the

flute. There are much better musicians here than might be ex

pected from the size of the place ; many of the students play very
well, and generally exhibit their talents at the concerts. We have

every Saturday a public concert to which the ladies are admitted

Igratis, and the students make a tea-party with a private con
cert on the Wednesdays.    have not yet exhibited myself at a

public dance, my master, who is a very sensible fellow, advising

            as he observed that a person seldom loses the
me against  it,

                it I

                                                        ;

                                                                        is

                                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                              it,

                                                         II
character which he obtains from the first impressions but we

have agreed that  may venture at the next pique-nique.

have sent Gurney an account of the public amusements here,

wish you could see to save me the trouble of repeating for

we have very few private parties, but Sunday the time appro

priated for all sorts of company in the morning the professors
are at leisure to receive the visits of the students, and in the
80  MRMOIR OK DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

afternoon we have sometimes a public assembly at the house of

a professor, where the professors' wives and daughters and a

few other families who reside here, generally with a majority

of students, meet to play at cards and to talk, and on the alter

nate Sunday a dance ; either a tea-dance or a supper-dance, one

from four to eight, the other from five to one : this is called a

pique-nique, and in its constitution resembles a Scotch oyster-

dance. The professors seldom invite the students to dine or sup

with them ; indeed they could not well afford, out of a fee of a

louis or two, to give large entertainments ; but the absence of

the hospitality which prevails rather more in Britain, is com

pensated by the light in which the students are regarded ; they

are not the less, but perhaps the more, respected for being stu

dents, and indeed they behave in general like gentlemen, much

more so than in some other German universities. There are

some of the abundant German nobility among them, who in

appearance are less distinguished than in England, but in

family pride and connexions much more, although rank here
Idoes not confer what in England we call precedency.
                                                      have
Inot yet formed any very intimate acquaintances, but now
Ibegin to speak enough of the language to talk familiarly, and

shall probably visit with as much freedom in some houses, as

the nature of the circumstances will permit ; for the few mothers

here who have handsome daughters have reason, in such a place,

to fear a traitor in every young man.
   " This apprehension has given rise to a club of a rather singu

lar nature ; the young ladies of the place meet in the ball-room

every Thursday, to drink tea and see their acquaintances ; in this

compendious mode of visiting, the rules are two, that none of

Ithe male sex be admitted, and that no scandal be talked ; the

latter conjecture may be rather difficult to observe ; for in

Istance, it was reported to the assembly that had talked with

a young lady in a private company, although the whole conver

sation did not last two minutes ; but this was no scandal--how

I Iever conjecture it must be necessary to be very careful.
Ilike the place very well, everything is calculated for laborious

application, and want a little time for this. And with five or

Isix lessons in dancing, and four in the manege every week,

have almost exercise enough, although there is no temptation
to take any out of doors ; the place is the very reverse of Edin
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : OOTTINCKN.                     81

Iburgh in many respects.    some of the  medical   courses,  yet
   am not very punctual in                shortly  prepare   for
                            and I must
I am reading Sydenham,

graduating.                 " Your truly

                                          affectionate  Y"

                                                 "T

   Ke has indicated, in the preceding letter, the feeling,

or rather principle, which led to this somewhat exces
sive pursuit of personal accomplishments. He had
been precluded from their cultivation in early life, when
men of refined education usually learn them, and he
had already begun to feel, as we have seen before, that

his want of them operated as a bar to his full partici

pation in the pleasures of society. It was in vain that

his fellow-students, whether in banter or in earnest,

told him that his musical ear was not good, and

that he would fail to acquire ease and grace as a

dancer. A difficulty thus presented to him as insuper

able was a sufficient motive to attempt to conquer it ;
and though different opinions have been expressed with

respect to the entire success of the experiment, there is
no doubt that the mastery of those arts, which he really
attained, was another triumph of his unconquerable

perseverance.

   Young had several introductions to Heyne, and felt
naturally very anxious to become acquainted with one
of the most eminent scholars of the age ; he was re
ceived by him with very great civility, but not invited
to visit him.

  I" believe he jthinks himself exempted," says he in writing

to his uncle, " by his literary fame and occupations, and his

various offices in the University, from the necessity of showing

much attention to strangers, as is usual in most cases, for he

very seldom, if ever, has any parties at his house. He is how
ever very civil to me, and I had last week the honour of meet-

LlFE.                                              (i
S2       MEMOIIl OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                Chap. IV.

Iing him with his whole family at his brother-in-law Blumen-
bach's.  have not entered very deep into literary conversation

with him, and have not had any opportunity of bringing

Iforward any of my attempts in composition, except that he has
seen a little compliment which                                              paid my drawing-master

Fiorillo, in imitation of an ancient epigram, and expressed his

approbation of it ; perhaps you would like to see though
                                                      is
not worth showing anybody.
                                                         It

                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                        it
                                                                                                                  is
                                                          refers to the story of Niobe,

and the first line and part of the second are from the Antholo-

gia. The head of Niobe one of the finest antiques that we

have, and expresses calm grief in a most exquisite manner."

         'Ek £u>ijjc fit $eo) ttv£av \ldov, tK Se \idoio,

         Xtipi <t>iaf>iWov Z,Qoa 7rd\iv yiv6fir\v.

         *Hp£aro fity Ne.of, "AyyXof
                                                      ;I                    airvoov, oTa ^nOi/roS
                                                                           o
                                                                                 S'or Ktv\trai uKv Snvttv.
                                                                     I
" Blumenbach has shown me many civilities, but am most at
home at Arnemann's, under whose roof live, and who has
                                                                                     I
been long in Britain, and brought an English wife home with
him. You need not be afraid of my following his example, and                                    a

marrying a German lady                                am not likely to lose my heart

here, though there are some tolerably agreeable girls, with

whom wish to be more acquainted for the sake of exercise in
    I

                    ;
                           a
the language for conversation with women gives both fluency

of expression and delicacy of manners which are never to be

learnt from men."                                     is

   On other occasions he disposed -- though speaking
with great respect of the professors generally --to com
plain of their want of hospitality. In one of his letters
to his uncle he says --
         is

                                                   :
   " Your idea of the German manners, as far as relates to Giit-

tingen, perfectly correct: partly from the nature of a University,
crowded with young men, not always the most prudent nor the
most temperate, and partly from the want of other inhabitants of

respectability, the professors are the only established persons
who form the society of the place and having no superiors,
being the habit of a dogmatical delivery from the chair of

instruction, and not being so absolutely dependent on their
         in

                                                                         ;
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.  S3

hearers for emolument as in some other seminaries, they are
led to a formality and a distance which destroys the social plea
sures. There are scarcely two families here who are sincerely
cordial ; either their pursuits are different, and they have no
manner of connexion, or they interfere and become rivals.
There are, indeed, particular exceptions, and most of the pro
fessors receive visits with politeness, but scarcely in any case
think of returning them ; Arnemann, in whose house 1 live,
and Lichtenberg the lecturer on Natural Philosophy, are the
most sociable. But, on the whole, one must be content to be in

Gottingen a mere student ; as such one has many advantages,
but the pleasure and improvement of free social communication
must be sought elsewhere."

    Young had been somewhat spoiled by the open-
hearted hospitality of Edinburgh, and hardly made
sufficient allowances, not merely for differences of
national manners, but still more for the great sacrifice
of time which the systematic reciprocation of the visits
of students and others would occasion. Those resident

members of our English Universities who have attained
to some degree of eminence, or who from any circum
stances have become very generally known, can bear a

feeling testimony to the severe and almost intolerable
burden imposed on them by a compliance with those
duties which the habits of society in other places re

cognize as indispensable.
    The only lectures, which he attended, that were not

of a professional character, were those of Spittler on
the History and Constitution of the European States :
of Heyne on the History of the Ancient Arts, and of
Lichtenberg on Physics. The first were described by
Young as

   " Possessing very great merit, as well in a moral and psy

chological sense as in an historical view ; and though the mere
historical facts may escape the memory of his hearers, yet they

                                                                                           G2
84  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

cannot fail to profit, if they have paid sufficient attention, by the

conclusions which they are taught to draw."

   The second, which were given at a late period of his

residence at Gottingen, were particularly interesting to

him. In the course of them the professor described the

characters and adventures of every work of art of

importance which has come down to us, and exhibited
to his class, representations of them from the superb

collection of prints in the University Library, where

the lectures were given. These were accompanied by

copious references to classical authors. It were well if

such an example were followed in our Universities in
connexion with their collections of art, as we are

rather too apt to neglect both the historical and artistic
applications of classical learning.

   His uncle, in one of his letters to him, had referred

to some opinions which this great critic wa,s said to
have expressed in disparagement of English public

schools. Young in his reply to him says : --

  I" do not know when or where Heyne can have attacked the
I IEnglish public schools ; soon after wrote to you last, copied
Iout a passage from a review of his writing, which will trans

late to you ; he acknowledged it to me as his own, and declared
it expressed his true sentiments. ' The instruction at Eton is
perhaps, in comparison with ours (in Germany), in many re
spects very limited ; it is however shown by experience, that a
firm foundation in the ancient languages, much exercise in con
struing the classics, and a readiness in thought and expression
in the manner of their originals, formed and derived from that
exercise, accompanied also by mathematical studies, will always
carry the mind to a higher degree of perfection than a prema
ture general knowledge, built upon a sandy bottom, and unfit
for the foundation of a complete and regular academical educa
tion : we find in this collection (the Musae Etonenses for 1795)
several poems in which the plan, manner, and turn are per
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTT1NGEN.             85

fectly classical,  and which   show a    re"adiness  in poetical expres
sion which we      cannot but  admire.'

   Of the lecturers of the Medical School, Blumenbach

was the most considerable ; his text book was his own
Compendium of Natural History, which Young con

sidered to embrace a very judicious selection of subjects,
though he objects to his frequent departure from the
system and still more from the precision, of Linnaeus,

whose works he had himself so diligently studied, and
whose authority in almost every department of this
science was still very generally recognized as supreme.
Young speaks of his lectures as not being very deep,
but containing much general information : their in

terest was not a little increased by the genial manner
of the lecturer, and the amusing anecdotes with which

they were occasionally interspersed.

   " He showed us yesterday," says Young, " a laborious trea

tise, with elegant plates, published in the beginning of this
century at Wurzburg, which is a most singular specimen of
credulity in affairs of Natural History. Dr. Behringen used to
torment the young men of a large school by obliging them to
go out with him collecting petrifactions ; and the young rogues, in

revenge, spent a whole winter in counterfeiting specimens, which
they buried in a hill which the good man meant to explore, and

imposed them upon him for most wonderful lusus natural. It

is interesting in a metaphysical point of view to observe how
the mind attempts to accommodate itself; in one case where
the boys had made the figure of a plant thick and clumsy, the
Dr. remarks the difference, and says that nature seems to have
restored to the plant in thickness, that which she had taken

away from its other dimensions."

   It is not added that the unhappy victim of this

roguery died of mortification when the imposition was
made known to him.

   Two other lecturers (Arnemann and Richter) whose
86               MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                              Chap. IV.

courses he attended throughout, as he tells us, with
very exemplary regularity, were also men of very great
eminence and very voluminous medical writers. He
takes no notice of the anatomical and surgical lectures,
though the staff of professors, who gave them, was not

less complete than that of medicine. In fact, there

was no department of learning which was not well re
presented in this university, which was then and con
tinued for many years, to be the most illustrious in

Germany.0

    The relative merits of English and German medical

writers and medical practice were made the frequent

subjects of discussion in the correspondence which
passed between Young and his uncle. The latter, who

was a good authority on the practice and well ac
quainted with the literature of his profession, was not

free from the prejudices respecting German physicians
and their writings, which were very generally prevalent
in those days,b when Germany had not yet fully vindi-

· The Baron Meerman, an intelligent Dutch traveller, who visited

Gottingen in 1791, and who regards it not only as the first university in

Germany but in Europe, says that there were at that time forty-nine profes

sors, of whom thirty-seven were ordinary and twelve extraordinary, besides

private teachers : of the former four belonged to the faculty of theology,
ten to that of law, seven to that of medicine, and sixteen to that of

philosophy.      Inhe spsaeyask,ing"   of the many distinguished men      whom     this
staff included,                       what student of the Bible does not   honour   the

name of Eichhorn ; of jurisprudence, those of Bbhmer, Putter, or llunde?

What admirer of ancient and modern literature, elevated by all that

judgment, style, and taste can contribute to their refinement, does not
recognize n Heyne ; or of philosophy, a Feder and Meiners? What student
of mathematics, natural history, chemistry, or anatomy, a Kastner, a

Lichtenberg, a Blumcnbach, a Gmelin, or a Wrisberg ; or of geography

and history, a Gatterer, a Plank, a Spittler, and a SchOzer?" Though

the salary of no one of these professors, in addition to their fees, exceeded
1000 dollars, they were at that time better paid than those of any other

University in Germany. The number of students was about 800.

b He had resided in Germany, as physician to the English army,

during part <>fthe seven years' war.
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.                87

cated that high position in the world of science and

literature which she is now acknowledged to hold :

Young however ventures to combat the truth of these

views with his usual sobriety and good sense.

  I" will venture to repeat," says he, " that your opinion of

the state of physic in this country is formed from viewing it on

the worst side ; your acquaintance with their authors is probably

almost confined to those who wrote forty years ago ; and since
that time, although something old-womanish may perhaps still
remain, yet the main bulk of the art has undergone a great

revolution. They translate and read, but do not believe all

the new theories that start up. Brown, Beddoes, Darwin's
works, are all well known, and Hunter's book will probably soon
be turned into German ; all the practical works are also imme
diately attended to ; they have also among the crowd of their
own authors many who observe and think for themselves. The
kindred sciences of anatomy, botany, and chymistry, are upon
the whole, further advanced than in Britain ; and the lectures

Ihere on physic and the materia medica are unquestionably

better than those which heard on the same subjects at Saint

Bartholomew's Hospital From all this I do not conclude that

their practice, generally speaking, is equal to the English, but

that it is not greatly inferior, and that one who is disposed may

learn in German books, and from German lectures, something

which is not contemptible."  says :--

On another occasion he       are quoted  as familiarly  here as
" The English physicians

they are at home ; the Germans know what London contains

better than many of our own countrymen ; but the reverse does
not hold good ; the German authors are very imperfectly or not
at all known in Britain. The English may say that the German

medical practice is theoretical and feeble ; the Germans allege
that the treatment in London is merely empirical, and that
while one half of the faculty is led away by extravagant hypo
theses, the other acts only on the narrowest experience ; the
truth perhaps is in the medium; and at any rate the science
here has one advantage that the doctrines of both countries are

well known here, while the English attend little to any opinions
but those of their own country."
SS  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

   The outline of the plans for study and travel, which
he had formed soon after he came to Gottingen, and

which he submitted to his uncle for his approbation,

was as follows :--

   " To take a diploma here in the spring ; to leave this place
late in May ; to travel in Germany during the summer,

reaching Vienna early in the autumn, and having spent
the winter- there, in the further prosecution of my medical
studies, to proceed through Switzerland, to the North of
Italy, Rome and Naples, and then make the best of my way

to England."

    The second and larger portion of this scheme was
put an end to by the rapid progress and extension of
the war ; the rest of it was modified by a better know
ledge of the difficulties which would prevent his speedy
admission, as a licenciate, by the College of Physicians
in London. Sir George Baker had told him that two
years spent in different universities in the study of
physic, with a medical degree, would answer the pur
pose ; and such would really appear to have been the
intention of the framers of the regulation which had
been recently adopted. The lawyers, however, who had
been employed to put the regulation into a legal
form, had given it a different construction, requiring
that the two years immediately preceding the applica
tion for a licence should have been spent at the same
university. The obvious effect of this unexpected reading
of the statute was to nullify any claim which he might
have founded upon the year which he had passed at
Edinburgh, and thus to recall to his uncle's mind the

expediency of Ins proceeding to Cambridge, and, by
graduating there, to secure the full honours of his pro
fession : to this scheme he had long been favourable,
and was now enabled openly to urge it upon his
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.  Si)

nephew, when his religious principles no longer pre

sented an insuperable obstacle to its adoption.

   In the mean time Young had obtained his uncle's con

sent to his graduating at Gottingen, without adopting
any immediate resolution with respect to his future
proceedings. On the 21st of March he addressed the
usual letter of application to the Medical Faculty, re

questing to be examined, preparatory to his degree.

On the 30th of April, he passed the examination in
company with three other students, Niemeyer, Trevi-

ranus, and Grabenstein.

  " I made" says he, "no preparatory study, as is usual here

and also at Edinburgh not uncommon under the name of grind
ing. The examination lasted between four and five hours ;

the four examiners were seated round a table, well furnished

with cakes, sweetmeats, and wine, which helped to pass the

time agreeably ; the questions were well calculated to 3ound
the depth of a student's knowledge in practical physic, surgery,
anatomy, chyinistry, materia medica, and physiology ; but the
professors were not very severe in exacting accurate answers.
Most of them were pleased to express their approbation of my
replies. We were all previously obliged to give a summary
account of the manner in which our lives had been spent."

Young had already made some progress with his

thesis or the dissertation which was to precede his public

disputation, and which, as it is always printed and cir

culated, becomes an exercise of importance, which no

student of high character could allow to appear with

out very careful study and preparation.

The subject which, after much deliberation, he chose
for this Dissertation, was " De Corporis Humani viribus
Itconservatricibus."
                      is of considerable length, extend

ing to eighty pages, and is written, as might be expected,

in very correct Latinity. He had read, as a special
preparation for fluency and propriety of expression in
90  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

medical Latin, the works of Celsus, and was both

pleased and instructed by this elegant writer, who,
amidst much that is erroneous, exhibits no small por

tion of sound observation, and judicious practice, more
especially in what relates to chirurgery. The Aphorisms
of Hippocrates, upon a careful study, fell short of his
expectation. The great library of the University,
probably the richest, and certainly the best and most
liberally administered establishment of the kind in
Europe, supplied him with all the books bearing upon
his subject, which he felt it necessary to consult, and
amongst them he particularly mentions Brande Ueber
die Lebenskraft and Hufeland's Ideen iiber Pathogenie.
The dissertation was finished and printed early in June,
and received the ready approbation of the censor (the
Dean of the Faculty), who spoke in very high terms
of its merits.

   On the 16th July, he proceeded with his prceses

(Wrisburg) and his two opponents (Weber and Noden),
to the summer Auditorium, where he read a short

thesis, called a lectio cursoria, the subject of which was

the human voice ; disputed according to the forms ; was

complimented on his performance ; and, after reading
something like a prayer, was married to Hygasa, and
created doctor of Physic, Surgery, and Man-midwifery.

    The only fragment of this lectio which has been

preserved is printed at the end of his Dissertation,

 professedly with a view of filling up some pages of the
 last sheet, which would otherwise have remained
unoccupied. We there find an alphabet of forty-seven
 letters, designed to express, by their combination,
 every sound which the organs of the human voice are
 capable of forming, and thus adaptable as an alphabet

for all languages. It is distributed into sixteen pure
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.  91

and five nasal vowels, ten pure, three nasal and one

mixed, semi- vowels ; three explosives, six susurrants and

three mutes. Whatever were the bases upon which

this scheme was formed, it is evident, from reference
to it in his correspondence, that it was much in his
thoughts ; and he assures us that it was in connexion

with inquiries upon the powers of vocalization of the
organs of the human voice, and in order to form a

perfect conception of what a sound was, that he was
conducted through a series of experiments and observa
tions on the theory of the formation of sound and the
laws of its propagation, to the consideration of analogous
propositions respecting the theory of light, which be

came the foundation of his greatest discovery."
   Sir John Herschel, in his valuable Treatise on Sound,

which is given in the Encyclopaedia Metropolitana, has
called attention to the extreme, imperfection of our

existing alphabet to represent all the sounds required
in our language.

   " We have six letters," says he, " which we call vowels, each

of which, however, represents a series of sounds quite distinct
from each other ; and while each encroaches on the functions of

the rest, a great many very good simple vowels are represented
by binary, and even ternary combinations. On the other hand,

some single vowel letters represent two diphthongs, (as the long
sound of i in alike and of u in rebuke,) consisting of two distinct

single vowels pronounced in rapid succession ; while again, most
of what we call diphthongs are simple vowels, as ea in bleak, ie
in thief, &c."

   He then proceeds to an enumeration of our English
elementary vowel sounds, as they really exist in our lan

guage, making fourteen vowels and six diphthongs.
The consonants, which offer nearly equal confusion,

are distributed into four classes, including seven con-

" See Works, vol.  i.,  p. 199.
92  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

sonants, denominated by him as sharp, seven as flat,
and seven as neutral. We thus get thirteen vowels
and twenty-one consonants, which are competent, either

singly or by reduplication and combination, to express

all the sounds of the English language. With some
additions he seems disposed to think that every known

language might be reduced to writing, so as to pre

serve an exact correspondence between the writing and

pronunciation.

   The varieties of pronunciation, however, in all lan

guages, even if a recognized standard of pronouncing

them in every case could be agreed upon, are sometimes
so delicate and so difficult to distinguish, as not merely
to surpass the powers of the most careful analysis, but
they are such as would be found to extend such an uni

versal alphabet to a length which would render it prac

tically useless. The- subject, however, assumes a high
degree of importance when alphabets are proposed for
languages previously unwritten, as in the translations of
the Scriptures for the different tribes of Africa, America,
and the islands of the Pacific and Indian Ocean, which

are accessible to Missionary enterprize, as a means of

materially facilitating the study of such languages, and
thereby clearing the way for the instruction of those
who speak them in religion and the arts of civilized life.

   In the month of May --during a short suspension

of lectures ---he made a tour to the Harz, which has

been denominated the Derbyshire of Germany, but

far surpassing it in the boldness of its mountain
scenery, and the richness of its mines. He was

accompanied by two of his fellow-students, and
also by Mr. Wedgwood and Mr. Leslie, who were
making a short sojourn at the University on their way
to Switzerland. Mr. Wedgwood was a man of very
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION: GOTTINGEN.  93

agreeable manners and considerable philosophical
attainments, the author of a paper of some merit in

the Philosophical Transactions for 1794, on the emission
of light from heated bodies. Mr. Leslie, subsequently
so well known, was at that time engaged in a series of
observations on the temperature of springs, with a view
of ascertaining whether they represented, or not, the

mean temperature of the latitude, at different elevations

above the level of the sea. His observations in the
Harz were found to be generally accordant with this

theory. The travellers were delighted with their

excursion through this beautiful region. They ascended
the Brocken, so celebrated in the legendary history of
Germany, and in the creations of the greatest of its
poets. They descended two of the deepest mines, and
as usual, were very poorly rewarded for their labour.

    Amongst so many objects of natural interest, they
were not less pleased with the aspect of Goslar, one of
the many free imperial cities, once so numerous in Ger

many, though now abolished, which tended so much,

by their privileges, to preserve the arts and national

character of the people, amidst the barbarism and

military violence which prevailed around them. Its

Gothic houses, its cathedral, its towers, and its ram

parts, recalled forcibly to their minds an image of the

middle ages.

    Amongst other objects also which they visited was

a cave at Swartzfeld, extending some hundred yards

into the earth. It was known by the name of the

Unicorn's Cave, from the bones of an unknown animal

which is found there.

  I" We dug up," says Young, " some of them for specimens.
Ifound the upper part of a tibia, and Wedgwood the lower part of

a humerus, of what animal cannot say, but about the size of
a bear."
94  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

   Cuvier and Buckland had not then shown the deep

import of such remains in illustrating the past history

of the world.

    Young's miscellaneous studies at Gbttingen, amidst

so many engagements and attendance upon so many

lectures, were very limited. The works of Fielding,
read, for the first time, after the age of manhood, came

upon him by surprise, and he was fascinated by the
truth and vigour of their pictures of human nature,

notwithstanding their repulsive coarseness.
    The Vicar of Wakefield, a work so much and so

justly admired in Germany, was found to be almost
equally attractive. His previous studies of Ariosto had
prepared him to appreciate the wit and vivacity of the
Oberon of Wieland, notwithstanding the puerility of
many of its adventures and its daring violations of
probability. His opinion of the works of Kant,

which he had begun to study, but afterwards aban

doned, is expressed in the following extract from a

letter to his uncle.

   I I" had begun, but now, on account of graduating, must for

the present, intermit, a very deep study of the philosophy of the
celebrated Kant, in his Critique of Pure Reason. Kant, in point
of popularity, is more than the Aristotle of Germany. In his
life-time he makes already the text of numberless commentators;

Iand it is as much of a compliment to say of a man that he is a

good Kantian as that he is a good Grecian. therefore thought
it necessary to have at least an acquaintance with his principles,
more from a knowledge of their currency than from an opinion

Iof their worth ; and have not yet been able to see them in a
Ibetter light. From what have read of his works, Kant seems

to possess great penetration, yet not without confusion of ideas.
 His language is unpardonably obscure ; it is also one of the
 spurious arts of becoming popular to affect innovations in lan
guage. His system may, perhaps, be shortly described by say
 ing that it is diametrically opposed to Hume's."
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.  95

   The constitution of Young's mind was essentially
English, and altogether alien to those refinements of

thought and niceties of expression which the develop
ments of the philosophical systems of Kant and his
followers absolutely require. The German language is as

flexible as that of the ancient Greeks, and whilst it is

equally capable of adapting itself to the expression of the
most profound and transcendental speculations, it exer
cises in return no inconsiderable influence in modifying
and forming the intellectual habits of those who use it.

It is probably owing to these influences that the English

mind has generally failed sufficiently to appreciate or

understand, or the English language sufficiently to ex
press, those philosophical views which have found
such general acceptance in Germany, and that all
attempts to incorporate or assimilate them with our
own, have led to no small amount of confusion and

obscurity both of thought and language.

   On the 23rd of July, he started on foot, with a man

to carry his knapsack, on a short excursion, first to
Pyrmont, and thence to Brunswick and Helmstadt ;
returning by the skirts of the Harz forest to Gottingen
on the 25th of the following month. The rapid pro
gress of the French armies having already involved

some provinces of Germany in a war, which threatened
before long to extend to the remainder, made it some
what hazardous for an Englishman to enter upon any
very extended tour ; and Young had already abandoned
his scheme of a winter residence at Vienna and a sub

sequent visit to Switzerland and Italy.
    Gothe has described, in one of the most touching of

his poems, the kind sympathy of his countrymen for
the emigrants, who first fled from France on the break
ing out of the Revolution. The great addition to their
96  MF.MOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                 Chap. IV.

numbers, however, including many bad characters and

desperadoes, upon the defeat at Valmy and the with

drawal of the royalist army from France, rapidly changed

this feeling of general welcome into one of dislike and

alarm. Our traveller had not completed his first day's

excursion, before he was alarmed by the report that

many emigrants were leading a wandering life in the

country through which he was passing, who earned

their subsistence by contributions forced from the

travellers whom they met ; and he found that whenever

he presented himself in his pedestrian costume at a

hceouwnatrsyreinceni,vethdewafisr,st"  question  addressed to him,  before
                                                 an emigrant?"
                                       Are you

    He arrived at Pyrmont, the most northerly of the

popular German spas, on the second day from Gottin-

gen, and remained there a week to study the habits of

the place, presenting much the same succession of em

ployments as are characteristic of such places in our

own times.

   At Brunswick he made his appearance at court,

dressed in proper costume.

  I" was presented," says he, " to the duchess (our King's

sister), to the hereditary princess, the Stadtholder's daughter,

and the duchess dowager, sister of the late King of Prussia.
The duchess and princess each talked about two minutes with

Ime, the mother asked me two questions, and from this time till
nine I was left at my own disposal               was glad when

supper was announced : about twenty ladies sat on one side of

Ithe table, and as many gentlemen on the other ; was placed

in the middle, opposite the princess : the duchess was not there.

I attempted to converse with one of my neighbours, but he was

either stupid or sulky, and the others were engaged among

themselves. At last the duchess dowager, who looks like a
spectre -- has lost her teeth -- and whom I fancied totally unfit

I I Ifor all company, began a long and amusing conversation. She

asked me what had studied at Gottingen ? told her was a
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.     97

If Idoctor of physic. --   could feel a pulse : --how frequent the most
Irapid pulse that       had felt was : --whether the English or the
I IGermans had the best pulses.
                          said that had felt but one

pulse in Germany, which was that of a young lady, and a very
good pulse. She asked me if there was a good theatre of
I Ianatomy at Gottingen.
                          told her, pretty good, but that did
Inot attend it ; had only gone to a single lecture, and had seen
Ithe professor dance a caricature dance ; that had been a more

frequent attendant of the manege than of the school of anatomy.

Our discourse awoke the attention of those who were within hear
ing, and now I had enough to talk with ; but supper was soon

Iove"r,Oanndthethefolcloomwipnagnymodirsnpienrgsed. went to see the ducal manege ;

the horses are good, but the riding must not be compared with

Gottingen."

   Young speaks elsewhere of Gottingen as at that
time the first school of horsemanship in Europe, the
still more celebrated school at Turin having been sup
pressed by the war. He was passionately fond of this

exercise, and an assiduous attendant at the school,

and there were no feats of horsemanship, however
daring or difficult, which he did not attempt or accom

plish. His muscular power was always remarkable,

and the companion of his early studies has assured me
that he was in the habit of leaping over the loftiest

gates with a single spring. In writing to his uncle,

towards the close of his residence at Gottingen, he

says,

I" have this morning been upon the back of the Springer.

To mount this terrestrial Pegasus is considered here something

like summi in re equestri honores, and is seldom attained without

Ilong practice. finish my lessons this week, and look back with

satisfaction on the health and amusement which have repaid my

time and money. It might, perhaps, be more useful to me to

take some instructions how to sit in a doctor's chariot ; but it

is impossible to possess any qualification which one may not

Life.                                     H
       MEMOIU OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.          Chap. IV.

Iwant, and capabilities arc but light burdens. We have another

fashionable exercise, which think adequately corresponds to
the athletic schools of the ancients -- vaulting on a wooden horse

Iin various positions ; and am much more known among the

students for excelling in this, than for writing Greek, of which

they have little knowledge, and not much more respect."

He had a favourable opportunity of exhibiting his

personal activity at a court masquerade which was

given the next day, where he made his appearance with

great success, in the character of Harlequin.

   At Helmstadt, to wlnch he proceeded upon quitting

Brunswick, he was introduced to Professor Bereiss, a

most singular combination of learning and talents with

the most impudent charlatanerie.

  I" scarcely ever met with a more interesting man than Pro
Ifessor Bereiss -- should not have repented going ten times as

far to see him --everybody allows him to be in one respect an

unique : that he has more vanity than any other mortal creature

-- as to his merit, opinions are different ; those who know him

well, maintain that he has great parts and industry ; but no
single dissertation of extraordinary merit, nor any one grand
original idea has been produced by him ; it is no wonder there
fore that some deny him any claim to superiority, and depre

ciate all that he possesses. But it cannot be denied, that he

has bought articles of immense value without apparent income
sufficient to purchase a tenth of them ; and he must be allowed
to be an extraordinary man, and though not one of three, as he
maintains, yet at least one of three hundred. The two whom
he is said to place by himself in the temple of fame, are Zoroaster

and the late King of Prussia He formerly read fourteen

lectures, or hours, out of the twenty-four ; now he reads but ten,

on medical, chymical, and philosophical subjects, on the fine

arts,  on law, and various other branches   of learning.    He says
that                                        that he sleeps  seven --
       he sleeps but two hours--others say

he is sixty-six years old ; he says that he has eleven collections,

all equally perfect, one of natural history, one of coins, one of

gems, one of diplomatic manuscripts, one of anatomical pre
parations, one of pictures of great masters, one of secondary
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTING EN.                                99

Imasters, one of chirurgical instruments, one of philosophical and

mathematical instruments, and some others which do not re

collect ; he says that he plays on all instruments, others say

that he plays on none. His greatest treasure is Lieberkuhn's

collection of anatomical injections and other preparations, about

one hundred and thirty-one, each placed before a microscope, and

arranged in a little box, which he reckons his greatest treasure)

and together with a picture, keeps always within his reach, that

in case of fire he may in these rescue food for his mind throughout
the rest of his life. The picture is about a foot square, a Jesus

and John, by Raphael ; and it must be allowed to be exquisite.

He says seriously, that all the galleries in the world would be

inadequate for it. He says that the man who pretends to be a

chymist, and has not as much money as he wants, is an in

Ifamous impostor : that he can obtain, from nature, one hundred

thousand thalers whenever he pleases, but think he does not

seem to affect that he can make gold He says he has a
diamond which all the kings in Europe together could not buy --

to which the great one in Portugal is a grain of sand-- that he

seals it up in chest upon chest, and pays several thousand dollars

yearly for having it kept ; but it must be brought to him once a

year that he may be assured it is safe : others who have seen
                                                                         2
           a crystal he says he will leave                            to nobody, for he
say  it                                                  ; it                            ;
         is                                                   ;
                                                                : it                    it,
            it
                                         :
                               it
                                                  ;
knows none worthy of and he has already made a furnace to

evaporate     The way in which he gets his money he will not

tell lest a bad use should be made of                               He says he does not

write because he would lose time in answering the fools who

would oppose him that he teaches only orally. The whole num
     ;I
                                 ;
ber of students in Helmstadt does not amount to one hundred.

What saw was, in the first place, a few minerals, good, but not

unique the collection of the first and the last works of the

greatest painters, whom he thus reckons Raphael, Michael

Angelo, Correggio, Guido Reni, Trevisano, and Francisca of

the Italian school Albert Diirer, Lucas Cranach, Holbein, and
              ;
                            ;
three more Germans Rubens, Rembrandt, and four more

Flemish and four French, which he did not show. Those
     aI
which most admired were Jesus at Emmaus, M. Angelo a;

holy family, Correggio; the little Raphael two infants, Trevisano;

and head of A. Durcr,                                by  himself there were many more

that were good, and others which he raised to that dignity. He

                                                                      H
100  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  (.HAr. IV.

had a reckoning machine, which he said none but a German
had diligence enough to be capable of making. Three automata ,

made by Vauguyon --a flute player, a pipe and tabor player, and

a duck ; the musicians could not play much because his servant
was not there ; but the duck performed many motions just as
a living one, and eat and swallowed a moderate quantity of

Ioats, which require an hour to be digested and excreted.

had a great desire to see his medals, which are said to be the

best thing that he has ; but 1 had already spent five hours with
him, and could not well prolong my stay. Ramdohr, a relation
of the author, was most of the time present, and was to see the

Icoins the next day, and had half promised to be of the party.
IWhen I told him must go, he said, not ' I am sorry for it ;' but,
I' am sorry for you.' One cannot but admire Bereiss's industry

and enviable acquisitions, at the same time that one must either
pity or despise his unpardonable arrogance and exaggeration.
Some more particulars of him are to be found in Meerman's
Travels."

    On the 28th of August he took his final leave of
Gottingen " with as little regret as a man can leave any
place where he has resided nine months." He had

been repelled by the general want of hospitality on
the part of the Professors and the few opportunities
for the enjoyment of refined society which the place

presented.

   He proceeded, as before, generally on foot, first
to Cassel and thence by Gotha, Erfurt, Weimar,
and Jena to Leipsic. Germany is full of capital cities,
the residences of its past or present numerous petty

sovereigns, and presenting as common features, palaces,
museums of science or art, and other public buildings

and establishments, whose splendour is very often
in striking contrast to the poverty or small extent
of the territories which are attached to them.

What is found in one of them may generally be ex
pected to be found in another, and the repeated
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.                                             101

descriptions therefore of them becomes tedious and un
interesting. As the principal part of Young's journal
is occupied with such details, we shall confine our
extracts from or other notices of his travels, within
a

                 it,
very narrow limits.

   At Gotha he inspected the fine observatory built

in noble situation on the Seeberg, and made the
acquaintance of the observer, the Baron de Zach, after

wards so well known for his various and interesting

contributions to astronomy and astronomical literature.
   Of the great poets who for so many years made the

little city and court at Weimar the most distinguished
in Germany, all were absent but Herder, to whom he
brought letters from his son, who had been Young's

fellow student at Gottingen.
   " Herder expressed a curiosity to see more of my attempt to

illustrate the human voice. wrote out for him a little specimen
of the manner in which would describe the pronunciation of

the most current European languages, and this afforded conver

sation with him and Mr. Boteker in the evening, which passed
away very pleasantly at his house. Mr. Gore, an English

gentleman, who has long resided at Weimar, was there
also, with his two daughters as well as the little Princess with
her governess and one or two other ladies. Herder very well
versed in the English poets, but does not speak the language.
We had a little debate on the subject of rhyme, which he would

reject altogether."
                      I

                                ;1

                                                                          is

At Jena the University was not in session, and

nearly all the Professors were absent. Young, however,

found Biitmer the eminent philologist there, by whom

he was most kindly received
                      is
                                     a

                                                          :

                                                                                 is
   " He has applied himself particularly," says Young, " to the
study of languages, and at the age of eighty-three, going to
enter on the publication of general dictionary of all existing

languages, which      already written, but not copied for the
press, lie was formerly Professor at Gottingen, and taught
102  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                        Chai\ IV.

natural history, but has long retired to pursue his grand object.

He has already published comparative tables of alphabets, and

now he is publishing a scheme of the pronunciation of all

European languages. He asked me to drink coffee with him in
Ithe afternoon.
                 carried him my dissertation, and wrote out

some additional examples of orthography ; and he showed me

his manuscripts, particularly on the elements of the Chinese

language. His library consists of (50,000 volumes, and is par
ticularly complete in natural history. At his death, the Duke

of Weimar purchases it for the University."

   "Jena is said to have about 1000 students, and those who

distinguish themselves find sufficient access to familiarity with

the few families resident here. It is considerably less expensive

than Gottingen, and money is said to attract less attention here

than there."
   " The country from Jena to Nuremberg is highly romantic.

It follows nearly the course of a fine river, which in the course

of ages has worked itself a deep valley, in a country which is

otherwise nearly flat, of which the sides are now clothed with

vineyards and cottages, the bottom with trees and pasture --here
crowned with a city and a castle, and there hanging over a little

town. About Leipsic, the country is perfectly flat and void of all
Inatural beauties.
                    staid a week there, and met with many civili

ties from the relatives of an intimate acquaintance in Gottingen ;
Ibut in general I found little to interest a stranger.
                                                        was in one

large company of the gay, and in another of the learned world,
Ibut found both too much occupied with old friends to be
Ianxious to become intimate with a new.
                                         saw little of the

University ; it is lost among the other inhabitants, who are

40,000 in number. There are said to be 1200 students,
Iabout as many as in Edinburgh.
                                 met with a Silesian count,

who gave me a seat in his chaise upon condition of my being
at the cost of an additional horse, and brought me to Dresden

in a moderately short time. We travelled in the finest moon

shine, and in the morning reached the Elbe at Meissen, one of

Ithe finest river views which have ever seen."

   At Dresden, our traveller engaged lodgings for a

month, and was much interested with the study of the
vast collections, in almost every department of the fine
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.  103

arts, for which that city is so celebrated. He found

here also many acquaintances, both English and foreign,
and passed Ins time both profitably and agreeably. He
paid visits to Kcenigstein and the Saxon Switzerland,

and also to Freyberg where he was introduced to the

celebrated Werner.

   " We looked curiously," says he, " at the academic collections,

and saw the collection of models of machines and mines.

Among the minerals there is a separate division for the illustra
tion of Werner's terms, and subservient to his introductory lec
tures. The Amalgamir werk is in every respect the pride of
Freyberg. The building is a quadrangle ; in the centre of the

court stands a building for throwing water over every part of

the works, to prevent such a conflagration as took place a few

years ago.

   " At first sight, the neatness and order observable throughout
the whole is striking to a stranger. It belongs to the Elector,

and all the ore of the proper kind found in the neighbourhood

is brought here. It contains, on an average, 3$ ounces of silver

in 1 cwt. After being roasted, it is sifted, and twice ground ;
then 11 cwt. of ore and 3 or 4 cwt. of water are put into a
barrel, 5 cwt. of quicksilver is added, and the barrel turned
round its axis, by means of a water-wheel, for eighteen or twenty

hours ; the mercury is then suffered to subside, and the greatest

part separated by straining through linen bags ; the rest is dis

tilled off per desceiisum, and leaves the silver with something
more than a sixteenth part of other metals ; it is afterwards
assayed. The ore remaining is washed in a peculiar machine,

separating the remaining mercury ; and if on trial with the test

more than a drachm of silver remains in a cwt. of ore, it is again
heated with mercury. They lose about three quarters of an
ounce of mercury for every cwt. of ore. None of this seems to

be evaporated, nor are any prejudical consequences found on
the health of the workmen. The ore, previous to roasting, is
mixed with about a tenth part of its weight of salt. There are
twenty barrels, all in continual motion. The silver produced

should at this rate be worth 70,000/. per annum ; but I think

they reckon it at about one third of that value. The mines
104  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

belong partly to private companies, and partly to the Elector.
The miners receive five groschen (Sid.) a day, for eight hours
work ; they sometimes work more than one spell (schichte) in
twenty-four hours. They seldom contract. This is about as
much here as 9«. a week in England, and in Cornwall the

miners earn from 12s. to 18»."

   " My friends had never been in a mine ; we therefore went
to the bottom of the Churprinz, something more than one hun
dred and thirty fathoms in depth. It is a convenient mine for
descending, and affords a very good specimen of mines in

general, but has nothing very singular to distinguish it. Every

thing is very similar to the method commonly used in England.
The external appearance of the buildings, and their situation in
the valley, is very agreeable. The ore is carried down a little

court to the amalgamation work. The smelting houses and

blowing furnaces adjoining this work have nothing very pe

culiar."

   We have given this extract at length from his
Journal as a good specimen of the minute accuracy of

his observations and descriptions.
    On the 19th of November he started for Berlin in

company with Mr. Grey, the Secretary of the Embassy
at Dresden, and reached it after three weary days'
travelling over the sandy and featureless district which

characterizes, for the most part, the approaches to that

capital. The extension and probable continuance of the

war had put an end to all reasonable expectation of his
being able to carry into execution the scheme which he
formerly entertained of passing the winter in Vienna
and the following summer in Italy, and he finally
acceded to the wish which his uncle had frequently ex
pressed, that he should return to England at an early
period and then proceed to Cambridge to take his
degree ; for it had now been distinctly ascertained that
there were no means of obtaining his licence to practise
in London, without a continued residence in the same
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION: GOTTINGEN.                                           105

University for two years previous to graduation. In

a letter addressed to his uncle, written on the 12th

of December, after a three weeks' residence in Berlin,

announcing his determination, he proceeds to say, --

  I" have not formed many connections in this place, neither
Ihave I seen any great curiosities ; indeed am glad to have a

Ilittle respite from the perpetual pursuit of novelties, which
seldom equal expectation.  have been to day in the Royal

ILibrary, which is tolerably good and extensive, and in a day
or two     am to make an excursion to Potsdam to see the

palace, with its paintings and statues. 1 have dined twice
with the English ambassador, Lord Elgin, and once with

Dr. Brown, a Welch physician and in great favour with the

king.
   " There are some other Englishmen here, but most of them

Iabout to leave Berlin ; amongst them is a Mr. G                                 , who was

turned out of the Guards for democratical principles : believe
Iyou know his father.
                           am acquainted with one or two Jew

families, who are very respectable ; the women are generally

more accomplished and better informed than those of other

denominations, and associate as little as they can with men of
Itheir own nation.
                    have not yet seen any of the professors,
Ibut mean to call upon Walther, Klaproth, and one or two

others. You say my Thesis is caviare to the general ; but do

not you think people have a greater respect for anything out of

the common way ? Perhaps indeed few people will give it

I

      It

                                                                               :

                                                             it,

                                           it it I
                                                     aI
attention enough either to like or dislike yet do not know

that have any reason to avoid distributing                                       among my

friends.   seems a fatality that almost everything do or

produce should be termed stiff in this case                                      may arise

from my having been obliged to treat the subject in short

compass."

He left Berlin for Hamburg on the 14th of January,

1797.

   " On the whole road there was nothing to amuse or even to
call off the attention the country a flat sand, now covered
with half thawed snow the inns poor and dirty, the weather
cold, perpetually threatening rain or snow the carriages arc
                    ;
                       ;

                                              is

                                                                              ;
106  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.              Chap. IV.

the coarsest and simplest open waggons, without any other seat
Ithan straw.
Isuch beds as  was very happy the greatest part of the night in

               could get, and in four days and a half I reached

my destination."

   After passing a week with his hospitable friends at
Hamburg, he hastened to Cuxhaven, in order to join
the packet for England, the sailing of which was
delayed by adverse winds until the 7th of February.
He was invited, on the day of his arrival, to dine with
Mr. Heise, the Governor and Amptmann of the town,
to whom he had letters of recommendation from his
friends in Hamburg. He met at his table, besides his

four daughters, several of the French ex-noblesse, and

some English naval officers :

" The evening," says he, " was concluded with dancing a
Icotillon, to the simple music of the flute.
                                              felt no impatience
for change of wind : I could read and write almost as well here

as in England. The inn was not very good, but the people

agreeable and civil, and there was a spirit of hospitality and a

sufficient portion of good company among the inhabitants.

   " It seems the most natural employment for leisure hours,

when we are on the point of leaving a country which we have

endeavoured to view with the eye of a philosophic traveller, to
take a retrospective view of some of its most remarkable

Icharacteristics.          am qualified to speak is only the

   " The country of which

northern part of Germany : in natural advantages perhaps

inferior to the southern, but in activity and cultivation much

superior. From the Northern Sea, all the way to the neigh

bourhood of Hanover, to that of the llarz Forest, to Leipsic,

and almost to Dresden, the country, except the banks of the

Elbe and a few other rivers, is a flat ban-en sand, covered here

and there with heath, fir- woods, and now and then other trees.

But the Weser, and the country near from below Hameln to
                           it,
                                                                    in
Cassel and further up, then the whole tract between this and

Gotha, many parts of the Harz Forest, the Elbe in Saxony, the
banks of the Saal, and perhaiis some other parts, are equal
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.  107

beauty and apparent fertility to almost any portion of England

Iof equal size. Much is said of Bohemia, of the banks of the

Danube and Rhine, and of Tyrol. These have no expecta

Ition of visiting at present ; whether may hereafter seek an
I Iopportunity of doing it cannot determine, but should not be

disposed to attempt it without a combination of the most
favourable circumstances -- ' 1st nicht Deutschland von einem

Ende zum andren durchreist, durchkreutzt, durchzogen, durch-

krochen und durchflogen,' says Gothe, as he is relating the
manufactory of a journal by a person who had not made the

Ijourney. -- ' Give me thy route, before you come to ma

will promise you sources of information and materials for
assisting your work : there shall be no want of square miles
which have never been measured, and of population which has
never been reckoned. The revenues of the countries we will

take from almanacks and tables, which, as is well known, are

the best documenta When we do not happen to travel through
the residence of any celebrated men, we will take care to meet
them in some inn, and make them talk nonsense to us in confi

dence, and especially we will be careful to interweave with

spirit a love adventure with some lively beauty ; and this will

give you such an interest to the whole as to ensure the attention

Iof "everyharveeadoefrt.e'n been inclined to doubt whether a general

character of a people can with any certainty be laid down ; it is

probable that a few distinguishing characteristics may in some
cases be described, but there is scarcely any one common cause

Ifwhich can produce a similar effect over the whole of Germany.

    we analyse the idea of countrymen, and look for the bond of

mutual attachment, there is scarcely anything but the use of

the same mother tongue that can give any rational determina
tion of the idea. The facility and promptness of a mutual
communication of ideas, and the habit of having absorbed from

the earliest infancy similar principles from the same or similar
writers, are perhaps the only marks of belonging to the same

country that can be found throughout Germany ; and indeed
even the language can scarcely be said to be universally the
same, except among those of the first ranks. Where the dif
ferent parts of the same country are united by a community of
government, of laws, and of opinion, the attachment is still
108  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.             Chap. IV.

closer and the resemblance greater. But the liberal mind must

rise above the little prejudices of local attachment : the love of

our country sounds well in the mouth of an orator or in the

lines of a poet, but it is one of the most dangerous tools in the

hands of ambition, and has often been converted to the worst

of purposes. It is not to be expected, nor perhaps to be

wished, that the vulgar should desert every principle but those
which are founded in cool reason and philosophy ; yet too little ·

attention is paid by popular writers and speakers to the impor

tant maxim conveyed in the short answer of Socrates to the

men who inquired of what state he was a citizen. A man who

has formed intimacies and friendships with inhabitants of dif

ferent parts of the globe will find enough to love and to disap

prove among every people ; and perhaps one who has acquired

the faculty of communicating his thoughts with equal ease and

pleasure to the individuals of several nations, will find himself

as much at home in the one as in the other. Certainly one
who is totally destitute of this attainment can never be ad- '

mitted to judge with impartiality of the character of any country.

Many men of enlarged minds see clearly the want of common spirit

in Germany, but it may be doubted whether they do not act

unphilosophically in lamenting so much the absence of national

attachment, with respect to its moral effects, however pernicious

the political influence  of so many jarring  interests may be.
   " The complicated     system of so many   hundred independent

governments, with all possible variation of constitutions, is pro

ductive of numerous inconveniences in almost all public works.

The States monopolize many undertakings, and attempt to

derive as much revenue as possible from them, and not unfre-

quently, from the pride of being independent, interfere with the

beneficial projects of their neighbours. Thus the roads lie

unimproved ; the provision for travelling, for want of sufficient

emulation, is seldom in any tolerable degree of perfection : it is

true none are prohibited from establishing conveyances of

different kinds at their private expense, but there is not yet suf

ficient encouragement to tempt any adventurers. The number

of petty courts serve to spread over the country some degree of
the farms of refinement : but a ready communication w ith a

single animated centre would have more effect than a greater
number of less perfect ones.
Chap. TV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.                                           109

   " In the learned world the great majority are mere me
chanical labourers ;--the names of a Schiller, a Wieland,

and a Gothe are but rare luminaries among an infinite number

of twinkling stars and obscure nebula?. The established custom

of the booksellers, who pay every ordinary writer exactly in

proportion to the number of sheets, and at their periodical

gfariarsndexicmhapnegdeimbeunltk, --foarmbounlkg  of every kind   of publication,   is the
                                                                                   subsist
                                                  those who are  necessitated to
in part by writing, -- to the laconic efforts of a brilliant genius,

and the cause that the innumerable and ever increasing heap

of volumes envelops from day to day more and more the

sciences which it is designed to illustrate.
   " The pride of independence in the petty states is the cause

of the great existing number of universities, all furnished with
numerous professors, who are generally ill paid by the institu

tions, and to increase their fame and fill their purses are tempted

to undertake an unreasonable diversity of lectures, which their

diligence raises to the merit of minute prolixity, but which their

genius seldom elevates above the rank of mediocrity. The

students, from diligence or vanity as well, as from universal

custom, are prompted to attend to a superficial course of

study in every imaginable subject of literary information, which

they take implicitly from the tribunal of the school, retain

in some shape by a mechanical memory, until time and other

pursuits, -- unless fortunate circumstances have favoured them,
-- wash out those slight impressions, which, if infixed, would

have been both ornamental and useful. Hence one advantage

of the usual education in England, however grossly deficient it

may be in some particulars ; the ancient languages are generally

·····so impressed as never to be entirely forgotten, and having

attained a considerable degree of perfection in any one branch,
the influence of this positive acquirement may extend into the

remotest pursuits."

                      ·

  I" Here was interrupted by an invitation from the governor

to spend the evening at the Castle, with a large party

Iassembled to celebrate his birthday ; it was the last that

Ipassed in Germany, and one of the pleasantest : after supper

we had a little dance, in which was so fortunate as to have

the two prettiest of his daughters and a prettier cousin for
110             MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.        Chap. IV.

partners. The wind was already changing, and I took a final

Ileave : the next morning we received the welcome summons.
   went immediately to bed, and by this means avoided any

Imaterial sickness till the third day, when the wind was a little
high.           was imprisoned in the same disgusting hole the
Iremaining five days, for if attempted to sit up or go on deck,
I became giddy. On the eighth day we saw land, and made

Yarmouth Roads about noon. We were several times alarmed

Ilest we should meet with privateers ; once was in full expecta

Ition of an engagement, which was perhaps as bad as the thing
itself.         could eat almost nothing, but slept soundly and

dreamt of feasting. The trouble and vexation at the custom

house was almost as bad as being at sea for the time ; but 1

settled everything, and slept at Yarmouth that night, which was
Ithe conclusion of all dangers and difficulties.
                                                   must now

res"umTehemrey  observationa      in which Germany differs from
                 are many points  all description. Whether the

England that almost baffle

human mind is on the average in a more cultivated state in this
or that country, it is very difficult to say : there are more

learned men in Germany than in England, but we have, and

ever have had, some individuals in many branches who are
almost unequalled. Latin is much better understood in Ger

many, Greek but little ; commercial men speak French and

often English. In the mathematics and in chymistry the

Germans are making rapid advances ; as painters they copy

better than the English, but have perhaps less invention ; in

engraving the English confessedly excel them ; and the Germans

still more decidedly bear away the palm in music, in which

the"y    rival  the Italians.  a  German  theatre  applaud with more
         The    spectators in

taste than the English ; the actors follow more closely the deli
cate touches of nature, but have less force in expressing violent

passions ; their plays too are seldom raised above common life.

A poor strolling actress in a bam has sometimes excited as

much emotion in me as Mrs. Siddons has done. They never

act"SGhaeknsepraelalyre'ssppeieackeinsgwtehlel. Germans are less handsome than

the English ; the greatest difference that struck me on my
return was in the elegant forms of the women ; half of the
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.          Ill

girls that one meets in the streets would be pointed at in

Germany as remarkably well made ; the German women are,

on the other hand, in general more accomplished than the

English ; they almost always speak French well, often English

and Italian, and mostly play on some instrument, but they have

very little scientific knowledge. The Jewesses, especially at

Berlin, are among the most cultivated and agreeable of the

inhabitants, and mix more with the world than in London.
   " The great number of independent states reduces the

courts more nearly to the resemhlance of private companies
than elsewhere ; it is usual for all those to be introduced

who have a title to that privilege, and this keeps up a

marked distinction between the numerous and poor nobility,
and the richest or most accomplished of the commonalty ; and

even a nobleman of late creation is not admitted into the first

circles at Vienna, nor permitted to dine with the Elector of

Saxony. The idea conveyed by the English word gentleman
cannot be expressed in German ; they translate it nobleman, and

sometimes make the distinction of lesser nobility. The profes

sions are of little esteem, and a degree is thought a degradation

rather than an honour to one who wishes to be in good company.

I found it an impediment to me, and never made use of the
Ititle. ' do not know,' says Gothe's Wilhelm Meister, ' how it

Imay be in foreign countries, but in Germany a nobleman alone

has the power of attaining a certain universal, or, if may so
call a personal cultivation and refinement. A commoner may

have merit and may form his mind with the utmost labour, and
is

      it it,
bring to the highest state of perfection yet his personality

  lost, let him place himself as he will. A nobleman may every
                          is

                                               ;
where push forwards, a commoner can do nothing better than

feel in silence the boundary that prescribed to him. He must

not ask himself, what are you? but what have you? This

difference originates, not from the encroachments of the nobility

and the concessions of the commonalty, but from the constitution
of society whether, and how this will ever be altered concerns
              I;
                     ;
me but little as things now are, must do my best to attain
                          is

                             I
that which feel as an absolute and undeniable want' Much

more to the same purpose  to be found in this interesting

work. Whoever becomes rich can easily purchase nobility,

and then all their descendants for ever are equally noble, and
112           MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                  Chap. IV.

enjoy in some cases certain privileges ; hence it is easily under
stood how there is so great a difference from the state of

society in England.
   " The ornamental exercises, especially among the nobility,

are more attended to than in England ; riding, fencing,

vaulting, and dancing ; the prevalence of a military life
is also in part a cause of this, as well as of some other
differences. The union of literature and fashionable elegance

is very rare ; the learned never aspire to make a figure

in the gay or in the political world ; and those in , power

look upon a man of letters at best merely as an ornament to

their court, like a musician or a dancer. On a certain gala day

Iat Dresden, the actors are allowed to pay their court to the
ele"ctoTrhe;  but professional men,      believe, never.
              laws in most parts are  guided by the Roman  civil  law  ;

the depositions taken in writing, and the sentences given in pri
vate. Their physic is composed of that of all other nations ; for

they read all books in all languages, but they select too little, and
do not seem to know the beauty of simplicity. Scarcely a work

of any consequence can appear in any country, but that one or
more translations of it are immediately promised. The Ger
mans have sometimes been accused of too great an attachment

to the imitation of foreigners ; their Anglomania in physic has

of late been rather too rashly censured. In their dress and

furniture they follow the English at present much more than

the French ; and in general everything that is English is
reckoned the best of its kind. An Englishman, known no

otherwise than as an Englishman, is universally treated with

respect, and thought admissible into all companies ; he feels
himself nearly of the same rank with a count ; though a Ger

man count is less than an English baronet ; but the English are

generally more feared than beloved ; one man very innocently
told me in conversation in a mixed company#that he never had

met   with an Englishman that he      could like.  convenient ;   at a
                                      d'hote very
   "  A stranger finds the tables

good one, the best company is to be found ; each is independent

and pays moderately. They seldom drink to excess, except

occasionally a few students and officers ; but not more than the

English ; they are generally near two hours at dinner, and rise

before the cloth is removed. Smoking is carried to such an
Chap. IV. MEDICAL EDUCATION : GOTTINGEN.                      113

excess that it must have a pernicious effect both on the health

and character of individuals. The marriage state is a medium

between what it is in England and was in France ; divorces

are easily and not unfrequently obtained ; the couple interferes

less with each other's pursuits than in England ; they sleep

often in separate rooms, and almost always in separate beds ;

a b"edThlaergeGeernmouagnh  for two is a rarity in Germany.   by  an
                            language is easily so far learnt

Englishman, that he can read a common author ; but the con

nection of sentences and order of words is so intricate that it is

difficult to speak and write it with perfect delicacy. It is capable,

by the facility with which it admits of all manner of combi

nations, of expressing readily many compound ideas which

can less easily be rendered into any other language : some of
its guttural sounds, and some combinations of consonants, are

rather unpleasant to the ear, but the general tenor of the lan

guage is sufficiently soft, and the accent and cadence diversi

fied, and, at least to an English ear, agreeable. It has more

Idignity than the French, and more force than the Italian ;

think it has a vigour of expression hardly equalled by any other

language ; but such a comparison is very difficult to make.

A foreigner is puzzled with the variety of pronunciation in

Idifferent parts ; after many times changing my practice, and

making repeated inquiry, find that Adelung's rules are
almost universally the best ; in Dresden and Berlin they speak

ill and acknowledge it ; in Hamburg and Brunswick they have
some peculiarities ; Austria is confessedly soloccous ; Hanover

and Gottingen seem to be the nearest to correctness.

   " Schiller, Wieland, and Gothe, are the three reigning authors

of the present day, both for poetry and prose. Gothe has a strong

party, especially among the      ladies, many of whom     extol him
far above all other mortals                                 Egmont,
                                 ;--Werther, Iphigeneia,

and Tasso, are said to be his best pieces. Wilhelm Meister is

by no means unworthy         of  Gothe' s  genius ; but it vanishes in
comparison of some of       our  English
                                           novels. --Schiller is grand ;

Wieland elegant, fanciful, and pleasing ; Klopstock, Voss, and
Herder, are also among the first of the living authors.

   " The low German is half way between German and Dutch,

and deserves well the notice of one who wishes to study the
Life.                                                     j
114  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IV.

English etymology : Mr. Croft is now very laudably employing
himself with it at Hamburg.

  I I" What impressions a stranger would receive from France

and Italy cannot exactly judge : but should think Germany
at present the most interesting country to a traveller of any in
Europe ; not so much from its original merit, but from its being
a kind of compendium of everything that is excellent, and

#···*·Ieverything that is remarkable in every country existing ; nor

do in the least repent the time and labour employed in seeing
and learning as much of it as circumstances would allow me.

   " From Yarmouth it was natural that I should visit Norwich

in my way to London. Mrs. Rich took me up after sleeping at

Keswick ; the next night we arrived at Wade's Mill ; not that

the fatigue of travelling in England could be said, in comparison
of Germany, to make rest necessary ; but it was more conve

Inient to sleep there : in the morning took a walk up to the
Ihouse at Youngsbury where resided so many years, and we

arrived about noon in London."

   The reader who might be disposed to criticise the
preceding views of the national character and literature

of Germany should keep in mind the great changes

which both of them have undergone since the time
that they were written. The common calamities which
nearly all the members of that vast empire suffered
from the French occupation and the common exertions
which were called forth in its defence, during the war
of liberation, have created a common feeling for their
fatherland, which no subsequent dismemberment, and

we may likewise add, no subsequent misgovernment,
has been able to destroy : whilst the rapid developments
of every department of their national literature have
tended to inspire, with a just pride, all those who have

the privilege of using the language in which it is

embodied.
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.      115

                 CHAPTER V.

          MEDICAL EDUCATION: CAMBRIDGE.

Almost immediately after his return to England, he

was admitted a Fellow Commoner of Emmanuel College,
Cambridge. The Master, Dr. Farmer, the well-known

author of the Treatise on the Learning of Shakspeare,

was a friend of his uncle, a circumstance which pro

bably determined the selection of this college, which
was at that time the resort of many students in the

higher classes of life. The tutors under whom he was
admitted were the Rev. R. Towerson Cory, who shortly

afterwards succeeded to the mastership, and the Rev.
R. Hardy, afterwards Rector of Loughborough in

Leicestershire.

   We have received from a gentleman who succeeded
Dr. Cory as Tutor of the College, some particulars

respecting his academical habits and occupations and

the general estimate which was formed of his character

and attainments by his fellow students and contempo
raries. The writer of them was a man of great energy

of character and of very acute observation, but pos

sessed of no great learning; he was evidently not
very partial to Dr. Young, and by no means disposed

to recognize, even after the death of their author, the

importance of those discoveries which the most eminent

scholars and men of science of the age had long since

acknowledged.                             i2
116              MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                Chap. V.

   " When the Master," says the writer, " introduced Young to

Ihis tutors, he jocularly said : ' have brought you a pupil

qualified to read lectures to his tutors.' This, however, as might
be concluded, he did not attempt, and the forbearance was
mutual ; he was never required to attend the common duties of

Ithe"
     collega  a  high  character  for  classical  learning  before he
     He had

came to Cambridge ; but believe he did not pursue his classical
Istudies in the latter part of his life --he seldom spoke of them ;

but remember his meeting Dr. Parr in the college Combina

tion room, and when the Doctor had made, as was not unusual

with him, some dogmatical observation on a point of scholar
ship, Young said firmly : ' Bentley, sir, was of a different

opinion ;' immediately quoting his authority, and showing his
intimate knowledge of the subject. Parr said nothing ; but,

when Dr. Young retired," asked who he was, and though he did

not seem to have heard his name before, he said, ' A smart

Iyou"nHgemhaandthaat.'great talent for Greek verse ; and, on one oc

casion, remember a young lady had written on the walls of the
summer-house in the garden the following lines : --

     ' Where are those hours on airy pinions borne

          That brought to every guiltless wish success ?
      When pleasure gladdened each succeeding morn,

          And every ev'ning closed with dreams of peace?'

"On the next morning appeared a translation in Greek

Elegiacs, written under them, in Young's beautiful characters.

It may be here mentioned, that when his mode of writing Greek
was laid before Porson, he said, that if he had seen it before he
would have adopted it"
"The views, objects, character, and acquirements of our

mathematicians were very different then to what they are now,

and Young, who was certainly beforehand with the world, per
ceived their defects. Certain it
                       :               that he looked down upon

                             I is,
                                 I
the science and would not cultivate the acquaintance, of any of
our philosophers. Wood's books have heard him speak of

with approbation, but Vince he treated with contempt, and he

afterwards returned the compliment     recollect once asking

Vince his opinion of Young he said he knew nothing correctly.
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION: CAMBRIDGE.                    117

' What can you think,' says he, * of a man writing upon

mechanics, who does not know the principle of a coach wheel.'

This alludes to a mistake of Dr. Young's on this subject in his

Natural    Philosophy."  even  to  have  heard the names  of most  of
   " He   did not seem

Iour poets, or literary characters in the last century, and hardly
ever spoke of English literature.        remember having invited
him to meet at dinner Mr. Whiter, of Clare Hall, who, though

an admirable scholar, was a wit and a bon-vivant, while Young

took no delight in the pleasures of the table, and never could
either make a joke or understand one. Whiter quoted something

from the Oxford Sausage, and when our philosopher betrayed
his ignorance of the existence of such a work, with his total

inability to taste or relish the allusion, it was almost painful to

witness the ridicule which he was obliged to sustain ; but to do

him justice, he did sustain it with perfect good humour."

   An observation of his own has been sometimes

quoted, with reference to this peculiar result of his
early education and course of study, which we have

Ielsewhere had occasion to notice. "When was a
I Iboy, thought myself a man ; now that I am a man,

find myself a boy." Nothing is more humiliating to a
young man, who is conscious of great powers and of the
possession of superior attainments, than to find himself
the object of the banter or the patronizing airs of those
who are in advance of him in their knowledge of the
habits of good society and of the popular topics of
conversation, though in other respects immeasurably
his inferiors.

   " He never obtruded his various learning in conversation ;
but if appealed to on the most difficult subject, he answered in a

quick, flippant, decisive way, as if he was speaking of the most

easy ; and in this mode of talking he differed from all the clever

Imen that ever saw. His reply never seemed to cost him an

   * See note, Works, vol. i. p. 361. Dr. Young formed a just estimate
of the great merits of Dr. Wood's elementary books, but was generally
very unjust to Vince.
118       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.            Chap. V.

effort, and he did not appear to think there was any credit in

being able to make it. He did not assert any superiority, or

seem to suppose that he possessed it ; but 3poke as if he took it

for granted that we all understood the matter as well as he did.

He never spoke in praise of any of the writers of the day, even

in his own peculiar department, and could not be persuaded

to discuss their merits. He was never personal ; he would

speak of knowledge in itself, of what was known or what might
be known, but never of himself or any other, as having dis

covered   anything,  or as likely to do so.      rapid, and his sen
          language   was correct, his utterance
   " His

tences, though without any affectation, never left unfinished.

But his words were not those in familiar use, and the arrange

ment of his ideas seldom the same as those he conversed with.
IHe was, therefore, worse calculated than any man ever knew
Ifor the communication of knowledge.
                                                 remember our once

asking him to answer an objection to Huygens's theory of light,

which he preferred to Newton's, and, though there were many

very competent persons present, he attempted in vain. But this

perhaps was no wonder ; the objection was that, on this supposi

Ition, there would be no shadow, and it has not yet been re
moved.*   remember also his taking me with him to the Royal

Institution, to hear him lecture to a number of silly women and

dilettanti philosophers. But nothing could show less judgment

than the method he adopted ; for he presumed, like many other

lecturers and preachers, on the knowledge and not on the

ign"orIanncheisofmhaisnnheersarerhse. had something of the stiffness of the

Quaker remaining ; and though he never said or did a rude

thing, he never made use of any of the forms of politeness. Not

that he avoided them through affectation ; his behaviour was na

tural without timidity, and easy without boldness. He rarely asso

ciated with the young men of the college, who called him, with
a mixture of derision and respect, ' Phaenomenon Young but

he lived on familiar terms with the Fellows in the Common-room.

He had few friends of his own age or pursuits in the university ;

   * See Works, vol. i. p. 151. It was a mistake in a proposition of Newton

that was the foundation of this objection, for the removal of which the
weight of his own authority was tho chief difficulty to be overcome. See
infra, p. 140 and 170.
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.                   119

and not having been introduced to many of those who were dis

tinguished either by their situation or talent, he did not seek

their society, nor did they seek him : they did not like to admit

the superiority of any one in statu pupillari, and he would not

con"veItrsewaws itdhiffaicnuyltontoe  but as an equal.     himself ; he read
                                      say how he employed

little, and though he had access to the college and university

libraries, he was seldom seen in them. There were no books

piled on his floor, no papers scattered on his table, and his room
Ihad all the appearance of belonging to an idle man.
                                                           once
Ifound him blowing Smoke through long tubes, and afterwards

saw a representation of the effect in the Transactions of the

Royal Society to illustrate one of his papers upon sound ;" but

he was not in the habit of making experiments. He walked

little, and rode less, but having learnt to ride the great horse

abroad, -he used to pace round Parker's Piece on a hackney : he

once made an attempt to follow the hounds, but a severe fall

pre"veHnetedsealdnoymfutguarvee  exhibition.    and never  volunteered one.
                                   an opinion,

He never laid down the law like other learned Doctors, or Ut

tered apothegms, or sayings to be remembered. Indeed, like

most mathematicians, (though we hear of abstract mathematics,)

he never seemed to think abstractedly. A philosophical fact, a

difficult calculation, an ingenious instrument, or a new invention,

Iwould engage his attention ; but he never spoke of morals, of

metaphysics, or of religion. Of the last never heard him say

a word, nothing in favour of any sect, or in opposition to any

doctrine ; at the same time, no sceptical doubt, no loose asser

tion, no idle scoff ever escaped him."

· The preceding spirited and clever sketch expresses
with some, but not very great, exaggeration, the views
entertained of Young's character, attainments, and
discoveries, especially in early life, by the great ma
jority of his contemporaries, to whom they were but
superficially known.

    Young's first impressions of Cambridge, (if we may

   * See Works, vol. i. p. 68, Outlines of Experiments and Inquiries
respecting Sound and Light.
120                 MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.             Chap. V.

judge from a letter to his uncle,) were decidedly fa

vourable.

  I" have been invited," says he, " in the course of the week

to several agreeable and rational parties both of scholars and

fellows ; the manner of life and behaviour here is much more

Icivilized and refined than in the foreign universities, and be

gin to see many advantages in our institutions, however abused,
for the promotion of learning. The retaining a body of men
who have time and opportunity of associating with the students,
must tend to fill up the void places in their intelligence, and to
repress the ferocity, roughness, and levity of manners which

are    too apt  to  be carried   t"o  excess,  where  very  young men  are
left  entirely  to  themselves.

   His subsequent letters indicate no change in this
opinion, though he occasionally complains of the
barriers which custom opposes to a free interchange
of society with the senior and more distinguished
members of the University, with whom the claims
of a letter of introduction were considered to be

generally discharged by a single dinner, to be suc

ceeded afterwards by a formal and somewhat distant

recognition.
    There was at that period no proper system of medi

cal instruction at Cambridge, no anatomical or other
collections, and only one course of lectures on human
and comparative anatomy, given by Sir Busick Har-
wood, a man of vigorous intellect and considerable

attainments, who addressed them rather to a general

audience than to the medical students, who were not

even required to attend them. A proposal which he

made to compel them to do so was not encouraged by
the authorities of the University, and was thrown out

by the Senate.
   The superintendence of the medical faculty was

entirely entrusted to the Regius Professor of Physic,
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.  121

who presided at the medical disputations in the schools
and whose certificate of competency and a compliance
with the statutable forms, were the only conditions re
quired by the senate for admission to a medical degree.
The requirements of the statutes, which were framed in
the early part of the reign of Elizabeth, were adapted
to a much younger class of students than those of the
present day, and were rigorous and unalterable in all
that regards the time and form of graduation. Thus

six entire years were required to elapse between the

admission of a student and the degree of M.B.," and
five more before he was allowed to attain the mature

honour of the Doctorate ; and the University possessed
no power, unless in virtue of a special mandate of the
Crown, to reduce the length of these intervals, even in
extraordinary cases, where a combination of age and
merit might appear to require it. We thus find that
Young was not admitted to the degree of M.B. until
the year 1803, when he was thirty years of age, nor to
that of M.D. until five years afterwards : he had begun
the practice of his profession in virtue of his former
degree, before the expiration of the first of these periods,
but did not attain the honour of the fellowship of the
College of Physicians before the conclusion of the

second.

    Notwithstanding the repressive influence of mediaeval
statutes, and the want of any organized system of
medical instruction, the medical students of the Eng
lish Universities very generally attained the highest
rank amongst the physicians of the metropolis and

elsewhere. They entered the profession generally late

  * A grace of the Senate, founded upon a somewhat violent stretching of
the words of the statute, has reduced this period to five years : it is now pro

posed to reduce the firat of these periods to four years and the second to two.
122  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. V.

in life, but with all the advantages of a classical as

well as medical education, and were thus associated

more intimately in rank and estimation with the higher

classes of society, than those whose early studies had

been of a less refined and general character ; and there

are many reasons which should induce us to conclude

that the high social position which physicians have

hitherto been enabled to maintain in this country--so

different from that which they occupy on the Continent

of Europe -- is not a little owing to this admixture of

well educated gentlemen, so many of whom have been

supplied by the English Universities. The privileges
also which were accorded to the College of Physicians,

though long stigmatized as unjust and illiberal, and

the cause of frequent litigation, especially about the

period of which we are now speaking, had a similar

tendency ; and it may be reasonably doubted, now that

those privileges are to a great extent abandoned,

whether the medical profession will long be able to

maintain, as hitherto, the same estimation in society

Ifwith the members of the professions of the Church
and the Law.  it should succeed in doing so, it can

only be effected, as of late years, by a liberal distri

bution of honours by the Crown.

  It is often contended that Oxford and Cambridge --

considered in their double capacity as Universities and

towns --do not furnish adequate materials for the for

mation of good medical schools. But is such an opinion

well founded ? Some of the teachers whom they now
possess are men of eminent ability, and the services of

others might be easily obtained if they were adequately

paid. Their anatomical collections are very consider

able, and there exists a more liberal access to many

extensive libraries for the purposes of private study
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.  123

than is afforded by the metropolis or any other cities
in the kingdom. Their hospitals are admirably ad
ministered, and better suited for the clinical instruction

of a limited number of pupils than those much larger

establishments, where, as is generally the case, a vast
mob of students encumbers the progress of the lecturer,
and makes deliberate observation difficult or impossible.
Neither is the objection, so commonly urged, of the
very limited range of medical practice, arising from the
small population of Oxford or Cambridge much better
founded than the others ; for those hospitals are not
confined to the towns alone, but extend to the counties

in which they are situated, the most difficult and

interesting medical or surgical cases being generally
forwarded to them; whilst the experience of other
medical schools has shown that a large population is
not necessary to their success.

   The inhabitants of Montpelier, Grottingen and Hei

delberg are less in number than half those of Oxford
and Cambridge, whilst those of Pavia, the first of
Italian schools, do not exceed them."

    On the 13th of December, 1797, upon his return
from Cambridge, he met, for the last time, his uncle
Dr. Brocklesby, who had just returned to town from
a visit to the widow of Mr. Burke at Beaconfield, to
receive his other nephew Mr. Beeby and himself.

At dinner he appeared to be in his usual good

health and spirits, but he expired suddenly a few
minutes after retiring to bed. He had attained a
considerable rank in his profession, and lived on
terms of intimacy and friendship with the most
distinguished men of his day, to whom he was equally

    a See Report of the Cambridge University Commission on the evidence
of Professor Fisher, M.D., of Downing College, Cambridge.
124  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. V.

recommended by his medical skill, his benevolence and

Jhis literary attainments.
    His generous offer to Dr. ohnson of an annuity to

enable him to resort to a warmer climate, and also

of apartments in his own house when his confined
dwelling in Bolt Court, Fleet Street, was considered
injurious to his health, is well known; and having
bequeathed in his will a legacy of one thousand pounds
to Mr. Burke, he gave it to him in his life time, before

the grant of an ample pension had made such a gift no

longer necessary for his comfort.
    He bequeathed his Irish estates, which were con

siderable, to Mr. Beeby ; to Young, he left his house
and furniture in Norfolk Street, Park Lane, his library,
his prints, a choice collection of pictures, chiefly selected
by his friend Sir Joshua Reynolds, and about 10,000/.
in money : other legacies were made to his servants
and other members of his family. Young had just
reason for regarding with affection the memory of this
kind and liberal relative who had fostered his rising
talents, provided so judiciously for the completion of
his general and professional education, and left him a
fortune amply sufficient for his establishment in life,

though not so large as to impair those motives for
exertion which are generally found necessary for emi

nent success. It is quite true that even the kindest

actions of this excellent relative were not altogether
unmixed with some root of bitterness, such as depen
dence of every kind, except that of a child upon a parent,
is apt to bring along with it : he was somewhat
querulous in his temper, and somewhat exacting in his

claims to respect and deference ; though liberal in
great things, he was somewhat parsimonious in small ;
and though generally judicious in the course which he
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.  125

recommended Young to pursue, he was sometimes

rather unreasonably suspicious when his wishes

(though often very obscurely intimated) were not fully

carried out.

   Dr. Young was now entirely at liberty to form his
own scheme of life. He retained apartments in his

uncle's house for his own occupation when in London,
but continued to reside in Cambridge, as before, during

such portions of every term as the statutes of the uni

versity required, and sometimes likewise during part of
the summer vacation. We find him occasionally residing
for a few weeks in Bath, with professional views, and at
another time in Southampton and its neighbourhood.
He paid yearly visits, as he was accustomed to do
with his uncle during his lifetime, to the Duke of

Richmond's, at Goodwood ; but his longest sojourns
during the summer months were at Worthing, in the

house of Mr. John Ellis, a very rich West Indian pro
prietor, the brother of the late Lord Seaford, and the
cousin of George Ellis, of Sunninghill, the well-known

editor of the Specimens of Early English Poetry and
Metrical Romances. Mr. Ellis had always been a

most welcome guest at the choice dinners which his

uncle Dr Brocklesby -- who was fond of the pleasures
of the table -- was in the habit of giving, and had re
ceived from him the sobriquet of Squire Allworthy,
in compliment to the kindness and generosity of his
character. With the other members of this family and

more especially with the last of those mentioned above,

-- whom Walter Scott denominated the most accom
plished man of his age -- Young continued through life

to live on terms of the greatest intimacy.

   During his residence at Cambridge he availed him
self of every opportunity of entering into general
126  MEMOIR OF DB. THOMAS YOUKO.  Chap. V.

society, so much so as sometimes to interfere ma
terially with the prosecution of his studies. Amongst
others with whom he was accustomed to associate, and

whose friendship he continued to retain, may be men
tioned, the late Lord Brownlow, then a student of

Trinity College, whom he had known in Edinburgh;
Mr., afterwards Sir William Gell, a member of the

same college with himself, an accomplished artist,
archaeologist and scholar, who in later life maintained
with him a most lively and agreeable correspondence
on hieroglyphics and other subjects Mr. Dodwell, of

Trinity College, who afterwards published a magni
ficent work on Greece ; Mr. Caldwell, afterwards Tutor

of Jesus College, a man of cultivated manners and an

excellent classical scholar ; Dr. Pearce, Master of Jesus

College and Dean of Ely, a man of considerable acute-
ness and some learning; Sir Busick Harwood, who
fully appreciated his attainments ; Dr. Raine, the well-

known Master of the Charter House, to whom he was

made known by Dr. Charles Burney ; Sir Isaac Pen
nington, the Regius Professor of Medicine, and at
that time in possession of the first medical practice
in the University ; Mr. Kempthorne, a Fellow of
St. John's ; Mr. Holden, Fellow of Sydney College,

at whose musical parties he was accustomed to take

a part ; Mr. Tavel, likewise a musical amateur and
a well-known Tutor of Trinity College, and many
others. The records however of his college life are

very scanty, and the few incidents which we have
been able to collect concerning it have not been
derived, either from his correspondence and journals,
as heretofore, but from extraneous sources. The
academical life of the editor was too far separated

                                 * Sec Works, vol. iii. passim.
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION: CAMBRIDGE.  127

from that of Dr. Young to enable him to supply the

deficiency.

   In writing to his friend Dr. Bostock, in the month

of June of this year, 1798, he refers to an occurrence,

which, by keeping him at home, had recalled him to
his usual habits of application.

I" met with an accident," says he, " about five weeks ago in
ILondon, which has prevented my walking ever since, and
Ithink    broke one of the metatarsal bones ; this has been a

favourable circumstance, for it has increased my literary appli
Ication in a considerable degree ; have been studying, not the
Itheory of the winds, but of the air, and have made observations
Ion harmonics which believe are new. Several circumstances
I Iunknown to the English mathematicians which thought
Ihad first discovered,
                        since find to have been discovered and

demonstrated by the foreign mathematicians ; in fact, Britain is

I Ivery much behind its neighbours in many branches of the ma

thematics ; were to apply deeply to them, would become a
disciple of the French and German school ; but the field is too

wide and too barren for me."

   It would indeed have been fortunate for his scien

tific character, and would have greatly aided the ready

reception of his subsequent discoveries, if he had been

tempted, at this early period of his career, to study
systematically in this school of mathematics, and had
adopted the elegance of form ami completeness of de

velopment for which the works of Euler, La Grange
and La Place are so justly distinguished.

    The experimental researches which are referred to

above, were embodied in a Memoir which was prepared

at Cambridge in the summer of 1799, and read to the
Royal Society on the 16th of January of the following

year --it is entitled Outlines and Experiments respect
ing Sound and Light. Some of the conclusions and

speculations to which these investigations lead, are of
128       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.           Chap. V.

great theoretical importance, not merely as tending to

correct many prevalent errors and misconceptions re
specting the propagation of sound, but especially as
establishing the great principle of the interference of
sounds, and the explanation of the phenomena of beats
and of the grave harmonics which is founded upon

it: a principle which speedily conducted him to the
discovery of the kindred principle of optical inter
ferences, --

   " Which has proved," says Sir John Herschel, " the key to
all the more abstruse and puzzling properties of light, and

which would alone have sufficed to place its author in the
highest rank of scientific immortality, even were his other almost
innumerable claims to such a distinction disregarded."

In the course of this Memoir, he noticed an erroneous

statement respecting the crossing of the vibrations or

rather undulations of air which constitute musical

sounds, without affecting the same individual particles
by their joint forces, which appears in the well known

Harmonics of Dr. Robert Smith. In proposing, at the

close of  it,system for the temperament of musical
intervals, and in noticing --amongst many others which
               a

                                it it
had been recommended or made use of for the same
purpose --the system put forward by the
                                         samea author, he
spoke of the work in which was given           large and
                                         as "
obscure volume," and of the system itself as " leaving

the subject, except for the use of an impracticable in

strument, exactly where                  found it." The first of

these observations, though undoubtedly well founded,

called forth the indignant remonstrance of Mr. John

Grough, of Kendal, who had been accustomed, like many
others, to regard this work of Dr. Smith with great

admiration the second, of more questionable validity,

subjected its author to rebuke --not unmixed with
          ;

                                      a
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.     129

commendation --of the celebrated Dr. Robison of Edin

burgh, which appeared shortly after the publication of
the Memoir, in an admirable article on music in the

supplement to the first edition of the Encyclopaedia

Britannica. It should be observed that Dr. Robison

regarded the very method which Young disparages, as
practically superior to every other which had been pro

posed.

   " We are surprised to see this work of Dr. Smith greatly

undervalued by a most ingenious young gentleman in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1800, and called a large and
obscure volume, which leaves the matter just where it was, and
its results useless and impracticable. We are sorry to see this,
because we have great expectations from the labours of this
gentleman in the field of harmonics, and his late work is rich
in refined and valuable matter. We presume humbly to re
commend to him attention to his own admonitions to a very

young and ingenious gentleman, who, he thinks, proceeded too
far in animadverting on the writings of Newton, Barrow, and

other eminent mathematicians."

The admonitory criticism to which Dr. Robison

refers, and partially quotes, appeared in the third of a

series of nine essays, published in the British Magazine

for 1800, under the title of The Leptologist, upon the

subjects, and in the order, indicated in the following

motto :--

            " Grammaticus, rhetor, geometres, pictor, aliptes,

                 Augur, schoenobates, medicus, magus, omnia novit

          Graeculus esuriens."

It is a Treatise on Cycloidal Curves, displaying geo

metrical resources of no mean order, preceded by some

prefatory remarks on the superior precision and clear

ness of geometrical above algebraical investigations, as

well as upon the danger, without adequate examination,

of putting forward as new, "propositions and discoveries

which have long since been known and forgotten." He

Life.                                     K
130  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. V.

exemplifies the necessity of such caution by referring to'
a young gentleman of Edinburgh, "a man who certainly
promises, in the course of time, to add considerablyit,
to our knowledge of the works of nature," who,       a
in a memoir printed in the Philosophical Trans
actions for 1798, had proposed one problem as new,                                                                                   ;

which was familiar to the mathematicians of the seven                        it

teenth century ; and had put forward a solution of
another problem as superior to that which was given
by Newton, but which only differed from it by being
less simple, and by erroneously giving the name of
cycloid to a curve, which was, though closely allied
to in reality the companion of the trochoid.

    The author of this paper, which contains several

porismatic propositions which are curious and original,
was Mr. Brougham, then very young man, whose

enterprising genius seemed to have prepared him to
grapple with every branch of human knowledge and
though the particular criticism referred to was just,

was somewhat flippant and ungracious, and was pro
bably not without its influence in provoking the severe
retaliatory treatment which Young's own Memoirs
shortly afterwards experienced at the hands of one who,
though not himself invulnerable, was armed at all

points and always prepared to come to close quarters
with his enemies.

    Dr. Robison was well entitled, by the high position
which he held in the scientific world, as well as by his
profound practical and theoretical knowledge of the
science of music, to assume the office of critic and
the great and just respect with which Young was accus
tomed to regard his writings was not likely to lessen
his anxiety to rebut the force of his censure. He

addressed therefore letter to Nicholson's Philosophical
     a
                                              a
                                                                         ;
Chap. V.     MEDICAL EDUCATION: CAMBRIDGE.                                       131

Journal for 1801, in which he attempts to justify the
opinion which he had expressed respecting Dr. Smith's
theory of imperfect consonances, by showing that it

was not altogether original, and also that the method
of temperament founded upon it was practically in
applicable ; at the same time he fully recognised the

great merits of his optical writings.
   What is most worthy of notice, however, in this

reply, is the first public announcement which it gives,
of the extension of the principle of interferences from

sound to light, and the consequent establishment of its

propagation by undulations.

    I" am of opinion," says he, " that light is probably the un

dulation of an elastic medium, because
    "
       1st.  Its velocity in the same medium is always equal.
    "  2nd.
              All refractions are attended with a partial reflection.
    " 3rd There is no reasou to expect that such a vibration

should diverge equally in all directions, and it is probable that

it  d"o4etsh.divTehregediisnpearssiomnall   degree in every direction.
                                           of differently coloured rays
                                                                         is  no  more

incompatible with this system than with the common opinion,

which only assigns for it the nominal cause of different elective

attractions.

   " 5th. Reflection and refraction are equally explicable on

both suppositions.

   " 6th. Inflection is as well, and, it may be added, even much

bet"te7rthe.xpAlalilnethde  by this theory.  the  colours  of thin plates,       which
                             phenomena of

are in reality unintelligible on the common hypothesis, admit of

very complete and simple explanation by this supposition. The

analogy which is here superficially indicated will probably soon

be made public more in detail ; and will also be extended to

the colours of thick plates, and to the fringes produced by in

flection, affording from Newton's own elaborate experiments a

most convincing argument in favour of this system"

    It was in the month of May, 1801, as he himself

                                                                    K2
132          MEMOIR OK DR. THOMAS YOUNG.    Chap. V.

elsewhere informs us, that he first recognised this

principle.'

The first memoir, On the Theory of Light and

Colours, in which this discovery was developed, was

read to the Royal Society on the 1 2th of the following
ItNovember.
             was succeeded by a second, entitled

An Account of some Cases of the Production of

Colours, which was read on the 1st July, 1802; and

by a third, entitled Experiments and Calculations

relative to Physical Optics, read on the 24th Novem

ber, 1803. The first and last of these memoirs, now

so justly celebrated, received from the Council of the

Poyal Society the compliment of being selected as

Bakerian Lectures, which entitled their author to

receive the produce of a small pecuniary bequest.

The publication of these three memoirs constitutes

the first great epoch in the history of his optical
discoveries, which will be made the subject of special

discussion in the following Chapter.

After the completion of this memoir, which had

employed so much of his time, and which gave rise to

so many important speculations, Young established

himself, for the remainder of the summer, in London,

attending the hospital very closely, in order to refresh

his memory and to add to his stock of observations ; he
availed himself also of the ample medical library which

had been bequeathed to him by his uncle, to increase

his knowledge of medical literature, which had hitherto

been somewhat limited.                                    '
                                                          1
   In the autumn of 1799 he returned to Cambridge

for his last term of residence ; and in the early part

of the following year he made a commencement of

medical practice in the metropolis, establishing himself

             " See Works, vol. i. [>. 202.
Chap. V.   MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.  133

in a house in Welbeck-street (No. 48), which he con

tinued to occupy for five-and-twenty years.

   A physician in London, however fortunate in his

outset, must be prepared to pass many years of invo

luntary leisure before he can hope to secure a sufficient

footing in his profession to afford him constant occupa
Ittion.
           was a happy circumstance for the fame of

Dr. Young that this period never arrived, and though

some of the best years of his life were diverted to pro

fessional studies and occupations, he was enabled to

devote many more of them to those literary and

scientific pursuits in which so few could compete

with him.

The first subjects which would appear to have occu

pied him were the Essays under the signature of The

Leptologist, and the Memoir on the Mechanisn of the

Eye, to which we have before alluded. Upon this last

production he put forth all his powers. The optical and
anatomical investigations which it contains are of no

ordinary difficulty and importance, more especially the

happy adaptation of an instrument called the Optometer,

originally invented by Dr. Porterfield, for accurately

measuring the focal distance of the eye both in a vertical

and horizontal plane, which in many eyes are unequal

to each other ; the determination of the refractive power

of a variable medium, and its application to the consti

tution of the crystalline lens ; the pointing out the

nice and accurate adjustment of every part of the eye

for viewing at the same time the greatest possible

range of objects without confusion; the measurement

of the collective dispersion of coloured rays in the eye ;

and the ingenious and multiplied experiments for

ascertaining, in some cases beyond the reach of con

troversy, what parts of the eye are changed, and what
134  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. V.

are not, when passing from the view of near to distant

objects, and conversely.

   Like most of his other memoirs, it is very obscure,
partly from the great condensation of the subjects
which it embraces, and partly from the intrinsic dif

ficulty of the subject and the constant references which
it requires to an instrument and apparatus which can
not easily be understood, unless it be seen and used.

It has probably arisen from this cause that, though

this Memoir has often been referred to, it has been

very rarely read.

   In the year 1801, Young accepted the office of Pro

fessor of Natural Philosophy at the Royal Institution,
which had been established in the year preceding,

chiefly by the exertions of the well known Sir Benjamin

Thompson, Count Rumford. It was designed as a great

metropolitan school of science, where lectures should
be given, models of useful instruments exhibited, and
collections of books on science and of chemical and

philosophical apparatus, formed, on the most magnificent

scale. Its founder, if such he may be termed, had further
views also of making it subsidiary to the promotion

of many useful projects and inquiries which he had
recently proposed in his Essays, which enjoyed an extra
ordinary popularity. After managing the affairs of

the Institution for a few months, and commencing the
editing of its Journal, he quarrelled with some of the

directors and abandoned the scheme altogether. The
conducting of the Journal was thenceforward entrusted
to the joint care of Dr. Young and his colleague, Mr.
Davy, at that time Professor of Chemistry, in whose
hands and in those of his not less distinguished
successor, Mr. Faraday, the chemical laboratory of the

Institution has become the most celebrated in Europe.
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.  135

   Dr. Young's first lecture was delivered on the 20th
of January, 1 802, and the last on the 1 7th of May. The
whole number of lectures given during this Session was
thirty-one, which was increased, by the introduction of
new subjects in the following year, to sixty, assuming
that they correspond, in arrangement and number, with

those which appear in his great work, entitled "A

Course of Lectures on Natural Philosophy and the
Mechanical Arts," which was published four years
afterwards. They are divided into three parts, con

taining twenty lectures each. The 1st, including

Mechanics, theoretical and practical ; the 2d, Hy

drostatics, Hydrodynamics, Acoustics, and Optics ; the
3rd, Astronomy, the Theory of the Tides, the Proper-'
ties of Matter, Cohesion, Electricity and Magnetism,
the Theory of Heat and Climatology. They form alto
gether the most comprehensive system of Natural

Philosophy, and of what the French call Physics, that
has ever been published in this country ; equally re
markable for precision and accuracy in the enuncia
tion of the vast multitude of propositions and facts
which they contain, for the boldness with which they
enter upon the discussion of the most abstruse and

difficult subjects, and for the addition or suggestion
of new matter or new views in almost every depart

ment of philosophy.
   We propose to reserve the more particular consider

ation of these Lectures to a subsequent Chapter."

    Dr. Young, by his own confession, and for reasons

which we have before alluded to, was not adapted for

a popular lecturer. His style was too compressed and

laconic, and he had not sufficient knowledge of the
intellectual habits of other men, to address himself

                                             « Infra, p. 188.
136  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                          Chap. V.

prominently to those points of a subject where

their difficulties were likely to occur. If, indeed,

these lectures were delivered nearly in the form in
which they are printed, they must have been gene

rally unintelligible even to well-prepared persons,
notwithstanding all the assistance which models,

drawings, and diagrams could afford.

   We have heard it remarked, that no writer, on any

branch of science which these lectures treat of, can

safely neglect to consult them, so rich is the mine of

knowledge which they contain ; and it is a well known

fact, that many important propositions and discoveries
have been more or less clearly indicated in them, which

have only been recognised or pointed out when other

philosophers discovered them independently, or an
nounced them as their own.

   One very striking example of such an anticipation
Dr. Young has himself noticed in a review * of

Dr. Wells's well-known Essay on Dew. In a passage
of his fifty-sixth Lecture, he says--

" There are frequently some local causes of heat and cold,

which are independent of the sun's immediate action. Thus,

it has been observed, that when the weather has been clear, and

a cloud passes over the plane of observation, the thermometer

frequently rises a degree or two almost instantaneously.       This

has been partly explained by considering the cloud as a ves

ture, preventing the escape of the heat which is always radi

ating from the earth, and reflecting it back to the surface."

This observation, combined with others which connect
the theory which it indicates with the discoveries of
Leslie and Prevost respecting the radiation of heat and
the deposition of dew, sufficiently show that Yonng
was, in the year 1807, when this work was published,

                                  " See Works, vol. ii. p. 424.
Chap. V.  MEDICAL EDUCATION : CAMBRIDGE.  137

in full possession of the principle which Dr. Wells,
seven years afterwards, so happily brought to bear
upon a vast mass of meteorological phenomena ; but
though Dr. Wells had read and studied, as he himself
allows, those parts of the works of Dr. Young which
relate to the subject on which he was writing, there
is every reason to believe that the passage which
we have quoted, and the principle which it involved, had

escaped his notice.
   " There are, however," says Young, in the Review referred

to, "some modern philosophers, who, whether from their own
fault, or from that of their hearers and readers, or from both,
appear to be perpetually in the predicament of the celebrated
prophetess of antiquity, who always told truth, but was seldom
understood and never believed. And the author of the lectures
in question has not unfrequently reminded us of the fruitless
vaticinations of the ill fated Cassandra."

   In the year 1802 he was appointed Foreign Secre

tary of the Royal Society, an office which he held for
the remainder of his life, and for which he was well
qualified by his knowledge of the principal European

languages.
   Ten years afterwards, Sir Joseph Banks, in a letter,

in which he urged Young to accept the office of Se
cretary, which was at that time vacant, expressed in
very grateful and flattering terms, the sense of the
great services he had rendered to the Society, not
merely by his contributions to its Transactions, but in
the discharge of other duties. The offer was declined
from an apprehension lest the tenure of an office con
spicuously connected with the cultivation of science
would operate prejudicially to him in the practice of
his profession.
138  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

                        CHAPTER VI.

                OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.

The contributions made by Dr. Young to the science
of Physical Optics, and the relations which they bear
to the labours, in the same field, both of his precursors
and contemporaries, have been discussed by Dr. Whe-
well, in his History of the Inductive Sciences, with so
just and philosophical an appreciation of their full value
and significance, that we should do little more than

obscure the lucid picture which he has drawn, if we
should attempt to reproduce it in our own colours and
with our own less perfect execution. In addition to

the sources of information which are open to all, he
had access to the interesting series of letters of Young,
Arago, and Fresnel, which have been printed in the
first volume of the present edition of Dr. Young's
works, and which supply some very important facts
in the history of the Undulatory Theory at the most
critical and, in many respects, the most triumphant
period of its progress ; and we have found, after a
very careful examination of his references to them as
well as other documents, that there is nothing to

correct and very little to add. In entering now,

therefore, upon a short examination of the first and,
hereafter, of the second of the two great epochs of
Young's optical researches, we shall rarely notice the
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERlES.-- FIRST EPOCH.       139

labours of other writers, unless they are essentially
connected with his own.

   What are our ordinary conceptions of a vibration
and undulation ? We usually connect the first with a

reciprocating motion of the particles of the same body,
without their transfer in space; with the second, a
single vibration, of the same class, in the particles of a
medium which is transmitted to similar portions of it

in perpetual succession-- the same series being renewed

as long as the exciting cause of them continues

to act.

But how various are the circumstances in which

such movements originate, and how complicated are

the results which follow from them ! How difficult,

also, is the accurate conception of a wave and of the

mode of its propagation, even when the form which it

assumes, the law of its formation, and the properties

of the medium which transmitsis             are cognisable by
                               it,
our senses But how much that difficulty increased,
         ;
when its almost infinitesimal magnitude and the enor
            is
mous rapidity of its movement altogether remove!    c

from the sphere of immediate observationa   !         it
   The pulses of air, which produce the key-note of

the natural scale of music, form an undulation whose

breadth about 212 inches, and of which 64 are pro
pagated in second of time. We can discover their

origin we can analyse their form and progress, and
we are familiar with the medium through which they

are conveyed. But we assume light to consist in
                        a if

                                         a
the undulations of an ethereal medium, and adopt the

consequences to which such theory leads, we shall
find the length of wave of green light, near the

middle of the prismatic spectrum, to be one ten-    a
millionth part of that of the wave producing such
140  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                    Chap. VI.

sound; and that it is propagated with a velocity nine
million million times as great, or at the rate of
nearly 190,000 miles in a second of time. The hu
man mind is equally embarrassed in dealing with

numbers or magnitudes both so great or so small, and

it is therefore only through the aid of symbolical lan

guage that the analogies which exist between the mo

tions of sound and of light can be brought within the

compass of our understanding, and that we are fully

enabled to seize upon, not only the points in which
they agree, but also those in which they differ.

   The objection which Newton most strongly urged

against the undulatory theory of light was founded
upon the tendency of all undulations, in whatever me
dium they are excited, to diverge into the surrounding
space." Such is confessedly the case with the waves
of water, an incompressible fluid, where the force which

propagates them is that of gravity. Such he asserts to
be the case with waves of sound which are transmitted

through a medium of moderate elasticity. The same
reasoning and the same analogy would appear to ex
tend, therefore, to the undulations of light, requiring
a medium to transmit them of an elasticity propor
tionate to the velocity which it communicates.

" Are not all hypotheses erroneous," says he, " in which

light is supposed to consist of a pression or motion, propagated
Ifthrough a fluid medium?
                           it consisted in pression or motion,

propagated either in an instant or in time, it would bend into

the shadow. For pression or motion cannot be propagated in

a fluid in right lines beyond an obstacle which stops part of the

motion, but will bend and spread every way into the quiescent

medium which lies beyond the obstacle. The waves on the

surface of stagnating water, passing by the sides of a broad

   * Principia, prop, xlii., sect, viii., lib. ii.  Dr. Young's Works, vol.
i. p. 152.
CH4P. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                        141

obstacle which stops part of them, bend afterwards and dilate

themselves gradually into the quiet water behind the obstacle.
The waves, pulses, or vibrations of the air, wherein sounds
consist, bend manifestly, though not so much as the waves of
water. For a bell or a cannon may be heard beyond a hill
which interrupts the sight of the sounding body ; and sounds

are propagated as readily through crooked pipes as straight

ones. But light is never known to follow crooked passages,
nor to bend into the shadow. For the fixed stars, by the
interposition of any of the planets, cease to be seen, and so do

the parts of the sun, by the interposition of the moon, Mercury,
or Venus." *

   Young combats these conclusions on several grounds.
He doubts the validity of the demonstration of the

proposition upon which they are chiefly founded,

though his objections refer less to the reasoning by

which it     is supported    altshoa, nintootphpeosciotniosnequteoncNesewttoonw--hicahs
it leads ;    asserting,
the result of later and more extended observations --

that sound is not equally loud when diffused in spaces

which are perfectly free and when passing round cor

ners and obstacles ;b and that its easy propagation

through bent tubes is rather due to reflexions on their

surfaces than to the perfect facility of its diffusion.

If, therefore, any sensible reduction of this diffusive

tendency is observable in the undulations of a medium
like air, how much greater must it be in the ether,

whose undulations constitute light, the elasticity of

which is incomparably greater !

   This was the conclusion at which Huygens arrived,

in a work replete with remarkable anticipations of the

great truths which form the basis of the undulatory
theory,0 upon grounds which will be afterwards more

* Newton's Optics, query 28, quoted by Dr. Young, Works, vol. i. p. 153.

b  Works,    vol. i. p. 74.  written in 1678 and published in 1790.
   The.orie  de la Lumiere,
'
142            MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                 Chap. VI.

particularly noticed, and which enabled Fresnel, when
combined with the principle of the interference of
light, to give a complete answer to this the most

popular and the most potent of all the objections
which have been made to this theory. The sugges
tion and establishment of this second principle was
almost entirely due to Dr. Young," though he failed
to perceive its full bearing upon the question which

we are now considering.

    The following is the account which Young himself
has given of the train of reasoning by which he was

led to the recognition of this important principle :--

  I" It was in May, 1801,b that discovered, by reflecting on

the beautiful experiments of Newton, a law which appears to
me to account for a greater variety of interesting phenomena

Ithan any other optical principle that has yet been made known.

   shall endeavour to explain this law by a comparison :--

Suppose a number of equal waves of water to move upon
the surface of a stagnant lake, with a certain constant velocity,

and to enter a narrow channel leading out of the lake ;-- suppose

"  * " A doctrine " (the                interference of light), says  Sir  John Herschel,
                                       entirely to the ingenuity of   Dr.  Young, though
   which we owe almost

some of its features may be pretly distinctly traced hi the writings of

Hooke (the most ingenious man perhaps of his age), and though Newton
himself occasionally indulged in speculations bearing a certain relation to

it. But the unpursued speculations of Newton, and the aperfus of

Hooke, however distinct, must not be put in competition, and indeed

ought scarcely to be mentioned, with the elegant, simple, and compre

hensive theory of Young, -- a theory which, if not founded in nature, is

certainly one of the happiest fictions that the genius of man has yet

invented to group together natural phenomena, as well as the most fortunate

in the unexpected support it has received from all classes of new phenomena,

which, at their first discovery, seemed in irreconcilable opposition to it : it

is is,

     b

                              i.,
                                   p.
   in fact, with all its applications and details,              succession of felicities,
                                                    a
insomuch that we may be almost induced to say,                             be not true,  : it
                                                         if

                                                              is it
                                                                              is
deserves to be so."-- Optics, Encyc. Metrop., art. 595. There                     now no

sufficient ground even for the fragment of doubt which hero insinuated

the evidence upon which this theory rests, though inferior in completeness,

   hardly so in force to that which exists for the theory of gravitation.

. Works, vol.                          71. Works, vol. p. 132.i.,
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                      143

then another similar cause to have excited another equal series
of waves, which arrive at the same channel, with the same

velocity, and at the same time with the first. Neither series of

waves will destroy the other, but their effects will be combined :

if they enter the channel in such a manner that the elevations

of one series coincide with those of the other, they must

together produce a series of greater joint elevations ; but if the

elevations of one series are so situated as to correspond to the
depressions of the other, they must exactly fill up those depres

Isions, and the surface of the water must remain smooth ; at
least  can discover no alternative, either from theory or

Ifrom"
        experiment.   that  similar  effects  take  place whenever
       Now, maintain                                call the general
Itwo portions of light are thus mixed ; and this

law of the interference of light" «

   The law itself is enunciated in the following form,
in the first of the three Memoirs which we are now

considering :--

   " When two undulations from different origins coincide,

either perfectly or very nearly in direction, their joint effect
is a combination of the motions belonging to each."b

   All movements in the same elastic medium, of what

ever nature, whether gentle or violent, small or great, are
known to be propagated with the same velocity; and all
vibrations whether great or small, produced by a force

varying as the distance from a central point, provided it
be the same at the same distance, will be completed in

the same time. It will follow, therefore, that the undu

lations will be of the same length, when the vibrations
are isochronous, but different for those vibrations,

which, though following the same law, are not com

pleted in the same time. It will be found that the

first is the case with light which is homogeneous --

       * Reply to the Edinburgh Reviewers, Works, vol. i. p. 202.
       b Works, vol. i. p. 157.
144  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

but the times of vibration and therefore the lengths
of the undulation of light of different colours, will be
found not to be the same but to vary from red at one
extremity of the prismatic spectrum to violet at the
other, very nearly in the proportion of 5 to 3.

    The most important consequences will be found to
follow from these different lengths of the undulations
of light of different colours, giving rise to phenomena
of endless variety and beauty. We shall afterwards have
occasion to refer to some of the remarkable observa

tions by which those lengths admit of being measured
with an accuracy which is not surpassed by any other
determination in philosophy.

    The amplitude of an undulation is measured by the
greatest excursion of a vibrating particle from its
initial position or place of rest, considered with refe
rence to the vibrating particles themselves : its phase
by the time elapsed from the beginning of the vibra
tion, or more commonly, by the angle which would be
described in that time by a radius whose extremity de
scribes a circle uniformly in the whole time of an undula
tion. The movement of a vibrating particle is positive or
progressive during the first half of an undulation, or be
tween the phases 0 and 180°, and negative or retrograde

during the second half, or between the phases 180°
and 360° or 0° : its greatest positive or negative
velocity is at the end of one quarter or of three quarters
of an undulation, and in all other positions it is pro
portional to the product of the amplitude of the
vibration and the sine of its phase.

   The intensity of a vibration, or its light-producing

power, must be assumed, upon dynamical considerations
(the conservation of the vis viva), to be proportional,
not to the simple power, but to the square, of its ampli
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.               145

tude. Light may be extinguished, but can never

become negative.

   With these preliminary explanations, we shall be in

a condition to enter upon the consideration of some of
the more simple cases of the interference of such undu

lations. Such are those where they are of the same
length and intensity, and in complete accordance or

;                                  in the same or

                                                    is,

                                                                                                                                                       ;
discordance with each other, that

opposite phases. Other cases would require for their

explanation the use of analytical processes, which,
though not in themselves difficult, could not easily be

rendered intelligible in ordinary language.

Let there be assumed, for convenience of illustration,

two sources of homogeneous light of equal intensity

and let us consider the undulations which they transmit,

in the same direction, in the line which passes through

them and let us farther assume that the undulations

which emanate from both these sources are equal in

length, in intensity, and, therefore, also in amplitude,

Ifand that when they issue from them they are in the
same phases of their vibrations.   under such cir

cumstances we suppose the sources of light to be

distant from each other by an exact multiple of the

length of one of those undulations, they will be
found, when they concur, in exact accordance with each

other every particle of the medium being agitated by
a
double force and producing single vibration of
              ;                   a
                                                         a
            ifdouble amplitude and quadruple intensity, performed in

the same time, and therefore transmitted by an undu

lation of the same length as before. In such case the

separate undulations are said to interfere, producing
the maximum effect by their corroborative action.

Again, we consider the undulations transmitted

from two such sources of light, not upon the line
   Life.
                                             L
146  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

which passes through them but upon two lines issuing
from them which are very slightly inclined to each

other, and whose lengths, when they meet, differ from
each other by an exact number of undulations : in

this case, also, when they concur, they will be found in

precisely the same phase, and so nearly coincident

in direction, that their divergence will produce no

sensible effect upon their mutual action. The result
will therefore be the same as in the former case, and

the interference of the undulations will be entirely
corroborative, doubling the amplitude of the vibration,

Ifbut not altering the length of the undulation.

       in either of the preceding cases (and it is the latter
of them which we shall have most commonly occasion to

consider) the distances from the sources of light, at the
point where the vibrations transmitted along the lines

issuing from them concur, should be found to differ
from each other, not by an exact multiple of an entire
undulation, but by an odd multiple of half an undula
tion, they will be found, when they interfere, to be in
opposite phases, or in complete discordance with each
other, the same force urging each particle of the me

dium in opposite directions. In this case the particle
will remain at rest, the vibration will altogether cease,
and there will be no resulting impression of light :

Ifthis is an example of complete destructive interference.

       the light which thus concurs be white or common

light and not homogeneous, the effects which have been
above described will strictly apply to that portion of the
prismatic spectrum, the lengths of whose undulations

alone answer the required conditions ; if the interference

of such undulations be destructive and complete, colour
will be developed by the abstraction of one portion of

the prismatic spectrum from the rest ; if it be corrobo
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  147

rative, colour will be developed by increased intensity
of the corresponding portion of the interfering light.

It thus happens that in nearly every case of such inter

ference, colour will be produced, and to this cause are

referable many of the most varied and brilliant effects
of coloration which are presented to our observation.

   Whatever be the source of light which we employ
(and in the practical application of this theory we are
necessarily confined to that derived from one source
only), it is assumed that the undulations which produce
light continue to be issued, during the whole course of

the observation, in the same phase of their vibrations.

It will form an essential part of the investigation of

every special case of interference which we have to
consider, to trace the paths of the two beams, which

interfere, from their common source of light, whether

real or virtual, to the point of concurrence, assuming
that the difference of the phases of their undulations
will be entirely dependent upon the different lengths of
the paths which they respectively describe.

    The only case in which the principle of interference,
in another science, had been applied before the time of

Young, was to the phenomena presented by the tides
of the port of Batsha, in the East Indies. They had
been described by Halley, in the Philosophical Trans
actions," two or three years before the publication of
the Principia, and the explanation of them which New
ton has given in that work has been always considered
as one of the happiest efforts of his genius. Twice in
each lunar month the tides in question advance, by

channels, whose lengths are so related to each other

that, after they reach the port, they differ by exactly

half an undulation, and the tide entirely disappears.

                       * Phil. Trans, for 1684, vol. xir. p. 681.

                                                                         L2
148  MEMOTR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

For the next seven days, the tide gradually increases
until it attains its maximum, and then falls off gra
dually during the same period until it disappears : these
tides therefore present successive examples, not merely
of completely destructive and corroborative inter
ferences, but of all their intermediate gradations. -

    The spring and neap tides also, derived from the com
bination of the simple solar and lunar tides, afford, as has
been observed by Dr. Young, a magnificent example of
the interference of two immense waves with each other ;

the spring tide being the joint result of their combina
tion when they coincide in time and place, and the

neap tide when they succeed each other at the distance

of half an interval, and so as to leave the effect of
their difference only sensible. The beating of two
musical sounds, when nearly in unison, resembles a
succession of spring and neap tides, considered as un
dulations related to each other in frequency, as twenty-
nine to thirty ; and the combination of these sounds is
still more analogous to that which takes place when
the undulations of light interfere, in virtue of the
closer analogy which exists between air and our assumed
luminiferous ether than that between air and water."

   One of the first and most satisfactory applications
which Young made of his theory was to the colours of
striated surfaces ; a class of phenomena which Newton
had left altogether unnoticed, and which were not expli
cable by any recognized theory of light which had pre
viously been proposed. When two or more scratches,

forming concave, cylindrical, or other polished surfaces,
capable of reflecting light in all directions, are drawn ex
tremely near each other, the light issuing in all directions
from a luminous source may be reflected from points in

                                      * Works, vol. i. p. 329.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  149

those surfaces in directions so nearly coincident as to

meet and interfere at the eye, after describing paths

which differ in length by one half or by a whole of the

undulation, which is appropriate to the coloured light, if
homogeneous, or to some one of its constituents, if

white, light be employed. The appropriate colour in
one case will be destroyed by interference and corro

borated in the other ; and if we take into account a

series of such points on each surface in lines very near
to each other, the combined effect of such interferences

will become sensible to the eye, and lead to the pro -
duction of colour, or to a flash of darkness or light."

   Young employed, in his observations, Mr. Coventry's
micrometric scales, the principal lines upon which

were composed of two or three nearly parallel and
much finer lines, not more than one ten-thousandth

part of an inch from each other, and therefore capable

of reflecting light under such conditions as the observa
tion requires. Still finer examples of lines drawn on
glass have been produced by Dr. Wollaston and Mr.
Barton, the latter of which, when transferred to steel
-- as in the case of the buttons which are known by

his name--produce a very brilliant effect of coloration.

The effects also caused by the light reflected from the
polished surface of mother of pearl have been shown, by

Sir David Brewster, to be referable generally to the

same class of appearances.
   The most remarkable, and, in many respects, the most

instructive application of the principle of interferences
is found in the explanation of the rings of colours of
thin plates, or Newton's rings. The examination of the
phenomena which they exhibit, had been a labour of
predilection of the great man, by whose name they are

                                . Works, vol. i. p. 158 and 298.
150  MEMOIR OF DB. THOMAS YOUNG.                   Chap. VI.

commonly known, and the account which he has given
of them has always been considered as a model of deli
cate observation, of the careful exclusion of extraneous

circumstances, of accurate measurement, and of the

comprehensive classification of the results. These
rings show themselves with great distinctness, in hori

zontal zones of colour, about the highest point of a

soap bubble, when reduced to extreme tenuity, by

                      it,

                                       ;
carefully protecting         when formed, from the disturb

ing effects of currents of air and whenever two trans

parent bodies are brought very nearly into contact with
each other, with air or any other transparent medium
interposed, they are observed with greater or less
regularity of form and succession, according as the

distances between them follow or do not follow any
determinate and regular law. But under no circum

stances can the phenomena which they exhibit be

so conveniently examined, and the diameters of the

rings and the corresponding distances of the two sur

faces from each other be so accurately measured or de

termined, as when they are formed by double convex
                                          a
lens of well ascertained and considerable focal length,a

resting upon another surface of glass or polished metal
which accurately plane, such as the flat surface of
     is                                            a
                                                           a
plano-convex lens.;

   In one of his observations, Newton employed lensit

the surfaces of which were parts of sphere whose dia

meter was 184 inches, and the measured diameter of the

fifth of the dark rings was found to be "2037 inches.

The corresponding distance of the surfaces-- third
                                                   a

proportional to the diameter of the sphere and the

radius of the ring -- was therefore equal to .0000366

inches only and as was found that the successive

distances from the point of contact, at which the sue
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIHST EPOCH.  151

cessive rings, both bright and dark, appeared, were

proportional to the square roots of the natural num

bers, and that therefore the corresponding distances of
the surfaces themselves followed the order of the

natural numbers, or the squares of the former, it would
appear that the dark or obscure rings would present
themselves at distances which were successively re
presented by 0000122, 0000366, -000061, &c, inches,
and the brighter rings at the distances of .0000244,
 0000488, 0000732, &c, inches, respectively.

    The first remark which is naturally suggested by
such observations upon the formation of these rings,
when made by the aid of a lens of known radius, is

the wonderful power which they afford of measuring,
with great accuracy, spaces not otherwise measur

able, from their extreme smallness. A space equal

to .2037, or little more than one-fifth of an inch,

which was, in this instance, the diameter of the fifth

ring, is measurable with considerable accuracy, by

ordinary means--even by the aid of a pair of compasses
and a common divided scale --and incomparably more so,

when observed by a telescope, as it is now usually done,
with a micrometer attached to it. But the correspond
ing distance of the surfaces is only about one 7400th

part of this space ; and if we pass from the fifth to the

first of the rings, assuming the law which governs their

distances to be established, it will be found, to be one

37000th part of it only, or about one 180,000th part

of an inch.

    There is no refinement of art in the construction and

use of micrometers, aided by all the artifices of calcula
tion which the discoveries of analysis have enabled us
to apply to the reduction of repeated observations, which
can give the absolute measure of a magnitude so minute
152  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

as this, though we can sometimes make an approxima
tion to it in the estimate of the minute differences

of greater magnitudes from each other."
    Upon the accuracy of measures, such as those which

are now under our consideration, --though many other
means are available for the purpose, -- will be chiefly

founded (as we shall afterwards see) our knowledge of
the lengths of the undulations of the different rays of

the prismatic spectrum.

   It is not our intention to attempt a detailed descrip

tion of the whole progress of the light concerned in
the production of these rings, and it would hardly be
practicable to do so, without the aid of figures to guide

the eye as well as the understanding of the reader.
When they are produced by white light, they present
a succession of colours very variously intermixed, and
of very various intensities, the first of the series, or
the central spot, being black, followed by rings of very
faint blue, brilliant white, and then yellow, orange and
red, and so on, forming a succession of orders between
the dark and bright rings which Newton has very
accurately defined and which, from being capable of

perpetual reproduction, possess no inconsiderable phi
losophical value, as an invariable scale or standard
with which any observed colours may be compared.

   If, however, instead of white, we employ homoge

neous light, whether red, or yellow, or blue, the
rings are increased in number and distinctness,

    · Frauenhofer, the justly celebrated theoretical and practical optician
of Munich, is said to have constructed a micrometric apparatus of a

J.delicacy so extreme as to enable him to appreciate as minute a quantity

as l-50,000th of an inch. See Sir Herschel's Treatise on Light, $ 741.
The arrangements made by Mr. Sheepshanks for the measurement of the
bare, which have been selected for the Parliamentary standards, have

hardly attained an accuracy equal to this.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  153

but are mere alternations of colour and blackness

or obscurity, the colour developed being that of

the homogeneous ray only ; the series of rings also
which correspond to the more refrangible rays of the
spectrum are wider and the corresponding distances
of the surfaces of the lenses greater, than for those
which are less so. But in all cases, the dark rings
correspond to distances which follow the order of the

even numbers, and the bright or coloured rings to
those which are odd : those distances for the red being
greater than for the violet rays nearly in the pro
portion of 5 to 3, or, as Newton observed, more nearly
that of 14 to 9.

   This recurrence of dark and bright or coloured rings,
more especially in homogeneous light, at successive
points where the distances of the surfaces are deter

mined by multiplying the first distance, where a bright
ring appears, by the natural numbers, necessarily con
nects the phenomena with those distances.

    Such are the appearances presented by the rings seen
by reflection. Let us now endeavour to trace the course
of the light which appears to be concerned in their pro

duction. In this examination we shall confine our atten

tion to those cases where the direction of the light is
perpendicular to the surfaces of the lenses which bound
the interposed lamina of air ; for oblique incidences,

the explanation is by no means so simple, involving
some considerations of a much less obvious nature.

   Of the light which reaches in succession the two sur
faces of the lamina of air interposed between two lenses,
a portion is reflected at each of them, and it will be found
of importance to keep in mind, in the case under con
sideration, that the first of these reflections takes place
at the surface of a rarer, the second at that of a denser
154  MEMOIR OF DB. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

medium : and assuming the quantity of reflected light

to bear the same proportion--and a small proportion
only --to that which is transmitted--the reflected beams

at the two surfaces will not be very different in intensity."
Now it is obvious, that the light reflected at the second

surface, after traversing, from one surface to the other
and back again, twice the thickness of the interposed
lamina, will interfere with the light reflected from the
first ; and as they are nearly equal in intensity they will

destroy each other or nearly so, and produce darkness

when they are in opposite phases, and will corroborate

each other --producing a quadruple illumination or
nearly so--when they are in the same. Such are the

minimum and maximum effects. For intermediate dis

tances the effects will be also intermediate, gradually
increasing in illumination in passing from one to the

other and conversely.

   At the central point where the distance of the

reflecting surfaces is evanescent, there is a black spot,

or the two beams of reflected light destroy each

other by interference : but inasmuch as they traverse the

same space, this effect can only take place by supposing
one of them either to lose or to gain half an undulation

by the act of reflection. Other observations, which
Dr. Young has pointed out, will show that this effect

always takes place, when light is reflected at the sur
face of a rarer medium, as in the case of the upper of

the two surfaces which bound the intermediate lamina

of air.b

   * Tho series of such reflections and transmissions will be indefinite, but
as much the greatest part of the beam reflected at the second surface is
transmitted at the first, the portion of it which is again reflected is very
small, and does not very materially influence tho circumstances of the
phenomenon. In the complete solution of the problem, by analysis, all the
terms of this series aro taken into account.

    b Works, vol. i. p. 175 and p. 287. c.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  155

If we pass from the central spot, the successive dark

rings will appear at successive points where the dupli

cate distances of the surfaces are in arithmetical pro

gression : if X be the second term of this series --0 or

the evanescent distance at the central spot being the

first-- the series of distances will be represented by
0, X, 2X, 3X, &c, &c. ; and it is manifest that if we assume

X to be the length of an undulation, the two reflected

beams from the two bounding surfaces of the interposed

lamina-- assuming half an undulation to be lost at the
first reflection --will be found to be in opposite phases

of their vibrations when they concur, and therefore in
entire discordance with each other :-- under such cir

cumstances therefore no light or very little is reflected

Ifand reaches the eye.

        the series of bright rings be likewise observed,

they will be found to appear at successive points, whose

duplicate distances will be similarly represented by the

terms of the arithmetical series  *            &c,
                                        ,

which are exactly intermediate to those of the former
series. When, therefore, the portion of the beam

transmitted at the first surface--without suffering
any change in the state of its vibration --returns
to it again, it will be found in an opposite phase

and therefore in entire accordance with the inverted

phase of the beam reflected from the first surface :
the undulations will therefore entirely corroborate each
other, and the light will be quadrupled or nearly so.

   Again, if different coloured rays are employed in

these experiments, the rings of the same order will

be found widest, and therefore the corresponding
distances, from the central point longest, for the red or

most refrangible rays, and the corresponding rings
156  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                           Chap. VI.

narrowest and the distances least for the violet, or

least refrangible rays : and instead of homogeneous,
     ;

                        if,
we employ white, light, the succession of rings will

form what has been termed Newton's scale, produced

by the overlapping and irregular intermixture of the

rings corresponding to the different rays of the pris

matic spectrum those rings are consequently less

numerous, and those which are more remote are much

less distinct, than such as are formed by homogeneous
light. The distances of the two points of reflection at

which the successive dark or obscure and bright rings
appear--the first of the latter of which
                                                     is    brilliant
                                                        a

white-- such as would correspond nearly to the length
     is
                             a
of the undulation of mean .ray of the spectrum, in

termediate between the yellow and the green.

The lengths of the undulations of light of different

colours which are deduced from the preceding theory,

will be found to enter as essential elements into the ex

planation and calculation of many other cases of the

production of colours, and more especially of the bands

of diffraction, under the very various circumstances

under which they are observed; and the determina

tions of those lengths founded upon these different

classes of phenomena will be found to be entirely con

sistent with each other.

  It was to one of the earlier and most remarkable of

the speculations of Newton, that Young was indebted --
as he has fully acknowledged" --for the important sug

gestion of the unequal lengths of the undulations of

light of different colours, and for their connection with

the production of the particular phenomena which we

have just been considering but there was wanting his
                                :
principle of the interference                light to make this sug-
                                  i. of

                                           p.
     * Works, vol.                             145.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  157

gestion available for its application to their complete

analysis and the removal of the nearly insuperable diffi
culties which were otherwise presented by their theory.

   At a later period of life Newton proposed his hypo

thesis of the fits of easy transmission and reflection,
not as a consequence of his theory of emanations --with
which it is hardly possible to connect it -- but as a con
venient mode of enunciating the law which is found to

determine the formation and succession of the rings.

It is not possible to do justice to this celebrated hypo

thesis by any brief description of it, as it requires to
be guarded by many conditions to make it generally
applicable to the phenomena: but if we assume the
intervals which separate the alternate state of the rays

of different colours, when they are easily transmissible
or easily reflexible, to be equal to half the lengths of
the corresponding undulations, the consequences to

which it leads will be immediately translateable into

those which we have just deduced from the undula-

tory theory.
   We have before referred to the necessity of supposing

that light reflected at the surface of a rarer medium
loses half an undulation ; a conclusion which Young felt

to be inevitable, if it was attempted, upon the prin

ciples of his theory, to account for the black spot at the
point of contact of the two lenses, or at the summit of
a soap-bubble, when, before bursting, it is reduced to

an evanescent thinness.

   In order to test the correctness of this hypothesis, he
ventured to predict, that if the substance of the inter

posed lamina bounded by the reflecting surfaces, was in
termediate in refractive power to the two mediums which
contained it, the order of the rings would be reversed and
that a white central spot would replace the black which,
158  MEMOITC OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

under other circumstances, was always observable : for
this purpose he interposed oil of sassafras, which answers
the required conditions, when one of the two lenses, be
tween which it was interposed, was of flint and the
other of crown glass ; he then found as he had anti
cipated that the central spot seen by reflected light
was white and was succeeded by a dark ring." This
was a crucial experiment and completely established
this interesting and very important fact.

   A similar loss of half an undulation is observed to take

place when reflections are made at the surfaces of some
metals, as gold and silver ; also in some extraordinary
refractions, and very generally in very oblique reflec

tions.

    We shall not enter upon the discussion of the
dynamical or other considerations which have been
suggested both by Young and Fresnel to account
for this inversion of the phase of the undulation,

under the circumstances above enumerated : the prin
ciples involved in such suggestions are necessarily to
a great extent hypothetical, in consequence of our
ignorance of the physical constitution of the ethereal
medium, whose vibrations are assumed to constitute

light.

  It was further ascertained by Newton, that if water,

oil, or other transparent media, instead of air, be inter
posed between the lenses, the rings continue to follow
the same law, but are contracted in diameter, and the

corresponding distances between the surfaces, and con
sequently the intervals between the fits of easy trans

mission and reflection, and therefore the velocity of
progression of the undulations, is diminished, and that
in the inverse proportion of the refractive powers of the

                                      * Works, vol. i. p. 175.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                                                                   159

media. The necessary inference to be drawn from this

fact that the velocity of light also less, the greater
is
       is is,
                      is ;

                             a
                                                       is

                                                                      it
the refractive power of the medium through which

transmitted         fact of fundamental importance and

in direct contradiction to the only conclusion, when

light considered as the emanation of material par

ticles, which derived from that theory."

  It was assumed by Huygensb in his proof of the con

stancy of the sines of incidence and refraction in passing

from one medium to another, that the velocity of propa
gation of the undulations was in the inverse proportion

of the refractive powers of the media through which

they are propagated the same conclusion therefore, as
                    ;

                                   is
                                                          is
Young has most justly remarked, which so adverse

to the truth of one theory,  absolutely necessary to

that of its rival.

Young again followed in the footsteps of the ad

mirable observations of Newton in the application of

his doctrine to the explanation of the colours of thick

plates and he was not less successful in its applica
b

         ;

                             ;

                          i.,
                          it

                                                  it
                                                                                  it a

                                                                                                            is
tion to a class of phenomena, of what he terms mixed

plates, not previously observed. When two pieces of
plate glass, with drops of moisture intermixed with air

interposed between them, were viewed against candle

or other strong light, fringes of colour were observed

to be produced, which are accounted for by con

ceiving one, of two neighbouring rays of light, to

* Principia, lib. prop. 94.

Theorie de la Lumiere. No subsequent addition has been made to

the completeness and conclusiveness of this investigation.    Dr. Young

refers to Barrow's demonstration of in his Lectiones Optical, pub

lished in 1669 but not only does not involve the theory of undula

tions, but, though edited and corrected by Newton himself,                                                      partly

founded upon considerations of circular motion more worthy of the philo

sophy of the schoolmen than the opening era of the true laws of mechanical

action.
160  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                                                                              Chap. VI.

pass through water and the other through air ; and
inasmuch as the velocity of the ray through water is

about one-third less than the velocity of that through

air, the first will be found in entire discordance with
the other --forming a dark fringe--when the plates are

distant from each other by the length of an undulation

and a half. This distance is six times as great as

that of two surfaces, when the same destructive inter
Ifference takes place in a thin plate of air.
                                               oil and water

be employed, whose refractive powers differ much less
from each other than water and air, the differences of the

velocities of the rays transmitted through them will be

much reduced and the same succession of phenomena
will be observable, when the plates are still further

separated from each other."

   The progress of Dr. Young in the application of his
theory and of the principle of interference derived from

    to some of the most remarkable cases of the produc

tion of colour, had thus far been triumphant he had
hitherto met with difficulties, but no failures and sub
it,

                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                           :

sequent investigations and experiments have fully es
tablished the general correctness both of his reasoning

and conclusions.

   He now approached the great problem of Diffractions,
in which we shall find that his success was much less

complete and though he was singularly fortunate

in devising fundamental experiment, which removed
all reasonable doubt with respect to the connection of
     :

         a

                                         i.

                              it

                                          a
the phenomena which they exhibit with the great

principle which he had discovered, and though he suc

ceeded in founding upon                      general explanation of

them which was not very different from the truth, he

failed in the complete solution of the problem, chiefly,

     · Works, vol. p. 173, and p. 300.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                               161

though not entirely, in consequence of its requiring

analytical processes for estimating the results of the
interference of any number of undulations and under
any circumstances and also of integrating their effects,

which Fresnel was the first to investigate and apply at

a much later period.

   When an object is placed in a very small beam of
light or in a cone of rays diverging from an extremely

small point, such as a sunbeam admitted through a small
pinhole into a dark chamber, its shadow -- if received
upon a screen or the opposite wall--will exhibit fringes

of colour, following its contour, whatever be its form,
                                       " like the
:;                                                                        lines,"
                                                                          map."
                                               it,
                                                                      is a
J.at nearly  the same distance   from

says Sir      Herschel, " along  the sea-coast in

In ordinary light, three only of these fringes are to be

seen the first being very bright and the last extremely
faint but in homogeneous light their number much
greater. They are absolutely independent of the form
of the edge or of the nature of the substance of the
body which forms them, whether one be thick or thin,
or the other be dense or rare.

The first of these circumstances would naturally

lead us to conclude that the fringes were not dependant,

for their formation, upon the reflection of rays from the
edge the second that they were not inflected or
;
             an attractive or repulsive force, as in other
         by
deflected

acases of material action.
   a
  If very thin slip of card, wire or hair, be placed

within similar beam or cone of light -- so that the light
passes on both sides of -- besides the external fringes
                      it

                                a
                                                  a

on each side of the shadow, there will be observable

within bands of colour parallel to its edges, of which
Ifthe central and brightest band always white.a it
                                 is                                         the

angle of square object be similarly interposed, internal

LlFH.                                                M
. 162  MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

coloured bands will be observed in the form of hyperi.,
bolic curves, on each side of the diagonal which is

luminous and white.

  It was with reference to these internal bands

that Dr. Young made the fortunate observation,

that if all the light on one side of the object be in

tercepted, the bands will entirely disappear: thus
showing decisively that the concurrence, or in other
words, the interference of the rays of light passing
on both sides of the object, is necessary to their for

mation."

   This was a crucial experiment, and may be con
sidered as having constituted an important epoch in
the history of the undulatory theory.

    The phenomena of the external bands and the laws
to which they are subject were observed and deter
mined with his usual completeness and accuracy by
Newton. He supposed the rays, on passing the object,

to be deflected by a repulsive force ; those nearer more
so than those more remote, those more refrangible than
those which were less so : in passing the edge also they
were further supposed to be bent several times back
wards and forwards by a motion like that of an eel, and
the luminous molecules to be thrown off at one or other

of the points of contrary flexure of the serpentine curve
which they thus describe. To account for the interior

bands, he supposed the repulsive forces to become
attractive, and the rays to be inflected and not deflected ;
but it would appear that his more critical examination
of their phenomena and formation was interrupted at
the time he was first engaged in these researches, and

 was never afterwards resumed.

    He was enabled by this theory to account for the

                                       " Works, vol. p. 179.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  1(53

extension of the visible beyond the geometrical shadow,
for the hyperbolic form of its outline and also of its
conterminous fringes, as well as for the brightness
of the fringes themselves, which are thus made to
absorb all the light which would otherwise have
occupied the space between the visible and geometrical

shadow.

    Though these hypotheses led to a tolerably correct re
presentation of the form of the shadow and of its fringes,
they were not reconcileable, for reasons which we have
already referred to, to any recognised laws of material
action. "We trace their influence, however, in various

subsequent speculations connected with the explanation
of the phenomena of diffraction, and they would appear
to have conducted a very distinguished writer to a very

complex theory --which makes the rays of light to differ

in inflexibility as well as refrangibility, and also in
their capacity of deflection as well as inflexion, when
they pass near the edge of a body which repels or

attracts them -- which makes colour developable by
reflection as well as by refraction --which ascribes

the colours of natural bodies generally to the different
reflexibilities of the rays, and sometimes to their flexi

bilities -- which makes the different rays of the spec

trum material particles of different sizes.
   The hypotheses of Newton with respect to the ori

gin and formation of the exterior bands in diffraction
were replaced, in Young's solution of the problem, by
others more conformable to his own theory : he sup
posed the rays reflected from the edge of the body, by
which the light passed, after losing half an undulation
in the act of reflection, to interfere with the rays

whose course was uninterrupted.
   This hypothesis was found sufficient to explain the

                                                                                        m2
164  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VT.

formation of the bands of colour, the extension of the

visible beyond the geometrical shadow and the hyper
bolic curves, in which they were always found ; and

upon a comparison of the results of this theory with
Newton's measures and his own," he found an agree

ment between them so close, as appeared to afford a

sufficient warrant of its truth. Differences, however,

were remarked by him, which were afterwards found,

as we shall see, to be due to an error in the hypothesis.

These bands, in fact, are not produced, or at the most

in a very slight degree, by the interference of the

Ifreflected with the unobstructed rays.
       the accordance between the results of observation

and this theory had not been so close as it was found

to be, some very obvious objections to its correctness

could hardly have failed to receive from him much

earlier consideration than was given to them ; for the

bands were found to be independant of the form and

substance of the reflecting edge, whether thin or thick,

polished or rough, polygonal or curved ; all of them

circumstances which could not fail to affect both the

quantity and the direction of the reflected rays.
Neither was the quantity of such rays, which this

source could be reasonably supposed to supply, suffi
cient for the production of the phenomena.

   The further condition which required the assumption
of the loss of half an undulation in the act of reflection

at an extreme obliquity, would appear, however, to

have been sufficiently justified by its loss in similar
reflections in other cases.

   The problem of diffraction was made the special
subject of a memoir which Fresnel presented to the

Institute in 1815, and which was published, with seve-

     * Works, vol.  i.,  p. 181.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  165

ral modifications in the Annales de Chimie for the

following year. The distances of the bands made by
a wire placed in a diverging beam of light, from the
axis of the beam, were determined by a method more
accurate and complete than any that had been applied

to their measurement before ; and he also repeatedly
observed, as Young had done previously, the disappear
ance of the interior bands when the light which passed
on one side of the wire was intercepted before it
reached the screen, or rather the eye-glass of the
observer which was made use of in its place.

  It was by reflecting upon this last fundamental

observation, that he was led to the conclusion that, as

the light from both sides of the wire was thus abso
lutely necessary to the existence of the bands within
the shadow, their formation was produced by the mix
ture or interference of those streams of light, under
certain conditions, with each other : from thence he

was led to the re-discovery of the principle of inter
ference and many of its applications, which Young had
made thirteen years before, but of which he would
appear to have been ignorant at the time that his me
moir was first presented to the Institute.

   It was his friend Arago --who had been appointed

by the Institute, in conjunction with Prony, to

report upon this Memoir --who first made known to

 Fresnel that both his theory and his most important
experiments had been long since anticipated by Dr.
 Young ; and it is but an act of justice to the memory of
that eminent philosopher, to acknowledge that neither
on this nor on any subsequent occasion did he claim for
himself the merit of the discoveries which others had

 made before him.

    The solution of the problem of diffraction, which is
166  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                          Chap. VI.

given in this memoir of Fresnel, though mathematically; it,
much more complete than that of Young, involves
precisely the same principles which he had assumed,    a
and leads to few conclusions which he had not fully

indicated, though he had omitted altogether, as he was
too much in the habit of doing, the mathematical in
vestigations upon which they rested, replacing them
by reasonings expressed in ordinary language ; Fresnel
followed also the example of his predecessor in deriving
his interfering rays from reflection at the edge of the

interposed object, and also assumed, what the calcu
lations required, that they lost half an undulation in

the act of reflection.

    The results of his subsequent investigations on this
subject were embodied in a second memoir, which was
crowned by the French Academy in 1819, and which
has contributed more than any publication which pre
ceded to bring the laws of the undulatory theory
under the dominion of analysis.

    We have already seen that Dr. Young had considered
the interference of undulations in two extreme cases

only, when they were equal in the amplitude of their
vibrations, and either in the same or in opposite
phases the amplitude of the resulting vibration being
doubled, and its illuminating power quadrupled in
one case, and both of them reduced to zero in the

other.

   Fresnel viewed the problem in much more general
sense, where the amplitudes and the phases of the inter

Iffering vibrations differed in any manner whatever.

the undulations were of the same length, the resultant
or equivalent undulation was of the same length like
wise, and therefore produced light of the same colour,
however different those undulations might be in phase
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.         167

and amplitude, and therefore in illuminating power ;
and whatever was the number of such interfering

undulations, the amplitude and phase of a single

undulation equivalent to them, was determinable by

processes analogous in their form and equally easy
in their application, with those which are employed

for determining the resultant of mechanical forces,
however different in magnitude and direction, when

acting upon a material point.

The undulations issuing from a luminous point are

found in successive instants of time in spherical sur

faces expanding with the velocity of light, the intensity

of illumination in passing in succession from one to

another of those surfaces varying as the inverse square
Ifof their distances from their common centre.
                                                      we

suppose any one of these expanding spherical waves of
light to continue to be maintained in the same state,

by the perpetual issue of streams from the primitive

source, we may altogether suppress the consideration
of this primitive source of supply, and suppose all the
undulations, which reach any point of space beyond
to issue from every point of this spherical surface, as
                                 it

                                     is
                                                  a

                                                                        it,
forming innumerable though immeasurably feebler new

sources of light, from which     propagated by the same

laws thus we suppose any portion of this diverging
;

      is

        if
sphere to be cut off by an obstacle, or even the whole
of what not transmitted through circular or other

aperture to be thus arrested, we may consider this
unobstructed portion of the spherical surface, whether

adjoining such object or aperture or at any point of

space beyond   of      as alone  concerned in the illumination
of any ulterior   a it,point of  space in other words, " the
                                 of :
                                                  of
vibrations             luminous wave at any one its points

may be considered as the sum     the elementary move
]()«  MEMOIR Oi? DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                              Chap. VI.

merits conveyed to it at the same moment, from the
separate action of all the portions of the unobstructed
wave considered in any one of its anterior positions."

   This is the principle which Huygens has very dis
tinctly announced in his Thiorie de la Lumiere. He

had derived it by reasoning upon the constitution of

elastic fluids, considering every point of a wave as a

new centre of disturbance, from which undulations are

propagated, similar in character, though less in degree,

to those which originate in the primary cause which

excites them. The conclusion to which this principle

would apparently have led him, would have been the
same as that which formed the chief obstacle, in New

ton's mind, to the admission of the undulatory theory,

if it had not been limited by another principle of

hardly less importance, by which it was assumed that

those undulations alone which concur, at any given

point, not only with each other but with the primary

wave which passes through it, so as to form a common

oftangent withare efficient in producing the impres
                    it it,

                                      a

                                          it
                                            of

                                                                a
sion of light; this principle                                                   concurrence or non-

concurrence, may be shown, from very simple geome

trical considerations, to be equivalent to the principle

    interference, which alone gives demonstration of
its truth, and without which would otherwise con

tinue to rest upon bare assumption only.

  -But even subject to this limitation -- important and

fundamental as was the conception and enunciation

of these principles does immortal honour to this great

geometer, who applied them with singular clearness

and sagacity, not merely to the explanation of the

   * This the form in which this principle enunciated by I'resnel. Ry
   wave meant the great spherical wave which embraces at the same
moment all the undulations issuing in every direction from the common
luminous point.
a
              is

                 is
                                                                            is
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  169

reflection and refraction of light in accordance with this
theory, but also, with the aid of spheroidal instead of
spherical waves, to the determination of the course of

the extraordinary ray in Iceland spar; a problem of
the highest order of difficulty, whose solution, equally
remarkable for its completeness and geometrical ele
gance, was unfortunately left unnoticed or unknown
until the beginning of the present century. We are
indebted to Dr. Young for the first suggestion and to
Dr. Wollaston for the first complete demonstration
of its value, as giving results which are in strict ac
cordance with the observed laws of double refraction,

which Newton had unfortunately mistaken and mis

stated.

   By the aid of the principle of Huygens and of the

interference of light--viewed in its widest sense-- as

applied to the estimation of the effect of the concur
rence of any number of undulations with each other,
however different in phase and amplitude, Fresnel was
enabled to effect the complete solution of the problem
of diffraction in those cases where the difficulties in
the integrations which it involved, were not beyond
the powers of his analysis.

   Such, among several others, were those where light
passed on one side of an object with a straight edge,

forming the external fringes only, or by both sides
of a thin card, wire or hair, so as to form the in

ternal as well as external fringes ; no account was,
in either case, taken of the light reflected from the
edges of the object, as in all former investigations.
The results of calculation for homogeneous light were
found, after the most accurate measurement, to agree
almost exactly with observation, thus enabling him to
show, not only that the reflected light was not required
170  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.   Chap. VI.

for the production of the phenomena, but also, though
in a very slight degree, inconsistent with them.

  It is not easy to estimate too highly the im

portance of the principles developed, of the formulae
and processes investigated and of the problems solved,
in this justly celebrated Memoir. Questions which

had previously been treated vaguely and imperfectly

by estimating general effects and tendencies only, were
henceforth brought within the reach of accurate calcu

lation, where every element contributing to the result
was capable of being taken into account. The par
ticular results also, which the application of these

principles lead to, were such as were calculated to
remove many prepossessions to which Newton himself
had given way and which had exercised a fatal in

fluence upon the progress of optical science. A com

plete answer was thus given to the great objection to

the undulatory theory, that it was not reconcileable
with the existence of shadows, and an end was finally
put to the necessity of seeking for the explanation of
the principal phenomena of diffraction by the aid of
hypotheses which in most cases were not only arbitrary,
but altogether opposed to all just conceptions of

mechanical action.

    The first feeling which was produced on Dr. Young's
mind, when Arago communicated to him the results of

Fresnel's investigations, was one of mortification.

I" Perhaps you will suspect," says he," " that am not a

little provoked to think that so immediate a consequence of the

Huygenian system, as that which M. Fresnel has most inge
Iniously deduced, should have escaped myself when
                                                   was

endeavouring to apply it to the phenomena in question ; but in

fact I am still at a loss to conceive the possibility of the thing ;

      Works, vol.  i.,       388.

                         p.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                                                          171

for if light has at all times so great a tendency to diverge into

Ithe path of the neighbouring rays, and to interfere with them,

as Huygens supposes, do not see how it escapes being totally

Iextinguished in a very short space, even in the most transparent

medium, as have observed in my first paper on the subject.""

The subsequent perusal of the Memoir, and an ex

planatory and very flattering letter from its author,

removed every remaining doubt and hesitation from

his mind.

  I" return   "yofuor  a thousand    thanks," says he, in writing to
                                    your admirable Memoir, which
M. Fresnel,b           the gift of

Ideserves a very high rank amongst the writings which have most
contributed to the progress of Optics.     have not the least in

tention of insisting upon the influence of the rays reflected from
I. the edges of the opaque body.
                                           was perfectly aware, that

when light is admitted through two parallel slits, the inter

Ifering rays must be derived from the middle of each of them,

as may be seen from figure 442 in my Lectures ; but had not

conceived the happy idea of analyzing the results of the several

undulations, in which you have succeeded so completely, and

Iwhat prevented my doing so, was the difficulty felt of appre

ciating the just effect of the obliquity, which you have not

found it necessary to include in your calculations."

   After noticing a slight error in a calculation con
tained in his letter to M. Arago, which Fresnel had

very obligingly corrected, he adds :--

  I" You will see by the little table of tides which have sent

with this letter, that the true mode of considering a combina
tion of undulations was sufficiently familiar to me."*

He then describes a construction, by which the am

plitude of the resultant of two or more equal undula

tions of given phases is determined.

/ " Works, vol.                            Works, vol.
                 i.,

                       p.
                                  c

                                                               h

                                                                              i.,
                                                                                             p.
                       149.                                                                      3U3.

                             Works, ibid.
172  MEMOllt OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                     Chap. VI.

   There are some other subjects, noticed in these;a  a
optical Memoirs of Dr. Young, to which we shall verya        if,

briefly refer.                                                               ; it,
   The repetitions of colours, which are sometimes

observed within the common primary rainbow, and
without the secondary, are capable of a sufficient

explanation by the principle of interference, if we

suppose the drops of rain or vapour, where such
supernumerary rainbows appear, to be of nearly uni
form size." Under such circumstances the faint light,
which would otherwise be diffused for a very consider
able space beneath the ordinary bow, is distributed, by
the effect of interference, into concentric rings, whose
magnitude will be dependent upon the diameter of the

drops : but if the drops, as is most commonly the

case, are not equal to each other, the several sets of
rings corresponding to different classes of drops of the
same diameter, will be mixed up with each other, and,
by their combination, produce the effect of white light.

   Again when a very fine fibre is held near the eye before
a very small hole in a card, so as to intercept a great part
of the light of a distant luminous object, fringes of

different colours are formed, whose distances are greater

the less the diameter of the fibre ; and instead of
such fibre, great number of fibres of uniform dia
meters, crossed in all directions, are held before
these fringes will form rings by their combination.
Such would be the effect produced by lock of wool of
uniform texture, whose fibres cross in all directions

such also would be the effect produced by the minute
particles of blood or the extremely minute seed-vessels
of some plants, such as those of the lycoperdon bo-
vistoe and inasmuch as the smaller the diameter of

                              · Works, vol. p. 185 and 293.
                      i.,

                                                  p.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- F1RST KPOCH.       173

the fibre or particle, the greater is that of the ring

which it forms at a given distance from  a        we are

                                           it,

                                                 a
enabled, by measuring the distances at which ring

of given diameter    is  produced, to form scale by

which the diameters of such particles or fibres can
be not only compared with each other but determined

also, when the unit of the scale once ascertained, by
                                  is is
measuring the distance corresponding to some other

fibre or spherule whose diameter         otherwise known    :

but the fibres or particles are of different sizes, noif
such ring will be formed. This was the principle of

the Eriometer -- an ingenious instrument devised by

Dr. Young, admitting of many useful applications,

and which has not received the degree of attention to

which its real importance entitles it."

   The invisible rays, formerly known as the dark rays
of Ritter, the existence of which beyond the violet

end of the spectrum was ascertained by their chemical

action, and which had been recently noticed by Dr.

aWollaston,b were made to form,   an ingenious appli

    '·

                       i, i.

                                                                                           b

                                                        a by

                                                                           it
cation of the solar microscope which was devised by

Dr. Young, dark impressions upon paper or leather

dipped in muriate of silver, of the rings reflected from
  thin plate of air, as in the colours of thin plates/ at

distances corresponding to their proper place in their
spectrum. This experiment was of great interest, not

merely as establishing the close analogy which exists
between the visible and invisible rays, but also as one

of the first attempts to form            real photographic

picture, though without any anticipation of the very

important uses to which the principle involved in

was afterwards to be applied."1

Works, vol. pp. 172, 305, and 346. Philosophical Transactions, 1802.

Works, vol. p. 190.      See Philosophical Magazine for May, 1854.
   We have before had occasion to refer to the attacks
which were made on Dr. Young's Optical Papers,
almost immediately after their publication, in the early
numbers of the Edinburgh Review. They are assumed,
upon sufficient internal evidence, to have been written
by Lord Brougham, and exhibit all the characteristics
of his vigorous style, and truly formidable sarcasm :
and it would be difficult to refer to another example
where the irresponsible power of anonymous criticism

has been so unscrupulously exercised, or where the
effects which it produced were so long and so in

juriously felt.
   We have given some specimens of these criticisms

in a footnote at page 192 of the first volume of Dr.
Young's Works. We shall subjoin a few others in
connection with some observations of our own on the

subjects to which they refer.
   After noticing some changes of opinion and of views

which the progress of his researches had induced

Dr. Young to make--and which were pardonable in
so novel and difficult an inquiry-- the reviewer adds : --"

   " It is difficult to deal with an author whose mind is filled

with a medium of so fickle and vibratory a nature. Were we

Ito take the trouble of refuting him, he might tell us, ' My

opinion is clianged, and have abandoned that hypothesis, but

here is another for you.' We demand, if the world of science

which Newton once illuminated, is to be as changeable in
its modes as the world of fashion, which is directed by the
nod of a silly woman or a pampered fop? Has the Royal
Society degraded its publications into bulletins of new and
fashionable theories for the ladies of the Royal Institution?
Proh pudor ! Let the Professor continue to amuse his audience
with an endless variety of such harmless trifles, but in the name
of science, let them not find admittance into that venerable

repository which contains the works of Newton, and Boyle,
and Cavendish, and Maskelyne, and Herschel.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                                                             175

   " These remarks lead us to observe, that perpetual fluc

tuation and change of ground is the common lot of theorists.

An hypothesis which is assumed from a fanciful analogy or

adopted from its apparent capacity of explaining certain appear

ances, must always be varied as new facts occur, and must be
kept alive by a repetition of the same process of touching and
retouching, of successive accommodation and adaptation, to which
it originally owed its puny and contemptible existence But the

making of an hypothesis is not the discovery of a truth. It is

a mere sporting with the subject ; it is a sham fight which may
amuse in the moment of idleness and relaxation, but will neither

gain victories over prejudice and error, nor extend the empire of

science. A mere theory is in truth destitute of merit of every

kind, except that of a warm and misguided imagination. It

demonstrates neither patience of investigation, nor rich re
sources of skill, nor vigorous habits of attention, nor powers of

abstracting and comparing, nor extensive acquaintance with

nature. It is the unmanly and unfruitful pleasure of a boyish

prurient imagination, or the gratification of a corrupted and de

pra"ved  appetite.
          however,
       If,                         to amuse                                                ourselves  in

                                                                                        ;
                    we condescend                                                                         this

manner we have a right to demand that the entertainment shall
be of the right sort, and that the hypothesis shall be so con

sistent with itself, and so applicable to the facts, as not to
require perpetual mending and patching that the child that
we stoop to play with shall be tolerably healthy, and not of
the puny, sickly nature of Dr. Young'3 productions, which have
scarcely stamina to subsist until the fruitful parent has furnished
us with a new litter, to make way for which, he knocks on

the head, or more barbarously exposes the first."

   Dr. Young, in his reply, has very justly denned the
proper limitation to be imposed upon the use of hypo
theses in the conduct of philosophical inquiries, and
has shown that he was not guilty of the charge, either

of rashly fabricating or capriciously abandoning those
which he had proposed, which was brought against
him in this eloquent tirade.

   " In order to answer the charge of inconsistency in mv
176             MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.          Chap. VI.

Iopinions respecting the nature of light , must begin by observ

ing, that there are two general methods of communicating

knowledge ; the one analytical, where we proceed from the

examination of effects to the investigation of causes ; the other

synthetical, where we first lay down the causes, and deduce

from them the particular effects. In the synthetical manner

of explaining a new theory we necessarily begin by assuming

principles, which ought, in such a case, to bear the modest

name of hypothesis ; and when we have compared their conse

quences with all the phaenomena, and have shown that the

agreement is perfect, we may justly change the temporary term
hypothesis into theory. This mode of reasoning is sufficient to

attach a value and importance to our theory, but it is not fully

decisive with respect to its exclusive truth, since it has not been

pro"veIdt  that no other hypothesis will agree with   the facts.  to
                                                     endeavoured
           is exactly in this manner that I have

proceed in my researches. By analysing the experiments of

INewton, and comparing them with my own, had arrived at
Iprinciples, to which gave, in my paper on the Theory of Light,

the unassuming title of hypotheses ; after comparing these prin

Iciples with all the phenomena of light, and showing their per

fect consistency, thought myself authorised to make a conclu

Ision, in my ninth proposition, which converts the hypothesis
into a theory.  was justified in doing this, because no man

had ever attempted to advance a theory which would bear to

be compared mathematically with the phaenomena that I enu

merated. But according to the nature of the only mode of

reasoning which the circumstances allowed me, it was impossible

to infer, from this synthetical comparison, that no other sup

positions would agree with the phaenomena ; and 1 expressly

Iremarked, with respect to one of the four hypotheses which

laid down, that it was possible to find others which might be

Isubstituted for it. It is in this hypothesis and its consequences

only, that have since attempted to make any improvements." *

   After endeavouring to show that Newton had never

spoken of the undulatory theory of light, even in his
earlier essays, except as a vague hypothesis which

                * Works, vol.  i.,      203.

                                    p.

ana
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                                        177

deserved ho credit, except for its applicability to a few

facts, and that in later life he had entirely repudiated

   the reviewer proceeds as follows --
it,                               :
    It
                                          is
            is
                                                                                  :
" hardly possible to conceive a wider difference than

that which subsists between the philosophy of Newton and the

philosophy of Dr. Young. While the former utterly rejects

hypotheses and asserts that our stock of facts insufficient the

latter says we have enow of experiments and that we only
require stock of hypotheses. Newton proposes queries for
if by
the investigation of his successors. Dr. Young claims the
              a
inheritance and vainly imagines that he fulfils this destination

ringing changes on these hypotheses, arguing from them, as

they were experiments or demonstrations, twisting them into

a partial coincidence with the clumsy imaginations of his own

brain, and pompously parading what Newton left as hints,

in a series of propositions, with all the affectation of system.

After all, may be said, Newton amused himself with hypo
                 it

theses, and so may Dr. Young admitting that the Doctor's
                           ;

                                                             s,

                                                         it
relaxations were the same with his predecessor                   must be

remembered that the queries of Newton were given to the

world at the close of the most brilliant career of solid discovery,

that any mortal was ever permitted to run. The sports in which

such a veteran might well be allowed to relax his mind, are

mere idleness in the young soldier who has never fleshed his

sword and though the world would gaze with interest upon
;

every such occupation of the former, they would turn with dis

gust from the forward and idle attempts of the latter to obtrude

upon them his awkward gambols."

It will be found, however, upon an examination of

his works, that at no period of his life was Newton:

indisposed "to amuse himself" in the framing of hyis

potheses. It true, that in the Principia, they very

rarely appear but the great laws of the material world
which form the subject of that work were so distinct

and patent before him, that the resort to hypotheses

was almost entirely unnecessary.

The case very different, however, with his Optics,is

Life.                                           N
178       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                     Chap. VI.

the materials of which, though chiefly prepared in

early, were put together and published, in later life --

where we find hypotheses proposed, not merely with

a view to give expression to the laws which appear to
govern observed phenomena, but also as suggestions
of the probable or possible physical causes in which

such phenomena originate. The mind of this illus
trious man was, in fact, naturally imaginative, and

his early communications to the Royal Society -- many
of which are found in Dr. Birch's History only-- show
how much he delighted in the most adventurous

speculations on the cause of gravity and of those

various mysterious powers to which light, heat, mag
netism, and electricity owe their origin and propa

gation.

   The theory of light, as might be expected from the
zeal and success with which he studied its laws, naturally
occupied the first place in these speculations.

   Was it solely caused by the vibrations of an ether,

whose unequal undulations produced the impressions
of different colours, like those of sound producing

different tones, though all of them were propagated
with the same velocity ? Or were the rays corporeal,
producing the vibrations of this ether, as an exciting
cause ? Or were they simple emanations of corporeal
particles of different magnitudes, producing their im
pressions without the intervention of any ether what

soever ?

     A quotation given by Dr. Young, in support of one

of his  pfruonpdoasemdentthael orhieysp--othmeoseres,"esdpeevceialollpys  the first of
these                                                                     as affecting

the different refrangibility of the rays of light and the
explanation of the colours of thin plates --with a

          · Hypothesis III., Dr. Young's Works, vol. p. 144.i.,
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-FIRST EPOCH.                                         175)

sagacity and clearness of conception, which is worthy

of the highest admiration. It was in an answer to

Hooke, --who either raised objections to every disco
very or theory that Newton made or proposed, if he
did not claim it as his own --that we find this re
markable exposition of what he terms, "the plain,
genuine, and necessary conditions of such an hypo

thesis."

   " But how," he further adds, " he will defend it from other

Idifficulties know not. For to me the fundamental supposition

seems to be impossible ; namely, that 'the waves or vibrations

of any fluid can, like the rays of light, be propagated in straight

lines, without a continual and very extravagant spreading and

Ibending every way into the quiescent medium where they are
terminated by it.           mistake if there be not both experiment

and demonstration to the contrary."

   It was the influence of this fatal prepossession which

induced him to combine, with his ether, the additional
hypothesis of the corporeity of the rays, with a view of
accounting with less difficulty for their rectilinear pro

pagation ; and it was only in later life, when writing

the Principia, that the naked theory of emanation was
proposed, independently of any necessary combination
with an ether.

   After referring to the second of the theories of light
which Newton suggested rather than maintained, the
Reviewer proceeds to contrast it with Young's theory,
which he somewhat strangely identifies with that of
Euler :--

    " But the clumsy hypothesis of Euler and Young
                                                          is                        that
                                                                       is,
ether itself constitutes light and their object to twist the
                          a

                                                       ;
facts into some sort of an agreement with what they conceive to

be  "thFerolamwssuocfhthis   fluid.
                            dull invention,
                                                          nothing can be expected.2

                                                                      It
only removes all the difficulties under which the theory of

                                                          N
180               MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.               Chap. VI.

light laboured, to the theory of the new medium which

usurps its place. It is a mere change of name ; it teaches no

truth, reconciles no contradictions, arranges no anomalous facts,

sug"geIsttshanso   new experiments, and leads    to no new  inquiries.
                  not even the pitiful merit of  affording  an agreeable
play to the fancy. It is infinitely more useless and less inge

nious than the Indian theory of the elephant and the tortoise.
It may be ranked in the same class with that stupid invention

of metaphysical theology, which, in order to account for the
existence of evil, supposed the independent existence of an evil

spirit ; or that other notable contrivance, which to explain the

power of the Deity over matter, ingeniously supposed that all

matter was the Deity."

    The objection, which is put in the preceding obser
vations, refers rather to the difficulty of applying such
a theory, than to the truth of the theory itself. We
can subject to direct observation the properties of a fluid
like water, as well as of the waves which it forms, and

our knowledge of one set of properties can be made
subservient to the extension of our knowledge of the
other. The same course may be, and has been, pur
sued with respect to the elastic medium of air, its
vibrations and the sounds which they produce. But the
existence of the ether, whose vibrations are assumed to

constitute light, is hypothetical only, and we are con
sequently precluded from all a priori knowledge of its
properties as an aid to the investigation of their effects ;
and even the analogy with those effects in other elastic
fluids is less instructive than it would otherwise be, in

consequence of the enormous numbers which connect
the lengths and the velocities of propagation of the real
and observable, with the hypothetical, undulations

which are supposed to constitute light.

   But it is in the absence of those analogies --and even

our assumptions respecting the general constitution of
an elastic fluid must be founded on analogies with
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  181

those of such as are known --that we are left, when there

are no known physical principles to guide us, to those

hypotheses which the reviewer stigmatizes with such
unsparing severity. But such hypotheses, as the his

tory of this and other sciences abundantly teaches us,

may be made --if the predictions which they afford us
are sufficiently verified --the secure bases of the most

certain conclusions.

The law of gravitation, when once discovered or

assumed, admitted not merely of a definite expression,

but required the aid of no supplementary principles, in

order to enable Newton to deduce from it the whole

system of the material world : although it presumed
not to reach as high as the final cause of gravity, it

caught up the chain of consequences deducible from

is it,
                                         it,

                                           it
above the nodal point, as were, from which its

various ramifications might be said to diverge. Our

position, however, with respect to the theory of light,
   very different. We have attained to various im

portant truths respecting  but much more remains

unexplained, and new facts are daily arising which may

or may not be explicable by principles already known,

or by others which are yet to be discovered. We

are still, therefore, far removed from the common

principle from which all others are derivable and which

may be hereafter destined to bind up, even the truths

which are established, into one consistent whole. It
a
                                                            a
                                                                      is
this want of physical principles which have common

derivation, that renders all the resources of science and

skill inert and powerless before problems which may

hereafter be found, in another stage of our knowledge,

to admit of complete and satisfactory solution. Such,

amongst many others that may be mentioned, are the

causes which produce the unequal dispersion and the
182  MEMOIH OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VI.

absorption of light of different colours in different
media, or the changes in their refractive powers which
some media have been recently shown to produce.

    The appearance of the third and last of Dr. Young's
Memoirs a which had been honoured, like the first, by
being chosen, by the Council of the Eoyal Society,
as the Bakerian Lecture for the year, was the signal

for the renewal of these vehement outbursts of critical

vituperation.
    Determined, however, as the Reviewer had shown

himself in his former critiques, to deny all merit, both to

his experiments and his reasonings, he could hardly fail
to be somewhat startled by the result of the well-known

experiment which this Memoir records, of stopping the
rays which passed on one side of a thin card or wire,
exposed to a sunbeam admitted into a dark chamber,
and which was found to obliterate the internal bands

 formed in its shadow whenever the light passed freely
 on both sides of it. After resorting to every expedient

to explain away or evade the conclusion to which the

 experiment seemed inevitably to lead, the Reviewer,
apparently dissatisfied with other solutions of the dif
 ficulty, concludes by cutting the Gordian knot, and
 denies altogether the accuracy of the experiment.

    " The fact is," says he, " we believe the experiment was in
 accurately made ; and we have not the least doubt, that if
 carefully repeated, it will be found either that the rays, when

 inflected, cross each other and thus form fringes, each portion
 on the side opposite to the point of its flection ; or that in
 stopping one portion, Dr. Young in fact stopped both portions ;
 a thing extremely likely, where the hand had only one-thirtieth
  of an inch to move in, and quite sufficient to account for all

  the fringes disappearing at once from the shadow."

   " The three Memoirs were read to the Royal Society on the three suc
cessive yeais, 1801, 1802, and 1803.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVEMES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                                      l 83

"  " The Reviewer " (as Dr. Young justly    observes in his reply)
   has here afforded me an opportunity for  a triumph as gratify

ing as any triumph can be where an enemy is so contemptible.

Conscious of inability to explain the experiment, too ungenerous

to confess that inability, and too idle to repeat the experiment,

he is compelled to advance the supposition that it was incorrect,

and to insinuate that my hand may easily have erred through

a space so narrow as one-thirtieth of an inch. But the truth

   that my hand was not concerned, the screen was placed on
is,
      ;

                                                if

                                                                               a
a table and moved mechanically forwards with the utmost cau

tion the experiment succeeded in some circumstances when

the breadth of the object was doubled or tripled. Let him make

the experiment and then deny the result he can.""

   Unjust and intemperate as these criticisms were,
and utterly erroneous as were the views which they
attempted to support, they were expressed generally in
language so choice and felicitous as could hardly fail
to charm an ignorant or indifferent reader. We find
them intermixed also with passages which are re
markable for the correct and comprehensive view which

they express of the proper mode of conducting philo

sophical inquiries, and quite worthy of those varied
powers, the application of which, during long and
eventful life, will make the name of the great man to

whom they have been commonly attributed, for ever
memorable in the civil, the political and the literary his
tory of this country. The effect which these powerful
and repeated attacks produced upon the estimate of

Dr. Young's scientific character was remarkable. The

poison sank deep into the public mind, and found no
antidote in reclamations of other journals of co-ordinate
influence and authority. We consequently find that
the subject of Dr. Young's researches remained abso

lutely unnoticed by men of science for many years.
   The pamphlet which he wrote in reply to these

   Works, vol. p. 210.
   *

                         i.,
184         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.         Chap. VI.

criticisms, from which we have made several quotations,
not only sufficiently vindicates his own scientific cha

Ifracter, but retaliates upon his Reviewer with just
severity."  this reply had fallen into the hands of

readers who were competent to appreciate the force

of its statements, it could hardly have failed to secure

a prompt recognition of the important discoveries

which his Memoirs contained. It is stated, however,

by Dr. Young, that one copy of it only was sold, and
it would appear that no private means were resorted

to, to make it generally known. It produced, therefore,

no effect whatsoever in correcting the impressions which

had been produced upon the public mind by the attacks

of the Reviewer.

   A letter from George Ellis shows the opinion which

IDr. Young's more intimate friends entertained of this

reply. " thought it would be more satisfactory to you
to hear the opinion entertained of your reply by persons

more impartial than your Sunning Hill audience, and

at the same time so intelligent as to make their opinions

worth procuring. Canning read it with great attention,

Iand the impression it made on him was exactly what
  could have wished, namely, that the malice and want

of candour of the Edinburgh Reviewer was fully made
out, and that your explanation of your own meaning was

perfectly satisfactory. He added that he thought if you

had as good reasons as he supposed for feeling certain
that Mr. Brougham was the author of the attack,

you had treated him with rather too much lenity, and

that you would have been fully justified in retorting
on his Dissertation concerning ' inflection' all the ridi

Icule which he had endeavoured to fix upon your ' in

terference of vibrations.' With this judgment was

            i.,· Reprinted in Works, vol. p. 192.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.  185

 Iwell pleased, as think that your answer, as it ap

 peared to unprejudiced persons sufficiently full and
  satisfactory, is all the better for being too tempe

  rate."

    It is but an act of justice, however, both to those

  who neglected as well as those who opposed the con
  clusions of these Memoirs, to admit that there is much

 in the form which they assumed, which made it very
 difficult to appreciate their value. Like all Young's

 early scientific writings, they were extremely obscure.
 The system also which he followed in this and other
  cases of superseding the usual forms of demonstration,
  whether geometrical or symbolical, by the use of ordi
  nary language, and not unfrequently by suppressing
  such demonstrations altogether, imposed upon his
  readers a burden which few of them were able, and

  still fewer willing, to bear.

      The correct conception also of undulations and their
  interferences, when not aided by the use of formulas

  by which their conditions are very clearly and con
  cisely expressible, is so difficult, that in default of such

. formulae they could hardly have conveyed more than
  a very indistinct impression of their entire purport
  to the mind of the best instructed of his contem

 poraries. It was only by making Dr. Young's experi

  ments the subject of special research, expanding his

  demonstrations when given, and replacing them when
  merely hinted at or omitted, that the entire correctness

  and coherence of his views, could be fully recognized.

    It was reserved for Arago and for Fresnel to become,

   at a much later period, the expositors and interpreters
  of these Memoirs, and to rescue them from the neglect,

  which they had so long and so unhappily experienced
  from his own countrymen.
186      MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.        Chap. VI.

The reverence also attached in this country to whatever

was sanctioned by the authority of Newton, operated
not a little to retard the adoption of any methods of

investigation which he had not used, or the acceptance

of any conclusion or theory which he had repu

diated.

At the period, of which we are now speaking, we

had continued to retain, in this country, the notation

of fluxions, in preference to that which was founded
upon the much more expressive notation of Leibnitz,
for fear of compromising the claim of his rival to

the priority of its discovery ; and we were thus, to a
great extent, insulated, as it were, from the writings

of the great mathematicians of the continent, who
were greatly in advance of our own."

  It was the same principle which had nearly for three

quarters of a century caused implicit trust to be placed
in Newton's assertion that the dispersion of light, in

every  s--pecnieostwoifthgslatassn,dwinags  proportioned to its refractive
power                                        some contemporary obser
vations to the contrary--an assertion which effectually

checked for many years the progress of inquiries for

the improvement of refracting telescopes, by the cor

rection of their chromatic aberration.

  It was the same principle which also assigned to his

erroneous statement of the law of double refraction in

Iceland crystal, a superior authority to the correct

measures and also to the correct theory of Huy-

gens.

   The influence of this hero-worship, which the history
of the sciences shows to have prevailed from the age

   * It was the writer of this Memoir who first introduced the notation of

the differential calculus into the mathematical examinations in the Senate
House at Cambridge : the effect was the production in a few years of a
total revolution in the whole course of mathematical study.
Chap. VI. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- FIRST EPOCH.                          187

of Aristotle to that of La Place," is not much overstated,

though carried to its utmost extent, in the following
passage of a review of Dr. Young's Lectures, which

refers to his theories of light.

" There
it                        must be confessed, a presumption against the
                     is,
                    it
Huygenian theory, arising from the constant opposition which

experienced from Newton himself, and this presumption must

derive weight from the known candour and modesty of his

character, from his general indifference about speculative opinions,

and from his exclusive anxiety to establish his facts on an irre

fragable foundation. The phaenomena of electricity, of heat

and of light, have so many points of resemblance, that we seek

to be led,by      a sort of instinct, to consider them either as dif
              by
ferent affections of some highly rare and elastic fluid, which, in

imitation of Newton, we call ether, or as separate fluids pos

sessing, like ether, the power of traversing without resistance

the pores of solid and fluid bodies, but distinguished from each

other       some peculiar qualities. Since, therefore, Newton pre

ferred to these simple hypotheses, the supposition that light          by is

composed of seven species of particles of different dimensions,

which are successively propelled in right lines from all luminous

bodies with a velocity perfectly uniform, and which are accom

panied and assisted in the production of certain phaenomena

an attendant ether, we must conclude that he was compelled to

adopt this mixed hypothesis, by the absolute impossibility of re

conciling the facte, which he had ascertained, to any simpler

theory. If, therefore, he had contented himself with barely

stating his dissent from every other opinion, without assigning

his reasons for such dissent, we confess that our veneration for

his high aut/iority might have led us to acquiesce in his decision,

and to conclude that a difficulty, which he was unable to solve, was

in itself insoluble."

 See Works, vol.          i.,  p. 220, note. So great was the influence of

La Place's vehement opposition to the undulatory theory, that was with
                                                                   it

the utmost difficulty that the powerful advocacy of Arago could secure from

the Institute not favour, but justice, to the labours of Fresnel.
188  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VII.

                      CHAPTER VII.

                    LECTURES : COHESION OF FLUIDS.

After fulfilling, for two years, the duties of the Pro

fessorship of Natural Philosophy at the Royal Institu
tion, Dr. Young resigned the appointment, -- finding his
longer tenure of it, in the opinion of his friends, in
compatible with the pursuits, or rather with the
prospects, of a practical physician. He was strongly
impressed with the persuasion that the public would
regard his medical skill and competence with some

degree of suspicion, if a very large portion of his

time and attention was known to be devoted to occu
pations, which were alien to his profession. Upon
quitting this position however, he felt it to be equally
due to his own credit and to that of the Institution
with which he had been thus honourably connected,
that the result of his labours, throughout the whole
extent of natural philosophy and the mechanical arts,
should be rendered of some permanent utility : and he
immediately proceeded to revise and arrange the sub
stance of his lectures for publication, with the addition
of a most elaborate classed catalogue of works and
memoirs published upon the various subjects to which
they referred accompanied with copious notes, calcula

tions and extracts; -- a very laborious task, the execution

of which was likely to prove of not less service to a
Chap. VII.  LECTURES.  189

student than the lectures to which they were appended,i.,
by enabling him to ascertain not only what had been,

Ibrtehusitseawwrchoharktupriseomnfianwiinshheiedcdh,"tohsebayems, idhgoehn,te,"bmienyeannpgyuargdseuedpit.aortfm"geeWnntheeraonlf

science will terminate ; henceforwards have resolved

to confine my studies and my pen to medical subjects

only.-

   This great work consists of two quarto volumes of
about seven hundred and fifty pages each. The first
volume contains the lectures, with forty plates, including

nearly six hundred geometrical and other figures, maps,
&c, all very carefully drawn by his own hand: the
second, of nearly equal extent, embraces the mathema

tical elements of Natural Philosophy --the systematic
catalogue above referred to--a republication of his
optical and some other memoirs -- and a most carefully
prepared index of contents. The publication was
delayed until the year 1807 -- partly from its attaining
a magnitude which had not been anticipated -- and still
more from the not unusual want of punctuality of the
engravers. The sum of 1000/., which it had been

stipulated to be paid to the author, was unfortunately
never received by him, in consequence of the bank

ruptcy of the publisher.

   It is not easy to speak in too high terms of the
systematic catalogue in the second volume. It extends

to four hundred pages, and includes references -- with

many valuable original observations interspersed -- to the

best sources of information on almost every department
of mathematics and their applications, arranged in an

order which is equally comprehensive and convenient.
 Some notion may be formed of the vast labour required

                                      * Works, vol. p. 215.
190                   MEMO! It OF DR. TEIOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VII.

for making this compilation, from the fact of its em

bracing more than twenty thousand articles which were

not only  to be selected and the works which contained
them to
          be consulted --whenever they could be found

in the libraries of the Royal Institution, the Royal

--Socbieutty,tothbee  British Museum, or of Sir Joseph     Banks
                      afterwards distributed and arranged  under

the various subjects to which they belonged. Few

students, engaged in works of research, could then

afford to dispense with the use of a classification so

completely carried out in all its details ; and even the

lapse of half a century, which has produced so many
changes in the aspect of the sciences, has not altogether

deprived it of its value."

The mathematical Elements of Natural Philosophy,

which form another portion of this volume, were

partly reprinted from the Syllabus of his lectures,

which appeared in 1802. They would appear to have

been regarded with no small degree of favour by their

author ; for we find them again introduced, with some

modifications, into his Elementary Illustrations of the

Celestial Mechanics of La Place, a small volume pub

lished in 1821, embracing not merely a great number

of the most difficult investigations of that work, but

likewise some very important propositions of his own.

In these elements, we find Algebra, the Differential

Calculus, Geometry, plane and solid, the Sections of a

Cone and the Properties of Curves, concluded in twenty-

six pages -- whilst little more than double that space is

--deveomtebdractoingDynthaemicms,ostHyedlermo-ednytnaarymiacss,weOllptaicss,maSnoyunodf

   · The republication of this catalogue, with the addition of the Works and
Memoirs, which have appeared during the last half century, would confer
an invaluable lxxm upon scientific students.
Chap. VII.  LECTURES.  191

the most abstruse propositions to which they severally

lead.

   " They comprehend," says he, " all the propositions which

are required for forming a complete series of demonstrations,
leading to every case of importance that occurs in Natural
Philosophy, with the exception of some of the more intricate
calculations of Astronomy. The best use that a student could
make of these elements, would be to read over each proposition
superficially, then to endeavour to form for himself a more par
ticular demonstration and to compare this again with that
which is here given ; for the exertion of a certain degree of in
vention is by far the surest mode of fixing any principle of
science in the mind."

   It is hardly necessary to add that any student who

followed Dr. Young's advice --without possessing his

extraordinary intuitive capacity of connecting distant
points of a demonstration without the aid of the inter

mediate framework, whether of geometry or analysis,

which ordinary minds require -- would most probably

have risen from his labour without retaining a single
definite conception either of the propositions or their

proofs.

    We have elsewhere referred to the merits as well as

to the defects of these lectures :" to the causes which pre
vented their becoming a popular manual for students,

notwithstanding the remarkable completeness of the
view which they exhibited of the state of the sciences
at the time they were written. He was fully aware of
the charge of obscurity which had been brought against
his former memoirs, and he would appear to have en
deavoured to avoid it in his lectures, though not

always -- in consequence of the system which he fol
lowed -- with entire success. In writing to Mr. Gurney
he says :--

                                             * Supra, p. 135.
192                         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                ChAi>. VIT.

  I" hear that your townsman, Woodhouse," is now connected
Iwith the ' Critical Review,' and believe he has exhibited some

spleen against me in the last number ; he is very angry with me
for attempting to clothe the ideas of a short algebraical calcu
lation in the language of words, and professing his inability to
understand the Paper (on Cohesion), he thinks it better to
attempt to show its obscurity, than to give any extract from the

Imore intelligible parts, or even the heads of the sections.

would rather, however, be severely handled by a man who un
derstands something of the subject, than be treated with
affected contempt by a fool, which, by a strange fatality, has

hitherto been my lot. My book, however, will certainly be

intelligible enough ; you have no idea how many well-sounding

periods have been condemned, because they contained too many

hard words."

  If he was regardless of symmetry and elegance in

his mathematical processes, and disposed to conduct his

investigations by methods which satisfied his own

mind of their sufficiency without reference to the more
systematic forms of demonstration or deduction which

others required, he was probably, on that very ac
count, more disposed than they were, to reflect pro
foundly upon the physical principles which were made

the basis of his reasoning. His lectures on optics,

embody, as might be expected, the views which he had
previously developed in his well-known Memoirs : but

those on the passive strength and elasticity of materials,

· An eminent mathematician, afterwards Plumian Professor at Cam

bridge, whose works first broke down the barrier which separated the

writings of English and Continental mathematicians from each other. His

treatise on Plane and Physical Astronomy is much the best that has ever

a"papnedaretdhoinugthh,is"  country. He  reviewed the Lectures when    they appeared,
                            says Young,                                he has treated
                                         in another of his letters, "

me handsomely enough, he has done his business in a very slovenly way,

considering the variety of matter of which his readers had a right to ex

pect some general account." It required in fact a long-continued and

careful study to appreciate either the vast amount or the value of the

original matter which this work contained.
Chap. VIT.  LECTURES.     193

-- on the sources and effects of sound --on the essential
properties of matter --on the sources, the effects, the
measures and the nature of heat-- on electricity in
equilibrium and in motion--and on climates --are full

of original and instructive speculations, which were in
many cases greatly in advance of the knowledge of the
age in which they were written. On such subjects,
when not attempting to conduct mathematical investi
gations in ordinary language, he writes with great
clearness, vigour and precision.

   We shall quote a few specimens.

   In speaking of the divisibility of matter, he says : --

   " It remains to be examined how far we have any experi

ence of the actual extent of the divisibility of matter ; and we

shall find no appearance of anything like a limit to thi3 pro
perty. The smallest spherical object, visible to a good eye, is
about uVb of an inch in diameter; by the assistance of a

microscope, we may perhaps distinguish a body one hundredth
part as small, or mum of an inch in diameter. The thickness
of gold leaf is less than this, and the gilding of lace is still

thinner, probably in some cases not above one ten millionth
part of an inch ; so that usee of a grain would cover a square

inch, and a portion barely large enough to be visible by a mi

croscope, might weigh only the eighty million millionth part of

a grain. A grain of musk is said to be divisible into three

hundred and twenty quadrillions of parts, each of which is

capable of affecting the olfactory nerves. There are even living
beings, visible to the microscope, of which a million million
would not make up the bulk of a common grain of sand. But

it is still more remarkable, that, as far as we can discover, many
of these animalcules are as complicated in their structure as an

elephant or a whale. It is true that the physiology of the

various classes of animals is somewhat more simple as they
deviate more from the form of quadrupeds, and from that of

the human species ; the solid particles of the blood do not by

any means vary in their magnitude in the same ratio with the
bulk of the animal ; and some of the lower classes appear to

Life.                  O
194        MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.   Chap. VII.

approximate very much to the nature of the vegetable world.
But there are single instances that seem wholly to destroy this

gradation : Lyonnet has discovered a far greater variety of parts
in the caterpillar of the willow butterfly, than we can observe

in many animals of the largest dimensions ; and among the
microscopic insects in particular, we see a prodigality of ma
chinery, subservient to the various purposes of the contracted
life of the little animal, in the structure of which nature appears
to be ostentatious of her power of giving perfection to her

minutest works." a

of  When   Young (in one of his Optical  Memoirs) spoke
    the "                                 pervading the
           luminiferous ether probably

substance of all material bodies as freely as wind passes

through a grove of trees," the comparison was ridi

culed by his Reviewer as equally amusing and absurd,

from its utter want of likeness : yet if we reflect for a

moment upon the relations which probably exist be

tween the ultimate material particles of the densest

bodies which are known to us and the space which

they occupy, we shall not be startled by any hypothesis

which may be made with respect to the perfect free

dom of transmission of gravity, light, heat, or electri

city, even if we assume them to be corporeal and
different from each other. A cubic inch of platinum

contains 200,000 times as many gravitating atoms as

the same space filled with pure hydrogen gas, yet both

of these substances are free from any sensible interstices

and appear to be equally continuous.

   " But besides this porosity," says he, " there is still room for

the supposition, that even the ultimate particles of matter may
be permeable to the causes of attractions of various kinds,

especially if those causes are immaterial ; nor is there anything
in the unprejudiced study of physical philosophy, that can in

duce us to doubt the existence of immaterial substances ; on the

           » Lectures, p. 608.
Chap. VII.  LECTURES.                       195

contrary we see analogies that lead us almost directly to such an
opinion. The electrical fluid is supposed to be essentially dif
ferent from common matter ; the general medium of light and
heat, according to some, or the principle of caloric, according

to others, is equally distinct from it We see forms of matter

differing in subtility and mobility, under the names of solids,
liquids, and gases ; above these are the semimaterial existences

which produce the phenomena of electricity and magnetism,

and either caloric or a universal ether ; higher still perhaps are
the causes of gravitation, and the immediate agents in attrac
tions of all kinds, which exhibit some phenomena apparently
still more remote from all that is compatible with material

bodies ; and of these different orders of beings, the more refined

and immaterial appear to pervade freely the grosser. It seems

therefore natural to believe that the analogy may be continued
still further, until it rises into existence absolutely immaterial

and spiritual. We know not but that thousands of spiritual

worlds may exist unseen for ever by human eyes ; nor have we
any reason to suppose that even the presence of matter, in a

given spot necessarily excludes these existences from it. Those

who maintain that nature always teems with life, wherever

living beings can be placed, may therefore speculate with free

dom on the possibility of independent worlds ; some existing
in different parts of space, others pervading each other, unseen
and unknown, in the same space, and others again to which
space may not be a necessary mode of existence." "

In the lecture on the Measures and Nature of Heat,

after giving a masterly exposition of the popular

theory of the day which regarded heat, under the name

of caloric, as a separate substance, capable of quantita
tive measurement, for which different bodies, both

aeriform, liquid and solid, possessed different and

specific capacities, he proceeds -- after showing the

difficulties which many phenomena,      especially those
of friction, present to the acceptance
                                        of such views --
as follows :--

            · Lectures, p. 610, 611.

                                        o2
196                MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                      Chap. VII.

   " The preceding discussion naturally leads us to an examina
tion of the various theories which have been formed respecting

the intimate nature of heat ; a subject upon which popular

opinion seems to have been lately led away by very superficial

considerations. The facility with which the mind conceives

the existence of an independent substance, liable to no material

variations, except those of its quantity and distribution, espe
cially when an appropriate name, and a place in the order of

the simplest elements has been bestowed ona                         appears to have
                                              it,
caused the most eminent chemical philosophers to overlook
some insuperable difficulties attending the hypothesis of caloric.

Caloric has been considered as peculiar elastic or ethereal

fluid, pervading the substance or the pores of all bodies, differ
                                                                    in
ent quantities, according to their different capacities for heat and
                                                                               :

                                                                              it
according to their actual temperatures and being transferred;
from one body to another upon any change of capacity, or upon
any other disturbance of the equilibrium of temperature

has also been commonly supposed to be the general principle
or cause of repulsion and in its passage from one body to
                       it ;
              by              by

                                                                by
another,           radiation, has been imagined some to flow in

a continued stream, and     others in the form of separate par

ticles, moving with inconceivable velocity, at great distances

from each other.

   " The circumstances which have been already stated, respect
ing the production of heat
                            by

                                                                         it
                            friction, appear to afford an
Ifunanswerable confutation of the whole of this doctrine.
                                                                    the

heat neither received from the surrounding bodies -- whichis

cannot be without a depression of their temperature --nor

derived from the quantity already accumulated in the bodies
themselves -- which could not be, even their capacities were
                   it                         it

diminished in any imaginable degree -- there    if

                                                            is
                                                                       by
                                                                                             :;
                                                                    no alternative

but to allow that heat must be actually generated                   friction

and  if     it is  generated out of nothing,     cannot be matter, nor
        it

even an immaterial or semi -material substance. The colla

teral parts of the theory have also their separate difficultiesif

thus, heat were the general principle of repulsion, its aug
mentation could not diminish the elasticity of solids and of

fluids  ;          constituted a continued fluid, could not radiate
                            in
          if                                a it

                                                                           ;

                                                             if
freely through the same space different directions and its

repulsive particles followed each other at distance, they would
Chap. VII.                LECTURES.                                            197

still approach near enough to each other, in the focus of a

burning-glass, to have their motions deflected from a recti

Ifline"ardirection.    a  substance,   it must be a quality ; and this
          heat is not

quality can only be motion. It was Newton's opinion that heat

consists in a minute vibratory motion of the particles of bodies,

and that this motion is communicated through an apparent

Ifvacuum, by the undulations of an elastic medium, which is also
concerned in the phaenomena of light.                         the arguments which

have been lately advanced, in favour of the undulatory nature

of light, be deemed valid, there will be still stronger reasons

for admitting this doctrine respecting heat, and it will only be

necessary to suppose the vibrations and undulations, principally

            it,
                                                  a

                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                             ;
constituting to be larger and stronger than those of light,

while at the same time the smaller vibrations of light, and even

the blackening rays, derived from still more minute vibrations,

may perhaps, when sufficiently condensed, concur in producing

the effects of heat. These effects, beginning from the blacken

ing rays, which are invisible, are     little more perceptible in

the violet, which still possess but a faint power of illumination

the yellow-green afford the most light the red give less light,

but much more heat, while the still larger and less frequent

vibrations, which have no effect on the sense of sight, may

be supposed to give rise to the least refrangible rays, and to

constitute invisible heat." *

After noticing some other arguments of a less satis

factory nature, he points out some very striking ana
lhoygpieosth--essisuppwoesriengadtohpistedse--conbdetwaenedn
                                                              more philosophical
                                                              the phenomena of

sound and heat.

  If" heat, when attached to any substance, be supposed to

consist in minute vibrations, and when propagated from one

body to another, to depend on the undulations of medium
highly elastic, its effects must strongly resemble those of sound,
since every sounding body in a state of vibration, and the
air, or any other medium, which transmits sound, conveys its
                               is

                                         p.

                                                                            a
                          * Lectures,  C53, 654.
198         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                              Uhap. VII.

undulations to distant parts by means of its elasticity. And we

shall find that the principal phaenomena of heat may actually be

illustrated by a comparison with those of sound. The excitation

of heat and sound are not only similar, but often identical, as

in the operations of friction and percussion ; they are both com

municated, sometimes by contact, and sometimes by radiation ;

for besides the common radiation of sound through the air, its

effects are communicated by contact, when the end of a tuning-

fork is placed on a table, or on the sounding-board of an

instrument, which receives from the fork an impression that is

afterwards propagated as a distinct sound. And the effect of

radiant heat, in raising the temperature of the body upon which
it falls, resembles the sympathetic agitation of a string, when the

it

                                      a
                                                                    is
                                                                        it,

                                                                            it, is
                                                                                                  by
sound of another string which is in unison with                      transmitted

to through the air. The water which dashed about the

vibrating extremities of tuning fork dipped into may repre

sent the manner in which the particles at the surface of a liquid

are thrown out of the reach of the force of cohesion, and con

verted into vapour and the extrication of heat, in consequence
     it
                           ;
                                     ;
                                                      a
                                                                                by
                                                                                               is
of condensation, may be compared with the increase of sound

produced by lightly touching long chord which slowly

vibrating, or revolving in such a manner as to emit little or no

audible sound while the diminution of heat                     expansion, and

the increase of the capacity of a substance for heat, may be

attributed to the greater space afforded to each particle, allow

ing to be equally agitated with a less perceptible effect on

the neighbouring particles. In some cases indeed heat and

sound not only resemble each other in their operations, but pro

duce precisely the same effects thus, an artificial magnet, the
                                    ;

                                                by
                                                                 is
force of which quickly destroyed    heat,                            affected more
by
                        :

                  it,
                          is

                                by
slowly in a similar manner, when made to ring for a consider

able time and an electrical jar may be discharged, either

heating or causing to sound the friction of the
                                    it

                                                           by

fing"erA. ll these analogies are certainly favourable to the opinion

of the vibratory nature of heat, which has been sufficiently sanc

tioned  by  the authority of the greatest philosophers of past

times, and of the most sober reasoners of the present. Those,

however, who look up with unqualified reverence to the dog

mas of the modern schools of chemistry, will probably long
Chap. VII.  COHESION OF FLUIDS.  199

retain a partiality for the convenient but superficial and inaccu
rate modes of reasoning, which have been founded on the
favourite hypothesis of the existence of caloric as a separate
substance ; but it may be presumed that in the end a careful
and repeated examination of the facts which have been adduced
in confutation of that system, will make a sufficient impression
on the minds of the cultivators of chemistry, to induce them to
listen to a less objectionable theory." »

   The discovery of the polarization and subsequently of
the refraction of heat, due chiefly to the labours of Pro
fessor James Forbes of Edinburgh, have supplied other

Iflinks in the chain of analogy between light and heat.

    light is due to the undulations of an ether, it seems

hardly possible not to accept the conclusion, that the
phenomena of heat are referable to a similar origin.

    The substance of his fiftieth lecture on the Cohesion
of Fluids was embodied in an Essay read to the Royal
Society, on the 20th of December, 1804, and published
in their Transactions for the following year. The inves

tigations which it contains are amongst the most origi

nal and important of the contributions which he made
to physical science ; but being conducted entirely with
out the aid of figures or symbolical reasoning, are

extremely obscure. A long time consequently elapsed

before their value was fully appreciated.
   This Essay was republished in the Appendix to the

second volume of his Lectures, including, amongst some

other additions, a running commentary upon some

general observations which La Place had appended to

an essay on the same subject, which was published in
1806,b and in which several of Young's conclusions

   · Lectures, p. 655-- 657.
   b Theorie de l'Action Capillaire, published as a Supplement to the
10th book of the Me"caniquo Celeste ; read to the Institut in December,
1806, and published in the following April.
200      MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                          Chap. VII.

were reproduced inadvertently --as we are bound to
conclude -- and therefore without any acknowledgment.
In a second essay " supplementary to published in
                                                           is it,
the following year, the author corrects and enlarges            is
his former investigations and recognizes, in terms of             a is

respect, though by no means to their full extent,                    it
the previous labours of Dr. Young.

   The phenomena, whose explanation forms the subject

of Dr. Young's Essay, are matters of familiar occur

rence and observation. A drop of fluid placed upon

a  horizontal surface;              not diffused, but assumes            is it a

                       a it

                             is
                                   a
position of repose in curve surface which holds

together as enveloped in sheet. A similar drop

suspended from similar surface. What the origin
     is        a

          ?

           if
of the power which sustains           it                   and prevents from

bursting Mercury in barometrical or other capillary

tubes depressed more or less in the inverse propor

tion of their diameters, and its upper surface not flat,

but convex, thus entailing the necessity of very im

portant correction of the indications which barometers

afford, more especially when their diameters are small                   :

but instead of mercury we use water or any other
     if

fluid of less than twice the density of the glass, these

effects are reversed, the surface being raised instead of

depressed and being concave instead of convex. What

are the forces which produce these and many other

remarkable consequences  ?          Are we required to look for

them in the mutual actions of the fluids and solids on

each other, or to call to our aid, in addition to them,

some properties of those fluids less obvious to our

observation than those which are required for the

explanation of their ordinary phenomena                    ?

   Whatever be the forces which solid surface exercises
     
                                 a

                                                        a
     Supplement la Theorie de l'Action Capillaire. Taris, 1807.
Chap. VII.        COHESION OF FLUIDS.                                 201

upon a fluid in contact with     it     certain that the

                                      is

                                            it,
                                               it

                                                         is
                                                                  is
distance to which their action extends                                absolutely

infinitesimal. For, however thick or however thin

such solid may be,                    found by observation that
       is
the elevation or depression of the fluid in contact with
it, always the same, so long as its substance cona

tinues the same. Another              consequence of this mutual
                                         fundamental proposition
action --which constitutes
                  is

                                     a
of this theory-- the constancy, under the same

circumstances, of the angle included between the two

surfaces of the fluid --that is, between the one which

       free and the other which         in contact with the
is is                                   is
                                                   is
     solid --in all forms of the phenomenon. This angle

   90° when the density of the fluid twice as great
as that of the solid, conclusion which Clairaut had
                                 a

long since indicated             :    the density of the fluid be

                                  if

greater"        than twice       that of the solid, this angle        is
greater                            less than 90°; thus for mercury
              -- less --
              if  it it     is is

and crown glass,                   about 140°, and for water and

the same, about 70°; values which will at once point

out the convexity in one case, and the concavity in
the other, of their respective surfaces in barometrical

and other tubes.

  It was Young who first fully explained the prin

ciples upon which this angle, which he named the
appropriate angle, could be determined in all cases
this determination forms an important step in the
formation of correct theory of the cohesion and
                  a
non diffusion of fluids.is

                           is
                                       a

                                                   it

                                                              is
                                                                                                                                            :
       The second step             of not less importance and in

volves considerations of very refined and difficult

character. What the origin of the forces which pro

duce an uniform tension in the enveloping sheet of the

fluid, so that the pressures to which                  exposed are
202  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VII.

resisted and its particles maintained in a state of equi
librium ?

   All explanations of this remarkable phenomenon

have involved, in their earlier or later stages, some

assumptions respecting the internal constitution of
fluids in their liquid as distinguished from their aeri

form state. In the latter case, the operation of the

forces by which the ultimate particles of the fluid are

repelled from each other is manifest, and is only coun
teracted by the external pressure by which its further
expansion is confined : but the passage to the state of

liquidity, in whatever manner it is effected, is always

more or less sudden and violent, attended by a consider
able evolution of heat, producing an effect which is

more or less permanent and stable, notwithstanding the
removal of the causes which produced it. We cannot
suppose that the repulsive forces become cohesive or
attractive, by this change of state, without supposing
the particles to be brought into contact with each
other by the compression of the fluid into a smaller
space, a supposition hardly reconcileable with their per
fect mobility, and also negatived by facts of observation
without number; and we are thus necessarily con

ducted, as it were, to the assumption of the co-existence
of cohesive and repulsive forces, following different laws,
but confined to a sphere of action in both cases, which

we are obliged, for reasons already stated, to regard as in-

finitesimally small. Thus, if the repulsive force varies,

as in the case of aeriform bodies, inversely as the dis
tance of the particles or any higher power of the dis

tance, the cohesive force being constant and acting
within a certain infinitesimal sphere only, or confined

to a certain number of the particles of the fluid--which
is one of the assumptions which Young has made--
Chap. VII.  COHESION OP FLUIDS.             ' 203

there would result, as he has shown, from the combina

tion of their actions at any point on a curved part of the

sheet, a force directed to the concave part of the curve,

which would be greater, the greater the curvature.
Such would be the nature of the force which would be

found to produce an uniform tension of the surface and

adequate to counteract the hydrostatic pressures which
would otherwise produce motion.

   Later investigations of a very refined nature" --to
--wheicnhabhleedvehryimprtoopearslsyiganttathcheedamcoonusnitdeoraf btlheeimdpeofirctiaennccey

of the mutual actions of the superficial particles of a fluid

thus constituted, and to show it to be one-fifth part of

the whole force of a stratum of the fluid equal in thick

ness to the diameter of the infinitesimal sphere within

which the action of the constant cohesive forces were

assumed to be confined : the same investigation shows

also that the sphere of the repulsive, must be supposed

to be greater than that of the cohesive, forces, and that

the fluid must be slightly condensed towards its interior

parts in order to produce a resistance equivalent to the

excess of the cohesion of the surface.

Having thus shown the necessity and justified the

existence of an uniform superficial tension of the fluids
concerned in capillary actions, he then avails himself of

Ifthe principle, which Segner of Gottingen had applied
to the solution of these problems in 1751.  a curve

line, like the elastic curve, be uniformly stretched, the

Ifnormal force which it exerts, at any of its points, is
directly as the curvature.       the curve produced by

capillary action was cylindrical, as in the case of a fluid

included between two parallel plane surfaces, where

    In an appendix to his * Elementary Illustrations of the Celestiali.,
Mechanics of Laplace.' Works, vol. p. 485.
204  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.           Chap. VII.

the curvature is single, this principle would be strictly

applicable to it : but Segner erroneously applied it to

all such surfaces, whether their curvature was single or

double ; whereas in the latter case, it is proportional to

the sum of the greatest and least curvatures of the sur

face, which is equivalent, as is well known, to the sum

of any two of its curvatures that are at right angles
to each other. This important correction was made by

Young, who thus reduced the difficulties of the solu

tion of the problem to those of analysis merely. Those

difficulties however are sufficiently formidable and can

only be conquered, even in the more simple cases, by

slow and difficult processes of approximation.

  In the Memoir presented to the Royal Society he con

sidered the case of a single curvature only : but in an

admirable revision of his earlier investigations, which is
given in an Article on the cohesion of fluids in the Sup

plement of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, he has extended

his solution to surfaces of revolution and has thus been

enabled to deduce from it the bases of numerical deter

minations of the phenomena of ordinary capillary

tubes even when their diameters are considerable ;

results which he had only partially attained, by less

direct methods, in his former Essay.

The principles established in this Memoir, and the

results obtained from them, are applied with great suc

cess to the solution of several other problems of no small

interest and difficulty. Besides the determination of

the height of ascent of lighter fluids, such as water, in

narrow capillary tubes, he finds the weight of water

raised by a circular disc wetted by the fluid and in

contact with it, when gently raised above
     ;                                     until the

                 it,
fluid detaches itself from the solid and he finds the

relation between the weight of adhesion thus deter
Chap. Vn.  COHESION OF FLUIDS.                 205

mined and the height of ascent in a given tube.

These and many other questions, whose solutions are

more or less immediately deducible from the same prin
ciples -- such as the height of adhesion of mercury to
gold, silver, tin, and substances which it is capable of

wetting, as well as the thickness at which a portion of

it will spread out on glass--the strong cohesion of plane

surfaces produced by the interposition of a small quan

tity of fluid which wets them --the repulsions and at

tractions of floating bodies, both wet and dry, under

different circumstances --are treated with the sagacious
brevity--we wish we could venture to say perspicuity,

which is usual with him, and the results are reduced

to numbers, by processes which are rarely developed,
but which could not be deduced by methods which are

commonly employed without enormous labour.
   The publication of La Place's first memoir on the

subject, a year after his own had appeared in the most
public and generally known scientific record in Europe,

and in which some of his results were reproduced,

without    acknowledgment,     very naturally  aonfnaonyaeldyshisim--.
No man     could accuse this  eminent master

the author of the greatest work on the Mechanism of
the Universe which had appeared since the epoch of the
Principia -- of seeking to augment his own exuberant
stores by appropriating the riches of other writers ;
and though he was certainly not altogether ignorant

of the contents of Young's memoir, he had probably

paid no sufficient attention to them. The view also

which he took of the subject was very different, if not

antagonistic, to that of Young. He assumes the fluid
to be incompressible : that there is an attraction of the
particles of the fluid for each other, as well as a mutual
attraction between the particles of the fluid and those of
206           MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VIT.

the tube or solid, and that these forces are sensible only

at insensible distances ; but he makes no reference what

ever to the   existence of a repulsive     force between the
particles of
              the fluid, unless --in the  ultimate analysis --

the assumption of the incompressibility of the fluid

may be said to involve it. From these principles,

however, not only is the differential equation of the

surface of the fluid deduced, but also many special

results of observation are explained with his usual

skill, clearness, and sagacity, in the formation, evolu

tion, and interpretation of his formulae.

   In an appendix to his memoir, which was repub

lished in the second volume of his lectures and also in

an article in the first number of the Quarterly Review

for 1809, Young has reviewed this treatise of La Place

with a severity, which though excessive, can hardly be

considered as altogether unprovoked and unmerited.

   " An ostentatious parade of deep investigation, which leads

almost to nothing, has too often filled the works of the mathe

maticians of the continent ; and we are sorry to be obliged to

include M. La Place in the number of those, who appear to
have been more influenced on some occasions, by a desire of

commanding admiration, than of communicating knowledge.
We have been sometimes amused, in the perusal of this essay,
with observing that after an expression has travelled, with con

siderable fatigue, through several pages of Greek, Roman, and
Italic characters, it was transformed, by proper substitution,
into an equation belonging simply to a circle, from which it
would have been just as easy to have set out at once : that a
complicated fluxion, when its fluent had been determined, pro

duced a much simpler theorem, which was a mere mechanical
consequence of the laws of force : and what is of more im

portance, we have discovered an equation, involving a com
plete absurdity, when a translation into common language
would have shown that it implied an impossibility and that the
premises from which it was derived, were therefore inadmis
Chap. VII.             COHESION OF FLUIDS.            207

sible. The point on which M. La Place seems to rest the most
material part of his claim to originality, is the deduction of all

the phaenomena of capillary action from the simple considera

tion of molecular attraction. To us it does not appear that the

fundamental principle, from which he sets out, is at all a neces

sary consequence of the established properties of matter : ^and
we conceive that this mode of stating the question is but par
tially justified, by the coincidence of the results derived from it
with experiment, since he has not demonstrated that a similar

coincidence might not be obtained by proceeding on totally
different grounds."

In some observations written upon a loose sheet

found amongst bis papers, and apparently prepared for
a review, Dr. Young gives a still stronger expression

to his dissatisfaction with the treatment which he con

ceived he had experienced from La Place.

" We cannot avoid renewing, on this occasion, a complaint

which has already been very frequently made by many British

philosophers, of an obvious want of candour in our continental

neighbours with respect to the originality of scientific investiga

tions and discoveries : we do not ourselves profess to judge

with perfect impartiality or infallibility : we have perhaps our

feelings and our prejudices as Englishmen, and we wish all

possible allowance to be made for the influence which these

sentiments may have on our decisions : but we must not

therefore refrain from speaking what appears to us to be just

and"  true.    or  no  M.  La  Place  had  seen  the  Philosophical

      Whether

Transactions for 1804 before he communicated his first papers

to the Institute in 1805, we cannot have any positive means of
determining : if he had not seen them, he might and ought to

have seen them The charge of plagiarism may be avoided by

proving the negative, but that of originality must fall as far as a

coincidence can be shown. But in the second of the papers here
noticed (the supplement) M. La Place expressly acknowledges

that he had taken an idea from Young's paper, without making

any other remark on the identity of almost every other result

of his speculations with some of the propositions which Dr.
208       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                            Chap. VIT.

Young had before advanced. The natural inference which
would be made by a reader of this paper is not only that M.
La Place had borrowed nothing else from Dr. Young, but that

all his other conclusions were original and had not occurred to
Dr. Young or to any other person."

   It is one of the most embarrassing facts connected

with this theory that many of the same conclusions are

deducible from very different hypotheses concerning the

intimate constitution of fluids. La Place has recognized

no molecular forces but those which are attractive, which

may follow any law provided that their sphere of action
is infinitesimal. Ivory," as was usual with him, has
trod closely in his footsteps, adopting both his prin
ciples and conclusions, but giving to some of them a

more perfect development by calling to his aid an im
portant observation of Professor Leslie b on the lateral
force produced by the attraction of a solid body upon

a fluid. A similar course has been followed by Gauss:"

but Poisson,d with larger views, has combined mole
cular repulsion as well as attraction in a theory, which
has enabled him, with the aid of his admirable powers
of analysis, to give a consistent explanation of the
most important facts of observation : whilst Young, as

 Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica : Elevation of Fluids. In
the course of this article, after noticing in terms of great praise the formula
of La Place, expressing
ture, in which ho had    the   relation between    the pressure  aandddsth:e--c"urTvhae
                         been    anticipated by  Dr. Young, he

labours of philosophers have discovered the facts of capillary action, which
have been verified by innumerable experiments : but if the truth is to be

told, it may be affirmed that reckoning back from the present time to the

speculations of the Florentine academicians, the formula of La Place and
the remark of Professor Leslie, relating to the lateral force, are the only

approaches that have been made to a sound physical account of the phe

nomena."

b Philosophical Magazine. 1802.

« Principia generalia Theoriae Figures Fluidorum in statu equilibria

Gottingen, 1830.

d Nouvelle Theorie de l'Action Capillairc. Paris, 1831.
Chap. VI [.                                COHESION OF FLUIDS.                       209

we have seen, attained the same results, by resorting

to no hypotheses respecting molecular forces, but such: it,  :
                               if
as were required to produce the mutual actions of the                    aa a

solid and fluid upon each other and to account for the

uniform tension of the envelope of the fluid without

which the equilibrium could not be maintained: a
view of this theory, which seems to be commended to

our acceptance not merely by the facility of its appli
cation to the phenomena, but by confining the range
of our hypotheses, more strictly than other methods of
treating within the limits prescribed by just and
legitimate induction from observation.

   We have before observed that in the article, on the
Cohesion of Fluids, which was furnished by him to the
Supplement of the Encyclopaedia Britannica year be
fore the appearance, in the same work," of Mr. Ivory's
article on the same subject -- though under different

name--Dr. Young resumed the consideration of some of

the more difficult parts of this theory availing himself
of the suggestion of Professor Leslie, which has been be-

"   *  In    writing to          Macvey Napier,   the editor, on this subject, he says --I:
             not for my          own sake that    wished to interfere with Ivory's Capil
I  It                                          I
       a
         islary Attraction, because have very amply shown, in the article which
                                           aI
have prepared, how much more accurately have treated the question, evenI
in mathematical point of view, than he has done, at least in his paper

presented to the Royal Society, and withdrawn for reconsideration. This

   have stated without reference to any contemporary author, except

La Place, merely as                            different mode of considering the subject, as

depending on the general laws of cohesion, and in a way which cannot

possibly give offence to Mr. Ivory. If his reconsideration of the subject

has enabled him to arrive at more accurate mode of calculation than
                                               a
mine,  I     shall modify my remarks accordingly but think, from thea is
                                                             in ;
nature of the question, the thing highly improbable, and La Place hasa

c"eErtlaeivnalytiofnaileodf       in it."   Mr. Ivory's   article was printed underI the title of
                                 Fluids"   more than      year subsequently to that  on Cohesion
                                                                              y
by Dr. Young                       the proper order of the publication of the articles had

been followed, there                       is  no doubt but the contemptuous allusion to the

labours of Dr. Young on this subject, quoted                    note to p. 208, would

have been duly noticed.

   Life.
210  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VII.

fore alluded to, in tracing more accurately than in his

first memoir and lectures, the elementary actions of the
forces concerned in producing the tension of the en
veloping surface and estimating its quantity ; and also
engaging in some very remarkable and profound obser
vations on the probable law and range of action of the

cohesive and repulsive forces, and upon the probable
distance of the particles of aqueous vapour and water.

In the same Essay he has also investigated a formula

lor determining the angle of contact at the junction of
a solid with fluids of different densities, and has not

only given a much more complete solution of the form
and properties of capillary curves of simple curvature,
but has extended them to those which form surfaces of

revolution, even when they no longer can be considered

-- as in tubes of wide diameter -- to be small portions of
the surface of a sphere. This essay was written in the

full maturity of his powers ; and there is no production

of its author--unless it be the articles on Bridge and

Chromatics in the same, and that on the Tides, in a

subsequent volume -- which is more remarkable for the
boldness and success with which it attacks some of

 the most difficult speculations of philosophy.
Chap. VIII.  MARRIAGE.  211

                   CHAPTER VIII.

            MARRIAGE. MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.

In the summer of 1802, during the short peace of
Amiens, the Duke of Richmond consulted Dr. Young
about sending his two great nephews -- the present
Duke and his brother --to reside a month or two in

France, for the purpose of acquiring the pronunciation
of the language. As their tutor, Mr. Vincent, did
not speak French, the Duke accepted Dr. Young's
offer to accompany them to Rouen, where he placed
them en pension with a French family in which there
were other children to play and converse with. He
availed himself of this excursion to pay a visit to Paris,

where he was introduced to the first Consul at the In

stitute, who was in the habit of attending and occa
sionally taking part in the discussions which commonly
take place upon the subjects which are brought before
that body, whether they be scientific memoirs, or notices
of inventions, or new experiments, or projects of every
description, of which there is never wanting an abun
dant supply.

   In the month of March following he was admitted

at Cambridge to the degree of M.B., at the end of six
years from the date of his first admission to the Uni
versity. He took the degree of M.D. five years after
wards. On each of these occasions he was required to
hold a disputation in the public schools, which was

                                                                                         p2
212  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. VIII.

preceded by a Latin dissertation on a medical subject.
From the introduction to a memoir, containing Hydrau
lic Investigations," read to the Royal Society in May,
1808 --it would appear that the subject of the last of

these dissertations was the nature of inflammation, and

that in treating it he had occasion to examine atten

tively the mechanical principles of the circulation of
the blood, which entered into the questions more espe
cially considered in his Croonian lecture on the functions
of the Heart and Arteries,b which was read to the

Royal Society on the 10th of November following.
There is no record of either of these Dissertations to

be found among his papers.

   On the 14th of June, 1804, he married Miss Eliza

Maxwell. This lady, at that time extremely young,

was the second daughter of J. P. Maxwell, Esq., of

Cavendish Square, and of Trippendence, near Farn-
borough, Kent, a member of a younger branch of the
family of Sir William Maxwell of Calderwood Castle,

Lanarkshire. It was a marriage of mutual affection

and esteem, such as he had always looked forward to

as the great object of his professional and other exer

tions, and secured him a home which was graced by

all the refinements of good manners and a cultivated
taste : it was a singularly happy marriage.

   To the members of his wife's family he attached
himself with more than the ordinary affection of a son
and brother-in-law, more especially to her three sisters,

whose accomplishments and agreeable manners contri
buted not a little to the attractions of their family
residence and his own. One of these sisters, Maria,

was afterwards married to the Rev. J. P. Chambers,

Rector of Hedenham, Norfolk: another, Emily, to

     · Works, vol. p. 491.
     i.,

                                                    b

                                                           i.,
                            Works, vol. p. 511.
Chap. VIII.  MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.  213

Charles Earle, Esq. : the third, Caroline, is Countess

of Buchan. The most lively letters which Young
wrote, some of which we shall afterwards have occasion
to refer to, were addressed to some one of these ladies.

    He was now fairly launched upon the profession of

physic, and apparently with every prospect of success, if

such success depended, in every instance, upon careful
preparatory study, the possession of the most varied

knowledge and an extraordinary capacity for applying it.
His own estimate of the acquirements requisite for a phy

sician was sufficiently high, as appears from the sketch
which he has given of them in the Introduction to his
Medical Literature. But it is well known, from the

experience of others as well as his own, that the highest

qualifications, whether natural or acquired, may fail to
secure professional eminence. Much depends upon the
manner in which a physician approaches the bedside
of his patient ; upon the natural expression of a feeling
of sympathy for their sufferings and anxiety to relieve
them : upon the judicious administration of the cordial

of hope : upon the exercise at least, if not upon the

possession, of a decisive and rapid judgment : upon a
thorough knowledge of human nature, and a ready
tact in humouring its caprices : and not a little also
upon the good fortune of achieving some eminent suc
cess, which attracts the attention of the world.

   The most opposite paths, however, will sometimes
conduct to the same conclusion. The celebrated Dr.

Radcliffe' told Dr. Mead, as a great secret, that the

way to succeed in physic was to use everybody ill :--

but Dr. Mead used nobody ill, and succeeded better
than Dr. Radcliffe. The real fact is that the prestige
of a reputation once attained, whether through the in-

                        * Introduction to Medical Literature, p. 2.
214  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. ' Chap. VIII.

fluence of charlatanism, good fortune, or superior merit,
is not easily destroyed, and the very eccentricities and
extravagances which repel patients of sense and delicacy,
tend to confirm the prepossessions of those who are
wanting in these qualities, and who are naturally apt
to wonder at or admire what they do not understand.

    For many years, after his marriage, Dr. Young ad
hered to the resolution which he had previously an
nounced, of confining his studies and publications to his
own profession, as far as the connection of his name with
his scientific labours was concerned, but no farther.
His memoir on Cohesion was an exception, but it was
little more than an expansion of his previous lecture
on the subject : whilst two other papers in the Trans
actions to which we have referred above, though scien
tific in their treatment and character, were designed to

be subservient to important physiological inquiries,
and therefore did not absolutely constitute a departure
from the principle which he had laid down. But his

various contributions, whether original or translated,
to Nicholson's journal and other works,* including his
Theory of the Tides,- --one of the most considerable of

his scientific labours, --were anonymous, as well as his

numerous articles in the Imperial and Quarterly Review,

Itthe Retrospect and other periodical publications.

was this voluntary withdrawal of his name from public

observation, notwithstanding the variety and import
ance of his researches, which left nearly undisturbed
for many years the impression produced by the intem
perate abuse of the Edinburgh Review.

   For sixteen years after his marriage, he resided at

Worthing between the months of July and October --

partly as an agreeable place of retirement, and partly

   > Works, vol. ii., Noe. 38, 39, 40, 43, 44, 45, 48, 49, 50, 51, and 54.
Chap. VIII.  MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.  215

for medical practice --where he afterwards built a
residence of his own. In those days, when con

tinental travel was prevented by the war, the higher
classes of society were accustomed to reside during
the summer months in quiet and retired watering-

places, where they considered themselves safe from
the intrusion of the mobs of tradesmen and others,

whom the increased facilities of communication have

since introduced. Worthing was one of those places
which still retained a character intermediate between a

village and a town, the approaches to which were not

then blocked up by those irregular suburbs, equally

injurious to the public health and architectural beauty
and order, which have sprung up, as is usual in nearly
all our large towns, in the absence of the salutary and

necessary interference of the legislature : and the fami
lies of distinction who made it their place of occasional
sojourn, were in those days enabled to reciprocate visits
with the freedom which is hardly compatible with

more crowded watering places and more miscellaneous

visitors.

   It was to this class of visitors that Young was

indebted, during his summer residence at Worthing, not
only for a fair amount of professional occupation, but
likewise for the enjoyment of much cultivated society.
He retained through life his fondness for the innocent
pleasures of social life, and was always ready to take
his part in a dance or a glee, or to join in any scheme of
amusement calculated to give life and interest to a

party. In a letter to his sister-in-law Emily, now

Mrs. Earle, describing his various occupations at this

place, he says :--

   I" have been dashing through vocal and instrumental music

without any reserve or modesty, being determined to keep my
216      MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. VIII.

Iself in practice for the pleasure of accompanying you.                          found
Ione of Sola's things which bought of him an excellent exercise ;

I Iand perhaps by the time see you, shall be able to play it :
Ibut have exhibited it once here and twice at Mrs. Burmes-
Iter's ; and as for singing, you have no idea what a noise

made."

    The actual practice of every profession must always
tend to dissipate some illusions, by a closer inspection
of the machinery by which it is worked Reputations
which have been unduly magnified in public estima
tion will sink to their true dimensions ; and the value

of opinions which are founded upon a sound knowledge
of the human frame and of subsidiary branches of

science as well as upon a just induction from facts
and observation, will be distinguished from those

which have no such basis. It is the peculiar mis

fortune of the medical profession that its members
can rarely dare to confess their ignorance, thinking it

more or less necessary --in order to maintain their

influence with their patients and with the world,

--to speak with equal decision, whether they are

authorised by their knowledge to do so or not ; and
the precise localities, or habits, or articles of food,
which one physician will denounce as pestilential
injurious, or unwholesome, another will recommend

as healthy, salutary or digestible.

    "I   hfraievnedtso, ld"ytohua,t"  says Young, in     a  letter to  the most  intimate
                                      in consultations,     however    opposite  opinions
of  his

may be, it is usual to tell the patient that the parties consulted

are perfectly agreed, and it is very unfair to examine the

Iwitnesses separately where so much depends upon opinion.

was dining at the Duke of Richmond's one day last winter, and
there oame in two notes, one from Sir W. Farquhar, and the

other from Dr. Hunter, in answer to an inquiry whether or no

Ihis Grace might venture to eat fruit pies or strawberries.
Chap. VIII.  MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.      217

trembled for the honour of the profession, and could not

conceal my apprehensions from the company : luckily, however,
they agreed tolerably well, the only difference of opinion being
on the subject of pie-crust."

   He had no sooner completed the publication of his
Lectures --the result of four or five years of assiduous

labour --than his mind was turned to the preparation

of another Course, which would bear much the same

relation to the medical sciences. He was disposed to

think that the study of physic, like that of other

sciences, could be as much, if not more advanced, by

a careful comparison of the collected observations

of others, as by the limited experience of a single
practitioner, however varied it might be ; more espe
cially when it is considered that very extensive practice

is more or less incompatible with the sacrifice of time

which an elaborate discussion of its results would

render  necessary.    In writing      to  a friend about this
period  (1807) he   says: --

  I" believe your pheasants have assisted in bringing my

friend Davy into a hundred a year and the office of Secretary

Iof the Royal Society. It had never occurred to him to offer

himself till suggested it to him one day that he dined with
me. The next day he heard of poor Gray's death, and upon

applying to the President, he was, after some deliberation,

If I Iapproved, although another person had before been encouraged.

      had not been a member of an illiberal profession, should

Ihave liked the situation myself ; but perhaps the public is right
in discouraging a divided attention.      purpose seriously to do

something in physic, by collecting all that is worth knowing,

and comparing it with the general economy of the operations
Iof nature.
             do not know who has attempted to do this

soberly : Darwin had neither patience nor precision enough ;

Iand am confident that much more may be learnt and taught

in this way than from a routine of old woman's practice, which

is all that a fashionable physician obtains. In many other
218 MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. VI1I.

Idepartments of science 1 have been enabled to draw conclusions

from a comparison of the experiments of others, which should

have been  mwhuychnolot nigneprhiynsicdis?c"overing  by investigations  of my
own ; and

Dr. Young had peculiar qualifications for the execu

tion of such a task. There was no department of

knowledge which was not at his command, and facts

which would be without significance when presented

to ordinary minds, might have been pregnant with

meaning by the relations which they exhibited to

other branches of knowledge, when brought under the

notice of one to whom all such branches were familiar.

The advancement of the sciences requires the labours

both of masters and workmen ; and whilst the latter are

engaged in the fashioning or perfecting or inventing
the separate parts of the machine, it is under the
directions of the former that they must be put

together, and made to work as one whole.

   In the month of May, 1807, he made some progress

in a canvas for the office of Physician to the Middlesex

Hospital; but though he succeeded in securing the

promise of a considerable number of votes, he found

the ground so much pre-occupied by Dr. Satterly, who

was also supported by the other medical officers, that

he had no chance of success, and therefore retired from

the contest. The same powerful interest was also pre-

engaged for the next vacancy, whenever it should occur ;

and though he had good reason to think that he would

           if

                          it,
have succeeded in opposition to                      he did not like to

make the attempt, as his colleagues would possess the
power of annoying him, thwarted in their object, by

preventing his going out of town in the summer. He
soon afterwards engaged in scheme of lectures, to
           a

be given at this Hospital in the two following winters,
Chap. VIII.    MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.           219

on the Elements of the Medical Sciences and the Prac

tice of Physic. The plan was no sooner formed than
he began to devote all his energies to preparations for

it. In writing to a friend, in April, 1809, he says, --

  I" have been absorbed in physic day and night, -- not alto
Igether in the practice, but more in the theory, -- having a

course of lectures to prepare for next winter, on which am to
rest, in some degree, my medical reputation."

In the following June we find him engaged in the

three examinations required for his admission to the

College of Physicians, in preparing for his Lectures,

and in writing a medical essay on the Effects of Cli

mate ;--

" Amusements," says he, " which, besides the more serious

employments of parties, concerts, and dances, really give

me very little more spare time than is necessary for visiting

my patients."

In reply to the same correspondent, who had re

marked upon the misfortune of those, who notwith

standing the possession of the gifts of fortune, have
nothing which they are obliged to do, he says : --

I I" cannot help thinking it a little unlucky that have so

many motives for exertion when so few would have been suffi

cient, and that you have so few when you require so many ; it
Imight, however, have been much worse than it is ; but often
Ithink that
               should undergo my mountainous labours with
somewhat more alacrity if the advantages were as secure as
Ithe toil was severe. And yet cannot always be satisfied with
Igoing the shortest way to work.
                                  have been spending a
Imonth on some chemical investigations, which
                                                 have just
Icompleted, merely because was obliged to give a few lectures
I Ion chemistry and pharmacy ; but then consider that should
Ihave no right to give lectures on chemistry if had done
iiabsolutely nothing to prove myself capable of
                                                 Certainly

twenty or even fifty pupils would be scarcely an inducement to

Itake all the pains have taken and shall take in the business,
220  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. VIII.

but for the very important advantage which you mention. The

longer a person has lived the less he gains by reading, and the

Imore likely he is to forget what he has read and learnt of old ;

and the only remedy that know of is to write upon every

subject that he wishes to understand, even if he burns what he

has writtea"

    Few persons, who have been much engaged in the
study of difficult subjects, will dispute the truth of the

last observation.

    The Lectures were given during two successive sea

sons. There were six lectures on Chemistry, six on
Physiology, twenty on Nosology and general Practice

-- including an original classification of diseases -- and

four on Materia Medica. They were little frequented,
as he himself informs us, in consequence of the usual
miscalculation which he made, in endeavouring to
convey in the space of an hour much more informa
tion than his auditors could carry away with them.
Many of these lectures were subsequently embodied
in his work on Medical Literature, and they would

appear to have constituted a very complete and com
prehensive view of medical science such as very few
of his contemporaries would have been able to produce.

    On the 24th of January, 1811, he was elected one

of the Physicians to St. George's Hospital -- a very

important appointment, which has usually been intro
ductory to the first practice in the Metropolis. The

vacancy had occurred unexpectedly by the resignation
of Dr. Bancroft, and Young was persuaded by some
of his friends to put himself in nomination as a can
didate without any previous preparation. The votes
of many of his own friends were pre-engaged to
Dr. Bond Cabbell, who had failed at a previous
contest ; though absent from England at this time,
Chap. VIII.  MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.                       221

he was again put forward as a candidate by others
who acted for him. The result was that one hundred

votes were given for Dr. Young, ninety-two for Dr.
Cabbell, fifty-one for Dr. Roget, and three for Dr.

Harrison.

"  " There   never was," says Young,  in writing to Mr. Gurney,
             like the total number,   and the contest has been
   anything

almost unparalleled : any of the three candidates had advan

tages which would have secured him in any common case.

Local interest and the protracted efforts of a whole family

made the Cabbells very naturally confident of triumphant

success ; parliamentary influence and the natural wish to serve

a man who is likely to be Lord Chancellor, made Sir S. Romilly's

Inephew very formidable ; and for myself the event speaks. But

it is remarkable what a variety of interests have been obliged

to bring into play ; scarcely any one of my friends having

procured for me more than two or three favourable answers, so

that every one lamented how very little he could do ; yet the

aggregate was sufficient for the purpose. Mrs. Young has

emerged from death to life by the event of this contest."

   He retained his situation at the Hospital for the
remainder of his life, even after he had ceased to be

dependent upon his profession for such an addition to
his income as he deemed sufficient to secure him those

comforts and luxuries which his scheme of life re

quired, -- those of a gentleman, in fact, who was accus
tomed to reciprocate visits with the best society
though without ostentation and display. He was

uniformly attentive to his duties at the Hospital, but

he failed there as elsewhere to secure much influence
with the pupils, -- the numbers attending his clinical

lectures, or rather progresses, being generally small

compared with those who attached themselves to other

teachers. His manners were wanting in warmth and

earnestness, and his want of knowledge of the difficulties
222                    MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. VIII.

of students, made him pass over without sufficient

notice the very points upon which they felt most

desirous of being informed. It was a current observa

tion amongst the pupils that " Dr. Young was a great

philosopher, but a bad physician," and the credence

which was given to     both within and without theit,

                                   it

                                         is
walls of the Hospital, continued to give strength to
                                           originated --that the
the very prejudice in which

highest professional eminence                only attainable by

the exclusion of all other pursuits.
   A physician of great eminence, distinguished for his
classical scholarship and general attainments --who was
Dr. Young's successor at the Hospital --has given

me very satisfactory reasons for thinking his prac

tice, both there and elsewhere, eminently successful,

though not popular. He lived in an age when what
was called vigorous practice --partly introduced by our
army and navy surgeons --was very generally preva
lent when the use of calomel and the lancet was in the
     ;
                    ;
ascendant when symptoms were rudely interfered

with and combated without any proper study of the
causes in which they originated -- whether, in fact, they
constituted the essence of the disease to be cured or
                               ;
indicated the nature   of the  remedy to be applied;
                       man,"           aas he was accustomed
when the " practical                       a

proudly to call himself, stigmatized just and careful

induction from observation and               "  diligent waiting
upon Nature and her operations, as
                                                mere theory," --

preferring his own preconceived notions of the nature

of disease, and drawing his own inferences from false

facts and blundering experiments."

   Such views of medical practice               awe"reroygael nreoraadlly"
popular with the students, who liked

     " Dr. J. A. Wilson on Spasm, Languor, and Palsy, p. 67.
Chap. VIII.  MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.  223

to knowledge : whilst the great majority of the medical

teachers of the Metropolis --who were not, like Baillie
and Hunter and Abernethy, the shining lights of
their profession, but young men just entering upon
life, with their fortunes and reputations in the future--
did not possess the authority, if they had the inclina

tion, to impress upon their pupils the necessity of

long continued and systematic preparation and study
as the only secure method of thoroughly mastering
the principles of the science, the applications of which
were to form the business of their lives. Such a result

might have been anticipated from the apathetic indif
ference which the government of this country formerly
showed to all our institutions for education :--London

being the only great capital in Europe where the
services of men of the greatest professional learning
 and eminence are not secured, by public honours and
 rewards, as teachers in its medical schools.

    Dr. Young viewed the science of medicine as a
 branch of inductive philosophy, the principles of which,
 like those of other inductive sciences, were founded

 upon observation and experiment, where facts were to
 be divested as much as possible of every circumstance
 which was extraneous to the conclusion to be drawn

 from them, and where the correctness of the conclusion

 itself was to be tested by repeated appeals to expe

 rience --not to the experience of every pretender to

 the art, but of those only who have been taught
 to interrogate Nature by the formation, through care
 ful preparatory studies, of those habits of the mind
 which enable it to appreciate evidence, and to dis

 tinguish accurately between the assumption of a con

 clusion and its demonstration. It was upon experience

 thus carefully and scrupulously scrutinized, that Dr.
224  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. VIII.

Young founded his medical practice, not hesitating to

employ strong measures when the symptoms of the

disease showed them to be necessary, but never rudely

thwarting those processes of natural restoration and
cure in cases where the same lessons of experience

had shown them to be in operation.
   The apothecary of the Hospital -- a careful and

cautious observer --is said to have made the remark

that a greater proportion of the patients admitted under
Dr. Young were discharged cured, or perhaps, in more

correct language, relieved, than of those who were sub

jected to a more fashionable and energetic treatment ; a

capital fact, which, if it had been properly noticed and

studied, would at once have decided the question in dis

pute. But the statistics of the results of special modes

of treatment are rarely collected in our hospitals, though
they have been made, it is well known, the means of

Idissipating many false prejudices and errors in the
hospitals of Paris, Berlin, and Vienna.  have been

told by one who has examined the records of the

Hospital, that the prescriptions which were given by

Dr. Young are such as approximate -- as nearly as
circumstances will enable us to judge --to the best
practice of the present day ; and that if he had survived

and practised his profession for a few years longer, his

claims to dictinction as a physician would have been,

in all probability, as fully recognised as were those

which were conceded to him as a philosopher and a

scholar. It would not be altogether just, however, to

the public at large, who may be considered responsible

for a just estimate of the claims of those whom they

employ, not to state that Dr. Young's manners were

not favourable to his success as a practitioner : they

were gentle and gentlemanly, but not genial ; he never
Chap. VIII.  MKDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.                                     225

professed or expressed more than he felt, and resorted

to none of those many, and we may add perfectly

justifiable, arts by which some physicians recommend

themselves to Aheir patients.

His Introduction to Medical Literature, including

a system of Practical Nosology, was published early in
Itthe year 1813.
                  is a work of great labour, and bears

much the same relation to the medical, that his Lectures

bear to the mathematical and physical, sciences. It

includes an Introduction on the Study of Physic ;

Aphorisms relating to Classifications -- chiefly extracted

from the Philosophia Botanica of Linnaeus, the great

master of the principles of classification and nomencla

ture --intermixed with many valuable observations of

his own, with a view of adapting them to the medical

sciences ; a catalogue of about 1 00 pages of works on

medical literature, both general and special, admirably

arranged, with notes to direct a student to those

works or parts of them which are likely to be most

useful. This is followed by much the most important

and the only very original part of the work, a System

of Practical Nosology and Pharmacology, with most

minute references to the best sources of information on

every disease or medical agent included in the classi

fication. There is also subjoined a Sketch of Animal

Chemistry ; Remarks on the Measurement of Minute
Particles, especially those of Blood and Pus, by the aid

of the Eriometer and an Essay on the Medical Effects

of Climate, which had been published before as an

appendix to the Syllabus of his Medical Lectures.
   When Dr. Young commenced this undertaking, the

nosological arrangement of Dr. Cullen was the one

most generally recognized in this country and that

              Works, vol.      343.
                               i.,
Life.                               p.
                                                                      Q
226 MEMOIR OF DB. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. VIII.

which he himself was most disposed to follow. Upon

proceeding with his task he found inconsistencies and
deficiencies in it which were irreconcileable with

every just principle of classification -- his genera,

orders, and classes being not only wanting in the

essential qualities of logical dependence and sequence,

but such as to exclude altogether a great number of

Itdiseases which found no proper place in his system.

is an objection, however, to all classifications of diseases

that their characters are not invariable and persistent ;

that they change with changes of climate and place,

with the habits of society, and even with the lapse of

time ; but at the same time, it must be allowed, though

perfect accuracy may not be attainable, that our general
views of the science of medicine will be advanced the

nearer we approach to it.

   In an age when the systematic study of medicine
was so much neglected, it was not to be expected that

a work of this nature, so much of which was occupied

with speculations apparently so remote from immediate

practical applications, would be received with much

favour. A contemporary reviewer, who was a fair

representative of that large class of mankind who look

to the results of science much more than its principles,

quotes with marked approbation, in his notice of this

work, a sneer of Dr. Fordyce that many ingenious

young men were familiar with enteritis and carditis

and nephritis, but bring them to the bedside of a

Ifpatient, and it would quickly appear that they could
not tell one itis from another ids.  it could have

been made to appear that the knowledge of the theo

retical characters of those diseases was the reason of

the ignorance of such persons of their practical symp

toms, the observation would have been just ; but let
Chap. VIII.  MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.  227

a physician, whether young or old -- to whom the

theoretical and practical characters of these diseases are

equally familiar, and who can also reason correctly from

the effects which he observes to their causes --be

placed in the same situation with one who has facts

and the routine of ordinary practice but no principles
to guide him ; and it is hardly necessary to say which
of the two will be prepared to act with confidence and
safety in the various phases, sometimes new and unex

pected, which all such diseases are apt to assume.
   TheSketch of Animal Chemistry, which is given in the

Appendix of this work, was translated from the Swedish
of Berzelius, by the aid of a grammar and dictionary,
without any previous acquaintance with the language ;
his knowledge of German and of the general structure
of languages, aided by a perfect familiarity with the

subject and his usual sagacity, was sufficient to guide
him. There is found amongst his papers a letter from
this illustrious chemist, most gratefully acknowledging
this service, and expressing his admiration of the skill
and correctness with which the task had been executed.

" Tell me," he proceeds, " how is it possible for the same
person to possess so deep and comprehensive a know
ledge of two sciences so widely different as Natural

IPhilosophy and Medicine, with its subordinate sciences

of Anatomy and Physiology? When reflect that
Chemistry constitutes my only pursuit, and that never

Itheless am daily learning how much has been done
Iin that science that has escaped my inquiry, marvel

how you can have had time enough to go over all that

you must have required to read in order to produce
your Lectures on Natural Philosophy and this Medical
Work." The translation is interspersed with many
original observations and additions, in one of which he

                                                                                         Q2
228  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. VIII.

combats the inference drawn by the author, that the
crystalline lens -- being soluble in water -- cannot be
muscular ; a conclusion which has been elsewhere

noticed."

   A new edition of this work was printed in 1823, when

the author parted with the copyright for one hundred

pounds : he adds --in noticing the fact --the remark, not
altogether destitute of truth, that it was too good a
book to be worth more ; it was not adapted in fact for

popular reading. New references to the later medical
journals were inserted, in this new edition, and an

Essay on Palpitations was added, which first appeared
in the fifth volume of the Medical Transactions of the

College of Physicians in London.

   In the Quarterly Review we find five articles by Young

on medical subjects ; and several more, though shorter,
and of a slighter texture, were contributed by him to
the Imperial Review at an earlier period. The article
on Insanity, in the Third Number of the first of
these Reviews, is an essay of great merit, viewing the
subject in its moral and metaphysical, as well as its

medical bearings ; it was written on the suggestion of
his friends, Mr. George Ellis and Sir Walter Scott,

and not without some ulterior views to an appoint
ment under the department of Lunacy in the Court

of^Chancery. His other medical articles, though in

all cases giving evidences of a thorough mastery of the
subjects upon which he was writing, do not generally
possess the additional merit of being interesting to
general as well as professional readers.b

    · Supra, p. 42.

   b The Bubjecta of them are, Jones on the Gout, vol. iii. ; Blackall on
Dropsies ; Adams on Ectropium, vol. xiii ; an article on the Yellow Fever

was printed but never published.
Chap. VIII.  MEDICAL LIFE AND WORKS.  229

   The last of his medical publications was 'A Practical

and Historical Essay on Consumptive Diseases,' which

appeared in 1815. It is a condensed and admirably

arranged abstract of everything that has been said and

done with regard to consumption. It was written

and published within a period of nine months from

the time that it was begun, and was undertaken with

a view to the possible extension of his practice in a
form of disease which is prevalent amongst the higher
classes in this country. The work was one of great
interest and value, though it failed to accomplish the
ulterior object for which it was designed; and at a later
period of life, when his circumstances were more

independent, he was disposed to congratulate himself
that he had thus escaped the danger of lapsing into a
species of charlatanism which is sometimes the fate

of those who restrict their practice to particular classes
of diseases.
230  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

                         CHAPTER IX.

                   PHILOLOGICAL ESSAYS. REVIEWS.

The varied phases presented by Dr. Young's researches
make it equally convenient to the biographer and his
readers, to depart occasionally from the strict order of
time, and to consider them in groups, by which subjects
of a similar kind may be brought in some degree into

Iconnection with each other. This is the course which

have partially followed in the preceding pages, in

Idevoting separate chapters to his Optical, Mathema

tical and Physical, and Medical writings ; and shall
now proceed, in conformity with the same principle,
to notice his philological researches, reserving those re
lating to the hieroglyphics of Egypt, on account of
their great extent and importance, to the following

chapter.
    More than fourteen years had elapsed since Dr.

Young quitted Edinburgh -- where he first became

known in connection with Greek literature, by the
selections from the Anthologia which he made for the
second volume of the Analecta of Professor Dalzel, and

the notes by which they were accompanied --when an

article appeared in the Quarterly Review, which ex
cited more than common attention amongst scholars
and men of letters. The subject of it was the Her-
culanensia, a splendid work, containing several learned
philological and antiquarian dissertations relating to
Chap. IX.  HERCULANENSIA.               231

Herculaneum and the ancient condition of the regions

in its neighbourhood. Three of these dissertations,

of very considerable merit, were written by the Rev.

Robert Walpole, an elegant and accomplished scholar,

well known by his Travels in European Turkey and

other works connected with classical literature and

archaeology : six of the others were the production

of Sir William Drummond, formerly our ambassador

at Naples, whose critical judgment was not sufficient

to keep under due control the vast mass of curious

learning which his writings usually displayed ; whilst

the remaining dissertation was devoted to the restored

text of a papyrus, which had been unrolled and partially
deciphered by Mr. Hayter and others, under circum

stances which are detailed in the article Herculaneum

reprinted in the third volume of Dr. Young's works."

To this was added an elaborate commentary upon
written also by Sir William Drummond.
           a

                                                              it,
Though Mr. Hayter was, in some degree, indebted

to his reputation as classical scholar, for the appoint

ment at Naples, which he held for many years, for the

purpose of superintending the unrolling of these papyri,

his powers were found in this, which was the only con

siderable, instance in which they were brought to trial,

inadequate to the task which he had undertaken,

notwithstanding the assistance he received from several

of the academicians of Portici, who were associated

with him. In almost every part of the deciphered

manuscript, there were more or less considerable lacunce

to be supplied, sometimes extending to two-thirds or

three-fourths of the entire line in which they appeared,

and the only guides to their restoration were the ad

joining words or parts of words, taken  connection
           p.

                           in
           * Works, vol. iii. 5(10.
232  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

with the context of those preceding or following them.;
Dr. Young has printed in one page of his Review, a
                                                  a
fac-simile of thirty three lines of a portion of the manu
                                                       it,
script, where the deficiencies are the most considerable,
     a
and in another page which immediately follows he has
                 is
given in two parallel columns, the restored text, first asis
proposed by himself, and secondly, by Mr. Hayter and
his colleagues he has added likewise list of emen           a
dations and substitutions in other parts of the manu
script in which he differs from the editors, and which
he has also embodied in his own exquisite copy of

the entire manuscript-- which now before me-- with

the lacunce filled up in differently coloured ink, so as
not only to produce an intelligible text, which good

Greek, but also to enable the reader to judge of the
propriety and probability of the restorations which are
proposed, not only with reference to the space which
they occupy, but likewise to the words or portions of
words which precede and follow them. The published
text, which was made the subject of his criticism, was

shown to be neither grammatically correct nor trans-
lateable, and even the designation of the subject of
the fragment was changed by the reviewer, upon
grounds which hardly admit of dispute, from being
discourse Concerning the Gods, to one Concerning Piety

according to Epicurus. A complete translation of the

fragment, as restored by Dr. Young, was also given in

the Review.

   Among many other mistakes which were pointed out
by the reviewer --though in no unfriendly or captious
spirit -- which were little creditable to the scholarship
of the editors, there were two which excited more than

common remark. In one case, the following passage

in the text with its lacuiue,
Chap.  IX.                HERCULANENSIA.                                                        233

         xtzdxVeg x                   ...tots Xcyeiv ais                   ...  av xoXXaxu
               a»7g Xeym
                          Tir egEiv up     .

was restored to

       xafyxirep xaJ tov riXoi/Taiviz Xe'veiv a/5 av TaXXaxir

            Xcyrj ris, e^eiv "H§a. . . .

ifor meaning --as also, Pluto says,                                        any one should re

peat the word ayp many times, he would pronounce it

"Hpa. The quotation which is here attributed to Pluto,

is actually found nearly, though not precisely, in the

same words in the Cratylus of Plato ; and though

Sir William Drummond actually refers to
                                                                           ;               on ac

count of its resemblance to that in the fragment which                             ? it,

was the subject of his observation, he was not suffi

ciently startled by the discovery to deprive Pluto of

the honours of authorship which were here for the first

time assigned to him.

   In another passage, there are three lines expressly

quoted from comic drama, called Egypt, by Timocles
       a                                                                                   :

                      :
they have been restored and freely translated by Dr.

Young as follows --

                 'Osrou yap us robs bfjioXoyov/jLtwus Seobs                             "

                 'AoiGovvrts oil SiSoamv euQeus Sixtjv,

               TlV att\ovpOV fiufMS eWITpivJ/eleV £tv

       " While even the Gods, whose power all nations own,
         The crimes of impious men hut slowly punish,
         What perjured wretch shall dread Grimalkin's altars

   The same three lines, as having been quoted by
Athenams, were well known to scholars, and the two

first of them are found complete in the fac- simile copy
of the papyrus. The same copy presents the last in the

following mutilated form --
                          .
       nva .                   e

                                                 .:
                                                      .

                                                                   .
                                                                        .
       illV.OI            . ofoou /Sai

                          . T^ivJ/eteV SV

       . vr               . tyov
234  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

   In the absence of any knowledge of the correspond
ing quotation, a competent critic engaged in filling

up the lacuna might have concluded, both from the
character of the two preceding verses and from the

fact of its being expressly taken from a Greek comic

poet, that it must have been in Iambic metre ; instead
of which the Editor produced the following monstrous
and untranslateable line :--

             rival re Soup* ov $ZifX.0S {TirgrJ/tiev av ivrtXkyovai

  If Mr. Hayter had not somewhat imprudently replied

to the criticisms of the Reviewer, he might have con
tinued to share the responsibility of mistakes too gross
and palpable to be defended, with his Neapolitan col
leagues, who had assisted him in the preparation
of the text : but the defensive observations which he
addressed to Sir William Drummond, as well as the

somewhat apologetic and deprecatory remarks which

the latter appended to them," were sufficient very
seriously to compromise whatever character for good
sense and scholarship either one or the other of them

might once have laid claim to. Whilst Mr. Hayter,
not contented with defending his original emendation,
was disposed to contend that even the text of Athe-
naeus, as being confessedly corrupt, would be improved
by introducing it, they both of them persevered in
putting a manifest quotation from Plato into the
mouth of the god Pluto : not to mention many other
errors, almost equally indefensible, though not quite
so glaring. No subsequent attempt was made to
re-establish the character of Mr. Hayter as a scholar,

   * Observations upon a review of the Herculanensia in the Quarterly
Review of last February, by John Hayter, M.A., Chaplain to the Prince of
Wales ; to which is subjoined a Letter from Sir William Drummond.
1810.
Chap. IX.  HERCULANENSIA.  235

or to vindicate his conduct with respect to the aban
donment of the papyri and of the copies made of
them, which were entrusted to his superintendence

and care by the Prince of Wales who employed him,
when he fled with the Royal Family from Naples to
Palermo upon the French invasion in 180(5.

   The result of the discovery of the Herculaneum
manuscripts -- originally more than eighteen hundred
in number --has signally disappointed the sanguine
expectations which it first excited ; when the imagina
tions of every scholar in Europe were haunted by
visions of the restoration of the lost books of Livy,

of the comedies of Menander and of many of the other
choice treasures of ancient literature which the barba

rism of the middle ages had destroyed. All the manu

scripts in fact were found to be carbonized by heat,
and the leaves which composed them glued together

by some cementing principle so tenacious as only to
give way, in rare cases, to the most cautious and per

severing efforts ; whilst the greater number were so

crushed by the weight of the volcanic matter which had

buried them, as to defy all attempts at unrolling them.

A great portion also of those which promised better

results perished in the various experiments to which

they were subjected by adventurers and projectors
of all kinds ; whilst of more than four hundred which

were partially unrolled, legible fragments of not more

than eighty were made out, and a worthless Treatise
on Music by Philodemus was the only one which

had been restored and edited antecedently to the solitary
and not more successful effort of Mr. Hayter.

   Upon the termination of Mr. Hayter's mission
to Naples, a considerable number of the remaining
papyri-- at that time, however, not more than eighty in
236  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                        Chap. IX.

number -- were sent over to this country, where several
of them became the victims of the experiments of a
German charlatan : a few of them were entrusted to the

Royal Society and placed by them in the hands of Dr.

Young, who thus speaks of some experiments to which

he resorted with a view of unrolling them :--

" There was one mode of treating the papyri which oc

curred to him, which promised to be of much use to those who

might hereafter be engaged in the operation. This was the

employment of the anatomical blowpipe, an instrument which

he had many years before been in the habit of using for delicate

purposes, in the place of a dissecting knife. The blowpipe

served him, like the;

                   gir
                             it

                                                  :

                                     a in
                                                                          by
                          kxo-toqos         the epigram, for a knife

and a forceps for the gum, the goldbeater's skin, and the

threads of the Italians. No instrument can be so soft in

its pressure as the air, for holding thin fragment                                      suction,

without danger of injuring           no edge nor point can be so

sharp as to be capable of insinuating itself into all the crevices

which the air freely enters. But the humidity of the breath he

found to add much to the utility of the instrument the slight
degree of moisture communicated to the under or inner surface
     it

                                                         ;

                                          it
                                                                                     :
of fold, made curl up and separate from the parts beneath
a

where the adhesion was not too strong while dry air from a

bladder was perfectly incapable of detaching                                          But the pro

cess of separating every leaf in this manner was always tedious

and laborious, where there was much adhesion, and sometimes

altogether impracticable. Chemical agents of all kinds he tried

without the least advantage and even maceration for six
                          by

                               ;

                                 It

                                        is
months in water, applied at first with very great caution, was

unable to weaken the adhesioa               remarkable that the cha

racters were not effaced    this operation, so that the gum

which had fixed them on the paper must have wholly lost its
solubility, and the rest of its original properties.""

   The appearance of this Article, equally remarkable

for its critical acuteness and vigorous writing, at once
placed its author, in the estimation of the public,
                                            p.

                                                                        in
      Quarterly lioview, vol. iii. ]!).
Chap. IX.           REVIEWS.                                                   237

the  fRiresvtiecwla,ssinofathleettsecrhotolaGrseoorfgetheEllaigse, .sayTs,he"  editor of
the                                                                            Young's
article is certainly above all praise. It has had, how

ever, one deplorable effect.  , who is of the same

college with Blomfield, tells me that the latter, upon

readinga   sent in all haste to Edinburgh, to recall
                                                                               ;
            it,
                                                                                       aa
                            a
                                 a                                                                   .

                                                a
                                                         a
review of the Herculanensia, which he had written for
Ifthe next number.
                    this letter arrives in time, we have
lost triumph." It was not likely, however, that any

production of the very eminent scholar here referred to

could have afforded triumph to his opponents but,

like all men of generous- and noble nature, he would

have been the first to welcome fellow-labourer in

department of his own field of learning, which had

been made, in this instance, by special and energetic

cultivation, to yield so rich produce.

Young was intimately associated with the leading

contributors to the Quarterly Review. The principal of

these --after Mr. Gilford the Editor--was George Ellis,
of Sunning Hill, writer of great wit and vivacity --the
           by
author, not merely of some of the best literary articlesa

which the Review contained, but also of many others on

the political questions of the day, in which he was some
times assisted Mr. Canning and Mr. Huskisson, with

whose views he was thoroughly identified. He was                               a

man of ardent affections, who felt for his friends almost

as much as for himself; and he had resented, almost

as personal injury, the treatment which Young had
a

received from the Edinburgh Review, and was thus

disposed, as much from personal as from party feeling,

not merely to oppose the political and literary dictation
of that powerful Journal, but also to watch with deep

interest the rising fortunes of its rival, in the establish

ment of which he had taken so considerable part.
                                                            a
23S       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                         Chap. IX.

   The same number of the Review which was headed

by the Herculanensia was closed by Southey's spirit-
stirring Life of Nelson ; and these being followed up, in

subsequent volumes, by contributions of great interest
and ability from Barrow, Walter Scott, Robert Grant,
and others, were the means of rapidly extending its

popularity and influence.

"   " It  is a consolation  to know," says  Ellis in writing  to Young,
          Brougham, who     took advantage  of the growing    circulation
   that

of the Edinburgh Review to disseminate his vile abuse of you,

and Jeffrey who permitted him to do so, should be condemned

to hear your praises on all sides, and to feel that the publica

tion in which they are engaged is suffering and is likely to suffer

by your means."

    Young, at different times, contributed eighteen ar
ticles to the Quarterly Review. The subjects of nine
of thom were scientific ; of five, medical ; and of the

rest, languages and criticism. Several of those of the

first class, and all those of the last, comprehended ori
ginal researches of no ordinary value, and either have
been or will be noticed in the course of this volume : but

those relating to medicine, which have been elsewhere

referred to, though by no means without merit, were

for the most part too exclusively professional to be
generally popular, and the exclusion of one of them,
on Yellow Fever, from the Review, though it had been

accepted and printed, was the occasion, when taken in
conjunction with his other engagements, of abandon
ing his connection with it altogether.

   He was much consulted by Mr. Gifford upon many
articles submitted to him, more especially such as came
within the very comprehensive sphere of his studies ;
and we find in the letters which passed between them,
amongst many other secrets of authorship, the usual
Chap. IX.  REVIEWS.  239

complaints of the trials to which editors of such

journals are exposed. Some articles were too long and
required pruning ; the dulness of others was to be
adapted by a higher seasoning to the public taste ; many
were forced upon the Editor by the official or literary
rank of their authors, which he dared not either reject
or retouch ; most of them required to be assimilated to
the literary or political views which the Review was
designed to promote ; whilst the last and not the least
of his difficulties were the interests of the publisher,
which, though never illiberally urged, could not be

safely or reasonably neglected, though they might be
found to be at variance with the favourite prepossessions
both of editors, authors, and readers.

   Young was generally disposed to prefer the rugged
and unknown, to the beaten and familiar, paths of learn

ing. In a letter to Mr. Gurney, he says --

  I I" like a deep and difficult investigation when happen to

have made it easy to myself, if not to all others ; and there is a

spirit of gambling in this, whether, as by the cast of a die, a
calculation a perte de vue shall bring out a beautiful and perfect
result or shall be wholly thrown away. Scientific investigations
are a sort of warfare carried on in the closet or on the couch

Iagainst all one's contemporaries and predecessors ; have often
Igained a signal victory when have been half asleep, but more
I Ifrequently have found, upon being thoroughly awake, that the

enemy had still the advantage of me, when thought had him
fast in a corner, and all this you see keeps me alive."

   He loved to grapple, in fact, as we have already had
occasion to remark, with difficult problems in science and

not less so in literature. A corrupt passage to be re

stored ; a mutilated, rude, or badly spelt inscription to

be completed, or corrected, or interpreted ; an alphabet
or a meaning to be extracted from an unknown lan
guage by a careful analysis of its different parts, by
240  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

connecting what is unknown with what is known, or with

such documents as his various learning could supply,

--were always more or less labours of predilection with

him, where his nice perception and accurate transcrip- .
tion of forms, his intimate knowledge of the principles

of grammar, his patient labour and uncommon saga

city, had full scope for their exercise. His review of

the Herculanensia had made his qualifications for such
tasks generally known ; and from that time to the end
of his life, inscriptions from all quarters, especially in
Greek and in the hieroglyphical and cursive characters
of ancient Egypt, were referred to him for discussion
or interpretation. Many copies of such inscriptions,
from Greece, Egypt, and India, are found amongst his
papers, which had been sent to him to be explained,
but which for the most part were deficient either in
sufficiently accurate transcription, or in the detail of
circumstances which alone could give them value.

   In the 19th volume of the Archaeologia, we find

an interesting notice of a fragment of a very ancient
papyrus, as well as of several curious but somewhat
barbarous sepulchral inscriptions of a late age from
Nubia, which were submitted to him by Lord Mount -

norris. In the Appendix to Captain Light's Travels

in Egypt, Nubia, Palestine, and Cyprus, he furnished
restorations and translations of several Greek inscrip
tions : and when Barrow gave an account in the
Quarterly Review" of recent researches in Egypt, more
especially those of Caviglia on the great Sphinx, it was
from Young that he obtained the restoration of the in-

    The 19th volume, p. 411. Dr. Young complained, however, with some
justice, of the total omission of the criticisms with which his restoration was
accompanied, and to which he appears to have attached considerable value.
The betrayal of his name, in spite of his injunction to the contrary, was
another cause of dissatisfaction.
Chap. IX.  INSCRIPTIONS.                                                                       241

scription on the second digit of the great paw ; " a
task," says he, " which he has executed with his usual
skill and judgment in clearing away the difficulties of
imperfect inscriptions in ancient languages." The

most flattering, however, of these testimonies was that

which he received from an eminent theologian and
scholar, the late Kev. Hugh James Rose," who, hi his
work entitled " Inscriptiones Graacae Vetustissimae,"
refers in grateful terms to the assistance which he had
derived from him in the restoration of some ancient

inscriptions, complimenting him upon the variety of his

accomplishments in the words of the poet --

                                    " quern tu, Dea, tempore in omni,

                        Omnibus ornatum voluisti excellere rebus."

In the year 1813 he contributed a very elaborate

article to the Quarterly Review, on the Mithridates

of Adelung.b This was followed, two years after

a                                                    on Jamieson's

                                                it,
wards, by another supplementary to
Hermes Scythicus, and the Rev. J. Townshend's work

entitled, The Character of Moses established for Vera

city as Historian recording Events subsequent to the

Deluge.0 These articles were subsequently incorporated,

with much original matter, into the essay under the title

of Languages, in the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia

Britannica.d They afford the ordinary proofs of his

great industry and power of arrangement, but are not

remarkable for views of an original or very striking

character, and they should be considered as the results

   » There are several letters, amongst his papers, addressed to him by Mr.
Rose, relating to these inscriptions, and more especially to one of them of
great antiquity which was found on the Leucadian promontory, and of

which he proposed very satisfactory restoration.

      Quarterly Review, vol. x. Oct. 1813, p. 230.
      Quarterly Review, vol. xiv. Oct. 1813, p. 96.
      Supplement to the Encyclopedia Britannica, vol. v. 1819. Works,
vol. iii., p. 478.

      Life.
d · i>
                                 a

                                                                                            R
242  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

rather of a single effort directed to a special inquiry,
than of investigations like those relating to the hie
roglyphics of Egypt, to which all the powers of his
mind had been long and systematically devoted.

   In an essay on Probabilities, in the Philosophical

Transactions," he has made the observation that no

inference could be drawn, with respect to the relation

of two languages to each other, from the coincidence
in both of them of the sense of any single word, and no

more --that is, supposing the same simple and limited

combination of sounds to occur in both, but to be ap
plied accidentally to the same objects, without any
common links of connection ; and farther, that the odds

would be only three to one against the agreement of two
such words, and ten to one against the agreement of
three of them : for six and ten such words, the numbers

expressing these probabilities would become 1 700 and

100,000 to 1 respectively. The evidence afforded by
results like these, whose irresistible force these large
numbers alone can adequately express, are full of interest
and instruction, as proving indisputably the existence of
a connection --whether through some common primitive
language, as Mr. Townshend and others have con

tended, or through emigration, conquest, commercial

intercourse, or other causes --in the vast majority of

written as well as many other languages. It is only in

the groups of African and South American languages
that we fail to discover very manifest traces of influ
ences of this nature.

    Dr. Young has divided existing languages into five
great families -- the Monosyllabic, the Indo-European,
the Tataric (subdivided into five subordinate families,
the Sporadic, the Caucasian, the Tartarian, the Sibe-

                                      Works, vol. ii., p. 17.
Cm a p. IX.  LANGUAGES.  243

rian, and the Insular), the African, and the American ;

a classification which is, with the exception of the first,
and in some degree of the second, much too large

and comprehensive to present any proper philological
connection or marked distinctive character. The bases
of a more accurate, but still of a very vague classification,
are afforded by a tabulated list, which he has selected
from the great work of Adelung, of the words used
to express heaven or sky, and earth, in more than 400

languages : for it is obvious that words equivalent to

these must have existed in all languages, however
primitive and rude, and are such as, from their fami

liarity and frequent use, were least likely to be
modified or altered by intercourse with other nations ;
and it will be found that the relationships which they
indicate in the languages in which they are expressed
by words which are essentially the same, however dis
guised by varieties of form and pronunciation, are

very generally, though by no means universally, sup
ported by a further examination of their vocabulary
and structure.

    The result of later and somewhat more philosophical
inquiries has shown that languages are much more in

timately related to each other by analogies in their
grammatical construction than by community of words;

that whilst two or more languages, thus assimilated

with each other, may admit of incorporation to almost

any extent, no such amalgamation can be effected of
those which do not possess this common character,
however great may be the intercourse with each other
of the nations which speak them, and however nume

rous may be the individual words which may be inter
changed. The comparison, also, of the numeral systems
and terms of different languages is full of interest,

                                                  r2
244  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

uot merely as regards the practical methods of nume
ration in which many of them originated, but also
as furnishing evidences which are more patent, though
not always so decisive, as those which can be derived
from other sources, of the intercourse of nations with

each other, at some periods of their history, and in
many cases of the relations of the languages which

they speak.

   "The strongest proof," says Young, "of the anti

quity of the Chinese language appears to be the great
simplicity of its structure, and the want of those abbre
viations and conventional implications which have

sometimes been called the wings of language. It is

natural that, in attempting to express ideas at once by
characters, the rude pictures of material objects should

first have been principally, if not exclusively traced.

Thus the Egyptians had © , J> , for the sun and moon,
and © for a country or field ; and the Chinese have still

yID © for those objects respectively, the cha

racters having been made square instead of round,
which some of them were in their more ancient forms." "
We shall afterwards find that he was principally guided
by the many analogies which appeared to exist between
the characters of this singular language and the hiero
glyphics of Egypt, to conclude it to be extremely pro
bable, that the expedients to give to the characters a

phonetic value, when foreign names and words were to

be expressed, were much the same in one language as
in the other, and thus to lay the foundations of one
of the most remarkable discoveries in modern times.

    Dr. Leyden, as quoted by Young, observes that at
least twenty different nations employ the Chinese cha-

                                 * Sec Works, vol. iii., p. 509.
Chap. IX.  LANGUAGES.                            245

racters, and generally with the Chinese significations,

though they read them quite differently : and he con

siders the Cochin-Chinese, the Cantonese, and the

Japanese as all essentially different from the Mandarin

Chinese, though they all have some words in common.
But a question naturally arises in connexion with so

singular a system, whether such languages are to be

considered different from each other, or the same ;

whether, in fact, the language which is addressed to the
eye or to the ear is the language of the people. The

Ifquestion became one of great interest as affecting the at
tempts to interpret the hieroglyphics of Egypt.  these

hieroglyphics constituted a sacred language, addressed

to the eye, and equally intelligible to all the tribes of
ancient Egypt, who spoke, as it is well known they did,
dialects very different from each other, it would have

served, like the Chinese, as a universal language, which

all would equally understand, though the inhabitants

of different districts would translate it differently to
the ear: and further, if they possessed a method of

writing their spoken language by alphabetical charac

ters which expressed the sounds of their local language
when spoken, the enchorial translation of the same
hieroglyphical text might be very different in different

regions of the country. Thus the enchorial translation
of the hieroglyphical inscription on the Rosetta stone

might have been very different in the different copies

of it which were directed, in conformity with the
decree which it embodies, to be placed in the temples

of Upper and Lower Egypt. The importance of these

questions will be better understood when they are
brought under our consideration by the subject of the

next Chapter.

  It has often been remarked that the life of a man of
246  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                    Chap. IX.

letters or science rarely presents any striking events
which can be separated from the history of those re
searches which have given him celebrity, and that of
Young offers no exception to the truth of the observa
tion. Though no small portion of his time was occu
pied with the duties of his profession, they were,
fortunately for his fame, not of so absorbing a kind as
materially to interrupt his other pursuits, or to debar
him from the salutary relaxation afforded by his access
to a large and cultivated society. The following ex
tracts from letters addressed to a sister of Mrs.

Young sufficiently describe his ordinary habits, and
are not altogether without interest from their refer
ences to some of the popular topics of the day.

" Dearest Emily,               " London, 22ml November, 1814.

     I I" have long been intending to write to you, but am

so much engaged in collecting materials for a new medical

Iwork* that have had no leisure to do anything else. It was
Inot my own wish nor my intention to be so employed ; but
Iam determined to make a last effort of this kind, which hope

to complete in the course of a few months, and which I think

Iwill insure me a certain degree of popularity in my profession,

more extensive and more permanent than have hitherto felt

I Imyself confident in the possession of : but whether 1 fail or

succeed in this object, think shall not hereafter make any

further attempts of the kind.

I called yesterday on GifFord, in order to be able to answer

some of your inquiries. The first article in the Quarterly

Review on Brand's Antiquities is by a lawyer named Cohen or
IColquhoun ; Mathias
                      believe by Whitaker ; Chalmers of

course by Souihey, who has just published his Don Roderick in

a thick 4to of blank verse ; the Travels and the Chinese article

by Barrow ; Lord Byron by G. Ellis ; the Modern Greek by

     * Treatise on Consumption, see supra, p. 229.
Chap. IX.               CORRESPONDENCE.                              247

Blomfield ; Davy* and Adamsb you know -- neither of them was

written con amore, and they only occupy a private station in

the   ranks,  without   disgracing the rest.  Review  ?  The first article
      Have    you seen  the last Edinburgh
   "

on painting is by Payne Knight, and is generally admired.0 It
was much discussed last Thursday at Lord Elgin's, where I dined

with only West, the President of the Royal Academy, and Ross ;
Rbesides
              Hay, who came in late in the evening. This was one

of the very few dinners that reconcile one to living in London.

Lady Elgin, you have heard, is a Grecian ; but she has not the

manners of a blue-stocking, and she really appears to pursue

literature and science with a great deal of zeal and good taste,

and without any sacrifice of common sense. She has been read

ing some of the Greek tragedies, which are reckoned the most

difficult works in the laneiiaire, and she has returned to Homer.

I have lent her some mathematical books to take with her into

IScotland : she had only read the first six books of Euclid, and

asked me what would recommend her to go on with. West is

really a most interesting personage in everything that relates to

his profession ; in other respects he is very much like any other
man of seventy-four : but he was only seven months painting

his great picture, which he sold for 3000 guineas, and which

produced 13,000 to the British Institution by its exhibition.

His present picture is visited daily by 472 people on an average

of a fortnight. He paints fifteen hours a day, not requir

ing any other exercise, and sleeping but seven : he paints with

out any model, in order to avoid introducing portraits, and

to preserve an ideal character of perfection in his figures ; but

when he has once drawn them, he corrects the attitudes and the

lights by comparison with a real figure : for this reason, he said,

he never repeated himself. To me it appeared that he did very
often repeat the same kind of countenance, and his mode of

cb

                                              i., in
                                                                it,

                                         II
painting seemed to explain the reason of and ventured to
                              an indirect manner. In conse
hint something of the kind

quence of his wishing to see me at his house, called on him
last Sunday, and sat a long while with him He perfectly

* Republished in Works, vol.  p. 575.

      Adams on Ectropium, Artificial Pupil and Cataract. Quarterly   Review,

July 1814, vol. xi.

      Review of Northcoto's Life of Reynolds. Sept. 1814.
248        MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                   Chap. IX.

remembered my once having seen him twenty-one years ago,
Iwhen, as he observed,
                             was dressed in a different costume.
IHe told me the history of the little Cupid and Psyche which

have :a he painted it in the year 1760, when he was in his
twenty-first year, before he had ever been in England. The
very day after his arrival at Rome, Mr. Robinson, Lord Gran

tham's father, called almost accidentally upon him, and intro

duced him immediately to Raphael Mengs, then the first painter

there, whom Payne Knight laughs at so unmercifully for stu

dying Corelli's beautiful concerto as a preparation to painting
the Nativity.b Mengs wished to see a specimen of his talents,

and gave him some prints of heads from Vandyke to copy in
oils. He showed me his copies. And he painted at the same

time this little group as a specimen of his own manner, which

pleased Mengs so much that he told him he had no occasion to

pursue any academical studies at Rome, and advised him not

to remain there long for fear of becoming a mannerist, but to

travel to all the principal towns in Italy, and to confine his stu
dies to statues and great masters only. He contradicted the

report of Raphael's great picture of the Transfiguration having
been moved from board to canvas. My friend Merrill, who is

                                         it

                                                              it,

                                                                                                 ;
a most zealous dilettante, and had lately seen           was com

plaining most bitterly of the injury     had suffered from the

operation, in the total distortion of many of the finest parts

Lord Elgin added, upon the authority of Visconti, the di

rector of the French Museum, who has lately been in London,

that was found upon examination that the pannel would
b*
stand for 100 or 150 years, and that the back-ground only had
     it
been slightly repaired, and in a very judicious manner, but that
        I
the whole had been a little cleaned.

   " West spoke highly of the Americans as a nation possessed

of natural talent; and, that he did not speak from personal

                             a copy from large picture of his
partiality, he demonstrated  by
                                  in
                                               by
                                                   a

                                                      a
own, which had been looking at, without distinguishing which
was the original. This was actually the second attempt only
of a young man who had been a counting-house till he hap

pened to attract his master's attention                very striking likeness

     In the collection of pictures bequeathed to him by his uncle
Dr. Riocklcsby.

      Edinburgh Review. Sept. 1814, p. 267.
Chap. IX.  CORRESPONDENCE.                                 249

of Cooke the actor, which he had been amusing himself in
painting. His master sent him to Europe to study : his name

is Leslie, and he is only nineteen. They have, however, an

excellent Academy at Philadelphia, and they have obtained
from Paris casts of all the antiques in the Louvre. The collec

tion is open one day in every week for the separate inspection
of ladies ; and West says that the best remarks on the beauty
of the antique statues that he recollects to have read have lately
been published by a Quaker lady of Philadelphia : all three
characters as little calculated, in the general opinion, to fit her

for such an undertaking as can well be imagined.

He agreed with me in rejoicing that all the works of art were
to remain at Paris ; where, he said, they would be of more

use to the English than to the French themselves, who were

incapable of profiting by them in the same degree ; that Paris
was no more an unfit residence than Rome, or than any other
great city : but that, notwithstanding the perfection of the French

collections, which were unique in admitting nothing second rate,
the Cartoons of Raphael alone, together with Lord Elgin's sta
tues, would afford more instruction to a student than all the

Louvre put together. He said that if Lord Elgin had not

brought away the marbles, they would have been utterly lost in
another century ; as certainly some of the finest fragments of
the statues which are now imperfect have been burnt into lime

and used for building a house, within these twenty years, by a
Greek, who had the knavery to take a large sum from Lord

IElgin to let his house be pulled down and the foundation dug

up in search of these very pieces. And now ,have told you

Ienough of Mr. West, a man who has covered 7000 square feet

of canvas, and too much, except that think all these particu
lars worth remembering, and therefore worth writing; and if

you do not think them worth reading, you are at liberty to pass
them over and burn the letter."

                                " London, 7th Dec., 1815.  Thursday Evening.

" Dearest Emily,
" Being naturally, as you know, of a very loquacious

disposition, and being left in perfect solitude by my two runaway

ladies, who went off this morning with Major Kater for Iladley,
250  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                  Chap. IX.

I Ithave no resource but to gossip a little with you.                  is cer
Itainly not from idleness that have not done it before-- and

you will not easily believe that it is from forgetfulness : you must

however admit diffidence among the many reasons ;· notwith

I Istanding that have a tolerably good opinion of myself, know
Ihow fastidious you are, and that ought not to write without

being able to send you something worth reading. Your letter

I Icannot answer, except from recollection, for scarcely looked

at it when Eliza carried it off, and she has never been able to

find it again. You said that you could not quite understand

fmy nonsense verses perhaps you will be able to make them
Iout by means of a nonsensical translation or imitation which

was obliged to hammer out in defiance of the Abbe Weston

and to satisfy Taylor Combe's curiosity :--

     Mediail men, my mood mistaking,

     Most mawkish monstrous messes making,
     Molest me much ; more manfully,
     My mind might meet my malady :

     Medicine's mere mockery murders me.

This is bad enough ; but it is much more difficult to execute

such alliterations in English than in Latin, and you will say it
                          if it were impossible.

                           time twelvemonth that
Iwould be no        loss
                    this
   " It was
     great                                        gave you an
     about

account of my dinner at Lord Elgin's, and of the conversation

I Ithat passed with West, especially on the subject of the French

collections. How little did then think that should by this

time have discussed the same points with William Hamilton b

and Canova, immediately after they had been chiefly instru

mental in breaking up these collections, and sending back the
Ispoils to the original proprietors !
                                       met them last Sunday at

Sir Joseph Banks's

Upon the subject of the Louvre, Hamilton said nearly what
Lord Castlereagh says in his Note, which has lately been in the

papers, with the addition of the real benefit that he thought
might be derived from essentially humbling the pride of the
French. Indeed Lord Castlereagh's Note states the case very

   * In imitation of the well known and ingenious alliterative verses  called
1'uima Porcorum, where each word logins with the letter P.

   b Formerly Ambassador at Naples.
Chap. IX.           CORRESPONDENCE.                            251

strongly and forcibly ; but even supposing it proved that the
Imeasure is just and wise,
                                cannot help thinking it a real
Isacrifice on the part of England.        happened to ask him if
ICanova was gone, and found that he was standing close by,
Iwith his brother, a little abbe.
                                          begged to be introduced
Ito him, and talked a great deal to him ; but could get nothing
                    ' cospetto    '
of him                          !    and  that
Iout                                            an             like  me
            except                                  antiquary

ought to come to Rome. You may suppose that chose my

ground, and endeavoured to tell him something that he might

remember me by if we ever met again. This is something like

charlatanerie, but with a stranger, whom one sees but for ten

minutes in one's life, there is no medium between this and insi

pidity. It seems West is beginning to be reconciled to the loss

of the statues ; at least for decency's sake he gave a toast at

the academical dinner, to which Canova was invited, the other

day, ' The Restoration of the Vatican Museum.' Have you

read the Quarterly Review? The last article is of course
ISouthey's ; the African and American suppose Barrow's ; the
I IPrussian think Robert Hay's ; the others do not know, but
I Ishall perhaps hear.
                        have a long article on ancient lan
Iguages already printed for the next :
                                                wrote it soon after

Midsummer ; it has no great interest nor originality, but looks
Irespectable enough.
                      am also about another on yellow fever,*
Iwhich is wofully dull to write ; how it will read do not know,
Ibut hope it will not be very long : it has occupied me these
Ithree or four weeks, and made me so stupid that was fit for
Inothing else, and could not even venture to write to you till
Ihad done the most material parts of it have, however, had a

Ivariety of interruptions. One was in making some last expe

riments on the Herculaneum manuscripts, which hoped might

be rendered a little more translateable by passing them through
Ithe fire.
            found that they underwent the process without dif

ficulty or injury, when well covered with charcoal dust ; but the
Iadhesions remained as obstinate as ever, and suppose nothing
Iwill ever overcome them.
                                wished to perform this final expe
Iriment in order to determine if had any chance of making
Iany material progress in the operation, before inquired what
IHayter had been doing with the one which gave up to him

in the summer, especially as he seemed to have been boasting

            " This article was printed but never published.
                                                                       -«

252    MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                Chap. IX.

of his great success. I found, however, that he had advanced

so slowly as to leave me ample time for consideration before he

can possibly want a second manuscript ; for in fact he has not

detached anything in a legible form, if my intelligence is cor

Irect ; and hope hereafter to be able to assist him or his ope
Iration in doing something more effectually. have been also not

a little mortified at the blunders of the booksellers and printers

who have lost a part of my manuscripts for the Museum
..... ICriticum, which was to be engraved on wood, and which
Imust draw over again.     have had nothing but delay and dif

ficulty in this business. My only motive for choosing this

channel for publication was a wish to oblige the proprietor3 and

his learned supporters."

In the summer of 1814, Mr. Macvey Napier, who

had undertaken the duty of editing a new Supplement
of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, applied to him for his
assistance as a contributor. The following reply will

explain his motives for declining, at that time, to com

ply with his application.

"Sir,                      " Worthing, 9th August, 1814.

       I" have to thank you for your very obliging letter : but,
Ias I had before told a friend of Prof. Leslie in London, am sorry

that it is not in my power at present to comply in any degree

Iwith a proposal, which, under other circumstances, would have

been far from disagreeable to me : but feel it a matter of

necessity to abstain as much as possible from appearing before

the public as an author in any department of science not imme

Idiately medical : and even if this objection were removed,
Iam not sure that could find time to execute any task of. im

Iportance in such a way as would be satisfactory to myself.

have therefore only to wish you all possible success in your

laudable undertaking, and beg you to believe me,

       " Your obliged and obedient servant,

                           "Thomas Young."

   " Mr. Murray: the present Bishop of Gloucester was the Editor, and
the present Bishop of London one of its principal supporters.
Chap. IX.       ENCYCLOPAEDIA BIUTANNICA.  253

   In the early part of the year 1816, a change in his

views, induced him to make an offer of his services

upon the conditions which are mentioned in the fol

lowing letter : --

" Sib,  " When      " London, 48, Welbeck Street, 12th Feb., 1816.

                I had the honour of answering your letter on

I Ithe subject of the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica,
   had no reason to think that could look forward to any con
siderable portion of literary leisure : but of late some circum

I Istances have occurred, which have left me somewhat more at

liberty than then expected ; and may have it in my power

Ito render you some material assistance in various departments
of your undertaking.  must, however, make one condition,
I Iwhich fear will create some difficulty : could not at present

Iallow my name to be published as a contributor to the work ;

on the other hand, could probably furnish you with some

Iarticles which you could scarcely obtain from other quarters :

should not refuse to do my best upon any subject of science, and

I would consent to acknowledge all my contributions at the end

Iof ten years from the present time. Knowing, however, the

importance of names that are familiar to the public, will not

Ideny that you might fairly offer me a remuneration somewhat

less liberal on this account ; and must therefore beg you to

favour me with your sentiments on the subject as soon as is

convenient to you. You mentioned to me the article Acoustics

Ias one which you would like me to undertake, but this branch
of science might be reserved for Sound.  would also suggest

Alphabet, Annuities, Attraction, Capillary Action, Cohesion,

Colour, Dew, Egypt, Eye, Forms, Friction, Halo, Hieroglyphic,

Hydraulics, Motion, Resistance, Ship, Strength, Tides, and

Waves. Anything of a medical nature which you might think

Idesirable would of course be doubly so to me : nor should be

difficult with respect to any other subject that might occur to

Uyou. ' altc non iemo, e T umili non sdegno?

-' M. Napier,             I" am, sir,

                 " Your faithful and obedient servant,
                                                  " Thomas Young.

                Esq."
254  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

   In some of the articles, to which he laid claim, he

had been anticipated by arrangements which the
Editor had previously made. The subject of Meteoro

logy had been appropriated by Professor Leslie ; At

traction and Capillary Attraction and Cohesion by

Mr. Ivory. His services, as might have been expected,

were thankfully accepted on his own terms, which
were that he should receive sixteen guineas a sheet as
long as his communications were anonymous, and
twenty guineas a sheet, in case he should allow his
name to appear. The signature by which his Articles
are known are two consecutive letters in the motto

Fortunam ex aliis, which he intimates that he had

adopted as indicating that his success in his own pro

fession had not been equal to his expectations, and that
the value of his scientific labours, though fully appre
ciated by the philosophers on the continent, had not
been estimated with equal justice by his countrymen.

It would hardly appear to have occurred to him, while

he was giving expression to this feeling, that the very
anxiety to secure his co-operation in a great national
work was at least a proof that the tide of public opinion
had already begun to turn in his favour.

   He contributed between the years 1816 and 1823,
sixty -three articles to this Supplement, of which forty-
six were biographical. Of these contributions that
on Egypt was much the most considerable : but the

articles on Bridge, Cohesion, Chromatics and especially
that on Tides, most of which were reproductions,

with very important additions and alterations, of essays

which had appeared elsewhere, are hardly surpassed

in originality and importance by any works on the
subjects of them which have appeared in modern

times.
Chap. IX.  BIOGRAPHIES.  255

    The biographies, though many of them are very
brief and compiled from ordinary sources of informa
tion, are generally remarkable for great skill in the
condensation of his materials and for the easy flow and
occasional liveliness of the narrative. They are generally
accompanied by a very complete list of the several
works of the subjects of his memoirs, with notices
more or less ample of those which are remarkable
for any important investigation or conclusion. We

thus find a notice of nearly one hundred memoirs
of Lagrange, of more than two hundred of Lalande,

of one hundred and thirty of Fourcroy, of thirty-five
of Maskelyne, and of great numbers of those written
by Coulomb, Lambert, De La Condamine, and others.

   Of the scientific lives, the most elaborate is that of

Cavendish, whose memoirs are criticised with the

discrimination and minuteness which is due to them

as presenting nearly the finest models in our language
of scrupulously accurate experimental determinations,
and of sagacious yet cautious induction. Their illus

trious author did not live to witness the attempt
which has been made and vehemently supported in
modern times by some writers of the highest eminence

both in literature and science, to deprive him of the
credit due to his great discovery of the composition of

water. An undisturbed possession of more than half

a century and guaranteed by a character for honour

and veracity which had never previously been im
pugned, has been found insufficient to protect him

from imputations upon his ingenuousness at least, if
not upon his honesty. It might reasonably be asked

whether the boldest of his contemporaries would have

dared to move a finger in derogation either of his

claim or of his character ?
256  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. IX.

   Young was himself disposed to think highly of his
life of Lagrange, which he had prepared with more
than ordinary labour and care : but we have ventured
elsewhere to dispute the justice of the estimate which
he has formed of the character of that extraordinary

man, which he was disposed to consider as indicative
rather of extraordinary industry, than of great sagacity
and talent." He has done more justice to the works
of Coulomb and Robison, which he was better enabled

to appreciate by the connection of many of them with

his own special studies and investigations : those of
Coulomb, more especially his Statical Problems relating
to Architecture, exercised, as he himself informs us, a

most important influence upon some of the most suc
cessful of his own speculations.

   Of all his biographical sketches that of Porson is

undoubtedly the best. It is written throughout with

great liveliness and point, and contains some admirable
observations on the real value and importance of clas

sical studies and critical scholarship. His own early

passion for such studies and the eminence which he at

tained in them, notwithstanding the variety and ab
sorbing nature of his other occupations, enabled him
thoroughly to appreciate this extraordinary man. He
enjoyed the privilege also in very early life, as we have
already seen, of sitting occasionally at the feet of this
great master, and he was not indisposed to refer, with
a very pardonable pride, to his own share in critical
conflicts, in which he had participated.b Even the

   * Works, vol. ii., p. 579.
   b Supra, p. 23. Dr. Young refers, in his sketch, to a party at which he
was present in 1791, when only 18 years of age, where Burney -- referring to
a canon of the versification of the Greek tragic writers which Porson hail

recently established, prescribing that where an iambic trimeter ends with
a trisyllabic word, forming a pes creticus as it is called, it must be preceded
Chap. IX.         BIOGRAPHIES.        257

beauty and nicety of penmanship, more especially in
forming the Greek characters, in which Young as well

as Porson so much excelled, formed no slight bond of

connection between them : and they were equally well
qualified, by their own experience, to form a just

estimate of the value of an acquirement or rather of

a gift --though some men are disposed to underrate it
as mechanical --which not only places every letter of

a mutilated manuscript at the command of a copyist,

but indelibly fixes attention on the minutest variations
of their forms, and thus lays the foundation of those

accurate habits of observation which are not less im

portant to a critical scholar than to a man of science.
One of his biographers has said that Porson, in speak

ing of his own Greek writing, "admitted that another

person surpassed him not in the stroke but in the sweep

of his letters :" but Young himself assures us that this

statement was not quite correct; for whilst Porson

conceded to  him the    advantage  with respect to the
" command    of hand "  which his  system gave him, he

preferred the model upon which   his own was formed.
Young himself very modestly
                                adds, that " Porson's

hand was more like that of a scholar, whilst his own, as

exhibited in the Calligraphia Graeca, exhibits more the

appearance of the work of a writing-master : holding
a middle place between the neatness of Porson and

the marvellous accuracy of the country school-master,
who made the fac-simile of the Oxford Pindar in the

British Museum."

either by a short syllable or by a monosyllable -- introduced a very happy
illustration of its violation in the verse

at the very time that Porson --in a state which was unhappily too common
with him -- was attempting to fill his glass from an empty bottle. Young,

with his usual promptitude and courage, suggested the reading k'ovS' tveari

Kartafios, which was equally advantageous to the sense and to the metre.

Life.                              S
258  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

                           CHAPTER X.

                        HIEROGLYPHTCAL RESEARCHES.

A traveller in Egypt, Sir W. Rouse Boughton, had

found, in a mummy-case in a catacomb near Thebes,
a papyrus written in cursive Egyptian characters,
which, though nearly perfect when first discovered,
was subsequently very much injured by being acci
dentally soaked in sea-water. The fragments that
remained were submitted, in the spring of the year
1814, to Dr. Young, who appended to a communi
cation made by its discoverer to the Antiquarian
Society, a short notice respecting them, which was
not otherwise important except as being the occasion
of calling the attention of its author to a class of
researches upon the sacred and common writing of the
ancient Egyptians, for which he afterwards became so

famous. Between the month of May -- when this first
notice was written and sent to the press--and the

following November, he subjected the three inscrip
tions of the well-known Bosetta stone to a most
laborious analysis, which ended in a conjectural
translation of the second of the three, which was
printed as an appendix to his former notice.

   Of the three inscriptions upon this stone, the first is
in the hieroglyphical or sacred, and the second in the
enchorial," characters of Egypt, whilst the third is in

    The term demotic is adopted by Champollion from Herodotus, instead
of enchorial which is used in the Greek inscription. Young objects to the
Chap. X.           HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                     259

tGhraetek"  ; and   at the   conclusion    of    the last, it is   stated
            what   is here  decreed shall                         a block
                                             be   inscribed on

of hard stone, in sacred, in native {enchorial), and in
Greek, characters, and placed in each temple, both of
the first and second and third gods."* We should be
authorised to conclude, therefore, that the three in

scriptions expressed the same decree, as nearly as was
compatible with the genius of the different languages
employed and with the sacred and enchorial characters

used in two of them, whether those characters were

alphabetical, ideographical, or symbolical, or a mixture

of all three ; and that, consequently, the comparison

of them with each other, if carefully made, could not

fail to give very important information with respect to

the mode in which proper names, or any other words,

were written or represented, provided that their pecu
liar position in the inscriptions, or their frequent

recurrence, enabled us sufficiently to identify them.

    Unhappily, however, the early portion of the first
inscription was destroyed, and many other parts of it

mutilated or nearly obliterated ; the same observation
extended also to many parts of the Greek or third
inscription, particularly towards the conclusion; but
sufficient of it was preserved not only to make the pur
port of it intelligible, but also to afford a clue to
Porson, and more especially to Heyne, to enable those

eminent scholars to restore the whole, or nearly the

use of the former term, on the ground that we have no means of determining

the precise nature of the characters thus designated by the historian.

See Works, vol. iii. p. 271.

· The original Greek, the parts underlined being restored, partly with

lireference to the extent of the deficient spaces and partly to the context, is
as follows :-- ro  ^tifywfta tovto avaypdipai etc (rrtjXi/v fityaXr/v are-

ptov XiBnv, roit tt upolc Kal tyxwpi.oic Kai .EWr)vtKoit ypdfifiaaip
ifKai ortjaai  iKatrnp ruy re irpulruv Kai hivripuv irui rpirtoy itptav

K. r. a.

                                                 s2
260  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

whole, of the deficient parts, without much opening for
any material omission or error. The intermediate in
scription in the enchorial characters or those in common
usage, was nearly complete, with the exception of the
beginning of some of the earlier lines.

   A fac-simile of the three inscriptions had been

engraved by the Antiquarian Society, though wanting
in that minute accuracy which is more or less necessary
in all cases where the issue of an important critical
inquiry may be affected by the most trifling omission,
or the most minute variation of form. Young had
furnished himself with copies of this engraving when
he made his annual visit to Worthing in the summer

of 1814, and he there proceeded, by an attentive and
methodical comparison of the several parts with each
other, to ascertain those portions of the two first
inscriptions, and more especially of the second, which
corresponded with the Greek.

   Silvestre de Sacy, the celebrated orientalist--to whom

a copy of the inscriptions upon this stone had been
submitted soon after its discovery by the French at the
beginning of this century -- in a letter addressed to Chap-
tal," the Minister of the Interior, had pointed out, from
their recurrence and position, in the second of the three
inscriptions, the groups of characters which expressed
the names of Ptolemy, Alexander, and Alexandria ; and

Akerblad,b a gentleman connected with the diplomatic
service of Sweden, a good classical and a first-rate Cop
tic scholar, who was at that time resident in Paris, pro-

   · Lettre au Citoyen Chapt.il, Ministrc de rinteYieur, au sujet de l'ln-

scription Egyptienne de Rosette. Paris, an x. 1802.
   ·> Lettre sur l'Inscription Egyptienne de Kosette, adresse"e au C. Silvestre

do Sacy, Professeur de langue Arabe a l'ecole speciale des Ungues Orientales.

J.Par D. Akerblad, 1802. For notices of the labours of Akerblad see

Dr. Young's Works, vol. iii. p. 30, 44, 79, and 270.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  261

. secuted the inquiry much further, assigning the groups
 of characters corresponding to sixteen other names

 and words, and determining an alphabet which, though

 confessedly imperfect, was very generally applicable to
 the proper names, but which he vainly strove to extend

 to the whole inscription. Availing himself of the results
 of their researches, as far as they could be depended
 upon, Young pasted upon parchment the several por
 tions of the two first inscriptions, as given in the en
 gravings of them, taken line by line or group by group,
 with those corresponding to them in the Greek text
 which was written above them. The parchments, with

 the appended texts, are now before me, and have been
 prepared with the neatness and minute care for which

 he was so remarkable. The result was a conjectural
 translation of the enchorial or Egyptian inscription,
 both in English and Latin, the first of which was ap
 pended to his other remarks on Sir Wm. Boughton's
 paper, and the second designed for distribution abroad.

    In writing to Mr. Gurney, who had heard of the

 work in which he was engaged, he says --

I I" You tell me that shall astonish the world if make out
Ithe inscription.
                   think it on the contrary astonishing that it
Ishould not have been made out already, and that should find

the task so difficult as it appears to be. Certainly the labour of

a few days would be sufficient for the comparison of an equal

number of lines in any ordinary unknown language, aided by a

literal translation, so as to identify pretty satisfactorily all the

words that occurred more than once, and to ascertain their

Imeaning : but have been a month upon this, and have still
Iseveral passages that occur more than onCe which cannot com

Ipletely identify, or at least understand. But by far the greater

part of the words have ascertained with tolerable certainty,

Iand some of the most interesting without the shadow of a doubt ;

but can read very few of them alphabetically, except the

proper names which Akerblad has read before and this is the
262          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.        Chap. X.

more intolerably provoking, as there was so much reason to

expect a very general coincidence with the Coptic, the names

of the three months mentioned in the Greek agreeing very
Icorrectly with the Coptic names.
                                   have, however, made so few
Iattempts to obtain an alphabet that am not yet much dis
Icouraged on this head. have considered the whole as hierogly-
Iphical, and assuredly if it had been truly hieroglyphical should
Ihave succeeded much more rapidly than have done, because

the characters could be easily recognised when they occurred

the second time ; while in the present inscription they are so

carelessly engraved as often to diner exceedingly, besides that

Ithe nature of the symbol might possibly have been of some
assistance.  have certainly deciphered much more of the

Egyptian inscription than Akerblad had done when he pub

lished his Essay ten years ago, and as he professed his intention

Iof pursuing the subject, think he must have done something
Imore ; and as he had undoubtedly begun right, am very de

sirous of knowing what has prevented his completing the task,
and of comparing our ideas, as possibly one may have succeeded

where the other has failed. Will you have the goodness to send

the enclosed note to Silvestre de Sacy," and tell him at the same

time that you will take charge of the answer."

    Mr. Gurney was then in Paris, during the short
peace of 1814 which followed the first abdication of

Napoleon.

   In a subsequent letter, written when his labours

were concluded, and addressed to the same correspond
ent, who in a letter from Paris had referred to Cham-

pollion's work entitled L'Egypte sous les Pkaraons,b in
which the Rosetta inscriptions were said to have been

the subject of examination, he says --

   " Your first letter disturbed my rest with impatience to see

   « This letter and the reply to it are given in Dr. Young's Works, vol. iii.

pp. 16, 17.
   b ' L'Egypte sous les Pharaons, ou recherches sur la geographie, la religion,

la langue, les Ventures, et l'histoire de l'Egypte, avant l'invasion de Cam-
hyses ; par M. Champollion le jeune, professeur d'histoire, bibliothe.caire-
adjoint de la ville de Grenoble.' Paris, 1814. 2 vols. The work was never

completed.
Chap. X.      IUEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                                                                   263

Champollion's work : soon afterwards, however, I had a few

lines from Sylvestre de Sacy, mentioning that author, but
merely as pretending to understand the inscription * and not

as having published his interpretation. For the present, how

Iever, have done with the subject, and am going to write a
Imedical book :b when shall resume or whether at any time,
I

                it,

                                            :

                     I

                                           is

                                                                                              :

                                                              it,

                                                I
do not know but have certainly every encouragement to

pursue having already succeeded beyond my late expectations

with respect to the hieroglyphics of these have deciphered

about one half, which               the first step towards any authentic

information respecting the ancient history and letters of Egypt.
Of the Egyptian, de Sacy has made out three proper names,0

and Akerblad nine more and five or six Coptic words . have
it
                         by
                                  it

                          I

                                          if

                                                            it

                            I

                                                   II I
detected fifty or sixty Coptic words, ten or twelve of them

without any doubt, but this makes little more than one tenth of

the whole inscription, and doubt          will be ever possible to
reduce much more of to Coptic, especially as have fully as

certained that some of the c/taracters are hieroglyphics.                                           have,

however, made out the sense of the whole sufficiently for my

purpose, and  means of the variations from the Greek, have

been able to effect a comparison with the hieroglyphics, which

would have been impossible to do satisfactorily without this

intermediate step. The repetition of names and titles varies con

siderably, and in such a manner as to produce a difference be

tween the Greek and hieroglyphics, which was bar to all further
                                                 a
investigation, besides the want of several portions towards the
                                                  ^a
end of the Greek, all of which except one, the Egyptian sup;
plies sufficiently. In general there little resemblance be
                                       is
tween the hieroglyphic and the thing represented                                                 by except
                                        ; ; isP                                                     ; it
the numbers under ten            ;     a priest 4jft* a shrine                                                 an
                                                                                                     ^
              few others. God
                                                                                                            |j5
image, and                                       in the Egyptian
        f^                                                                                                       .

dwvo/3tos jgjy; Egyptian 'jftij- Vulcan1a                                                        Egyptian        .

Good . King . Proper names within line, as had con,
                                                                                                 I
                      « p. ;£
jectured            and in Egyptian, had before observed a part
                                       I

" Works, vol. iii.               17. His Essay on Consumptive Diseases.b
                                  Works vol. iii. pp. 23, 24.
264                MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                              Chap. X.

of this character terminating names thus, |\                                                ), without

knowing its origin : plurals are formed by three symbols of the

same kind, or by three points, as ["PP or       is                                          gods. If the

whole stone could be recovered, we should know much more.;

                                                              jj-

                                                              f",
The difficulties have been far greater than there was any

reason to expect, and am almost surprised that the labour
have bestowed on them has effected so little in comparison of
     it                                                                                               I

                    I
what might have -happened to effect at the same time, in

point of public interest, the result               sufficiently striking. My

communications will, however, remain anonymous. Notwith

standing what have heard of Champollion, you will easily
                   II

                                             a
imagine that am not little anxious to see what he has

done, and obliged to your kindness in procuring the book."

   In another letter towards the end of the same year
he says --
I
                :
" have only spent literally five minutes in looking over

Champollion, turning by means of the index to the parts where

he has quoted the inscription of Rosetta. He follows Akerblad

blindly with scarcely any acknowledgment But he certainly

has picked out the sense of a few passages in the inscription
means of Akerblad's investigations--although in four or five
                                                                                            a
Coptic words which he pretends to have found in it,' he                                              is by
wrong in all but one -- and that
                                                a very short and very
                                                : is
obvious one. My translation                             is                                  anonymous, and

                                                                   :

                                                                 it

                                                                          is
                                                printed

must Jbr some time remain so but everybody whose appro

bation is worth having will know the author."

   In the following year, 1816, revision of this transa

lation was published in the Museum Criticum, Cam-
                                                                                            a

                                                                                                   a
* Egypte sous les Pbaraons, vol. p. 23. The author refers to part
                                                i.
                                                                        it

                                                                                         ;
to be hereafter published for the result of his examination of this inscrip

tion and of the alphabet which he had deduced from                                          an inquiry which

he deems to be of no small importance as regards the reading of the various

Egyptian manuscripts which arc known to be in existence, and also from

its possible use in the interpretation of hieroglyphics, with which may
                                                                                            it

have some connection he adds that such an hypothesis must not be deemed
                   ;

paradoxical.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  265

bridge journal of classical literature edited by the pre
sent learned Bishop of Gloucester, who was at that
time Greek Professor. To this translation was added
a correspondence relating to it which had passed be
tween himself, Sylvestre de Sacy and Akerblad.

   In his earlier investigations, Akerblad had begun

by assuming the Egyptian language of the age of the

Ptolemies --which was used in the second of the three
inscriptions -- to be identical in grammatical con

struction and in a great majority of such of its words,
as were not immediately adopted from the Greek, with
the Coptic of four or five centuries later ; such being the
date of the earliest books in that language which have

come down to us : and he felt persuaded, therefore,

that if he could recover the alphabet, no serious diffi

culty would present itself, not merely in the restora
tion, but in the interpretation, of the language. His

later investigations, however, had tended to check con
siderably the sanguine hopes of success in which he
had once indulged ;" the alphabet which he had pro
posed embracing a small proportion only of the differ
ent characters made use of in the inscription, which

he found to be more than two hundred in number ; it

proved in consequence altogether inadequate for its
transcription into the Coptic or any other language.
Notwithstanding this failure, however, his name should
ever be held in honour as one of the founders of our

knowledge of Egyptian literature, to the investigation
of which he brought no small amount of patient labour

and philological learning.

    Champollion, as we have already seen, followed
in the footsteps of Akerblad, adopting all his hypo-

  * Works, vol. iii. p. 60. " Jc vois," says Sylvestre de Sacy, "qu'il a

des doutes sur son alphabet Egyptien, plus que par le passe\"
266  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                                                                 Chap. X.

theses, both with respect to the alphabetical character

of the Egyptian, as distinguished from the hierogly-

phical, inscription, and to the language which, in the

present stage of the investigation, it was assumed
to express. He had made the history, the topo

graphy and antiquities of Egypt, as well as the

Coptic language and its kindred dialects, the study

of his life, and he started therefore upon this inquiry

with advantages which probably no other person
possessed : and no one who^ is acquainted with his
later writings can call in doubt his extraordinary

sagacity in bringing to bear upon every subject

connected with      it,not merely the most apposite,

                              a
but also the most remote and sometimes the most un

expected, illustrations. With the exception, however,

of the identification of few additional Coptic words,

very ingeniously elicited from the Egyptian text, he

had made no important advance upon what had already
been done by Akerblad. Like him also he abandoned

the task of identifying the hieroglyphical inscription

or portions of with those corresponding to them in
     it

the Egyptian or Greek text, as altogether hopeless, in

consequence of the very extensive mutilations which

it  had undergone.

    When Young published in the Museum Criticum,

the letters of Sylvestre de Sacy, he suppressed, lest

he should compromise the writer, several passages

in   them, reflecting  very       severely    upon   the                                                                         character
of                     one       of these   he says
    Champollion. In                                   --
    I
            I

                                          I
                                                                                                                              :
    " am of opinion, Sir, that you are more advanced than

Akerblad or Champollion, and that you are able to read a great
Ifpart at least of the Egyptian inscription.
                                              might venture to

advise you, would recommend you not to be too communica

tive of your discoveries to M. Champollion. It may happen
Chap. X.        HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                                   267

that he may hereafter make pretension to the priority. He

seeks, in many parts of his book, to make it believed that he
has discovered many words of the Egyptian inscription of the

IRosetta stone : but am afraid that this is mere charlatanism :
I Imay add that have very good reasons for thinking so." "

He then proceeds to notice a report that some one

in Holland had discovered the alphabet of this inscrip

tion, and that at Paris, Etienne Quatremere flattered

himself that he could read a great part of                           if      and
                                                                        it,
adds --
       :
" To say the truth, cannot persuade myself that                            Messrs
          : It
Akerblad, Etienne Quatremere, or Champollion, had made
               I
any real progress in the reading of the Egyptian text, theyI

would not have been in greater haste to make their discovery

public.       would be a very rare act of modesty, of which not

one of them appears to me to be capable."

This was written in July, 1815. In the following

January he returns to his complaints against Cham

pollion --
  " His conduct," says he, " during the reign of three months,

has done him little honour, and he has not ventured in conse

                                                     I
                                                                            by
                                                                                is
quence to write to me. He must have elsewhere seen                                     a

report which his conduct provoked, and which had the charge

of making, that was not the dupe of his charlatanism He

given to play the part of the jay decked in peacock's feathers,
but such performances often end very badly. "b

Without entering upon an inquiry whether the

estimate which de Sacy had formed of the moral cha

racter of Champollion was well founded or not,                             it

                                                                                is

sufficiently singular that subsequent events were des

tined to give              somewhat prophetical truth to the
b

                        a
* Works, vol. iii. p. 51, with the note by Mr. Leitch.

      Works,   vol. iii.  p. 59. He forfeited  his   appointment as  dPurroifnegsso"r   of
History at                  in consequence of   the   part he took                     the
              Grenoble,

hundred days."
268  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.         Chap. X.

special warnings which he gave to Dr. Young : for it
will be found hereafter to be impossible, upon a fair

consideration of facts and of dates, altogether to

acquit Champollion of the charge of disingenuous

suppression in some instances, and of want of candour

in others, in the controversy which arose between

himself and Young with respect to the discovery of

phonetic hieroglyphics.

   Having now abandoned the hope of reading the

enchorial text by means of an alphabet, or of inter
preting more than the groups of characters which

by their recurrence, succession, or otherwise, admitted

of being connected or identified with the corresponding

words of the Greek translation, there remained two

important subjects of investigation to which Young

immediately applied himself. The first was to perform

the same office for the parts of the hieroglyphical text

which remained upon the stone, as he had already per

formed for the enchorial : and the second to connect

the parts of the Greek and enchorial text, word by

word, and symbol or character by character, as far

as practicable, with each other, so as to ascertain whe

ther the enchorial characters were or were not derived

from the corresponding hieroglyphics, by abbreviation

Ifor otherwise, with a view to their more rapid transcrip
tion for the purposes of ordinary life.  such or any

other determinate connection could thus be established

between them, the study of those hieroglyphical and

enchorial texts, which are known to be translations

of each other, as in the case of the Rosetta stone and,

as was subsequently found to be the case, in innu

merable funeral inscriptions and papyri, might be
made to illustrate each other.

Expectations were also very generally entertained
Chap. X.        HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                                269

about this period, that a duplicate of the Rosetta stone

might be found. It was known from the Greek in

scription that many other copies of it had been en
graved upon durable materials. Dr. Clarke, the cele

brated traveller, had observed a sculptured stone,
which might possibly be one of their number, in
a wall in the Court of the Institute at Cairo;" and
Jomard, who had been one of the great Egyptian
Commission and who had the principal share in
the publication of the results of its labours, informs

us, in a letter to Dr. Young,b that he and his col
league, Mr. Jollois, had seen a similar trilinguar
monument at Menouf,0 in Lower Egypt, and at
the same time refers to the other which had been

seen by Dr. Clarke. Very express instructions also
had been given, at Dr. Young's suggestion, to Mr.
Salt, who had recently been appointed Consul-General
in Egypt, to secure these treasures at any cost and to

forward them to England.11

   » This stone was afterwards secured by Champollion for the French

Museum, and was found to be nearly, if not altogether, worthless.

    fc Works, vol. iii. p. 69.

    » This stone was afterwards brought by Drovetti, the French Consul at

Alexandria to Italy, and finally, after many negotiations, deposited in the

Museum at Turin. Dr. Young made repeated attempts to secure a cast

    it,

         a
of but for many years without success. See Works, vol. iii. p. 287.

It was bilinguar and not trilinguar inscription, in Greek and enchorial,
                           a
and its value had been to a great extent superseded by other discoveriesa

before was accurately copied and made known to him.
  d

        it

          I
he  saInysw, r"itingmteot  his sister-in-law, Mrs. Chambers, on the 7th Dec, 1815,
                            Hamilton at Sir Joseph Banks's on Sunday last, and

attacked him immediately on Egyptian affairs he told me that everything
                                     I

                                        I
                                                            ;
                                                                   ;
had been done at the Foreign Office which wished that Salt had full powers

to hunt for all the fragments of which had shown the importance, and credit

for a specific sum to cover his expenses. He had also persuaded the French

government to furnish copy of the magnificent Description de l'Egypte

to be sent to Egypt for Salt's immediate use, upon condition that should
                                                                      it

be hereafter deposited, with his marginal remarks, in the British Museum.

Hamilton to lend me his copy for month or two this winter, &c."
            is                       a
270    MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                       Chap. X.

If""     Salt succeeds," says  Dr.  Young in writing to  Mr. Gurney,
       cannot fail in finding       name of Alexander
   we                          the                        and all the

Ptolemies, wherever they occur, without further investigation,

and those of many of the deities."

   Of all the proper names originally included in
the hieroglyphical inscription of Rosetta, that of

Ptolemy alone remains. It occurs four times, and

three of them follow in immediate succession, in the

following form, under circumstances which enabled

Dr. Young to connect them with the Greek text :--

  It will be observed that there are three groups of

hieroglyphics included within rings (the cartouches of
Champollion), the two last of which are known to ex
press the name of Ptolemy simply, and the first the

same name expressed by the same eight characters
which are common to all three of them, with the

addition of the royal title or motto, which may be

translated living for ever, of Phtha beloved. Such

rings, which are sometimes single and sometimes
double, the name generally in one and the motto in
                          Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.            271

the other, but sometimes both of them in one, as in

a it                      this case, are found everywhere engraved upon the
                          great public and other monuments of Egypt. Though
                       it,these rings occurred three times in the preceding pas
                          sage, the part of the Greek text which appeared to
                          correspond to presented the name of Ptolemy only
                          twice. Similar discrepancies which occurred in other

                          parts of the several texts --which were not in fact

                          very close or literal transcriptions or translations of

                          each other -- added greatly to the difficulty of identi

                          fying the name."

                            " It had," says Dr. Young, " been one of the greatest difficul

                          ties attending the translation of the hieroglyphics of Rosetta, to

explain how the groups within the rings, which varied considerably
in different parts of the pillar, and which occurred in several

                          parts where there was no corresponding name  the Greek,
                                    I
                                                in
                                                                     ;
                          while they were not found in others where they ought to have
                          appeared, could possibly represent the name of Ptolemy and

                          was not without considerable labour that had been able to

overcome this difficulty."

    Discoveries like these, so difficult in the infancy of             a

   science, appear so simple and so obvious when once                     is
made known, that subsequent inquirers are at loss

to conceive in what manner they could ever have occa
sioned either doubt or hesitation.

    These rings were considered in the first instance by
Young as indicating proper names, both of persons and
places, where the characters expressing them ceased to

be addressed to the eye only -- as hieroglyphics were
commonly supposed to be --but under these special cir

cumstances to the ear, by becoming phonetic, whether
as representing the ordinary letters of the alphabet or
syllables or words. The Chinese, whose language

                                    » See Works, vol. iii. p. 293.
272  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                         Chap. X.

hieroglyphical, make their characters phonetic by a pecu
liar mark, when they wish to express a peculiar combina
tion of sounds which conveys no meaning, like a foreign
word or name ; and it would obviously be impossible,

in any such system of writing, to dispense with some
similar expedient, unless certain of the characters were
habitually employed as phonetic only, and not as sym

bols and signs." In examining the enchorial inscrip

tion, Young had observed also, as we have already seen,b
that all the proper, as well as the royal, names appeared
to be enclosed between the signs y( and 3 > as in the
enchorial name of Ptolemy, where they were in the first

instance considered by him as representing the end and
the beginning of the hieroglyphical ring of the first

inscription, thus : j(L^:~££^~3 ·
   This suggestion, with respect to the circumstances

" His attention would appear to have been drawn to this provision of the

Chinese language with respect to foreign appellations by an article in the

Quarterly Review for May,       1"8T1h6e,  p. 2b2.   In writing to Mr. Gurney soon
after its appearance, he says,             Chinese  article is by Barrow, secretary of
the Admiralty, who was with Sir George Staunton and Lord Macartney. I

am excessively delighted with it ; it gives me a most accurate and perfect

idea of the singular structure of that unique language ; I had no concep
tion of its nature before : I should almost like to be acquainted with the

"I214 radical characters, merely as a matter of curiosity." On another
occasion (1818) he says,        was almost tempted last night to begin

learning the Chinese language. One of my brothers, who had some

business in town, had picked up a Chinese book from some of the Baptist

missionaries, which he believed was a portion of the New Testament.

IFrom the pages soon discovered the numerals, from these the number

of chapters and that of the verses in the first chapter which agreed
with the Gospel of St. John. Having thus obtained the translation,

I was very curious to make out the meaning of assemblages of characters

within a square which occurred continually, as they reminded me very
forcibly of the proper names in the Egyptian hieroglyphics --and they were
proper names --but not of persons, as in Egypt ; but they were the names of
places-- either countries, as some with a gate upon them, or of rivers or
towns -- the proper names of persons had only a line by their side."

b The character which Young, in the first instance, upon very probable

grounds, assumed to be the enchorial representative of part of the ring,

was in reality the letter m, which is very commonly attached as a prefix to

proper names in the Coptic language. See supra, p. 264.
Chap. X.  HJEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.     273

under which the rings were used, was ingenious," and
became fertile, as we shall see in the progress of these
researches, in the most important consequences ; for
though it was afterwards shown that such rings were
confined to the names and titles of royal personages, and
that the use of phonetic hieroglyphics was much more
extensive than this hypothesis assumed it to be, it gave

a definite direction to the inquiry for determining them
in the only cases where it was likely to succeed. For

if hieroglyphics, in all proper names, were phonetic,

whether as expressing letters or syllables, it was obvious
that no such ring or cartouche, when the name which
it expressed was well determined, would escape exami
nation with a view of testing the correctness of an
hypothesis, which had so much probability in its
favour. Such a name was that of Ptolemy, as ascer
tained from its peculiar position and recurrence in this

inscription and its relation to the Greek and enchorial
text; and it was to the characters which composed
it that the principle was first applied, as we shall here
after see, with almost perfect success.

   In the examination of the first inscription of the

Rosetta stone, with the view of ascertaining the rela
tions of the parts of it which remain, with those cor
responding to them in the Egyptian and Greek text,
Young was assisted, not merely by the recurrence of this
conspicuous ring of Ptolemy and its attendant groups,
but also by other characters which were so clearly
ideographic, as to leave no doubt of their meaning.

One of the first of those which he recognised was jf?\

as meaning a priest, from its obvious connection with
the pouring out of libations : other signs of this kind

           Works, vol. iii. p. 156.

Life.                                 T
274      MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                           Chap. X.

were those of temple, letters, month, statue : the symbol

| god, its plural |*|TM[H for gods, and                        for king,

constantly recurred, giving well-defined points in the

 text; the character ^^$,a commonly designated the      of,
crown of Lower Egypt, which appeared clearly, by its                   a

 position, to express the preposition and the

conjunction and, were also of no small use in separating

groups from each other.

    He was enabled to assign by means of this com
parison of the texts with each other, an interpretation,
though not without very considerable errors, to nearly
one hundred and sixty groups of hieroglyphics, num
ber which was afterwards augmented to more than two
hundred from other sources, more especially from the
study and comparison of the funeral rolls. They were
published in his article Egypt, in the supplement of

the Encyclopaedia Britannica.b Though some names
of deities and kings were confessedly unknown and
expressed by provisional designations, and the gram
matical elements of others were not defined, they
formed by far the most considerable step in the pro
gress of our knowledge of hieroglyphics, which preceded
the determination of the phonetic alphabet by the joint
labours of himself and Champollion.

   The inspection of this, as well as of most other

b*  Subsequently recognised by Young as n in the phonetic alphabet, the
homophone or equivalent of ./WW or the wavy line
                                                  ;          not only used as

                                                    it

                                                         : is
a preposition, but also to convert substantives into adjectives thus vovfi gold,

becomes  golden by the prefix n. The hieroglyphics for several other

prepositions and conjunctions were also determined. See Works, vol. iii.,

Nos. 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176.

    The list was republished with many omissions and additions, as species
                                                               a

of Hieroglyphical Dictionary at the end of his account of Hieroglyphical

Discoveries. See Works, vol. iii. p. 353.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL BESEARCHES.  275

hieroglyphical inscriptions of considerable length, was
sufficient to show that a large proportion of the charac
ters which they contained were ideographic, or such as
might be considered as representing the objects of which
they are more or less clearly delineations ; thus offering
to the eye, without any knowledge of the language which

such inscriptions might be assumed to express, some
considerable though not very trustworthy, indication of

the subjects to which they referred. No similar assist
ance was in the first instance afforded by the enchorial

manuscripts ; for even supposing that any considerable
proportion of the characters in which they were written

were derived from the corresponding hieroglyphics,
their forms were so much altered in passing from

one system of writing to the other, that it had hitherto

been found very difficult to recognise them, except in

very few cases.

   The funeral manuscripts, which have been taken in
vast numbers, generally from the breasts of mummies
in the tombs and catacombs of Egypt, present specimens
of writing in different stages of transition from the
hieroglyphical characters of the first inscription of
Rosetta to others approaching to the cursive or encho
rial characters of the second. Very few of such manu

scripts --and those apparently reserved for the most
solemn commemorations of distinguished persons--are

written in the full bold characters of the hieroglyphics
of the monuments ; others, and many more of them,
are written in characters assuming considerable variety
of form, but which are all of them copies more or
less complete of corresponding hieroglyphics ; some
times their forms are accurately followed, in simple

outlines only ; at other times more considerable ab
breviations, favourable to rapid writing, are admitted,

                                                     t2
276         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.      Chap. X.

but still keeping up their resemblance to the original
hieroglyphics, so as to allow of no doubt of their

derivation from them. The last and the most degraded

form which they assume is the enchorial -- and it was

with a view of ascertaining whether these as well as

the other characters in the papyri were or were not

traceable to the same origin, that Young entered upon

the second, and perhaps the most important, stage of

his inquiry.
   To the first of these several derivative species of

writing, Young would appear, from a specimen which
he has given from the great Strasburg manuscript --

in the last of the plates appended to the article Egypt
-- to have applied the epithet hieratic, classifying under

the general designation of epistolographic all those that
follow until they pass, by what he considered almost
insensible gradations, into the enchorial of the Rosetta
          it,

                                          a
stone. Champollion, at later period, transferred the
term hieratic to the writing commonly used in the

funeral rolls, where the characters are more or less mani

fest derivatives of hieroglyphics, though very different

from the hieroglyphics of the monuments or their

linear copies, to which the term had been applied bya

Young. It was only at much more advanced stage

of these researches, when the much less frequent occur

rence of the derivatives of ideographic hieroglyphics

in enchorial or demotic texts was ascertained, that  a

real distinction, beyond the forms of the characters,

was established between these different kinds of

writing.

   In letter to Mr. Gurney, at the beginning of the
          a

                     I
year 1816, after referring to various literary and
            staryifslehse,w"hichhaovcecunpoiedimhmiesdiaattteentcioonnc, ern",wietxh
scientific
which,"
Chap. X.        HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  277

cept as furnishing me with employment which, from

habit, is generally to me more an amusement than a

fatigue," and complaining of the inconvenience which

he had experienced from an act of carelessness, by

which part of the manuscripts which he had prepared

for the Museum Criticum was lost and which he was

required to replace, he proceeds as follows :--

I" The printers at Cambridge are models of slow and dignified
deliberation.    made it a condition in August last that my

paper should be immediately printed. It was accepted ; and

now, in January, the three sheets are not yet worked off;

Ibut it is of little consequence, or rather of none at all.

have had the great Description de l'Egypte for some time on

Imy table, through Mr. W. Hamilton's kindness ; * and have

been copying out some of the hieroglyphics for future use, but
I have not attempted to decipher any of them, meaning to wait
Ifor further assistance from Egypt
                                    much fear, however, from
Ithe account which have received from Paris, that neither of

the stones known to be in existence will be of much use ;b and,

Iunless the fragments of the Rosetta stone can be found,
Ialmost doubt whether much more will ever be done. Certainly

  have not yet found either a calendar of months or a chronicle

Iof kings0 among the hieroglyphics ; andT have made out much

less than thought must almost certainly have been intelligible ;

in short, very little except the existence of the name of Ptolemy

Ion several of the temples at Philoe, Ambos, and Latopolis.
The characters,  believe, are far more numerous than they

Ihave been made by those who have attempted to reckon them,

and on the whole have no confidence in being able to do

more than fully to illustrate the inscription of Rosetta, and to

trace the nature and origin of several of the characters con

tained in it."

   » Formerly ambassador at Naples and author of Egyptiaca, who, through
out a long life, has hern equally distinguished as a patron and a cultivator
of art and literature : he was at that time Under Secretary of Stato for
Foreign Affairs.

    b Supra, p. 269.
   c Such chronicles wore afterwards discovered at Abydos by Mr. Baukes,

and elsewhere.
278     MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                              Chap. X.

   The great work on Egypt, above alluded to, was
not completed at the time this letter was written,
and the copies of inscriptions to which Young
refers were chiefly those on the great temples of
Thebes, Karnak, Philoe, Edfou, Luxor, Medinet Abou,
Esne, Ombos, Denderah, &c, many of which were

taken from drawings made with more regard to pic
turesque effect than to minute details, and which were

rarely sufficiently accurate to make them documents

which admitted of much use in a critical inquiry. A

few months subsequently, the last number of the series

appeared," containing -- in addition to most accurate
fac-similes of other funeral rolls --by far the most

magnificent and most important that had ever been
discovered, written entirely in the hieroglyphics of the
monuments, and which Young has emphatically called
the Codex Ritualis, as embodying, more fully and com
pletely than any other similar document which was at

that time known, the representations --in the series
of drawings which accompany them -- of the scenes

through which the deceased, according to the system of

religious belief amongst the Egyptians, was supposed to
pass, as well as the prayers or invocations addressed to

the different divinities to whom he was successively
presented. They were probably copies of portions of
the Hermetic Books which have been described by
Clemens of Alexandria ;b and the sceues of the last

judgment, found at the end of nearly all these papyri,

   « See the letters of Jomard, by whom this publication was superintended.
Works, vol. iii. pp. 69 and 71. There is a similar manuscript at Turin,

much    more complete and nearly double the  s"izTe,hewhBicohok  Champollion ana
lyzed,  and from which Lepsius has printed                        of the Dead."--
See Bunsen.s ' Egypt's Place in Universal History,' p. 28.
b Bunsen's ' Egypt's Place in Universal History,' pp. 9 and 701 where

the passage from Clemens is given.
Chap. X.        HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                                                           279

accurately coincide, even to the number of the judges,
with the account which is given by Diodorus of the
trial of the dead." This noble manuscript contains
more than 500 columns of hieroglyphics, and the draw

ings or representations under which they are placed
are brilliantly coloured.

  I" was much struck," says Young, " with the evident relation

of some of the figures to the text below ; and having observed

the same figures in the margins of several other manuscripts
Iwritten in the running hand, was led to examine with attention
Ithe corresponding texts, and found at last a similar agreement
Iin almost all of them.
                                            then made copies of the respective

passages in contiguous lines, in such a manner as completely to

put an end to the idea of the alphabetical nature of any of

them."b

    The transcription and collation of these texts was a

work of no ordinary labour. In one page, are well-

drawn copies of the vignettes, and in that opposite to
    are the corresponding texts, three or four in number,

placed underneath each other, line by line, character

by character, so as to admit of immediate comparison.
it,

           is

               I
                               :a

                               I
                                                      a

                                       I

                                                                                                  a
» The ordinary editions of Diodorus gave this number as more than

forty, when all the Egyptian manuscripts give representations of forty-two.

Young refers, in letter to Mr. Gurney written in 1817, with particular

pleasure,  togtihveendis--co"veArynotohfer  manuscript   of this author, where the correct
number                                        numerical  coincidence has also given me
                had long ago counted XLII personages in the Hierogly-
great delight.

phical manuscripts, whom had called the Assessor Gods, as being united

to Osiris in giving his judgments, and now find passage in Diodorus,

describing the ceremony of the trial of the dead by 'more than forty judges,'

where a good manuscript has two and forty. Such coincidences as this tend

to reduce the conjectural evidence of history into something like mathe

matical demonstration, the monuments in question being at least as old as

Diodorus. They prove, too, that Diodorus must have known something

about Egypt, but he seems to have mixed the accounts of various authors,

some better and some worse, and the accuracy of ono part of his works by

no means renders impossible, that he may have committed gross blunders
b

                    it
in others." See also Works, vol. ii. p. 19.
     Works, vol. iii. p. 75, letter to the Archduke John of Austria.
280  MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

 Synonymous groups derived from other manuscripts

 were occasionally interposed, when they afforded ad
 ditional illustrations of the objects of comparison, or
 instructive examples of the interchange of symbols.

    The manuscripts in which these various labours are
 embodied are now before me. One of them, entitled

 Formulce Cultus Egyptii, contains the collation of the
 texts of which we are now speaking, derived chiefly

 from the papyri in the great Description de VEgypte,
 and others furnished by Mr. Bankes and Lord Mount-
norris ; another, the Codex Ritualis Hieroglyphicus, is
chiefly devoted to the great hieroglyphical papyrus of
 the same work ; this is followed by the Pantheon
 Hieroglyphicum, containing an arrangement of the
 Egyptian deities delineated in that and other manu
scripts, with their hieroglyphical titles and their va
rious synonyms, with provisional names assigned to

them founded upon their apparent functions, or upon
some significant symbol in their hieroglyphical desig
nation ;a in another very thick manuscript, entitled
Inscriptiones Hieroglyphicce, we find exquisite copies,

sometimes in colours, of inscriptions from the Egyptian
monuments, given in the great French work, with

 many others derived from obelisks, mummy-cases,

the works of Kircher, and other sources. To these

may be added, the special works devoted to the
inscription of Eosetta, which have been elsewhere

noticed; a large and interesting collection of Ex-
cerpta from ancient and modern authors relating to

Egypt; and lastly, a Lexicon Hieroglyphicum, in
which nearly 200 hieroglyphics are distributed into

   * The Pantheon in the article Egypt is almost entirely derived from
classical and external sources ; the Pantheon Hieroglyphicum, founded upon
the monuments and manuscripts, is much more complete, more especially
as illustrative of the various scenes represented in the ritual of the dead.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  28 1

 classes, as representing the human body and its                         "
 parts ; animals and their parts ; vegetables ; inor
 ganic natural bodies ; fixed structures ; instruments

 or utensils; articles of dress and ornament; ima

 ginary, unknown, or miscellaneous objects. Each of

 these is subjected to a critical examination, special
 references to the Itosetta stone and the ritual ma

 nuscripts being made with a view to the determination
 of its probable meaning when used singly or in combi
 nation, as well as of its equivalent signs, whether pho
 netic or otherwise, whenever such were discoverable :
 some of which will be more particularly noticed here

after. It is impossible to form a just estimate either

of the vast extent to which Dr. Young had carried his
hieroglyphical investigations, or of the real progress
which he had made in them, without an inspection
of these manuscripts. They would appear to have

been prepared between the years 1814 and 1818, and
to have been the result of labours which, though
frequently interrupted by other publications and in

quiries, were never entirely lost sight of.
    The article Egypt, which was undertaken, as we have

seen, for the Supplement of the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica,and written in 1 8 18, though not published until the
year following, contained a general view of the results
both of his critical and historical labours ; but though
it has been pronounced "to be the greatest effort of
scholarship and ingenuity of which modern literature
can boast," * it should properly be considered as little

more than a popular and a superficial sketch of the

vast mass of materials upon which it was founded :

for not only were those materials in many cases altoge-

   « Works, vol. iii. p. 86, note, taken from a very able notice of the
writings of Dr. Young, in the ' Scotsman ' newspaper, and supposed to
have been written by Dr. James Brown of Edinburgh.
282  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

ther unsuited for a publication designed rather for
general perusal than for special instruction and study,
but the necessity of resorting to costly engravings, at a
period when the art of printing or engraving hiero

glyphics was little understood and practised, made it

altogether impossible to do more than refer, by some
what vague descriptions, to points which could only be
settled by an actual comparison of the characters them
selves, or of the groups in which they appeared.

    One of the first results at which he arrived was the

relation of the different kinds of Egyptian characters
or letters employed in their hieroglyphical, hieratic or

epistolographic, and enchorial inscriptions and writings.
The most superficial inspection was sufficient to show
that the greatest part of them were tachygraphical
copies of the first ; but the derivation of the others, ap
proaching most nearly to the enchorial of the liosetta

stone, was not quite so manifest. A careful comparison

of texts however, which were obviously copies of the

same original --as in the litanies of the dead --gave in

dications of this derivation in cases so numerous and

so indisputable as apparently to justify the inference
that they were so in all, and to lead to the conclusion
that unless the typical hieroglyphics were alphabe
tical, their hieratic or enchorial derivatives could not

be so.

  It is now believed that of the existing hierogly

phical characters, which are not more than 1000 in

number, nearly four fifths are ideographic, or symbo
lical ; but at the period of which we are now speaking

-- whilst the popular belief, involved in the universal
use of the term hieroglyphics, as applied to those signs,

rejected altogether the notion of their being alpha

betical under any circumstances --a similar prejudice,

almost equally strong, led men to consider the cha
Chap. X.  UIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                             283

racters used in a system of cursive and ordinary

writing as necessarily alphabetical; and we have

already seen that Akerblad and Champollion made
this assumption the basis of their researches. Dr.

Young however showed that neither the alphabet of
Akerblad, nor any modification of it which could be
proposed, was applicable to any considerable part of

the enchorial portion of the Bosetta inscription beyond

the proper names ; and the discovery which resulted

from his extensive comparison of texts, that hierogly-

phical passed very generally into hieratic or epistolo-
graphic and not unfrequently into enchorial, characters,

appeared to him--assuming the correctness of opinions
which no one had hitherto ventured to doubt -- to be

decisive of the question which had been raised."
   He announced this conclusion in a letter to the

Archduke John of Austria,b who, during a recent visit

to England, had interested himself in these inquiries ;

and subsequently in another addressed to Akerblad.0
Both these letters were printed in the Museum Cri-

ticum for 1816, and copies of them were very gene
rally distributed at the time, both at home and

abroad, among all persons engaged in these inquiries,
though the publication of the work in which they

are contained was delayed, from causes which he
could not control, until 1821.

The first of these letters describes generally the pro-

  * M. Bunson, in a very unfair estimate of the relative claims  o"fthYaotunign
and Champollion, in connection with these researches, observes

1816 Dr. Young even went so far as to deny the existence of an alphabetic

character either in the hieroglyphical or hieratic element :" forgetting the

important limitations which are imposed upon this opinion in several

passages of the very letter which he is criticising, and apparently ignorant

of the very positive conclusions, which are noticed below, which were

announced by Champollion in the Memoir, subsequently suppressed, which

was published at Grenoble in 1821.

b Works, vol. iii. p. 74.           c Works, vol. iii. p. 79.
284  MEMOIR OF DH. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

cess by which he had arrived at this result ; the second
gives specific references to plates of different papyri,

in the great Description de VEgypte-- as documents
which were generally accessible -- for proofs of its truth.

    The conclusion, as we have already seen, was stated
in the first instance somewhat too broadly ; but it was
farther narrowed, in the article Egypt, which was
written nearly two years afterwards, when access to
several other funeral rolls, some of which were written

in characters, nearly if not decidedly, enchorial, had

shown more clearly the difficulties which attended

the inquiry. It would have been more correct to

say that a sufficient number of characters in the
cursive system of writing were derived from the
hieroglyphics, to show that it was not alphabetical,
according to the ordinary meaning of the term.

It appeared, even in the first examination which he

made of the Rosetta inscription, that the enchorial

characters for a diadem, an asp, and everlasting, were
unmistakeably borrowed from the sacred characters ;a
and though a similar coincidence was not traceable

through other parts of the two inscriptions, it
seemed to him "not improbable that alphabetical
characters might be interspersed with hieroglyphics in

the same way that astronomers and chemists of mo

dern times have often employed arbitrary marks as
compendious expressions of the objects which are of
frequent occurrence in their respective sciences; but

whatever hypothesis could be proposed to account for

the fact, no effort, however determined and persever

ing, had been able to discover any alphabet by which
the enchorial inscription could be read into intelligible
Egyptian."

                                     * Works, vol. iii. p. 133.
Chap. X.             HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                                                                                                              285

   In the year 1821 there appeared, at Grenoble, a

short memoir, by Champollion, De V Ecriture Hiera-
tique des Anciens Egyptiens, in which the author an
nounced, as an original discovery, that the hieratic
characters of the papyri were mere modifications of the
forms of corresponding hieroglyphics, adopted for the
sake of more rapid and convenient transcription;
and further, that these characters are signs of things
and not signs of sounds." The first of these con
clusions, as we have already seen, was substantially
the same as that which Young had announced five

years before : the second shows also that at this

epoch Champollion had either formed no conception
of the existence of phonetic hieroglyphics, or, had

given it up as altogether untenable, if he had once

entertained it.

   In the following year appeared the letter to M. Dacier,

to which Bunsen has not improperly attached the

epithet immortal. The memoir, which so recently
announced the second of the opinions above referred

to, had already been very carefully suppressed, and the
plates attached to exhibiting a comparison of hiero
glyphic and hieratic texts, were afterwards distributed
without date and without the letter-press which pre-
t
                                  a

                                le

                                  it,

                                                                           it
                                                                                                                                                          :
* See Mr. Leiteh's notes, Dr. Young's Works, vol. iii. p. 74 and 158,
                                                                                                                                                           S--actyh,ey"
where  the following propositions are              given from this memoir                                                                                                are
taken  from copy presented by the                  author to Sylvestre de                                                                                                son

ancien instructeur," at the sale of whose library came into the posses-

sion of the Duke of Manchester, who kindly allowed Mr. Leitch and myself

to "co1n°s.ultQuite. l'ecriture des manuscrits Egyptieus de la seconde espece

(hi"er2a°ti.quQeu)e  n'est point   alphabe.tique.  qu'une  simple  modification                                                                              du sys-
                          seconde  systeme n'est

tem"e3h°.ierQougeiyphceiqtutee. seconde espece d'ecriture est l'hicratique des au tours

Gre"cs4,D.et   doit £tre regardee comme une tachy-graphie          hieroglyphique.                                                                                       el
              Enfin, que les caractcres hieratiques sont des        signes des choses

rton des sons."
286             MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

ceded them. It was a copy of these plates only which

was given by Champollion to Young ; and we are

assured by the latter, in a letter addressed to Sir Wil

liam Gell in 1827, that he was left in entire ignorance
of the date of the publication."

    The suppression of a work, expressing opinions
which its author has subsequently found reason to

abandon, may sometimes be excused, though rarely

altogether justified ; but under no circumstances can

such a justification be pleaded when the suppression is

either designed or calculated to compromise the claims

of other persons with reference to our own. The
Memoir in question very clearly showed that, so

late as the year 1821, Champollion had made no real
progress in removing the mysterious veil which had
so long enveloped the ancient literature of Egypt ; and

even if we allow him to have been altogether ignorant
of Young's letters to the Archduke John and Aker-

blad, printed and circulated, though not published,

five years before, it clearly shows that if he had made

one step in advance, he had made one step only :
but at the interval of little more than a year from
this period, during which the Article Egypt had
confessedly come under his observation, we find him
suddenly pushed forward into the inmost recesses of
the sanctuary. From this time forward we hear no

 Works, vol. iii. p. 443. In his account of some recent discoveries in

Hieroglyphical Literature (Works, vol. iii. p. 291), he says, speaking of

Champollion's discovery of the derivation of the hieratic from the hiero-
Iglyphical characters, "whether he made this discovery before
                                                                                              had
Iprinted my letters in the Museum Criticum, in 1816, have no means of
Iascertaining.
                have never asked him the question, nor is it of much im
portance either to the world at large or to ourselves. It may not be

strictly just to say that a man has no right to claim any discovery as his

own till he has printed and published  it,
                                                                  is

                                                                                           a
                                       but the rule at least very

useful one."
Chap. X.  HIRROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  287

more of the views which are developed in his first
Memoir : and so successful were his efforts to with

draw it from circulation and public notice, that, im
portant as this document is in the chronology of the
history of these discoveries, it has been passed over

entirely without notice by nearly every author who
has written on the subject.

    Nor is this the only instance in which Champollion
is justly chargeable with a disingenuous suppression

of facts. In his PrScis du Systime HUroglyphique

des Anciens Egyptiens, after giving a very partial
account of the labours of his predecessors, and par
ticularly of Dr. Young," on the enchorial and hiero
glyphic texts of the Rosetta stone, and on the compa
rison of those which he found in different funeral

rolls, down to so late a period as 1819, when the

article Egypt was published, --he tells us that at

the same epoch, and without any knowledge of

the opinions of Dr. Young, he had arrived, by a pro
cess sufficiently sure, at nearly the same results.b We

have the evidence, however, of Sylvestre de Sacy him
self, through whom they were transmitted, that he had
given to Champollion Figeac a copy of Dr. Young's
conjectural translation of the enchorial text of Ro
setta for the use of his brother ; and we know that

copies of his articles in the Museum Criticum, of his
subsequent letters to the Archduke John, and also
of the plates to the Article Egypt, were freely dis
tributed at Paris and elsewhere in 1818, at least a

year before the publication of the latter parts of the
letter-press to which they belonged ; and though

there exists no positive proof that these latter
  ' Page 18.

   b See infra, p. 333, where this account is more fully considered.
28b  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

documents reached the hands of Champollion, it is
not very probable, considering the interest which
Young's former labours had created amongst all
persons engaged in tbese researches, that the sub
ject of them could have remained for so many years
absolutely unknown to him : at the same time we
should readily admit that the simple denial of any
person, in the eminent position which Champollion
occupied in the literary world, would have been suf

ficient to exempt him from question, if other cir

cumstances, which it is impossible altogether to ex
plain away, had not a little tended to invalidate his

testimony."

   It has been too much the custom with writers on

the history of hieroglyphical discoveries to estimate
their value, less by a reference to the state of
knowledge at the time they were made, than to a
much more advanced stage of its progress : to compare
in fact the views of Champollion in 1824 and 1830,
or of Lepsius and Birch at a much later period, with
those of Young in 1819, instead of duly considering
the influence which the investigations and specula
tions of an earlier, thus unfairly weighed against those
of a later, age, have had upon the establishment
of more correct, because more matured, conclusions.

It is this spirit of injustice which can hardly fail

to be observed whenever Champollion or Bunsen, who
has usually followed in his footsteps, have had occa
sion to notice or criticize the labours of Dr. Young.

   To return to the question, from which we digressed,

respecting the relation existing between the different
species of Egyptian writing. Young, as we have seen,
considered the hieratic and enchorial characters as

                                      ·Works, vol. iii. p. 40.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHTCAL RESEARCHES.     289

equally derived in every instance from corresponding

hieroglyphics, by a greater or less degradation of their

forms ; and any person who compares the forms, at

least of such of them as correspond to the phonetic

hieroglyphics, which are. given by Champollion at the
end of his Precis du Systime ITiiroglyphique, will be

readily satisfied with the general correctness of his

conclusion. The same is true also of many other forms

which are not included in that list ; but he never

was in a condition to assert and never asserted the

converse of this proposition, that every hieroglyphic

sign had necessarily its corresponding derivative hiera

tic or enchorial character.

There is no doubt, however, that one of the pri

mary objects of this special branch of his researches

was to identify the corresponding hieroglyphical and

enchorial characters sufficiently to enable him to re

construct the deficient parts of the first inscription
on the Rosetta stone, by replacing the characters in

the enchorial text, one by one, by corresponding

hieroglyphics. The conception was ingenious, and

if he had been in possession of materials sufficient to

enable him to carry the process of identification far

enough, the result would have been singularly inter

esting and instructive, as tending to show more dis

tinctly than by any other means the relations of those
Itdifferent species of writing.
                                 is hardly necessary to

say that Young speedily abandoned the attempt to
effect the solution of a problem which he found to be

impracticable, and which the most learned of our

Egyptologers would even now regard with no small

alarm.

" The French expedition to Egypt," says M. Bunsen, " brought
Life. '
                                      U
290  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                   Chap. X.

to light an important hieroglyphical papyrus, originally found in

the tombs of the kings of Thebes. It was first mentioned by

Cadit (1805) ; afterwards in the great work upon Egypt com
piled under the auspices of Napoleon. The pictured ornaments
showed that it treated of ceremonies in honour of the dead, and

the transmigation of souls. Champollion found a similar papyrus

in the Museum of Turin, in a much more complete state and

about double the size. It was written, like the former, not in

hieratic characters, but in hieroglyphics, the monumental cha

racter of the sacred language. Fully appreciating the importance

of this record, he immediately submitted it to close examination

and divided it into three sections. Lepsius recognized in it the

most important basis for deciphering the Egyptian character and

language. He divided it according to the data supplied by the
MS. itself, into 165 sections, and soon perceived that all the

rolls of Papyri in the various European collections devoted to

the same subject contained more or less of these sections.

Champollion assumed its contents to be of a liturgical nature,
and accordingly named it ' The Ritual ;' Lepsius preferred the
title of the ' Book of the Dead,' as it no where contained any

funeral service in the proper sense. On the contrary, the de

ceased himself is the person who officiates. His soul, on his

long journey through the celestial gates, is giving utterance to

prayers, invocations, confessions which are here recorded. The

first fifteen chapters form a connected, distinct, separate whole,

with the general superscription.  ' Here begins the Sections of

the glorification of the Light of Osiris.' This part is illustrated

by a picture of the solemn procession of the corpse, behind

which the deceased appears, offering up prayers to the Sun-god.
The first chapter which is found on several sarcophagi, contains

invocations addressed to Osiris, the lord of the lower world. In

the 9th, Osiris is opening to the deceased, as his son, the paths

of heaven and earth. In the following the Osirian is justified

and ushered into the realms of light According to Lepsius,
this first section contains the substance of the whole-- what

follows is but an amplification of the various acts and adven

tures of the soul, and some of the sections are frequently re

peated word for word.""

     * Egypt's Placo in Universal History, p. 25.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHIC AL RESEARCHES.      291

   The reader who refers to Section vin." of the article

Egypt will find that in these observations and dis
coveries--the important bearing of which upon the
progress of Egyptian learning M. Bunsen has in no re

spect exaggerated --both Champollion and Lepsius had

been long before completely anticipated by Dr. Young.

It was Young, as we have already seen, who first in

stituted the systematic comparison of these funeral rolls
and showed that the various sections into which they

were divided in various manuscripts --however different
in their age or in their style of writing--related more

or less to the same scenes represented by the vignettes
which headed them, and embraced more or less of the

same texts, whether prayers, invocations, or confes

sions. It was Young who connected the greatest

part of those rolls which he examined, with the great
hieroglyphical papyrus of Paris, as the most compre
hensive of all those which had come under his obser

vation, and who first came to the important con
clusion that they formed a portion of those sacred
books ascribed to Hermes or Thoth, of which Dio-
dorus and Clemens of Alexandria speak, which had

been transmitted without alteration from the earliest

ages. It was Young also who first applied the

epithet Mortuary Ritual to the complete series of
those sacred formulae, a designation which Champol
lion afterwards adopted, as was usual with him,

without acknowledgment, though no part of the work
of Dr. Young in which it was mentioned could pos
sibly have been at that time unknown to him.

   This identification of texts, in papyri of ages so
distant from each other, was undoubtedly the most

interesting, if it was not the most important, of all

          * Works, vol. iii. p. 189.

                                       v2
292  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

the discoveries in Egyptian literature, which preceded

the determination of the phonetic alphabet. It af

forded a means of comparing with each other the

different modes of expressing the same ideas at least,

if not in the same words, in the various characters

which were employed in them, whether they were

hieroglyphical or hieratic ; and of identifying equiva

lent groups or equivalent characters, whether the

latter were used phonetically or not. Such manu

scripts and inscriptions likewise, when thus identified

and determined, presented a series of texts, whose

interpretation probably presented fewer difficulties

than most other Egyptian writings --from the pic
torial representations, illustrative of the subjects to
which they referred, with which they were generally
headed or accompanied -- from the easily recognised

symbols or groups of symbols which expressed the
designation of the various deities concerned in these

scenes -- from the frequent recurrence of those phrases
of respect and adoration the meaning of which had
become known to us from other sources, -- and, most of

all, from the general sameness and narrow range of the
topics which were introduced into them. By the care
ful use of the various aids above referred to, com

bined with a knowledge of the hieroglyphical groups
whose import had been ascertained by the study of
the Rosetta stone and other documents, Young was
enabled to translate conjecturally many passages in
these rituals, and to form a very correct conception
of their general purport in all cases. The Book of

the Dead, which Lepsius has printed, with a trans
lation, from the great Turin papyrus, forms a worthy
termination to a class of researches, which must
be for ever memorable in the annals of the disco
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                 293

veries relating to the language and religion of ancient

Egypt.

   The following account, extracted from his manu
scripts, referring more especially to some rolls of papy
rus sent from Egypt by Mr. Bankes and Lord Mount-
norris, will sufficiently establish the correctness of the

preceding statement : --

   " These manuscripts are arranged in twelve sheets, contain
ing parts of five or six different rolls of papyrus. The first,
which is 12 feet in length, contains nine of the twelve, the

second and third two, and the fourth and fifth the remaining
one. They are all of a similar nature, representing, in the pic
torial tablets, homages to the different deities, processions and
detached actions, with appropriate hymns subjoined ; and in
this, as usual, they agree with all the other Egyptian manu
scripts which have hitherto been examined. Some of them

agree throughout their extent with each other, excepting, how

ever, the introduction of a characteristic phrase, peculiar to

each manuscript, as a title of Osiris, which is repeated, and
often more than once, in each section ; but in general there are
some paragraphs or sections which agree in the different manu
scripts, and these may readily be discovered by the identity of
the tablets, the text being generally the same where the tablet
is the same. The figures in this manuscript are obviously in

sert"edThaeftemrostht ecotnesxitdewraasblewritotef nt.he manuscripts hitherto disco

vered is distinguished by the title of the Strasburg Manuscript,
the whole of which is very neatly written or drawn in charac

ters obviously intended for pictures, as distinct hieroglyphics of

visible objects* -- a kind of writing which may possibly have
been called the hieratic. The rest of the manuscripts are chiefly

in the ejristolographic character, which is a distant, though a

very well-marked imitation of the same forms, rudely copied,

character for character.

    " In the great manuscript of Mr. Bankes, we find a very
entire copy of a series of ten sections, beginning with a homage
to Thoth or Hermes, which may be called the Hermetic decade.

           The linear hieroglyphics of Champolliou.
294             MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.            Chap. X.

 x

The latter sections, which are wanting in other epistolographic

manuscripts, are here quite perfect, though some of the earlier
ones have suffered. In the subsequent part of the list there are

several detached sections which are found in the Strasburg Manu

script, particularly the head rising out of the lotus, and some of

the following tablets. The end, like that of several other of

these rolls,  contains   the chapter  devoted to the sacred cow.
              is also,  in sheet V.,
   " There                            a list of 22 names of deities,

with figures of 10 of them, which are the same, and nearly in

the same order, as are commonly found painted on the coffins

of mummies and on sarcophagi of stone, particularly that of

Apis in the British Museum. These are always distinguished

by the relation which they bear to Osiris, which is the same for

each deity ; and the name of Osiris is always followed by

the characteristic phrase of the manuscript or monument, which

may perhaps have had some allusion to the deceased per

sonage, and who is made to serve without repetition for the

whole twenty-two, being written in a column which follows the

enumeration of the relations and is followed by that of the

names.

   " This manuscript, as well as one of the others, exhibits several

times the peculiarity of a title of Osiris, which seems to signify

sublime and good, being inclosed in a broken ring like a proper

name of a man.

" In all other instances, the names of the deities arc without
rings. It cannot be the name of a man concerned in this par

ticular manuscript, because it is found in the Strasburg Manu

script as well as in this, unless it was the same man in both of

them ; it  is,  however, observable at Edfou, enclosed in ring,
                                                       a

but"  the context   has not been copied.             very distinctly after that

      The name     of the moon occurs here

of the sun, as the good Lunus         ;              several times mentioned

                                         it
                                              is

                                                    ;
in one of the sections, but never with the feminine termination

as those of the goddesses generally are and from this circum
stance, as well as from the gender of the Egyptian word, Ioh,

there can be no doubt that the moon was a masculine deity

among the Egyptians."

Then there follows more minute and critical exa
                        a
Chap. X.     H1ER0GLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                                                                       295

mination of this and the other papyri, section by
section, containing comparisons of synonymous groups
differing only from each other by the use of equiva
lent symbols, as well as other points which seemed
to be peculiar or remarkable.

    We have before spoken of the circumstances which
led Dr. Young, not merely to the identification of the
name of Ptolemy in the first inscription on the Ro-
setta stone, but also suggested to him the notion that
the rings within which it was there enclosed, and
which appear so constantly upon the monuments,
were designed to indicate that the hieroglyphical cha
racters which they included might possibly be used
phonetically, for the purpose of designating the
names of kings, or persons, or places, whether do
mestic or foreign, which could not otherwise be ex

pressed ;

" a process," says he, " which may be in some measure illus

trated by the manner in which the modern Chinese express a
foreign combination of sounds, the characters being rendered
simply ' phonetic ' by an appropriate mark, instead of retaining
their natural signification, and this mark in some modern books
approaching very near to the ring surrounding the hieroglyphic

names."

   Thus, the English word strong would require three

Chinese characters, se, te, lung, to express and on the
left side of each of them would be placed the character
is

                                               ;

                                                                                                          p.

                                                                 it,
kou signifying mouth." Thus se, te,                                                                           lung,

without the  kou, would severally signify magis

trate, to obtain, dragon but when this last character
     placed on the left of each of them, their com

bination would express the name strong, such being

          · Quarterly Review, May 1810, vol. iii. 284.
296          MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.     Chap. X.

the only form of it which brings it within the compass
of the Chinese organs of speech, the r being replaced

by /, as was usual also with the Egyptians.

The Chinese language possesses two hundred and

fourteen primitive characters, some of which are ideo

graphic, or representations of real objects, others sym

bolical or arbitrary; and it is by their combinations

that they compose a language which is addressed

through the eye to the mind without any necessary

association of sound, and which may, in fact, cor

Ifrespond to different sounds in different provinces of
the empire.  it was assumed, therefore, as was uni

versally the case when these researehes began, that

the hieroglyphics were the signs of a similar language,

excluding an alphabetic element -- and it obviously

abounded with ideographic characters to a much

greater extent than the Chinese -- it would not be an

improbable hypothesis, that some similar expedient

might have been adopted to phoneticise the characters

whenever it became necessary to indicate foreign or

other appellations which the customary associations

of sound with such symbols or their combinations were

incompetent to express ; under such circumstances,

it was assumed by Dr. Young, that the ring which

enclosed those symbols might very possibly serve the
\\office of the sign
                      kou, of the Chinese.

There were, however, some conditions necessary

to the successful application of the principle thus

suggested for the analysis of groups of symbols,

supposed to be phoneticised by being included within
such rings, which it was not always easy to satisfy.
The first was a tolerably certain antecedent know

ledge of the name which these characters were re

quired to express ; the second the familiar names in
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHIC AL RESEARCHES.     297

the spoken language of Egypt, or in the Coptic de

              which were used to express the seve
a ifscended from

                  it,ral objects, which the symbols more or less clearly
                               a
represented, the initial letter or syllable of which, or
                                  a
the entire word, whether monosyllabic or not, was
                                                       ;
to be made phonetic. This second process, however,
                                                                                     a
would generally be found impracticable, in consequence
                                                                                                                     :
of its being rarely possible, from the paucity of known

Coptic words, to assign the names of the objects

represented by the figurative signs, and also from its

being uncertain whether such names were used for

the same objects in the ancient Egyptian language.

The process of discovery, as we shall see, has generally

been, first to identify the name which the symbols

within the ring expressed, and secondly, when suf

ficient number of phonetic symbols has been deter

mined, to apply them either to determine or to assist

in determining, any other phonetic name, the analysis

of which was previously unknown.

Another consequence of this system would be the

probable and almost necessary use of homophone signs

for several different hieroglyphical characters were

known by names which began, not with the same

letter only, but with the same articulate sound formed

by consonant and vowel, they would all equally

admit of being thus phoneticised."

These were the principles which either guided Young

in his analysis of well-ascertained names into their
phonetic elements, or which were, in some degree at

least, resorted to as test of their accuracy, whenever

he was enabled to determine them conjecturally by the

aid of other considerations such as those afforded by
the comparison of the hieroglyphics in the rings with

              * Works, vol. iii. p. 467.
298  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

the enchorial characters of the same names, whenever
their identity could be determined. He was in posses
sion of the hieroglyphical names of two royal person
ages, and of two only, those of Ptolemy and Berenice,
which were determined with sufficient certainty to
enable him to apply his principles to them with tole

rable safety. In the analysis of the first he was chiefly

guided by secondary considerations, the only consider
able error which he made being occasioned by his

too exclusive reliance upon the principles above re
ferred to ; in that of the second he was led into serious

errors by the same cause.
    The train of reasoning which is involved in these

speculations is extremely artificial, and such as could
hardly occur to two persons engaged independently in
seeking for the solution of the problem of reading or
analysing the names upon the monuments : but inge
nious and refined as the conception was, and memo
rable as were the conclusions to which it served as a
guide, it is now known that very material errors were

involved in most of the assumptions upon which it

was founded. The rings did not indicate that the

characters which they included were necessarily pho
netic, with a view of expressing names and appella

tives, whether domestic or foreign, which were not
otherwise expressible, but were exclusively used as
marks of honour to royal personages. The characters,
also, within these rings are not more generally pho
netic, at least before the age of the Ptolemies, than
those which are external to them, inasmuch as ideogra
phic symbols, especially of the names of the deities,

were used as well as those which were alphabetical or
syllabic : and though it was possible and probable that
the phonetic power of a symbol was deduced from the
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                       299

initial letter or syllable of the word in the Egyptian

language which expressed               ; it,  no sufficient proof had

then or has since been produced to show that such was

invariably the case.

We have already seen that in "1821 Champollion

denied altogether the existence of an alphabetic ele
ment amongst the hieroglyphics. But in the follow

ing year we find him adopting the whole of Young's

principles, and applying them with one modification

only. Like him, he refers to the expedient resorted

to in the Chinese language for the phonetic expression

of foreign appellations like him, he regards the rings
it
as marks of the phonetic use of the characters which
     ;a
            athey include, whether of royal or private personages,

                 itwhether domestic or foreign like him, he supposes
                                    ;
the phonetic power of the symbol to be derived from

the initial letter or syllable of the name of the object

which expresses in the Egyptian language but he
                                                    a

                                                        ;
differs from him in considering that such phonetic

character could express more than simple letter or the
                                              a

syllable formed by when followed by short vowel
                                                 a         ;

and he only notices, for purposes of criticism, those

applications which Young had made of this principle,

where the phonetic power of such symbol was ex
                                              a

tended to syllable, like the Coptic name of the basket

     flip, in phoneticising the hieroglyphical name of Be

renice. It would be difficult to point out, in the history

of literature, more flagrant example of disingenuous

suppression of the real facts bearing upon an important

discovery where principles, too peculiar in their cha

racter to have occurred independently to two different

minds, are adopted without the least acknowledgment,

though circumstances proved incontestably that they

were neither known nor thought of at time imme
                                                 a

diately antecedent to the perusal of the very work in
300  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.             Chap. X.

which they were announced and exemplified; where
the conclusions in one work were passed over without

notice when they were precisely the same as those

which were adopted in the other, but invidiously criti

cised where an erroneous or somewhat too extended

application of them afforded a handle to lay hold of,
for the purpose of establishing a claim for entire origi

nality. It was in a very different spirit that his illus

trious countryman, Fresnel, with much higher pre

tensions to independent research and discovery, at

once abandoned his claims of priority when he found

that he had been anticipated by Dr. Young."

The ground upon which Champollion rested his

claim, not merely to a principal share in the discovery

of phonetic hieroglyphics, but also to the exclusive

glory of effecting: was, that Young had taken

                   a

                     it,

                         if

                                    it,

                                               a
                                                       a

                                                                a;
                                                                             a

                                                              a it it a
mistaken view of the principle of their phonetization,

when such hieroglyphics no longer, as in ordinary

cases, represented, not sounds, but things the latter

conceiving, in conformity with the Chinese principle

which he had suggested, though he did not feel

necessary strictly to follow that symbol when

became phonetic might represent either letter or

syllable, or even word, the familiar name of the

object of which the symbol was figure formed part

or the whole of the name which was required to be

vocalised such cases, in fact, being of frequent occur

rence in the expression of many royal names, such as

those of Rameses, Thoutmes, and others, when the com

pound or simple symbolical representation of the deity
becomes phonetic element of the name, part of whose

sound expresses. Champollion contended, on the
contrary, at least in the first instance, that they were
syllabico-alphabetic, such as would be formed by con-
     it

        a
                                                                  a
                                                                                  a

                    " Sec supra, p. 165.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  301

sonant and a short vowel -- as is usual with the alpha
bets of the Semitic languages -- but not the constituent
syllables or parts of words, with more consonants than

one. These principles, however, more especially if con

sidered as forming a starting point for subsequent in
vestigations, were in no essential respect different from
each other, and the selection of one or the other of them

could not fail to be decided by the result of the two or
three first applications of them to names previously

well known ; more especially if such names, like that of

Cleopatra, which first came under Champollion's obser

vation, admitted, as we shall afterwards see, of perfect
and unambiguous analysis, without the suppression of

a single letter.

   The Article Egypt, which contained the principal
record of Young's researches in hieroglyphical lite

rature, was addressed, as we have before observed,"

not to learned but to general readers, and it exhi
bited, therefore, a very imperfect view of the vast
mass of manuscript materials which he had collected,
and of the patient and skilful analysis to which

they had been subjected. These manuscripts were
all written before the preparation of that article,

and nearly five years before the appearance of Cham

pollion's letter to M. Dacier, and it is obvious,
from an inspection of them, that they had re
ceived no subsequent additions. The whole of the
intervening period, in fact, had been fully occupied in
writing nearly seventy articles of the Supplement of the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, as well as by a great variety
of public and other engagements. One of these manu
scripts contains a classified dictionary of nearly two
hundred hieroglyphical characters, with real or conjec-

                                                 · Supra, p. 281.
302  MEMOIR OF DH. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

tural interpretations of their use and meaning, whether
singly or in combination with others, which have been
derived from the Rosetta stone, from the collation of

a great number of ritual and other papyri, from in

scriptions on the monuments, and from other sources.

M. Bunsen, and other friends of Champollion, have
spoken in very disparaging terms of the Lexicon
Hieroglyphicum, which is appended to the article
Egypt, as uncritical, meagre, and frequently erroneous :
but they would probably have been compelled to form
a very different estimate, both of the capacity of the

writer, and of the real progress which he had made, if

the whole of this Lexicon, as well "as his collations of

the manuscripts, could have been brought under their

notice.

   We shall subjoin a few extracts relating to some
characters, which, from various causes, have been re

ferred to in the discussions which have arisen in

the course of these researches, or are otherwise espe
cially deserving of notice : some of them we shall
give entire as specimens of others, which are equally
copious ; whilst in most cases, we have been com
pelled to confine ourselves to a few extracts only,
from considerations of economy both in space and

hieroglyphical printing. It is hardly necessary to

remind our readers that the manuscripts from which
they are taken were not designed for publication, and
having been written in the first infancy of these
inquiries, they contain, as might naturally be expected,
much that is merely conjectural, and much more that
is now known to be altogether erroneous.

   No. 179. Hl| This may possibly be something like the

article w», since 2. , which often answers to it iii the manuscripts,
Chap. X.  H1ER0GLYPHTCAL RESEARCHES.                       303

appears to have some connection with that sound. But there
is no case in which TTT1 seems to serve the purpose of an article.

^Its simplest intelligible use is with  , for a term of respect

following the name of a deity.  WW. which seems never to

be inceptive, as its synonym C^^. ^ ^ , (Ros. I., 1. 5, 14.)

Beloved.           |flM^£S)(Ros. L, L 7), Apis.

(Ros. L, 1. 7, 11), Ptolemy. The block possibly it. The semi

circle t, but without explanation. The lion, ££l3^, oXe,

perhaps an old word, like the uCki, which more lately signified

ram. ~~\ - y., which seems to be often indicated, as in          ,

/ |ip ix.x ; perhaps yax ; and  , i ; or merely  and e, as the

later Copts wrote ; ^ , may be ouj, great ; if the Egyptians

confounded the c and cy.

        No. 91."   (Ros. 1. 13) ; the same. ^^.(Ros. 1. 13) ;

^^
a,it seems here to take the place of ^ ; but this is
                                                      not {[J j .

6LJ- (Ros. 1. 14), uncertain.   . No. 201, 152. A frequent

a tm homage in the great ritual. Almost all the terms taken

<Qy> singly seem to imply something like greatness or respect,

          but it is not easy to say how they are connected with each
          ^other.
                   tm should be irr, and it may have some dis
ffaf X Mtinct meaning in gTM.
                                Ql for           Tab. in.

   The analysis of the name of Ptolemy, which is

given in the article Egypt, is chiefly founded upon the
relation of some of the principal symbols within the

   * The numbers referred to designate the No. in the Dictionary, which
the particular symbol referred to occupies.
304        MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                       Chap. X.

ring to those which he conceived to correspond to

them in the enchorial text of the Bosetta stone ;

he, therefore, justifies his not  ahsesicgonninsigderaedphiot n"etiacs
value to the knot or flower, as

not essentially necessary, being often omitted in the

sacred characters and always in the enchorial." * We
find it omitted in some inscriptions which he has

copied, where the ring of Ptolemy appears.

Champollion found this character, the knot or

flower, as the fourth in order, in the hieroglyphical

name of Cleopatra, and he denies the omission of the

corresponding character in the enchorial name of

Ptolemy, which Young had mistaken for part of the

character for t which preceded it. The only im

portant misconception, therefore, which occurs in this

analysis, was making the lion the representative of

lo or ole, instead of simply /. Such an error, however,

was really not of a kind to embarrass any inquirer,

and could not fail to be dissipated by any other appli

cation of the principle to a name where the same cha

racter appeared in a different combination. The ana

lysis of the name of Cleopatra, as we shall after

wards see, at once settled this question.
\,In the hieroglyphical form of the same name, the
character   --  is  frequently replaced  by  as Young

           X

has remarked at the commencement of his manu

script collection of inscriptions from the great temple

of Ombos, as given in the great French work on

Egypt. In fact, no student of Egyptian literature,

who carefully copied inscriptions or manuscripts, could

long remain ignorant of permutable signs, which would

also become homophonous, in case such permuted signs

were found to be phonetic.

     * Works, vol. iii. p. 156. See also Mr. Leitch's note.
Chap. X.                     HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                   305

A." No 180.                   Even if this character sometimes expresses

the letter t, we cannot derive any very definite sense from the

supposition. There is some reason for suspecting that it is

/ / ^a token of respect ; thus following the name of Hermes, h nsyas
xai (Aeyar.                   seems to be its dual ; and this dual occurs

very frequently where two persons are evidently concerned."

   Then follows a long list of groups in which it ap
pears, with conjectures respecting its probable meaning
in some of them.

   " No. 183. ^ . This character occurs too often to have a
strongly marked sense: it seems to be sometimes read oc
or ocy, as if great, but it is not certain that this is its
meaning. In the ring of Ptolemaios, as we have seen,

No. 179, it is terminal. It is sometimes a secondary in com

pound characters, sometimes initial ; ^j^*) (Ros. I.) libations.

'                     (Ros.  ^0 I.)assembly, probably an epithet.fit      (No.
   1                             . I.)
218) consecrated.             f$t ^*\ (R°s-            I.) ^seems a part of a
      ih.                                    a
title of honour, as in the obelise at Luxor after a name.<"j        ^

                              seems term of respect added to a statue.       is

              (Ros.                           seems to mean language.  (I,for which
                                                Probably synonymous with
" No. 184, «h                                                                   X ; ^|

      perpetually exchanged,                    -g^- (Ros. I.) seems to be worship;ft\
StponrtuBN pay attention
it                                              to.                                                ;C^* H^)ments
    is
              ;

this scarcely occurs in the singular.                       777           °^ea SUD~

stituted in the manuscripts. 77lf                           This seems a double

plural, but           it      not incompatible with the former.

                          is

" No. 185. ZZ?i v.. Seems to relate to place, jxa also to

3!mean in, and perhaps all.                          (Ros.  belonging to, stands

between temples and Egypt.                           Jfs (Ros. I.) in a month.
   Life.
306         MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                          Chap. X.

Possibly "I*, which follows in No. 186, may be a redupli

cation, and both may mean all or every, ^j*. No 39,
                                                     jjf (Ros. I.) engraved.
tf(j.a.  ^ (Ros I.) to add.

(Iff       ^ S P3,33'111-                     In the name Ftolemaios  1
                        ")

seems to stand for    or for n, as a phonetic character.

" No. 186.            Possibly aS: it is frequently confounded

with ~1 .                                     ewry (month). ft* (Ros. I.)
                      (Ros.  I.)
                                                            I.)
seems to answer to excwtw.                           (Ros.       between

temples and Egypt as                          in No. 185.        and

(Ros. I.) moreover.

" No. 58.             in. It seems to be perfectly synonymous
J nnn-fMfwith --^, and both are often written
                                                     or
                      I.)

                                       a

                                              j

                                       Jf.
ev tolr Iegoij (Ros.  Jffl homage, perpetual dignity. The

AiVrf alone in this and in other instances implies dignity:

possibly ij. did the same.

" No 187.   9

                A

                                  fr
                                                  :

                                     It
                                          is //

                                       9,

                                                         It
                                                               if
                      hundred, eye- Sometimes also probably

Amany or much, and often of uncertain degree.                    seems to

have some connection with                     these signs often occur toge
                                              A and
ther, and we have often                                    Dut seldom, ever,

     without one of these signs.                     frequently exchanged

£.with Thus "Cp and

   There    then added                        list of many other groups in
which       used.
         it

             is is

                                           a

X" No. 190.           seems to answer to lawful, and in the word

                      ;                            of the enchorial text of the
                                              seems to have a sense, resembling
                                  it by
                                       ^
Greek to be expressed
Rosetta inscription so that
Chap. X.      HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                      307

pthat of divine   ; perhaps glorious ; being read uov or ou.

   ^^ ^ (Rob. I.) Greek.           The characters seem to be

phonetic ; ouei eyesv, oueeiwiv or oi/eiwiv, a word which seems to

   is
                         is

                                                                                     is,
                                                                                                      a
be derived from Ionian.  Expressed by ^ , that                                          as

perfect synonym, in Tablet V."

   This analysis         noticed in the article Egypt,*

and interesting as an example of the application

of the principle of phonetization, notwithstanding the
error which was made in the selection of the groups

of hieroglyphics on the Rosetta stone which corre

sponded to the word Greek or Ionian. Champol-

lion denied that Young had either determined the

phonetic value of the character """^^ included in this
group, or that he had shown to be homophone of
                                is it
          an assertion which
                                                 a
                                   sufficiently refuted by

a reference to No. 253, and by the quotation from the
article Egypt, which given in the Note below.
                  >

                      is

                                          i
                                                  is
   " No 117. AAAA/ a serrated line                         often used to repre

sent a liquid flowing out of one vessel into another the idea
                                                           :

of the fluid has been dropped for this symbol occurs repeatedly
                  is

                              :

                                               it
in almost every line of almost every existing inscription, but

that of connection only retained, so that signifies of or to,
and makes an adjective of a substantive, whether following or

  * " The word Greek, in Coptic uinin or oueikin, in Thebaic,

oueeienin, supposed to be derived from Ionian, seems to exhibit in

its form something like an imitation of the sound. The curl on stem
                                                              *a
                                                                          is
sometimes exchanged for the term divine, and appears to mean glory,'

in Coptic oou or ou, which nearly the sound attributed by Akerblad,
                  a
                       is

                                  I
                                         is

                                                        ;
to the enchorial character, little like the Hebrew u the feather, as in
                                                           ;

                                                                   is
                                                                                     '
Ptolemy and Berenice, may be read or El, having the three dashes to

express them, us usual iu the enchorial text the serpent   eneh, ever,'

and the hat,     or helmet, which  equivalent to the waved line,

<wvv> and must be read N, so that we have very accurately ouienehn,
which seems to be near enough to oueinin to justify us in thinking these
characters phonetic." See also Mr. Leitch's note. Works, vol. iii. p. 164.

                                                                         x
                                                           2
308           MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.               Chap. X.

preceding. Thus it seems to answer to vte, or simply v, as wou/3,

golden, from voo/3, gold ; it appears also sometimes to be pho

netic as N ; and very often its sense is indistinct ; as indeed

that of rt is in Coptic. ?}fr (Rob. I.) of the gods, sacred.

     (Ros. I.) upon; perhaps as making a preposition of the

rabbit. *7~t*, a combination which perpetually occurs in

some manuscripts and inscriptions, and is often left out of
...the parallel passages of others. It appears to signify . . . meats,
or . . .ations, or              .orious, as of sundry things connected

thereto.      « nr. (Ros. I.) Institutions of the country.
(Ros          seems to be sacerdotal -- pertinentia ad sacerdotes.
1

         I.)
577= (Ros. I.) ornaments, amplifications.             (Ros. I.)
                                                  In the zodiac
possessions, enjoyments. /VV^V (Ros.|*fto him.

at Dendera, water thus representedff       between the fishes.
is
             it,                      by ^

                            is           ^ I.)
It not impossible that fC^T) may be another way of re
                                               ^ |*" ,
presenting rather than          But on Tab. II. this symbolIt

              exchanged for                                   I.) it,beloved, as synonymous in
                                                                    I.)
Tablet III. for  ^.

" 253. --        A kind of hat, always represented on the great

hawk of the obelises, and often on men's heads.   means of, and

seems perfectly synonymous with v^^y making an adjective

of a substantive, whether preceding or following        and as a

letter seems to be expressed    N.                                       of the
     it                                          (Ros.

god. |^>1^ (Ros I.) for               (Ros.             upper and

lower countries. The hat and the cap are in opposition.

   " No. 92. . The feather has sometimes been mistaken
a

          |

                               is
                                                   it

                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                                ;

                                                                        it
                                                                                     it
for knife, but this always straight It may, however, be

intended to represent the wing of an insect at least the wings

of bees are generally represented in the same form      has also

some resemblance to a leaf. When has any distinct meaning
Chap. X.         HIEROGLYPHIC A L RESEARCHES.                   309

seems to signify ornament.          | | frequently occurs in passage8

where its insertion or omission seems to be indifferent, ami it

is scarcely intelligible any otherwise than as a phonetic mark

Ifor or EE English, or 1 1 1 of the enchorial character."

        (Ros. I.) These characters occur very commonly in the

manuscripts as a term of respect, as great, worshipful, honorable.

f£In the Ros. I.    follows the word gods, probably as a redupli

cative phrase."

   Then there follows the analysis of a long list of
groups in which the feathers appear.

" No. 139.          A plough, or rather, when erect, a hand

hoe, which is represented in the same form. It does not seem

to appear in the proper sense of this representation in any in

          is                           and apparently elsewhere, very

                        L)

                                   I.,
                                                 by
scription ; but in the Ros

commonly         used for Phthah, the ancestor of most of the

Egyptian deities.             bcloved                Phthah-- HrAnHME-

  " (Ros-

NOI Tfll 4>0 A.

   Young unfortunately translated this group                    " be
loved of Phthah" instead " of Phthah beloved                    thus
                                                     >          "be
interchanging the significations of
                                                            ;"
                                                     M«,
loved " and
                    is ,  Phtliah.

" No. 68.     y^* . This snake seems to be Qod, or g^o
                                       ,
   written
                                               it

                                                      is

                                                                        I.) :
it        it,       the enchorial or                 which not very remote
    is          in                  ^

from the Coptic v» fei. In some places               means clearly he,

him or      which         also v-      <^ (Ros. I.) to him, apud

                          y         the enchorial text. ^2£- (Ros.

                                in
eum, very distinctly
probably also to him, ei."

This followed             by  many other illustrations.
          is
310             MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                           Chap. X.

   " No. 245.  . This symbol, resembling the shamrock,

fseems to be synonymous with the shilelah or mace, , of which
Denon has drawn a club or mace of modern date, which is

an exact resemblance.                   f^Tt (^os-                 ®tu* Swmigav,

fdual, saviour or protector gods, J* (Ros. I.) can scarcely be

very different.

   " No. 97. ^. Possibly a reed, as guiding the bees. Plu

tarch mentions  ^&|0i'ov, a leaf, as signifying a king.               it(Ros.
                                                                                   I.)
king, alone.    Q                       the same sense every where, &c &c.

   " No. 193.        in0
                                       .
                 or Perhaps connected with the sun,

either simply or phonetically as PE from PH, since seems to

signify certainly this.                               RE2ER SEMI, &c. &c.
                 -Q-
   " No. 141.                        inA chain, as    bond of union. Scales are

                                            by a is   such chains. £L (Ros. I.)
often represented as suspended

with or and.     (Ros. I.) the same sense.

   The examination of the preceding extracts will show

that Dr. Young had very sufficiently determined from

a  careful examination and comparison of texts, and

from considerations connected with the grammatical

structure of the language in which they are written,
Q,the phonetic value of the square, or matt,
                                                                          to be

P       of the semicircle .c^ to be                     T       of the cerastes or

     ;                                                       ;

horned snake     "j                     to be  S, F     of the refiexed line or
                        ,                            ;
back of seat                  ,to be                  and the bolt of door,
           a                                                          ,a

-- to be homophonous with the three sides
·       ,                                               it

                                                             ;

of quadrilateral or the stand of boat,                                    to be
   a                                                    a

M, and that     it       £also homophonous with the divided

staff or stake,      is

                               and with the owl                    ;  the wavy

line, vwv, to be N, and to be homophonous with the

hat or crown of Lower Egypt                                     ;  the single or
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                      311

double leather to be E, or I, or EE : making alto

gether twelve phonetic symbols ; not to mention

others, whose determination, as being more or less

syllabic, could not be considered as equally complete

and satisfactory.

   So completely, in fact, was this principle of phoneti-
zation understood, that Mr. Bankes, so well known

for his Egyptian collections, to whom Dr. Young

had given a sketch of his researches in manuscript,

with a copy of the Lexicon of Hieroglyphics, nearly
a year before the publication of the article in the
Encyclopaedia to which it was appended, was ena

bled by means of them to add another homophone

sign,     > f°r the letter N." The correspondence be

tween Young and Sir William Gell, in the years

1821 and 1822, which is published in the third

volume of Dr Young's Works, will show the impulse

which the course of hieroglyphical literature had re

ceived from this Article ; but if more testimony were

wanting in a case which might really be considered as

indisputable-- if it had not been disputed -- we may

refer to the evidence contained not only in the pub
lished works of Sir Gardner Wilkinson, but also in a

private note-book, written in the year 1821, and com
municated by him to Mr. Leitch, in which he makes

repeated applications of the phonetic signs discovered

by Dr. Young.b

The reader of the preceding statements, which

admit of the most complete authentification, would

learn with surprise that a writer so learned, and

usually so candid and impartial, as M. Bunsen, should
have ventured to deny that Dr. Young had ever pro-

          * Works, vol. iii. p. 284.
          b Works, vol. iii. p. 465, Mr. Leitch '» nolf.
312  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                     Chap. X.

perly conceived  the possibility  of a phonetic      system,
but that he had  confounded a "   certain kind of    syllabic

system with it ;" and further to assert that he was
" equally unconscious of the existence of several signs

for one sound, the so-called homophone signs, the real

key to the hieroglyphic characters, although the hiero
glyphic MSS. of the Book of the Dead, which he
collated, might have led him to infer it." a The
first of these charges will be fully refuted by what

follows, if it has not been sufficiently so by what has

gone before ; whilst the reproach which heads the

second would probably have been spared, if M. Bunsen

had dispassionately studied the works of Dr. Young,

and not relied implicitly on the statements of Cham-

pollion. It is hardly necessary to add to what we

have observed before, that the manuscripts which

record the results of these collations are replete with
notices of synonymous groups, in addition to those

which we have given ; and that Champollion at no
period of his life* was in advance of Dr. Young in a

thorough knowledge and appreciation of this great

principle of substitution.

   But, it may very properly be asked, if Dr. Young had

so completely conceived the principle of phonetic hiero
glyphics, why was his success in its application to the
reading of royal names so limited ? He had himself

given very satisfactory reasons for thinking, that the

rings which appear upon the monuments of Egypt
expressed the names of their founders, and not of the
deities in whose honour they were built; and he had

ransacked the records of classical antiquity for the pur

pose of identifying them. But it was found to be no

easy task to connect such names with the monuments ;

     * Egypt's I'lace in Universal Hislory, p. 321.
Chap. X.  HIEBOGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.             313

and in the few cases in which they were so connected,

they were generally so disguised by the usual licence

taken by Egyptian artists and workmen in the tran

scription of foreign names, as not to be very easily

recognised. It was well known also that Greek inscrip

tions were to be found upon many of the temples ; but

either the inscriptions themselves, or the hieroglyphical

rings to which they referred, had hitherto been so

inaccurately copied, as to serve rather to mislead in
quiry than to guide it. Thus Mr. Hamilton had

published in his Egyptiaca a Greek inscription on the

temple of Ombos, purporting that it was dedicated
" in the name of the divine Ptolemy Philometer and

Cleopatra and their children, to Arueris Apollo, and the

other gods of the temple, by the infantry and cavalry

of the nome ;" but the ring in the plates of the great

Description de VEgypte, to which his attention was

called in this instance as likely to contain the name

of Cleopatra, was that of a king and not of a queen,

--an unfortunate circumstance, inasmuch as this name

occurs repeatedly in other parts of the temple.

The name, however, of Ptolemy Soter, whose wife was

Berenice, was recognised by him in the Greek inscrip
tion on the ceiling of the temple at Karnak ; and the

ring of a Ptolemy with which he was familiar, was

combined with a second ring, terminated by the semi

^circle and oval,  , the invariable mark of a female,

and both of them followed by a group of hieroglyphics

which he had ascertained from the Rosetta stone to

mean the Saviour gods "-- a title which the Greek in
scription also assigned to them. He consequently felt

himself authorized to conclude that this was the hiero

glyphical name of Berenice, which he accordingly pro-

          " Supra, p. 310, No. 245.
314  MEM01U OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X,

ceeded to analyse : but it was unfortunate that amongst

the characters within this ring,

one only, the double feather, was common to those in
the name of Ptolemy, though the wavy line was
known from other sources to have the phonetic value
of N* ; it was perhaps still more unfortunate that whilst
the basket, which is the first of these characters, recalled

to his mind its Coptic name bir, which is the initial

syllable of Berenice or Bereniken, the goose," at its
conclusion, suggested upon the doubtful authority of
Kircher, its Coptic name of Kenesou, whose initial
letters ke or ken corresponded to those also at the con
clusion of the name. Admitting the syllabic values
of the first and last of the characters, which this ring

contained, as authorised at least, though not required, by
the Chinese principle of phonetization, he proceeded, by

making the mouth ^> to be E, the wavy line >^r\
to be N, the double feather to be I, and by omitting

the footstool as superfluous, to construct the name

Berenike.

   The warmest advocates of Dr. Young must admit
that this analysis, though conformable to the prin
ciple which he adopted, was more creditable to his
ingenuity than to his judgment ; and though it was
not calculated to mislead those who continued the
inquiry, it was certainly not likely to guide them. As

   * The goose was introduced instead of a hawk, or rather eagle, by a mistake
of the copyist : the phonetic value of the first was S and of the second A.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  315

it was, his enemies failed not to perceive, when the

progress of hieroglyphical discovery had speedily re

moved all room for doubt or speculation, that it was
the weak point in the application of his system, and
Champollion at once seized upon it as furnishing a

plausible pretext for asserting that Young's principle
of phonetization was not only erroneous but essentially
different from his own.

   Young was perfectly well aware that the assumptions
which were made the basis of his principle could only
be verified or corrected by the further discovery of
well ascertained names to which they could be applied ;
and it was with a view of assisting in these dis
coveries that he prepared special instructions to Mr.

Bankes, who was proceeding on a second visit to
Egypt, for the purpose of guiding liim in his in
quiries. Mr. Salt, to whom Mr. Bankes had com
municated these instructions, acknowledges in very

striking terms, in a letter addressed to Mr. W. Ham

ilton, his great obligations to them, as giving a real
and historical significance to monuments which he

would probably otherwise have passed over without
much observation and remark ;" whilst Mr. Bankes was

enabled, partly by means of them and partly by a very
ingenious and complete investigation of his own,, to

identify the hieroglyphical name of Cleopatra upon an
obelisk at Philae with the same name in a Greek in

scription upon its base. It was an engraving of these

inscriptions, with a marginal reference pointing out
distinctly the conclusion at which he had arrived,
which was sent by Mr. Bankes to M. Denon to be pre
sented to the French Institute : and though there is
no reason to doubt that it was this engraving that

          * Works, vol. iii. p. 284.
316  MEM01R OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                        Chap. X.

really furnished Champollion with the principal ma

terials for his most important discovery, he never

acknowledged his obligations."

The account, in fact, which is given by Champollion

of the recognition and analysis of the name of Cleo

patra, would induce a reader to conclude that he had

neither precursor nor assistant in the investigation.

he,""Tehxehihbiieterodg, loynphaicccaolunttexot f  of the inscription   of Rosetta,"  says
                                                   its fractures, only  the name of
                                                                                      Pto

lemy. The obelise found in the Isle of Philae, and lately removed

to London, contains also the hieroglyphical name of one of the

Ptolemies, expressed by the same characters that occur in the

inscription of Rosetta, surrounded by a ring or border, and it is

followed by a second border, which must necessarily contain the

proper name of a woman, and of a queen of the family of the

Lagidae, since this group was terminated by the hieroglyphics

expressive of the feminine gender ; characters which are found

at the end of the names of all the Egyptian goddesses without

exception. The obelise was fixed, it is said, to a basis bearing

a Greek inscription, which is a petition of the priests of Isis at

Phila;, addressed to King Ptolemy, to Cleopatra his sister, and
to Cleopatra his wife. Now, if this obelise, and the hierogly

phical inscription engraved on it were the result of this petition,

which, in fact, adverts to the consecration of a monument of the

kind, the border with the feminine proper name, can only be
that of one of the Cleopatras. This name, and that of Ptolemy,

which in the Greek have several letters in common, were

capable of being employed for a comparison of the hierogly

phical characters composing them, and if the similar characters

in these names expressed in both the same sounds, it followed
that their nature must be entirely phonetic."

   See Letronnc,Iiecherches pour servir a l'histoire de l'Egypte,pp. xxx.aml

298. It was the copy of this inscription, which was made by Cailliaud, but

without connecting the inscription on the base with the hieroglyphics on
the obelisk, to which Champollion alone refers in his letter to M. Dacier.

M. Lotronne claims the merit of having made the suggestion which led

to this identification, independently of Mr. liankes, and of having commu
nicated it to Cham[)ollion : as was usual with him, however, he was not
more grateful to M. Letronne than to Mr. Bankes. See Mr. Lcitch's
note, Works, vol. iii. p. 293.
Chap. X.  IIIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  317

   But it should be observed, that it was Dr. Young
who first determined, and by no easy process, that the

rings on the Rosetta stone contained the name of
Ptolemy ; it was Dr. Young who determined that the

semicircle and oval, found at the end of the second ring

in connection with the former, was expressive of the

feminine gender ; and it was Dr. Young who had not

only first suggested that the characters in the ring of
Ptolemy were phonetic, but had determined, with
one very unimportant inaccuracy, the values of four of
those which were common to the name of Cleopatra

which was required to be analyzed. All the principles

involved in the discovery of an alphabet of phonetic

hieroglyphics were not only distinctly laid down, but
fully exemplified by him, and it only required the
farther identification of one or two royal names with
the rings which expressed them in hieroglyphics to
extend the alphabet already known sufficiently to
bring even names, which were not already identified,
under its operation.

   There were many circumstances also which made
this hieroglyphical name singularly adapted for a com
plete and indisputable analysis : it will be observed
that the particular ring known to express the name of

Cleopatra, which came under' examination, contained
eleven characters, the two last of which, the small semi

circle and oval, are, as we have seen, the recognized
marks of a female. There remain, therefore, nine
318  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

tohtehewrsoredxaCclteloypcaotrrare. spoOndf itnhgeset--o tthheenHuomnb, etrheofflolewtteerr,sthine
feather, and the parallelogram --three appear always,

and all of them occasionally, in the hieroglyphical
name of Ptolemy, with the several values of the letters

l, o, e, and p : amongst the remaining five, there is
one repetition-- the last character but three and the
last --precisely in the same positions as the letter a in
kleopatra ; if the other three characters, therefore,

the quadrant of a circle, the open hand and the
mouth, are phonetic also, they must severally repre

sent the letters K, T, and r, which alone are required

to complete the name.
    The expression of Greek and Roman names, by

means of Egyptian characters, was not only adapted to
the genius of the language, into which they were
transferred, but partook very generally of those abbrevi
ations and corruptions of form which may be expected
in all cases where the transcriber is guided chiefly by

his ear. It thence very rarely happens that the

name thus transferred from Greek or Latin to hiero

glyphics is complete, letter for letter, as in the very
remarkable case of that of Cleopatra on the obelisk at

Phihe : other variations of it on other monuments,
giving kleoptra, kleptra, kloptra. The name of
Alexander is usually spelt alksntrs, omitting all the
short vowels, and in one case alksnros. Autocrator
is presented in the several forms autokrtr, autkrtr,
autokltl (l and R being commutable) :a that of
Caisar, as kaisrs, kaisls, kaisr : the Emperor Tibe
rius is with some difficulty recognized as tblis or

    * " The old Egyptians " says Dr. Young, " seem to have been as inca

 pable as their school-fellows the Chinese of distinguishing the R from
 the L." Works, vol. ill. p. 235.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.          319

tbris : Domitianus as tomtins : Trajanus as tkins :

and Augustus (Sebastus) as sbsts - all these abridged
forms of familiar classical names sufficiently justifying
the epithet syllabico-alphabetic which Champollion in
the first instance applied to the phonetic use of hiero
glyphics, in a sense which students of the Semitic
languages will find no difficulty in understanding.

  It may readily be conceived, therefore, how much

less certain and instructive would have been the

analysis of this hieroglyphical ring, if it had presented
the name of Cleopatra, not --as it was in this case
found to be--in its complete, but in its abridged and

mutilated form, where no limitation on the phonetic
values of the characters was imposed by their being
precisely equal in number to the letters in the name
which they expressed, and where no assistance was
derived or derivable from the previous determination
of some of them by the analysis of other rings, like
that which expressed the name of Ptolemy.

   Let us contrast this case with that of Berenice, whose

ring, as submitted to Young, contained six characters

only, when there were eight letters in the name, and even
nine, if it was assumed to be written as it might have
Itbeen, in the objective case.
                                was equally probable,

therefore, in the absence of all other information to

guide us, that our choice would have rested upon any
one of the following forms, even excluding others,,

whi6h inaccurate spelling might have introduced :--

Bereniken  Breniken  Briniken         Brnikn
Berenikes  Brenikcs  Brinikes         Brniks
Berenike   Brenike   Brinike          Brnik

It was the first or ninth of these forms which Young

adopted, instead of the eleventh ; Champollion, who
had ascertained the phonetic value of the mouth
320  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

from the ring of Cleopatra, adopted the tenth, though

he had no authority for the phonetic value which he
assigned to the goose, which appeared there instead of
an eagle, by an error in the copy.

   It has been often remarked that the happy accidents

which from time to time have led to important dis

coveries, have usually been reserved to those who are
enabled by their genius and promptitude of observa
tion to take advantage of them ; and though we can
hardly fail to recognize in the selection, not merely of
the ring which contained the name of Cleopatra, but
of the same name also unaltered in its spelling by its
transcription into phonetic hieroglyphics, a more than

usual concurrence of fortunate circumstances, yet, it

would be unjust to refuse to Champollion the honour
due to his rare skill and sagacity, not merely in this

particular application of a principle already known,
but in its rapid extension to a multitude of other cases,

so as not merely to point out its character and use and

some of the limitations to which it was subject, but

also to determine the principal elements of a phonetic
alphabet. His long study of Coptic literature, both
printed and manuscript ; his perfect acquaintance with

all that had been written relating to the history, the an
tiquities, and the religion of Egypt, added to his fami

liarity with hieratic and enchorial manuscripts, had

given him advantages, which no other person, Young

hardly excepted, possessed, to enable him to enter upon

this inquiry ; and the rapidity of his progress, when once

fully started upon his career of discovery, was worthy

of the highest admiration. In less than two years

from the appearance of the Letter to M. Dacier, his
Precis du Systbne Hieroglyphiqw was published, a
work which will be for ever memorable in the history
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                321

of hieroglyphical discovery, not merely from the vast
range of knowledge which it displays, but from the
clear and lucid order in which it is arranged.

   It was singularly unfortunate that one who possessed

so much of his own, should have been so much wanting
in a proper sense of justice to those who had preceded
him in these investigations, as materially to lessen his
claims to the respect and reverence which would other

wise have been most willingly conceded to him.

   A letter written by Dr. Young from Paris in Sep

tember, 1822, to his friend Mr. William Hamilton,

gives an interesting account of the extraordinary pro
gress which Champollion was at that time making in

deciphering hieroglyphical names : --

I" You will easily believe," says he, " that were   ever so
Imuch the victim of bad passions, should feel nothing but ex
ultation at M. Champollion's success. My life seems indeed to

be lengthened by the accession of a junior coadjutor in my re

searches, and of a person too who is so much more versed in the

Idifferent dialects of the Egyptian language than myself. have
Ipromised him every assistance in his researches that can pro
Icure him in England, and hope to obtain from him an early

communication of all his future observations.""

   In a similar tone he writes to Mr. Gurney.

  I" In my own pursuits have found abundance of novelty to

interest me : both the scientific and literary departments of the

Institute happening at this moment to be particularly engaged
with my late investigations : and a Frenchman having in each

Iof them been engaged in going over my own ground without

being fully acquainted with what had done, and having had
to exclaim, Pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerunt. Fresnel, a
young mathematician of the Civil Engineers, has really been
doing some good things in the extension and application of my
theory of light, and Champollion, the author of the book you

          * Works, vol. iii. p. 222.

Life.                                            Y
322          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                Chap. X.

brought over, has been working still harder upon the Egyptian

characters.  He devotes his whole time to the pursuit, and he

has been wonderfully successful in some of the documents that

he has obtained.

   " An Italian of the name of Casati* brought over some manu

scripts here which were found in a jar at Abydos. Four are in
Greek, like that which Bockh has published at Berlinb --the fifth

is in the running hand of the Rosetta inscription, and in the

same dialect or variety of that hand, so that the introductory

part of the manuscript containing the date, with the names of

Ptolemy and Cleopatra, is perfectly legible by the help of the

IRosetta inscription. This really is a grand step. It greatly

lessens the impatience that have hitherto felt for Drovetti's0

Istone at Menouf --about which the people here are as angry as

  am. Champollion has also made out a complete series of the

numerals in the running hand by comparing the beginnings of
the successive chapters of one of the mummy manuscripts-- and

he has found a fragment, formerly belonging to the Due de

Choiseul, on which several of the months are distinctly expressed.
How far he will acknowledge every thing which he has either

Iborrowed or might have borrowed from me, am not quite con

fident ; but the world will be sure to remark, que e'est le pre
Imier pas qui coute --though the proverb is less true in this case
than in most others, for here every step is laborious.  have
Imany things that should like to show Champollion in England,

I Ibut fear his means of locomotion are extremely limited, and
have no chance of being able to augment them. His investiga

tions are too voluminous and too minute to be at all adapted

for publication, at least without a certainty of loss to the pub

I IIlisher. Some few things hope to get from him for our Plates

Iof Hieroglyphics, and if succeed, think shall go on with

Ithem immediately, and not wait for Drovetti's stone, nor for

Bankes's publishing hi3 inscriptions, but doubt whether the

papyrus can yet with propriety be made public."

We could produce other letters, written at the same

   * Works, vol. iii. p. 234.                         Works, vol. iii.
   b This was the manuscript discovered by Anastasy.

p. 305.

   « Works, vol. iii. p. 217 and 287.
Chap. X.  IIIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                                                                   823

period to his sisters-in-law Mrs. Chambers and Mrs.

Earle, which express the same generous recognition of

the important investigations and discoveries of Cham-

pollion, and the same disinterested desire to assist him

by the free communication of whatever documents or

information he possessed. He had himself received from

Fresnel and his friend Arago, whose researches had

long run parallel to his own, the unreserved acknow

ledgment of the priority of his discoveries, whenever

he was entitled to claim                                  and he naturally exit,

pected the same honourable treatment from another                                 a

                                                                                                     ;
fellow-labourer in a class of researches which he had

hitherto almost appropriated as his own. Before he

quitted Paris, however, he had observed that Cham-

pollion, when reading to the Institute                                                                paper re

ferring to these researches, abstained from any open

acknowledgment of his obligations to him and he
found upon the appearance of his Letter to M. Dacier,

his own labours on the Rosetta stone merely classed

with those of De Sacy and Akerblad," and the only

notice taken of the principles he had laid down and

applied to the determination of the phonetic elements

of the names of Ptolemy and Berenice, was confined

to a singularly uncandid exposition of the errors

which he had made, more especially in the last of the

two."

The Lettre a M. Dacier was received with enthu-

Cha* mSpirollWionill'siamletGtecrl,l,sainysw, r"itiTnhge  to Dr. Young, soon after the receipt           of
                                                           Barberini obelise has been recently          re-

erected on the Pincian, and must acquire great deal of interest from the
b
                 a

                                                                              a

                                                                             Y
                                                                                           2
new discoveries of Champollion, who, by the bye, after having taken

almost everything from you, puts you down in his book with de Sacy and

Co., though you are the sole inventor and lawful patentee, and De Sacy

did nothing but contradict, instead of forwarding, the discoveries you

made."-- Works, vol. iii. p. 230.

Lettre M. Dacier, p. 15, note.
324  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                  Chap. X.

siasm in Paris, and its author suddenly emerged from

obscurity, poverty and neglect, into the brightest sun-

sbine of public and royal favour. De Sacy, who so
many years before had warned Dr. Young to be

cautious in his communications with him, as a person

disposed to appropriate the discoveries of others as

his own, was one of the first to support the exclusive

pretensions of his countryman." Letronne, a man

of candour and real learning,b in a work inscribed

to Dr. Young, Champollion, Hyot and Gau, in which

he refers to Champollion's discoveries, even without

mentioning Young as a claimant, incurred the censure

of the enthusiastic admirers of his countryman, because

his recognition of his merits was not sufficiently ample

and unconditional. Even Arago, the steady friend of

Dr. Young, gave way to the current of national feeling ;

and we shall find that in his Eloge of Young, he gave

a statement of the controversy between him and

Champollion, which, though characteristic of his usual

epigrammatic point and clearness, is founded upon the

most imperfect and narrow views of the real facts of

the case.

  It was with a view of vindicating bis just share in

the vast advances recently made in the literature of

ancient Egypt, and of calling attention to the many

important facts connected with them which, when not

mis-stated, had been studiously suppressed in this

celebrated Letter, that Young published,    very  early in
the year which followed its appearance,           Account
                                          " An

    * In the Journal des Savans for March, 1825, quoted in the second

edition of Champollion's Pre.cis du Systeme Hie.roglyphique, p. 38.
   b Recherches pour servir a l'Histoire de l'Egypte ; p. 30. In a letter ad

dressed to Dr. Young (Works, vol. iii. p. 262), he says, "La liberty que

j'ai mise en parlant de certain cJiarlatan dc uotre pays, monopoleur de
l'Egypte, ne plait pas a tout le monde : maisc'ost-la ce dont je m'inquiete
peu."
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  325

of some Recent Discoveries in Hieroglyphical Literature
and Egyptian Antiquities, with the author's Original
Alphabet as extended by M. Champollion, with a trans
lation of five unpublished Greek and Egyptian Manu

scripts."

  It was in this work that he first abandoned the

anonymous character which he long assumed in pub
lications alien to his profession, and which he con
tinued to preserve from motives which it is not easy
to explain, when his professional were to a consider
able extent superseded by other, engagements, and his
celebrity too great to be concealed by the mere sup
pression of his name. He had now attained his year
of Jubilee, and felt himself fully authorized to
claim for himself the public credit of those investi
gations, which, though not signalized by any fortunate
coincidences or unexpected facilities, were rewarded
with a success which was not disproportionate to the
long and persevering labour which had been bestowed

upon them.
    One of these coincidences, however, more remark

able than the most extravagant romance would appear
to justify us in considering as possible, supplied an
immediate object for this publication beyond the
mere defence of his own claims. An Italian traveller

of the name of Casati* brought to Paris, as has
been already mentioned, several manuscripts which
had been found in Upper Egypt. Amongst them
was one, written exactly in the enchorial character
of the Eosetta Stone, which bad furnished Cham

pollion with the enchorial name of Cleopatra, and
thus materiidly assisted him, according to his own
statement, in the analysis of her hieroglyphical name.

                                                  * Supra, p. 322.
326    MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.         Chap. X.

It was a deed of sale, and on the back of the manu

script was written an endorsement of registry, in

pretty legible Greek characters. Champollion had
furnished Young with a tracing of the enchorial deed

before he left Paris ; but he omitted the Greek

Registry.
    Another Egyptian traveller, Mr. George Francis

Grey, had purchased from an Arab at Thebes some
manuscripts, which he placed, upon his return to Eng
land, in the hands of Dr. Young ; and the reader may
judge of his astonishment when he found, upon ex
amining them, that one of them, written entirely in

Greek, purported to be "a Copy of an Egyptian
writing," and showed amongst other signatures the

names of Apollonius and Antimachus, which he had

observed upon the papyrus of Casati, of which it
proved to be the antigraph and translation." He lost

    "  This discovery is thus noticed in the following letter to Mr. Gurney :
       was afraid 1 had lost all my boyish eagerness of character, hut it
"I

was revived yesterday (22nd November, 1822) by a most singular incident
in my antiquarian pursuits. George Francis Grey of Baekworth has

brought back some papers from Egypt : two of them are of immense value
-- one in G reek-- the other in the enchorial characters, with Greek endorse

ment of registry. Hut the odd thing in the Greek one is that there are

sixteen witnesses, and among them are the names of Apollonius, Anti

machus, and Antigenes, just where they stand in Casati's manuscript, the

preamble of which 1 have translated in my letter to Bankes. (See Works,
vol. iii. p. 236.) The preamble, however, is omitted in the Greek, so that
the evidence of identity rests for the present on the coincidence of the

names of the witnesses, which in such a multitude is pretty strong pre

Isumption. Indeed the other names appear to agree as far as have ex

amined them. Thus then we have a full equivalent for the lost fragments

of the Rosctta stone, which 1 had appraised as worth their weight in
diamonds, and if Drovctti's black stone goes to the bottom of the gulf of
IGenoa 1 shall care very little about it.
                                           would now scarcely give ten
pounds for it. It is odd enough that I have already obtained a little
miniature triumph over Champollion in my amusements at Calais. It

seems he read the names Antiochus and Antigenes. Grey's MS. has

clearly ANTIMAX02 ANTirENOYX, as I had made them. The Apol

lonius is so scribbled that it would have been almost impossible to
Chap. X.    HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.          327

no time in communicating this extraordinary coin

cidence to Champollion, begging him to forward to

him a copy of the Greek endorsement of the papyrus

of Casati,  a request  which he thought proper   either to
evade or    refuse. "  He perhaps," says he,
                                                " thought

it best for me to try my strength upon the original

without any assistance which might have been de

rived from it with respect to two or three of the
names."" An application to M. Eaoul llocliette met

with a more liberal reception, and a correct copy

of the whole manuscript was immediately forwarded

to him.

   The contents of Mr. Grey's manuscript were not

less remarkable than its preservation and discovery. It

related to the sale, not of a house or a field, but of portions

of the collections and offerings made from time to time

on account of or for the benefit of a certain number of

mummies, of persons described at length, in very bad

Greek, with their children and all their households.

The comparison of the manuscripts served to identify
more than thirty enchorial names, affording the most

important information with respect to the orthogra

phical system of the Egyptian language and showing

a more extensive employment of alphabetical writing,

to which the alphabet of Akerblad was very generally

applicable, than could possibly have been inferred from

the inscription of Rosetta.

have deciphered it without a clue, but it is quite manifest when it is once

understood. The title begins Amypafpov rpatpr)s AiyvTn-tns --among other
things, dead bodies are conveyed by it." Dr. Young had amused himself,

whilst detained at Calais upon his return from France, in writing a letter
to Mr. Bankes, with translations of the preamble of this papyrus : amongst
the signatures which he had decyphered we find the names Apollonius,
Antimachus, and Antigencs. This is printed in his Works, vol. iii.

p. 236.
   * Works, vol. iii. p. 302.
328       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.            Chap. X.

In addition to this important Greek antigraph, Mr.

Grey's collection contained three other similar deeds,

written in the enchorial character of the Bosetta stone,

each of them endorsed with a Greek registry, and

executed within eight, seven and one, years respectively

of the date of the deed of Casati, which was 146 years

before Christ. They are severally deeds of sale of

portions of land, the boundaries of which are very

carefully defined. The long legal preamble, descrip

tive of the members of the royal family and other

public functionaries, is nearly the same in all these

documents, but is wanting in the Greek antigraph,

which merely states, after the date of the transaction,

that it was followed, as was found to be the case

in the enchorial original, by the usual form." A copy,

however, of this preamble had been previously found

in the Greek papyrus of Anastasy,b relating to a sale

of land at the same place, which took place about forty

years afterwards, and which served as a key to its

accurate   reading    and interpretation in the  enchorial
deeds.              one papyrus was headed by
          Whilst                                 " In tbe

reign of Cleopatra and Ptolemy, her son surnamed

Alexander, the gods Philometores Soteres ;" that of
the others was, " In the reign of our sovereign

Ptolemy and Cleopatra his sister, the children of

Ptolemy and Cleopatra, the divine, the gods illus

trious, and the priest of Alexander, and the saviour

gods." The exact parallels of this phraseology, and

nearly all the names except that of Cleopatra, had

   * The phrase is META TA KOINA, or " according to the common

forms."

   " This manuscript, which came into the possession of M. Anastasy, the
Swedish Consul at Alexandria, was very carefully edited by Professor Bdclih,
of Berlin : its deficiencies have been still further supplied by Dr. Young
from the Greek manuscripts of Casati and the antigraph of Mr. Grey.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  329

been found in the enchorial inscription of the Rosetta

stone, where they had supplied Akerblad with the

principal elements of his enchorial alphabet, whilst
the enchorial characters in the name of Ptolemy had
proved of no small assistance to Young in the analysis
of his hieroglyphical ring. The elements also of the
name of Cleopatra, which the manuscripts of Casati
and Anastasy supplied in such close association with
those of Ptolemy and Alexander as hardly to admit
the possibility of their being mistaken, were destined

at a subsequent period, as we have seen, to be of no
less important use to Champollion in the analysis of
the hieroglyphical ring of Cleopatra, which proved the
keystone of his subsequent discoveries.

    No proofs had hitherto been afforded of the applica
bility of the enchorial alphabet of Akerblad, nor of any
imaginary extension which it might have received, to
any names or words which were not foreign to Egypt
and the Egyptian language ; and whilst the analyses
of Young and Akerblad were confined to Greek words
and names, those of Champollion were extended to the

principal members of the Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt
as well as to the Roman emperors who succeeded to
their rule. No example had yet been given of the

application of phonetic hieroglyphics either to an

Egyptian deity or to an Egyptian monarch antecedent

to the Macedonian conquest, or to any other name,
whether of person or of thing.

    The results of the comparison and interpretation of
these manuscripts formed a great epoch in the history
of the researches into the system of Egyptian writing.
Akerblad, as we have seen, had begun by assuming the

enchorial inscription of the Rosetta stone to be entirely
alphabetical, and appealed, in confirmation of his opinion,
330  MEMOIR OF DIt. THOMAS YOUNG.      Chap. X.

to the sixteen names to which he had applied his alpha

bet, with partial at least, if not with complete success."

Young, who took up the inquiry, was startled by

finding more than two hundred different charac
ters in this inscription, which, in the absence of
a knowledge of purely ideographical symbols or

homophone signs, seemed to render the selection
of an alphabet from such a multitude an impracti

cable task. The names also, to which the alpha
bet deduced by Akerblad was applicable, were all
Greek ; and the Coptic words which he endeavoured to
form from it were not such as were consistent with

Ifthe context as limited by the Greek inscription, which
was known to be its translation.       this alphabet

was applicable in this instance to Greek names and

to those only, might not the exclusive employment

of it in the expression of foreign vocables be ex

plained upon the same principle as that adopted by

the Chinese under similar circumstances ? It was this

principle, so pregnant with important results, which

was now for the first time proved to be erroneous by

the multitude of native names which appeared to be

expressed phonetically, whilst the very frequent occur

rence of the names of Egyptian deities, as component

elements of ordinary Egyptian names, such as Amon-

rasonther, Ammonius, Arsiesis, Petosiris, Petarpo-
crates, &c, which were expressed by the peculiar

symbols of those deities, and not alphabetically, was

apparently sufficient to justify the views of Dr. Young,

rather than of Champollion, with respect to the occa

sional use of hieroglyphical symbols to represent

syllables, and even words, as well as simple letters.

Such a usage, however, probably originating in the

     " Works, vol. iii. p. 22 and 23.
Chap. X.          HIEEOGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.                   331

deep reverence with which this remarkable people

regarded the symbolical and other representations of
their deities, can properly be considered as exceptional

only, and as furnishing another correction of those
premature generalizations, of which the history of

these researches gives so many examples.

  It was the opinion of Dr. Young, as we have already

seen, that the enchorial characters were derived from

·the hieroglyphics, by a gradual and successive degra
dation of their forms, though he has nowhere asserted

that the two. systems were coextensive with each
other; and Champollion, in his Lettre d M. Daeier,

Ifhas adopted the same conclusion without any limita
tion whatever."   it was further asserted, as the most

probable consequence of this hypothesis, that not only
was the phonetic system inherent in those two species
of writing, but that its usage was coextensive in one and

  a "Whatever I have said," says Champollion, "of the origin, the

formation and the anomalies of the phonetic hieroglyphical alphabet,

is applicable almost entirely to the phonetic demotic alphabet. These

two systems of phonetic writing were as intimately connected with

each other as the ideographic sacerdotal system was with the ideogra
phic popular system, of which it was but the emanation, or with the

pure hieroglyphic system, from which it drew its origin. The demotic

letters are nothing more, in fact, for the most part, than the hieratic

signs of the phonetic hieroglyphics themselves. There exists, then,
no other fundamental difference between the two alphabets -- the hiero
glyphical and the demotic -- than in the form of the signs only, the
Ivalue and the motives of that value being entirely the same.
                                                               will add

that these phonetic popular signs being nothing else than the hieratic

signs without alteration, there could not of necessity exist in Egypt more

than two systems of phonetic writing : first, the phonetic hieroglyphical

writing, employed upon the great monuments, and secondly, the hieratico-

demotic writing, which is that of the Greek proper names of the Kosetta

stone and of the demotic papyrus (of Casati) in the Bibliotheque du Roi ;
and it is not improbable that we shall one day find ourselves employed in

transcribing the name of some Greek or Roman sovereign in such rolls of
papyrus into the hieratic of the funeral rolls." -- Lettre a M. Dacier, p. 39,

edition of 182J.
332         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

the other : it would follow, therefore, from this discovery

of its extensive application to ordinary Egyptian names
in these enchorial rolls of Casati and Grey, that the prin
ciple of phonetization did not originate, as both Young
and Champollion had supposed, in the expression of
foreign vocables. The larger and more extended views,
which were thus opened to hieroglyphical research, were

speedily realized. In a letter to Dr. Young," in the

summer succeeding the publication of these very re
markable discoveries, Champollion refers to a mummy-
case discovered by the well known traveller, Cailliaud,
in which the names of the deceased and of his mother,

expressed in the hieroglyphics of the monuments, are
severally reproduced in Greek characters inscribed by
the side of them. The first, which is translated

IIETEMENQN O KAI AMMQNIOC, is expressed

in hieroglyphics by the group v . i whose phonetic

values, P, T, M, N, composing the Egyptian name Peta-

men, belonging to Ammon, were already well known ;

the second, with the well known hieroglyphical cha

racters of the name of Cleopatra, with the two first
letters KA
            of her name in Greek by the

p.side of
   b·

            it,

                                                         a

                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                              a
            the remaining portion of the name being
nearly obliterated.b In neither case were the hierogly

phics of these names enclosed in ring. The conclusions

founded upon the examination of this monument were

thus in entire accordance with those afforded by the

enchorial papyri, and at once dissipated or corrected

     Works, vol. iii. p. 368. See also Precis du Systeme Hie.roghjphir1ue,

    411.

       See Champollion, PreeU du Systemc fIi£roglyphu{Uf, p. 412: also
very able Dissertation by Letronne, entitled, Observations critiques et
archeologiques sur l'objet des representations zodiacalea a 1'occasion d'un
zodiaque Egyptien peiut dans une caisse de momie qui port nne inscription
du temps dc Trajan.'
Chap. X.  HIEROULYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  333

 many hypotheses upon which great reliance had been
 placed. The ring was no longer essential as indicating
 the phonetic values of the symbols which it enclosed ;
 whilst those phonetic symbols were employed to de
 signate Egyptian as well as foreign names, whether of
 kings, or gods, or ordinary men. The attention of

 travellers, archaeologists, and scholars was now tho
 roughly roused to a sense of the importance of those
 views, and to the character of the means by which
 they might be extended. The documents which were

 thus accumulated and brought under the examination
of those who were capable of appreciating their value,
furnished the means of rapidly extending our know
ledge of the lost literature of Egypt.

    Before we quit the notice of this work of Dr. Young,
it is but an act of justice to him to call attention to
his exemplary modesty and forbearance in touching
upon the subjects of controversy between himself and
Champollion. He confines himself strictly to the facts
which are patent upon his various hieroglyphical pub
lications, and to just and legitimate inferences from
them, appealing in no instance to the unpublished
documents which were only partially embodied in his
article Egypt, of which we have felt ourselves fully
authorized in making use in the preceding narrative.
Champollion is treated throughout with the respect
which was undoubtedly due to his eminent talents and

discoveries, and though a gentle remonstrance is some
times addressed to him upon the general omission in
his Letter to M. Dacier of all notice of his own
labours, it is never accompanied by an insinuation
that the suppression originated in any motive that
was inconsistent with his honour.

   Champollion, in the Precis du Systeme Hierogly-
334  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

phique, which was published in the following year, was
far from responding to the generous forbearance of his
rival. He presents himself to his readers as in exclusive
possession of a province which he had long conquered
for himself, every attack or intrusion upon which, from
whatever quarter it might come, was treated as an
act of presumption or resented as an injury. The
chronology of facts connected with these discoveries
is studiously suppressed, and it is Champollion in
 1824, with all the knowledge which had been accu
mulating since the commencement of these researches,

who is weighed against Young at various and much
earlier stages of their progress. We thus find the
imperfect and in some respects incorrect notions of the
relations of the enchorial system of writing on the
Rosetta stone, to the hieratic commonly used in
the funeral rolls, which Young maintained in his
letter to the Archduke John, in 1816, contrasted

with his own more matured views in 1824 ; whilst he

passes over without notice Young's special researches
in connection with the papyri of Grey and Casati in
the preceding year, which were probably a princi
pal source of Champollion's own knowledge on the
subject. Whatever principle or discovery had been
previously established or made known, is appropriated
without any acknowledgment, and the dates which
would have proved the unquestionable priority of Dr.
Young are carefully suppressed : but no opportunity
is lost of bringing prominently before the reader

whatever error he may have committed, with a view

of showing not only his own superiority, but his

entire independence and originality.
    As a further illustration of this spirit of misrepre

sentation on the part of Champollion, and we may add
Chap. X.      HIEROGLYrHICAL RESEARCHES.                                 335

likewise of some of his followers, we trust that we shall

be pardoned if we venture, even at the expense of some

repetitions, to present to our readers the several propo

sitions which he has put forward, as embodying Dr.
Young's views on the relations of the different species
of Egyptian writing, which we have more than once

had occasion to notice. They are as follows :"

1. "The writing of the intermediate text of the Rosetta

stone is the same as that of the papyri (the funeral rolls), which
are not hieroglyphic. The signs of this enchorial text have been
degraded in the hands of the people. It is on this account that
we find        in this text  forms which are not found    in the  papyri."
   2. "       The writing      of the intermediate text,   and    that of the

papyri, are purely ideographic, like that of the hieroglyphic

texts."

   3. " Though every character is ideographic in the papyri and

the intermediate text of the Rosetta stone, he acknowledges that

the greater part of the proper names of the intermediate text

are susceptible of a species of reading by the alphabet of Aker-

blad. He concludes from thence that the Egyptians, for the

purpose of transcribing foreign proper names, were accustomed,

like the Chinese, to make use of signs really ideographic, but

diverted from their ordinary expression, so as accidentally, as

it w4e. re",  to make them   represent sounds."           is  in  no  respect
                             writing of the papyri
              He thinks the

alp5h.ab"eHticeal,adadss  has been commonly    believed."     are  only  ab
                            that the signs of   the papyri

breviations of the hieroglyphical characters, properly so called."

   6. "Finally, he gives the name of hieratic writing, not to

that of the papyri, but to certain hieroglyphical texts which I

have called linear."

  I" ought to say, that at the same epoch, and without having
Iany knowledge of the opinions of Dr. Young, had arrived, by

a method sufficiently sure, at nearly the same results.b But it

   · Precis <lu Systeme Hieroglyphique, p. 17.

   b It is impossible to reconcile this assertion with the propositions which

he announced in his Grenoble Memoir of 1821. See Mr. Leitch's note,

Works, vol. iii. p. 157.
336  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.             Chap. X.

will be seen in the course of this work how much the results

I Iwhich publish to-day differ from those which have stated
Iabove, and that have abandoned my first views the moment

that indisputable facts showed that they were unfounded."

   He then proceeds to comment on the preceding

propositions, as if they expressed the final and de

liberate conclusions to which the researches of Dr.

Young had conducted him, and to contrast them with

his own later and more matured views on the relations
of the different species of Egyptian writing. " The
second and fourth of the preceding propositions," he
adds, " are entirely destroyed by the general results of
this work."" But we have had already occasion to
observe,b that the propositions in question, though

enunciated as fully established by Champollion him
self in 1821, were never maintained by Dr. Young,

and it was chiefly by the researches of the latter
that the erroneous conceptions connected with them

had been corrected, and their true character esta

blished.0

    The real purport of his argument was, that so large
a proportion of the characters employed in the cursive
Egyptian writing were manifest derivations from the
hieroglyphics, that the first could not be entirely
alphabetical, as Akerblad, and even Champollion in his

earlier Egyptian studies, had contended, unless the
latter were so also ; that the alphabet of Akerblad was
applicable generally to the proper names of the Ro-
setta inscription, which were all Greek, but no farther ;
that it was probable, therefore, that the Egyptians,
like the Chinese, made characters, which were other

wise ideographic, phonetic, for the purpose of express-

 Prdcis du Systfeme Hi^roglyphique, p. IS).  b Supra, p. 285.

     c Works, vol. iii. pp. 74 and 129.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.     337

ing foreign names. These were the considerations

which guided Young in all his subsequent investiga
tions ; and though many of the assumptions upon
which they were founded were shown in the course of
their progress to be erroneous, they are not less re

markable for their sagacity and logical coherence, than
for the great results to which they led.

   We have elsewhere had occasion to notice the results

which followed from the discovery of the papyri of
Casati and Grey, which opened out new views of the
extent to which the alphabetical element prevailed in

enchorial texts. Champollion and Young were engaged
simultaneously in the prosecution of the researches

connected with these papyri, and had some opportu

nities, as we have seen, of personal, though not of unre

served, communication with each other ; and though

the particular circumstances which placed the most
important of these documents in the possession of the
latter enabled him to take precedence in the publica
tion of the results to which they led, there is no reason
to suppose that his great competitor was not equally
competent to deduce from them similar conclusions.

It is not our object to underrate the merits of the

great contributions which were made by Champollion
to our knowledge of hieroglyphical literature, but to
protest against the persevering injustice with which
he treated the labours of Dr. Young; and we feel

more especially called upon to do so, in consequence
of finding that an author who, like M. Bun sen, oc
cupies so high a station amongst men of letters,
should have supported with all the weight of his
authority some of the grossest of his misrepresenta

tions.
    There are two points, and two points only, in the

Life.                                 Z
338  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

discovery and establishment of which Champollion
admits that he was anticipated by Dr. Young. One
was the derivation of the hieratic character of the

funeral rolls from the hieroglyphics of the monu
ments : the other that the rings or cartouches con
tained the names of persons, like that of Ptolemy
on the Rosetta stone. But in order to reduce as

much as possible the value of. the concession which

he thus reluctantly makes, he refers the original
discovery of the first to Professor Tychsen of Gottin-

gen, and of the second to Zoega" -- confounding, in both

cases, a vague and unsupported conjecture with a

complete demonstration.

   We have elsewhere discussed at such length the
third of the six propositions which Champollion puts
forward as representing the views of Dr. Young --
though it opens with ascribing to him opinions which
we know that he never maintained --that we feel it
to be hardly necessary to refer to it again. With sin
gular injustice, it has sometimes been attempted to
estimate the relative claims of these great rivals by
the numerical results of the phonetic elements which
they respectively determined : forgetting who it was
that first proposed the principle employed in deducing
them, and who it was that* first applied it : forgetting
also that the only important limitations which Cham
pollion imposed upon the extent of the principle, in
volved in these determinations, was not antecedent to,
but consequent upon, its application ; and also that a

single successful exemplification of its use was really
a sufficient guide in other cases, wherever well-known

   · See Works, vol. iii. p. 450. <M. Bunsen more correctly ascribes this
conjecture to Barthelemy, though Zoega, the most eminent Egyptologist of
his day, approved of it as probable. Egypt's Place, &c., vol. i. p. 313.
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.      339

hieroglyphical rings or names were at hand to which

it could be applied.

  I I" Of the nine letters, which insist that had discovered,"

says Young in a letter to M. Arago," " M. Champoilion himself

Iallows me five, and maintain that a single one would have
Ibeen sufficient for all that wished to prove ; the method by

which that one was obtained being allowed to be correct and
to be capable of further application. The true foundation of

Ithe analysis of the Egyptian system of writing, insist, is the

Igreat fact of the original identity of the enchorial with the

sacred characters which discovered and printed in 1816. . . .
Whatever deficiencies there might have been in my original
alphabet, supposing it to have contained but one letter correctly
determined, they would and they must have been gradually
supplied by a continued application of the same method to
other monuments which have been progressively discovered and
made public since the date of my first paper."

   The letters which passed between Dr. Young and
several of his friends, more especially Sir William Gell,

will show that, after the publication of the work
which has given occasion to these criticisms, he to a

great extent abandoned the more popular and attrac
tive departments of Hieroglyphical literature to Cham
pollion, resuming however, from time to time, his
study of the enchorial manuscripts. The vindica
tion of his claims became, however, somewhat of a

national question upon the appearance of an article on
the subject of them in the Edinburgh Review for
December, 1826, written with considerable spirit and

ability -- but not without several errors --by Dr. James
Browne, a young advocate of Edinburgh. These in
accuracies were pointed out in a letter, gratefully ac

knowledging the general correctness of the statements

          * Works, vol. iii. p. 464.

                                      z2
340  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  CnAP. X.

which it contains, which Dr. Young addressed to the
author, who attributed in his reply the most con
siderable of them to Mr. Jeffrey, the well-known

editor, who introduced several alterations, without

possessing a sufficient knowledge of the subject to

enable him to do so with safety. A subsequent

article, by the same writer, corrected some of these
mistakes, but others were allowed to remain, out of

deference to an authority which it was not safe or

prudent to dispute.

   In 1827 he printed, in Brande's Philosophical Jour

nal, a letter addressed to the Cavaliere San Quintino,
of Turin, containing some valuable criticisms on seve
ral plates published under his superintendence by the
Hieroglyphical Society, together with some additional
remarks in vindication of his own claims to discoveries

which the friends and countrymen of Champollion
persevered in attributing exclusively to him." These
remarks gave some offence at Paris, where the hiero
glyphical labours of Dr. Young were little known,

except through the partial representations of them
which were given in the publications of his rival.

   Whilst asserting, however, his own rights in very
decided terms, he failed not in this, as on every other
occasion, to do full justice to the admirable sagacity,
the deep and extensive research, of Champollion, at
the same time that he ventured to insinuate that his

conclusions were, in some instances, in advance of the

documents upon which they were founded, and that
it would be premature to accept them as established
without further and more conclusive evidence.

   In the summer of 1828, he visited Paris for the last

time, on his way to Geneva. He was now one of the

                                     " Works, vol. iii. p. 444.
Chap. X.    HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  841

eight foreign Associates of the Academie des Sciences,

and he took his seat for the first time in that illustrious

assembly. He was everywhere received with extraordi
nary honours --

"I I" thatam only afraid,"      says he in writing to Mr. Gurney,
             shall be too fond   of Paris and its inhabitants, in pre

ference to my own cold-hearted countrymen, and that, instead

Iof making this my last visit to the continent, as supposed it
Iwould be, shall be tempted to make a biennial or quadrien-
Inial visit, like old Sir Benjamin Truman, whose history you

used to tell me ; but suppose this impression will wear off

again."

   This cordial reception would appear to have warmed
his heart, even towards Champollion, of whose conduct
he had so much reason to complain, and a reconciliation
was effected between them, which on his part at least

was obviously sincere.

  I" My principal object was Champollion, and with him have
Ibeen completely successful, as far as wanted his assistance:

for, to say the truth, our conferences have not been very grati

Ifying to my vanity : he has done so much more, and so much

better than had any reason to believe he would or could have

done ; and as he feels his own importance more, he feels less

occasion to be tenacious of any trifling claims which may justly

be denied him ; and in this spirit he has borne my criticisms

with perfect good humour, though Arago has charged me with

Isome degree of undue severity and wanted to pass the matter

over as not having been published as mine ; but to this could not

consent, and supposing that Champollion might have been un

Iacquainted with the remarks, thought it a matter of conscience
Ito carry them to him this morning before allowed him to con
Itinue his profuse liberality in furnishing me with more than

want : but he still continues his good offices. He devoted seven

whole hours at once to looking over with me his papers and the

magnificent collection which is committed to his care, and which

Ibeats every other museum in the world beyond all comparison,
though it has cost only 20,000/.  doubt not he felt a pleasure
342  MRMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.        Chap. X.

I Iin the display, but he must be so much accustomed to admira

tion and to more than gave him, that am certainly not the

less obliged to him on this score. He is going to Egypt in a

few weeks at the king's expense, with a party of a dozen artists

and savans. He is to let me, in the mean time, have the use of

Iall his collections and his notes relating to the enchorial charac

ter, that may make what use 1 please of them : and he is to

employ a cheap artist to copy at my expense all the manuscripts
Ifon papyrus that I want, and to give me permission to publish
any or all of them.  you see Col. Leake, pray tell him that the

council of the R.SlL. must not retard my proceedings from their

economy, for that their honours will be pledged to the produc

tion of what is really of importance."

   This promise, however, of renewed activity in a class
of investigations which he had for several years to a

great extent abandoned, was destined to be disap

pointed. The malady which proved fatal in the follow
ing year manifested itself in a gradual decay of strength

before he reached Geneva, and he shortly afterwards
returned to England, not altogether a confirmed invalid,
but with many indications of his speedily becoming

so. His last hieroglyphical work was the correction

of the sheets of his Enchorial Dictionary appended to
Archdeacon Tattam's Grammar, the advertisement of

which he wrote on his death-bed : it gives, however,
melancholy proofs of his diminished powers in the

partial forgetfulness of some of his own discoveries.
   Before he left Paris, he had promised to furnish

Arago with a statement of the precise dates of the seve
ral steps which he had made in his hieroglyphical

investigations. There was no person who had so good

a right to make this demand ; for he had been
the first to recognise the importance of his optical

researches, and had on every occasion maintained his
credit with the most generous friendship. The reply
Chap. X.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  343

to this request was forwarded to Arago from Geneva,"

and contains a singularly clear and dispassionate state
ment of the principal, though by no means the most
important, points in the controversy upon which the

attention of the public had then been fixed for several
years : and whilst it vindicates his own claims with equal

moderation and good sense, does more than justice to
the merits of Champollion. This statement, however,

would not appear to have satisfied the mind of his cor

respondent, or to have proved sufficient to counter
balance the national feeling with which the question

was generally regarded. In the Eloge which he was

required to pronounce, a few years later, upon Dr.

Young, as Secretaire Perpetuel de l'Academie, the de
cision is given against him upon grounds which are

singularly narrow and unsatisfactory. It is contended

that his principle of phonetization contained a mixture
of truth and error ; that it was essentially distinguished
from that of Champollion in attributing to the hiero-
glyphical symbols the power of vocalising syllables,
and even words, as well as letters ; that he left it in a

state in which it was not applicable to other names, or
capable of determining the correctness of a phonetic

analysis when made, referring to his mistake of the ring
of Caesar (Autocrator) for that of Arsinoe : he even
denies his knowledge of the existence of homophone
signs. The answers to these criticisms have been given
before, and it is not necessary to repeat them ; but they
originated in a neglect of the chronology of a series of
progressive researches, where the final structure is alone
regarded in its complete and finished state, the foun
dations upon which it rests being entirely overlooked.

          * Works, vol. iii. p. 404.
344       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. X.

It was not the only instance in which the passion of

this powerful and eloquent writer for signalising what

he considered the great epochs in discoveries in various

departments of science has led him to erroneous and

unjust decisions, when their progress has been more

indebted to continuous and patient labour, guided by

just principles of reasoning and philosophy, than to

any sudden outbreak of genius which has superseded

the rules which ordinary men must be compelled to
submit to.
          conclude this chapter on the lost literature
  IBefore    wish to express my obligations to the
Iof Egypt,

valuable labours of my friend, Mr. Leitch, not merely

in editing the last volume of Dr. Young's works, in

which his hieroglyphical writings and correspondence

are contained, but likewise for the able and learned

Inotes with which they are accompanied. Though

have been greatly assisted by the perusal of these

Inotes in putting together the preceding statements,

have pursued as much as possible an independent

course, by referring to the unpublished documents in

Imy possession, which were not sufficiently known to

Mr. Leitch, nor even to myself until was required

to study them in connection with the publications

Iwhich had been founded upon them. It was only after

this perusal that became fully aware how very imper

fectly the published writings of Dr. Young repre

sented either the extent or the character of his re

searches -- or the real progress he had made in the

discovery of phonetic hieroglyphics, many years before

Champollion had made his appearance in the field.
Chap. XI.  HIEROGLYPHICAL RESEARCHES.  345

                       CHAPTER XI.

               COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE.

About the year 1810, Mr. Seppings, a master ship
wright in Chatham Dockyard, proposed several im
provements in marine architecture, which excited very

great attention.

   The principal timbers and plankings of our ships
were formerly disposed at right angles with each other.
Thus the ribs were at right angles to the keel or back
bone ; the planks, both within and without, at right
angles to the ribs ; the beams which supported the
decks at right angles to the outer framework ; the
carlings at right angles to the beams ; the ledges at
right angles to the carlings ; and the planks of the
floors at right angles to the beams, or parallel to the
sides. By this arrangement of the timbers, the bolts
which secured them to each other were generally found
at the angles of a parallelogram, a figure which could
collapse, or tend to collapse, without bringing into
operation the strength of its sides either to resist their

compression or extension ; but if diagonal beams are

introduced and bolted into the sides at the opposite
angles, the system becomes thenceforward firm and
immoveable.

  It was with a view of giving greater stiffness and

strength to the whole framework of the ship, that
Mr. Seppings introduced a series of triangular braces
between the ribs, and replaced the diagonals in every
346  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  CHA.P. XI.

parallelogram wherever it was found. The inner plank
ing of the sides he entirely removed, filling up the space
between the inner and outer skins of the vessel --which

had formerly been a nursery for the most offensive

vermin and a receptacle for impurities --by short tim

bers closely wedged together, so as to form a compact
and continuous mass of great strength and durability,

such as was water-tight even if the external planking

had been removed. The decks also were made to

contribute to the same object by diagonal planking ;
other arrangements were everywhere made upon the
same principle ; and all the beams of the ship were so dis
posed and so firmly held together by bolts and braces,
that even the most trivial displacement could not take
place without bringing into action the most powerful

antagonistic forces to resist it.
    The effect of these improvements was to reduce,

almost from feet to inches, that arching of a ship, when
first launched, which is produced by the sinking of
the vast masses fore and aft, under the operation
of those violent pressures, some of them acting at an
enormous leverage, to which no adequate resistance had
hitherto been opposed, and which were sometimes found
to be so considerable, that when the back of the ship
was not actually broken, she not unusually became a

cripple for the short remainder of her existence. At a

subsequent period, Mr. Seppings further proposed the
substitution of round for flat sterns, by which, in our
larger men of war, he not only gained a vast increase
of strength in the framework of the ship, but provided
an armament at a most important point, where she
had hitherto been the most vulnerable.

    These improvements, obvious as many of them were,
were not liked by many of the officials and master
Chap. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 347

shipwrights of our dockyards, with whose habits and

perquisites they interfered;8 whilst many of the old
captains and admirals, whose magnificent stern draw
ing-rooms were thus invaded by 32-pounders, were
furious in their opposition. So violent, in fact, was

the resistance made to their introduction, that the
Admiralty felt it necessary to consult men of science
on the expediency of the changes which were proposed,

and Mr. Barrow, afterwards Sir John Barrow, one

of the Secretaries of the Admiralty, was directed to
request Dr. Young, amongst others, to report upon
them.b He was at first disposed to decline the com

mission, as at variance with the resolution he had

adopted of appearing ostensibly before the public
in no investigation which was not connected with his

professional studies ; but he was finally induced, from
a sense of public duty, to undertake the investigation.
The subject of carpentry, and the mechanical principles
which determine the strength or weakness of combina
tions of timbers, had been considered in his lectures in

connection with much larger and more philosophical
views than in any other work which had appeared in
this country, some articles by Professor Robison in the

Encyclopaedia Britannica alone excepted.0

  I· In aletteraddressedtoDr. Young in the course of these enquiries, Mr.
says,               no  wish to excite in  yours or any one's breast the
Seppings " have

sense of pity for the situation in which I have been placed, in consequence
of the principle I have recommended. Though my task has been, and is,

Ivery arduous, may say that I have been excommunicated by those in my

own profession : indeed, they have passed judgment without making them

selves masters of the principle. All this 1 can forgive, as it accords with the
old adage, ' Two of a trade can never agree ;' but I should want the spirit
Iof a man were to pass over the conduct of a certain person who has fol
lowed me step by step, that would hardly have been commendable had I

been guilty of a crime." The person alluded to was high in office, and used

all his influence to thwart the adoption of these improvements.

b See the latter's Works, vol. i. p. 535.  * Works, vol. i. p. 535.
348  MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XI.

    The substance of the Report which he addressed to
the Admiralty on this subject was embodied in a Me
moir read to the Royal Society on the 24th March,
 1814, and which is published in their Transactions for

that year. It contains a most searching inquiry into

the whole subject, analysing the causes which produce

the arching of ships, estimating the various pressures,

whether longitudinal, lateral, or vertical, to which they
are subject, the mechanical effects of those pressures,
and the best disposition of the timbers to resist them,

with a special discussion of the efficiency of the arrange
ments which Mr. Seppings had proposed for this pur

pose. The general conclusion of his investigations
was greatly in their favour, though he was enabled by
his more profound knowledge of mechanical principles

to point out some defects, and many contingencies to

which a ship might be exposed which they were not
competent to meet. Dr. Young was not easily seduced
into enthusiasm, and though his approbation of the

main points of the new system was very decisive, it

was upon the whole too cold and limited by too many
conditions, to satisfy the wishes of the more ardent of

Jits admirers.
   The leader of the malcontents was Sir ohn Barrow,
who had noticed these improvements in several articles

in the Quarterly Review, in terms of the most emphatic
approbation. He was an extremely vigorous and popular
writer, and though his scientific knowledge was very
limited, he possessed a remarkable capacity for making
difficult subjects plain, and had succeeded not merely
in making the new system familiar to the public, but
in raising greater expectations of its efficiency than ex
perience was likely altogether to justify. As might

have been anticipated, he was equally dissatisfied with
Chap. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 349

the amount of approbation which Dr. Young bestowed

upon and with what he considered the needless ob'

scurity in which his opinions were expressed --it,
                                 ;
                   '
                     is,                if
                                                                                 :
" We have perused Dr. Young's remarks," says he, " withit if

care, and we may add with pain for we understand them

rightly, which we are by no means sure that we always do,

the tendency            not to deprive the author of the merit of the

invention, at least to diminish the value of it. He cannot, we

think, disapprove of the principle yet so many conditionals,
                                 '
hypotheticals, and potentials are employed, that approbation;
                                                   if

                                                       it

                                                             is
be meant, either of the principle or its application,                                  at any

rate damn'd with faint praise.' Dr. Young will not infer from

this that we undervalue science, or that we do not cordially

                                                   ;

                                                                              by
agree with him that no assistance which can be afforded

the abstract sciences should be withheld from the service of the

public. Far be from us to think otherwise our regret arises

from seeing abstract science misapplied, in raising doubts on

points of practice which common sense and experience are best

able to determine, and which no calculus can reach."                                *

The Lords of the Admiralty would appear to have been

still more embarrassed than their               "  Secretary                          by the
scientific character of this Report.               Though                           science,"

writes an innocent official, and a              violent opponent of
these changes, " much respected                 by their Lordships,
                          is is
and your paper much esteemed by them,                                               it        too

learned."                                                                                is is

    Whilstis     may readily be admitted that abstract

             it
science useless not combined with good sense and
                          if if
experience, yet the converse of this proposition at

least as correct, not more so                      may in fact be
                                 a

                                               ;

                                            it
affirmed that no great public works can be safely en

trusted to practical men, however great their ability,

if  they are deficient in sound knowledge of me

chanical principles and their application. Our naval

administration for the last half-century has dearly

              » Quarterly Review, vol. xii. p. 456. 1815.
350  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XI.

 paid the penalty of its neglect or indifference to the

scientific attainments of its advisers. At one time,

 we find them getting rid of the Board of Longitude
 as an inconvenient incumbrance upon their inde
 pendence ; at another, they sacrifice the Naval Col
 lege, in which a body of master shipwrights was in a
 successful course of scientific training, almost simul
 taneously with the act which entrusted the construction
 of our ships of war to a man who was notoriously
 wanting in scientific qualifications. The appointments
 also of the engineers of the same body had been too
 commonly much more determined by considerations of
party patronage than of merit ; and the public service,
 which should have commanded the talents of men the

most distinguished for scientific and practical know
ledge, has sometimes presented a picture of inefficiency
which no lover of his country could contemplate with

 out pain.

   In the year 1816, Dr. Young was appointed secre

tary to a Commission for ascertaining the length of the
seconds pendulum, for comparing the French and
English standards with each other, and for considering
whether it would be practicable and advisable to estab

lish throughout the empire a more uniform system of
weights and measures. The three reports, with their
appendices, which this Commission made in 1819, 1820,
and 1821, were drawn up by Dr. Young, who subse
quently embodied a detailed account of their proceed
ings in an article in the Supplement of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica."

   The operations for ascertaining the length of the
seconds pendulum were entrusted to Captain Kater, an
engineer officer of great ingenuity and mechanical skill,

                                       Works, vol. ii. p. 427.
Chap. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 351

whose happy use of the principle of the commutability
of the centres of suspension and oscillation was con

sidered a most important step towards the accurate

practical solution of this problem. All the known

resources of art and science were brought to bear upon
this measurement ; and apart from theoretical correc
tions which later researches have shown to be imperfect
or erroneous, it is not probable that the accuracy of
the determination which it afforded will ever be sur

passed. It assigned a length of the seconds pendulum,

in terms of the parliamentary standard yard, of 39. 13860
inches, the pendulum being supposed to be swung in
vacuo at the level of the sea in the latitude of London,

the temperature of its mass and of the air being sup

posed to be 62° of Fahrenheit. It was shown by Dr.

Young, in a subsequent Memoir in the Philosophical
Transactions, that the correction applied for the
reduction to the level of the sea was too great by
at least one third, and the length which was ultimately
adopted when cleared of this error was 39.13929
inches. The most eminent men of science of the day,
including Dr. Wollaston, a member of the Commission,
a man eminently cautious and dispassionate in forming
his conclusions, expressed their entire confidence in
the correctness of this last result.

    So general, in fact, was this conviction, that the Impe
rial Legislature attempted to invest it with an absolutely

immutable character. In an Act introduced in 1824

by Sir George Clerk, one of the members of the Com
mission, it was declared that the length of the seconds

pendulum -- under the conditions above mentioned --

bore to the length of the imperial standard yard not
only the proportion of the numbers 39.1393 and 36 to

each other, but that if ever the latter should be lost or
352  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XI.

destroyed, it shall be restored to the same length by
making it bear to the length of the seconds pendulum
the precise proportion of those numbers. The course of

events was destined very speedily to bring the authority

of this enactment to a trial. In 1835, the standards of

length, weight, and capacity were destroyed in the burn
ing of the Houses of Parliament; and, in 1837, a new
Commission was appointed to restore them. But the
progress of scientific inquiry, in the interval which had
elapsed between the first and second Commission, had
shown that nearly all the theoretical corrections which
Captain Kater had applied to the reduction of his obser

vations were imperfect or erroneous. Bessel had shown
that the formula used for the reduction to a vacuum was

very defective ; and Colonel Sabine had established the
same fact by very decisive experiments ; Dr. Young had
not only shown, as we have seen, that the reduction

to the level of the sea was erroneous, but also that it

might be materially affected by local circumstances,"
and Colonel Sabine had given reason for thinking
that such circumstances, whether geological or other
wise, were not obscurely indicated in the neighbour
hood where the pendulum was swung ; and Mr.
Baily, who repeated and varied all the observations
with his usual perseverance and skill, discovered other
anomalies and possible sources of error, which threw
additional doubts upon the perfect accuracy of this and
similar determinations. Without attempting to assign

the precise amount of the error, it was morally certain
that Captain Kater's value was too great. The lost

standards of length and weight have since been restored
by Mr. Sheepshanks and Professor Miller, under the
authority of a Commission, which has recently made

                                      · Works, vol. ii. p. 90.
Chap. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE.  353

its report, --not by following the directions of the Act,
but by a very careful comparison of the best copies of
those standards which were known to be in existence.

   The pride of philosophy was destined to encounter a
similar rebuke, in the attempt made in France to found,

upon imperishable bases, the determination of the length

of the metre, as one ten-millionth part of a quadrant of
the earth's meridian. An arc, of nearly one-seventh part

of the length of this meridian, between the parallels of
Dunkirk and Ivica, one of the Balearic Islands, was mea

sured, with every precaution which the most advanced

resources of art and science could supply, to obtain a
result from which every appreciable source of error was
eliminated. This was extended both ways, by the aid

of well-known formulae, to the pole and the equator :
and upon this determination the length of the metre

was assigned. A subsequent revision of the calcula

tions made manifest an unquestionable mistake of at
least 34 toises, and many others would in all proba

bility be discovered if the operation were repeated. The

standard metre, therefore, the authority of which con

tinues to be recognised, is no longer an integral part of
the earth's meridian, as it was once proudly assumed to

be ; and it cannot be restored to that character without
disturbing the integrity of the whole existing metrical

system of France.
   The Commissioners of 1816, in their Report, depre

cated any great or violent changes in the standards of
weights and measures already in use, as well on account
of the great derangement which such alterations would

produce in the ordinary transactions of commerce and

trade, as from the conviction that no peculiar advan

tage would accrue from having such standards com
mensurable with any invariable quantity existing in

LlFK.  2A
854  MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XI.

nature. The only alteration they proposed --which
was in our measures of capacity --was hardly consistent

with this very wise recommendation. The gallons,

and their multiples and submultiples, which were then
in use for the measurement of corn, ale, and wine,

were all of them different from each other ; and little

doubt could be felt with respect to the expediency of
reducing them all to the same capacity. Instead, how

ever, of retaining the corn gallon as the common basis
of such measures, the change of which would produce
by far the greatest derangement in existing contracts

and arrangements, they proposed an imperial gallon,
different from them all, upon the trivial ground of its
holding, when filled, a quantity of distilled water,

weighing exactly lOlbs. avoirdupois, at the temperature

of 62° of Fahrenheit. With a view of giving a prac

tical value to this philosophical fact, the same imperial
gallon was made the basis of a clause of the Act which

embodied this Report, providing -- when the correctness
of such a measure is disputed and a recognised standard
is not at hand --a reference to a magistrate, who is re
quired to verify it by weighing its contents in rain water

at the temperature of 62° Fahrenheit, against the statut

able weights. It would be a curious inquiry to ascer

tain, if such an experiment ever has been or ever

should be tried, what would be the degree of confidence

to which such a determination would be entitled--

whether, in fact, there are any measures, however accu
rate, which would stand the test of such an inquiry
when conducted in the presence, or by the agency, of
such a tribunal.

   The same Commissioners not only declined to
recommend the decimalisation of our coinage and of
the primary units of weights and measures, but ex
Chap. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE.  355

pressed their preference of the duodecimal and other
scales which are prevalent amongst those in use, as ad
mitting of much greater subdivision or more frequent
bisection. Their successors in 1837 came to an oppo

site conclusion, which public opinion has already suffi
ciently confirmed, and which cannot fail before long
to receive the sanction of the Legislature. Circum
stances, however, were not then wanting which appeared

to justify recommendations of so contradictory a cha

racter : at the one period an impression prevailed that
the decimal system had failed to become popular in
France, where a foolish reactionary decree of the Bour

bons had forbidden the use of it in all the minor trans

actions of trade ; at the other, the metrical system in its
integrity was known to be in full operation both in

France and in Belgium. At the one period, all depar

tures from ancient practices were looked upon with sus

picion ; at the other, they were welcomed as conformable
to the spirit of the age. The very same influences which
would then have opposed the general acceptance of such
a change, would now be employed to recommend it.

   In the year 1814, Dr. Young became a member of a

Committee of the Royal Society, appointed at the re

quest of the Secretary of State for the Home Depart
ment, to investigate the degree of danger which might
result from the general introduction of gas into the

metropolis, and more especially from the erection of

large gasometers in crowded neighbourhoods. A recent

explosion of a gas-seasoning house, at Woolwich, had
produced general alarm, and it had not yet been suffi
ciently ascertained under what circumstances coal-gas
was capable of explosion, or through what length of

tubing, if any, its flame would run back into the

reservoir. The chemical part of this inquiry was

                                                                            2a2
356  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XI.

chiefly conducted by Mr. Ten nan t and Dr. Wollaston ;
and the results at which they arrived were not only
satisfactory, as tending to remove all apprehensions of
danger -- supposing reasonable precautions to be taken

--but also as clearly showing that the flame of gas in

a small tube is not transmissible ; a most important
fact, which became, in the hands of Sir Humphry

Davy (who was abroad at the time, and took no part
in the proceedings of this Committee), the origin of
the safety-lamp : and it may be truly said that science
has rarely made a more valuable gift to the cause of

humanity.
    Dr. Young communicated to this Committee an in

vestigation of the probable force of the explosion of
coal gas, founded upon the same principles which are
involved in the usual estimate of the explosive force of

gunpowder. It was a problem of a very high order of

difficulty, the elements of whose solution were of a

very hypothetical and uncertain character. The con
clusion at which he arrived was, that the explosive

force of coal gas --with the requisite admixture of at
mospheric air -- was somewhat less than one-thousandth

part of the same mass of gunpowder. Such questions
were then full of interest, though they have ceased to be
so now. Some of the dangers which were most seriously

apprehended have been shown to be unreal, and the
precautions are now well understood which are necessary
to protect us from others ; thus affording an additional
proof that the most powerful and apparently dangerous
of natural agents may be made of benefit to mankind,

if we diligently strive to study and master the con

ditions which a wise and bountiful Providence has
 attached to the use of them.

     In November. IS 18, Dr. Young was appointed
Chap. XI.  COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 357

superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, and Secretary
of the Board of Longitude, under the provisions of an

Act of Parliament, by which its constitution had been

recently remodelled. The Admiralty warrant, by

which he was appointed, assigned him a stipend of

three hundred pounds per annum in the first of these

capacities, and of one hundred in the second ; an

amount of remuneration hardly adequate for the dis

charge of such laborious and responsible ^  but

which he considered sufficient to justify his appearing

henceforward before the public in his proper character

of a man of science, without regarding the possible loss

of professional income which might result from his

doing so.

His selection for this office would appear to have

been due to the very general confidence reposed in his
industry and capacity. He had written no special

memoirs on astronomy, and had taken no part in the

questions of the day which related to the promotion of

that science ; but the results which followed from his

appointment showed that the opinion entertained of the
universality and soundness of his attainments was not

misplaced, and we shall find him discharging the new

duties which devolved upon him, including a very ex

tensive astronomical correspondence, vvith a mastery of

the subject as complete and technical, as if the study of

the science had formed the chief business of his life.

   The Nautical Almanac had been projected by Dr.
Maskelyne in 1765 : though limited in its objects, as

its name indicated, to the promotion of the interests

of navigation, and not intended as an Astronomical
Ephemeris, it had attained an unequalled reputation
for accuracy -- the places for the sun and moon, and the

principal fixed stars, as well as other fundamental ele
358  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                  Chap. XI.

ments of astronomy, which were given in    ;           being

founded upon the system of observations which Bradit,
ley, the most illustrious of practical astronomers,

had first introduced, and which Maskelyne himself,

though not his immediate successor, had continued

and perfected with equal perseverance and skill

for nearly half a century. His own successor at the
Observatory, Mr. Pond, succeeded also to the charge

of the Almanac. He was an observer of remarkable

tact and delicacy, with  very clear understanding,
     aa
which enabled him to reason correctly upon the generala it,
                    a
instrumental results of his observations but his ma
                                        a
thematical knowledge was very limited, and he was not

equal to that larger and more philosophical discussion

of his observations which was requisite to give them

their complete astronomical interpretation." His feeble

health and gentle disposition disqualified him also for

the task of sufficiently controlling the subordinate
parties employed in the preparation of the Nautical

Almanac, and the consequence was, that errors were

allowed to creep into which seriously compromised

the character of publication which had hitherto been

deemed to be altogether unimpeachable.

  It was chiefly with view of relieving the Astro

nomer Royal from the responsibility of this charge --

which under ordinary circumstances would appear to

be natural incident of his office --that new Board of
a                                          a

Longitude was formed, including some new, but un-:

    Schumacher, in his correspondence with Dr. Young, makes frequent
references to Mr. Pond's want of sufficient theoretical and technical know
ledge to enablc him to treat his observations properly such also would
appear to have been the opinion of Bessel and the other astronomers of

Germany. Mr. Sheepshanks, however, most competent judge, and other
English astronomers, have been accustomed to speak of ,him with great
respect as not merely skilful, but an eminently philosophical observer.
Chap. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 359

paid members, in addition to those who formerly com
posed it. When Dr. Young succeeded to the office of
superintendent, under the general direction of this
Board, he lost no time in making every practicable
arrangement to prevent the recurrence of errors in the
Almanac, which might not only be the means of en
dangering the safety of our ships, but which had already
lessened the implicit faith which had so long been

reposed in it. In all other respects, however, he con

tinued to adhere strictly to the system which had

been followed by his predecessors, considering it as

designed for nautical rather than for astronomical pur

poses.

   It is not easy, however, to define the precise limits

which separate the wants of the navigator from those

of the traveller and astronomer. A scientific and well

educated captain may be placed under circumstances

which will require him to act in all these capacities,
when he visits unknown regions ; and observations,
which are impracticable at sea, made at the various
points at which he touches, may not only furnish im
portant geographical determinations, but, by enabling
him to ascertain or test the rates of chronometers,

may increase materially the correctness and efficiency
of those which are required for the security of his ship.

It was not, therefore, without some show of reason,

when the Nautical Almanac made its appearance under
new auspices, that some discontent should have been
expressed at the somewhat limited character of the in

formation which it continued to supply. Astronomy

also had begun to be much more generally cultivated.
Several private and some public Observatories had
been recently established at home : whilst those on
the continent at Berlin, at Konigsberg, at Alton a,
360  MEMOIR OP DK. THOMAS YOUNG.                      Chap. XI.

Milan, and elsewhere, were placed under the care of men

equally distinguished for their theoretical and prac

tical knowledge, who were daily enriching astronomy
by new researches, as well as by the publication of
astronomical Ephemerides which put to shame our

own contributions to the science.

Mr. F. Baily was one of the first to call public

attention to a fact so humiliating to our national

pride. In early life he had made himself known by

publishing an admirable treatise on Life Annuities,
which still continues to be regarded as of classical

authority ; and he had recently abandoned pursuits in
which he had realised a large fortune, for the cultiva

tion of astronomy in which he was destined to earn a

reputation for learned research and practical industry

which was second to that of few of his contemporaries.

   In a preface and introduction to a collection of very

useful Astronomical Tales, published in 1822, he com
plains that it was not easy to refer to a single table of
English origin which was used in the computations of

the National Almanac, and he contrasts the meagre-
ness of the contents of that publication with the much

more ample information furnished by the foreign
Ephemerides. As a proof also of the inert acquiescence

of its editors in- continuing to retain without inquiry

whatever had been once introduced into it, however

antiquated and useless, he refers to a note \ipon the

telescopes which are proper to be used in observing the

eclipses of the satellites of  Jupiter,    as being,  among
others, " common refracting                  of from  fifteen
                               telescopes

to twenty feet," though such instruments had been

superseded by achromatic telescopes for more than fifty
years. He omitted to notice, however, as in candour

he was bound to have done, that Dr. Young expressly
 Chap. XL COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 361          a it,

 referred the note to its author Dr. Maskelyne, who had
 introduced it when such telescopes were common, and
 that it was retained rather as an historical fact than

 as a direction for the instruction of seamen.
     To these observations of Mr. Baily, which were very

 temperately urged, a short and somewhat ungracious

 reply was inserted by Dr. Young in the Journal of the
 Royal Institution, in which they were characterized as
 " superfluous and frivolous." Mr. Baily, who was in
 general sufficiently cautious in forming his opinions,
 but very resolute and sometimes stern in defending

them --when he believed them to be well founded --
was prompt in his rejoinder. A movement party for

 the reform of the National Ephemeris was gradually
formed amongst English astronomers and astronomical
amateurs of which Mr. Baily was the acknowledged
leader, and which gained strength from day to day : and
though the most distinguished of their number were
somewhat repelled by the unguarded vehemence of
some of those who took part in so powerful was the
combination that no reasonable doubt could be enter

tained with respect to what would be the final issue of

the contest.

   Though Dr. Young continued steadily to resist all
changes in the form of the Nautical Almanac, he was

prepared to make some concessions to the demands
addressed to him by those whose opinions he respected,
and who at the same time paid reasonable deference
to his own. Several tables, more especially those of

the moon's distance from the principal planets, the
want of which in the Nautical Almanac had been

complained of and not unreasonably, were already in
cluded in the Danish Ephemeris, and arrangements
were made hy Dr. Young with the editor, Schumacher
362         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XI.

of Altona, an astronomer of great modesty, industry,

and learning, for a very early communication of a

large number of copies of these tables, which were

made saleable by the Admiralty bookseller at very

moderate prices." On the recommendation also of Sir

John Herschel, --who was a member of the Board of
Longitude, --a supplement to the Nautical Almanac

was published at a later period, containing other tables

of great use to working astronomers in the reduction

of their observations, more especially as auxiliary to

the new arrangement of the formulae of reduction

which Bessel of Konigsberg had recently introduced

in the Preface to his Tabulae Regiomontanae, and which

has proved of such eminent service to Astronomy .b

Professor Airy, who had recently succeeded to the

charge of the Cambridge Observatory, and who had

already given examples of that rare combination of

practical and theoretical knowledge with habits of

systematic order and arrangement, for which he is now

so justly celebrated, had joined in some representations

upon the expediency of uniting in one book all the

information which astronomers as well as navigators

were likely to require.

  I" If                  astronomer," says Young in reply to
                         should think it right for the Admiralty
him, "
     every    practical
     were   like you,

to consider the importance of saving your time almost as much

Ias that of nautical men. But when see people who possess

nothing of science but a few fine instruments and a good deal

of leisure, affecting to call themselves astronomers and to dictate

   » Only fifty copies of these tables wore thus disposed of, whilst the sale
of the Nautical Almanac exceeded 7000. Dr. Young appealed to this
fact as confirmatory of his argument, that the Nautical Almanac con
tained all the information which practical seamen required.

   b The principle of this distribution of the elements of correction had

occurred also to Mr. Baily, who ceased to pursue the investigation when
he found that he had been anticipated by Bessel.
Chap. XL COMMISSIONS. BOARD OP LONGITUDE. 363

to the public what ought to be done for the promotion of astro
Inomical science,
                   do       certainly   fe"elwitah  disposition to rebel
                            and again,
against their authority ;"                          respect to the N. A.,
I Ihope so expressed myself as professing a readiness to be

convinced by you and not to adopt your opinions without having
Ivanquished my own doubts.
                            am most anxious for your
Iassistance in recommending whatever you think right, and
Itrust you will not condemn me, if am not always persuaded."

  A general cause of complaint against Dr. Young's

administration of his office was founded upon his re

serving his lists of occultations and various astrono

mical investigations for publication, under the title of

Nautical Collections, in the Journal of the Royal In

stitution, which was edited by Mr. Brande, instead of

including them in a supplement or appendix to the

Nautical Almanac, such as

Ithe Connaissance des Terns.

Brinkley in a letter to him,
                            "wt"ahseWvhaaelwlnuaaybsleseaeap,rp"tiecsnlaedysesdcDontro.
Itained in the Journal, cannot but think they would

be better placed in a supplement to the Nautical
IAlmanac.
           doubt not but the reasons are good for
Inot adding such a supplement, but am ignorant of
Ithem.
        really believe that the supplement to the

Connaissance des Terns has done more service to

astronomy than any other publication whatever."

All persons engaged in the cultivation of particular

branches of science will be ready to acknowledge the

great importance of concentrating, as much as possible,
in a cheap and easily accessible publication, the current

information relating to it : it is this character which has

caused the Astronomische Nachrichten, which Schu

macher instituted and conducted for so many years with

so much regularity and ability, to exercise the most

important influence upon the progress of astronomy.

   In the year 1 82 8, the Board of Longitude, which had
364  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUJJO.  Chap. XI.

been reconstituted ten years before, and which for nearly
three quarters of a century had formed the only ostensible
link which connected the cultivation of science with the

Government of this country, was dissolved. The third
reading of the Act of Parliament for that purpose, took
place, upon the motion of Mr. Croker, in a house of five
members only, one of whom, Mr. Davies Gilbert, was

President of the Royal Society and an official member
of the Board at whose obsequies he assisted, but who
had not the courage, whilst pronouncing its eulogy, to

resist an act of barbarism which was neither called for

by any just considerations of expediency nor of rational
economy. The Admiralty was authorized to assume
the functions which had hitherto been discharged by
the Board-- and Dr. Young, as superintendent of the
Nautical Almanac, assisted by Mr. Faraday as a

chemist, and Colonel Sabine as a practical observer,

were appointed as its advisers, whenever their assist

ance was required, upon questions which concerned the

scientific interests of navigation and astronomy.

    Such an act was not likely to check the agitation

which prevailed amongst astronomers, as, indepen

dently of other and more serious objections, it tended

to give additional authority to Dr. Young, who had so

long resisted their demands. A memorandum, very

temperately worded, but strongly supported, was pre
sented to the Prime Minister, the Duke of Wellington.

A Report on this Memorandum was made by Dr.

Young, in February, 1829. Though his health was at

that time rapidly declining, his observations were
written with his usual precision and ability, giving
way in one instance only to feelings of personal

resentment, if a stronger term may not be used,

which had been provoked by attacks of unusual violence
Cmr. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 365

and bitterness ; it is hardly necessary to add that he
adhered substantially to the views which he had pre
viously maintained. His death, which took place about

Ittwo months afterwards, put an end to the contest.

was followed, as is well known, by a Committee of the
Astronomical Society appointed under the authority
of the Admiralty 4 upon whose report the Nautical
Almanac was entirely reorganized, and assumed the
form which it has ever since retained.

    Upon a review of the origin and progress of this
controversy, which was carried on with so much acri
mony and for so many years, it is difficult for the
warmest admirers of Dr. Young altogether to justify
the line of conduct which he pursued. Of the two

grounds upon which he chiefly rested his defence, --

expense to the Government, and the interests of navi

gation, -- the first was absolutely unworthy of notice,

and the second could hardly be compromised by the
embarrassment produced by placing in the hands of

seamen more than they required, when the most simple
instructions would direct them what to look for.

Neither was he much more fortunate in another argu
ment which he put forward, that astronomers had no
special claim for such public aid in their researches, as

an ample and carefully prepared Ephemeris would afford

them. It is precisely in those cases, where private

enterprise must necessarily fail, or where no effectual

co-operation can be otherwise secured, that it becomes
the duty of a government to interpose ; for, by such in
terference wisely and judiciously exercised, the great
body of the people will be taught to regard the machinery
of government not as designed for the interests of parti
cular classes and parties, but as essentially necessary
to the attainment of much higher objects, the promo
3(56  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XI.

tion of science, of education, of the public health, and
of rational progress in whatever concerns the good of

the community.

   Dr. Young contributed to the Astronomical and
Nautical Collections in Brande's Quarterly Journal
several important articles on Effraction. He had
observed that the series employed for expressing the

refraction in terms of the density failed at the horizon,
because the sine of the altitude was a divisor of the

co-efficients, and it occurred to him that this incon

venience might be avoided by expressing the density
in a series in terms of the refraction. The series

which was thus obtained, though not always very con

vergent in extreme cases, is convenient for obtaining a
tolerably accurate result from any proposed theory of
the law which governs the relations of the height,
temperature, and density of the atmosphere, being
capable of determining the refraction by the aid of a
small number of its terms. He was accustomed to

consider this principle of reversing the ordinary form
of exhibiting the series for refraction as one of the

happiest ideas that had ever occurred to him in a phy

sical investigation.

    These papers gave rise to a very acrimonious con
troversy between himself and Mr. Ivory, who was en
gaged about the same time in the same class of
researches. Mr. Ivory, whose temper was somewhat
morose and jealous, was a worshipper of La Place and
the French School of analysts, to whose methods he was

the first to give a very general currency in this country ;
and he was too apt -- as in his Memoir on Cohesion of
Fluids, to which we have before referred -- to make the

physical principles on which his investigations were
 founded in some degree subordinate to the analytical
Chap. XI. COMMISSIONS. BOARD OF LONGITUDE. 367

elegance and completeness of the methods which he
employed. As an analist however, and in the direct
applications of analysis to physical questions, he had

few superiors. With such prepossessions, it was not

surprising that he should have failed to recognize,
in this as well as in other instances, the importance
of Dr. Young's conclusions, in connection with the
inelegance and apparent insufficiency of his methods,

and should have been disposed to dispute the correct
ness of the assumptions upon which his series were
founded ; to doubt their convergency, at least for very
low altitudes, and to maintain generally that such

series were only resorted to in the infancy of analytical
science." Dr. Young replied to these imputations by
showing that his method was applicable not only to
every hypothesis respecting the distribution of heat in
the atmosphere to which the methods of La Place, Bessel
and Ivory were applicable, but also to others which
they did not venture to investigate, in consequence of
considering . them beyond the powers of the analysis
which those methods required.

    Formulae or series for refraction, though founded
upon very different views of the constitution of the

caitemnotslyphdeerete, rmmianyedgivbey--obwsheervnattihoneir--croenssutlatsntswahriechsuaffrie

nearly coincident for considerable altitudes and within
moderate limits of temperature : it is only when we
approach the horizon, or for extreme heat or extreme
cold, that the considerable discrepancies begin to
appear. Thus, whilst the formula which Dr. Brink-
ley proposed gives results, for extreme cold, even
near the horizon, which have been found, in some re

markable observations, to be nearly correct, those given

                                     « Works, vol. ii. p. 39.
368  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. Xf.

by that of Dr. Young, under similar circumstances,
are much too small. Other sources of discrepancy
have their origin in the different methods which are
adopted for ascertaining the temperature. Are we to
trust to the indications of the thermometer within or

without the observatory, or are we to make use of both ?
Dr. Young would trust to the first," Dr. Brinkley to
the second, and Bessel would take account of both of
them ; whilst the difficulty in a well constructed or
well regulated observatory would be evaded by making
the difference between them as much as possible dis

appear. It is in the searching discussion of questions,

like these, apparently so trivial and so unimportant,
that those minute quantities are involved, the de
tection and accurate determination of which will form

the basis of the most important results of the astro
nomy of the future ; of the values in fact of the
standards by which we shall be able to measure the
dimensions of the remotest portions of the universe
which are penetrable by our telescopes.

                                       * Works, vol. ii. p. 73.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 369

       CHAPTER XII.

       OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH.

In the interval of twelve years which elapsed between

the publication of his Reply to the Edinburgh Review

and the appearance of Fresnel's first Memoir on Dif
fraction in 1816, the name of Dr. Young was ostensibly

connected with no important experimental or theoretical

optical investigations. In fact, his previous labours upon

the subject seemed to have been absolutely forgotten,
and it would be difficult to point out a single allusion

made to them in any optical work or memoir published

during that period, either at home or abroad. In the

intermediate period La Place had published his celebrated

Memoir on the double refraction of Iceland spar : Malus

had discovered the polarization of light by reflection,

and was engaged in a brilliant series of researches con
necting his discovery with the optical properties of

crystalline bodies, when a premature death brought
his labours to a close : Brewster was enriching every
department of experimental optics with the most re

markable speculations and discoveries : Arago had
found out the colours of crystalline plates produced

by polarized light, and though less fertile than some
of his contemporaries in the number of his contribu

tions to the science, he was second to none of them in

the critical sagacity with which he analysed their
labours: Biot was combining theoretical and practical

Life.                2B
370  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                         Chap. XII.

researches with a success and ingenuity which seemed
to promise him the first place amongst optical dis
coverers, when it was his misfortune to wraste his ener

gies and compromise his reputation in the proposition
and obstinate maintenance of his theory of moveable

polarization : at a later period, the labours of Fresnel, --
who --though treading generally in. the footsteps of

Young, required no foreign aid either to guide or sup

port him, -- was destined to give unity and system to the

vast mass of facts and theories which his predecessors
had accumulated and prepared. " Of the splendid

constellation of great names just enumerated," writes
Sir John Herschel shortly after the most important of
this vast series of investigations had been brought to
a conclusion, " we admire the living and revere the

deada far too warmly and too deeply to suffer us to
sit in judgment on their respective claims to priority
in this or that particular discovery ; to balance the
mathematical skill of one against the experimental
dexterity of another, or the philosophical acumen of
a third : so long as ' one star differeth from another in

glory,' -- so long as there shall exist varieties- or even
incompatibilities of excellence,-- so long will the admi

ration of mankind be sufficient for all who merit it."b
   But in the mean time Young, though he engaged in

no continuous optical investigation and preserved
strictly the incognito which he considered to be due
to his profession, was neither an idle nor an uncon
cerned observer of what was passing around him.

The Memoir0 of La Place, which took the lead in the
series of researches above referred to, was published in

* Malns and Fresnel were then dead.

b  "ArStuicrlelaLilgohi t,dcEnlcaycRloepfraaecdtiiaon  Metropolitans,    §.   780.       Cristaux  Dia-
·                                                        extraordinaire      dans
                                                                                    les

phancs." -- Jnnnml rlr I'hyniqiir for 1809.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 371

the beginning of the year 1809, and in it its illus
trious author had brought the Newtonian theory of
emission and the principle of least action in the form

a

                it

                                              ;

                                                    it,
which Maupertuis had given to to bear upon the

explanation of the extraordinary as well as ordinary

ray in Iceland crystal and he had obtained results

which appeared so completely to represent the pheno

mena, that              was considered by himself as well as by

the great body of men of science both in France and

elsewhere -- who bowed implicitly to his authority -- as

    crucial test of the sufficiency of the received theory

to explain them."

  It was this Memoir which became, soon after its

appearance, the subject of a remarkable Article which
Young contributed to the Quarterly Review,* in which

he showed or rather asserted that one of the two me

chanical principles upon which its conclusions were

founded was misapplied and the other an arbitrary

assumption whilst he himself partially deduced the
course of the extraordinary ray from assumptions re
specting the unequal elasticities of the ether, which
transmits the undulations, in the direction of the axis

                        a

                                  ,

                                                                    it,
of the crystal and in plane at right angles to which

were perfectly legitimate inductions from observation

and which subsequent investigations have fully con

firmed.

    * " La de.couveite d'Huygens," says Biot, " li6e par M. La Place aux

principes <le mecanique, est aujourd'hui la base de toutes nos recherchcs
sur la double refraction."-- Traite de Physique, tom iii. p. 365, 1816.
  0b

                    la
    Quarterly Review for November, 1809. Dr. Young's Works, vol.
                        :
p.  220.                                          ;           " n'ont point

      " Les                                  il le

                                                                                       ·2

                                                                            b
                                                                           2

                                                                                           i.
             calculs    de M. de La Place," says M. Fresnel,

eclaire" la question tli6orique car ils ne iuontrent pas pourquoi la force re
pulsive qui (5mane de l'axe, varierait comme carre" du sinus de l'inclinai-
son du rayon extraordinaire Bur celui-ci ct est bien difficile de justifier
cette hypothese par de considerations mecaniques." -- Memoires de VIn&titut,

torn. vii. 47, 1X27.p.
872  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XII.

   The law of sines was determined by Huygens upon
the principles of the undulatory theory, by the aid of
Fermat's principle of the law of the least time, where the
time of transmitting an undulation, from a point without
to a point within, a different refracting medium, was re
quired to be a minimum*, and as the paths without as well

as within, the medium are straight lines, it was the sum

of the quotients formed by dividing the exterior and
interior path, by the velocities wiih which they are

respectively described, which was required to answer

this condition and which was found by him to furnish

the law which had been so long recognized as estab

lished by experiment.
   The principle of least action, as stated by Maupertuis,

required the sum of the products of the space and ve

locity, without and within the refracting medium, to
be a minimum ; but as we have already seen that the
velocities of the propagation of the rays of light

through different media, according to the Newtonian
and the Huygenian theories, are in the inverse propor

tion to each other, it follows that the principle of least

action, upon the first hypothesis, gives precisely the
same result as that of least time upon the other, and

that they must lead, therefore, to the same construction
for determining the position of the extraordinary ray

in a doubly refracting crystal, whatever be the position
of the incident ray with respect to its axis.

   Inasmuch as these two principles can only give co
incident results by assuming other results which are in

direct contradiction to each other, it seems necessarily to

follow, that, even assuming them to be generally true,

there are some circumstances connected with the solu
tion of this problem which limit the application of one
of them. This limitation, which is rather insinuated
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 873

than proved in Young's Review of La Place's Memoir,
is very clearly and fully stated in a passage of a Life
of Fermat, inserted by him, with a special view to this
question, in the Supplement of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, which is reprinted in the second volume of

his Works."

The solution which Huygens gave of the problem

of double refraction, assumed the coexistence of two

media within the crystal, one propagating its undula

tions according to the ordinary law, and the other
transmitting them with different velocities in different

directions, so as to produce a spheroidical wave, whose

axis of revolution was coincident with the axis of the
Ifcrystal.
            we further conceive the existence of a third

imaginary spherical wave, whose centre is the point of

incidence, spreading itself with the same velocity as if
it was propagated in the medium external to the crys
tal, and if from the point where the incident ray pro

duced would meet this imaginary wave, we suppose tan

gent planes to be drawn to the spherical and spheroidical

waves respectively, which are really propagated within

the crystal, then the lines joining the point of in

cidence and the two points of contact respectively, will

represent the courses of the ordinary and extraordinary

ray. It is hardly necessary to add that it is precisely

to the same construction that we are conducted by the

theory of La Place.
   But the important question arises-- upon what

grounds are we justified in assuming the coexistence

within the crystal of spherical and spheroidical waves

of equal intensities, producing rays of light whose

courses are found by observation to be determined

by the preceding construction. It was this very coin-

            * Works, vol. ii. p. 584.
374            MEM01U OF DR. THOMAS YOUKG.                 Chap. XII.

cidence, as being too remarkable and too complicated
to have resulted from a false hypothesis, which

induced its illustrious author to assume that it was

true.

"  " Newton," says Young, in the first of his Memoirs on Light,
   has advanced the singular refraction of Iceland crystal as an

argument that the particles of light must be projected cor

puscles, since he thinks it probable that the different sides of

these particles must be differently attracted by the crystal, and

since Huygens has expressed his inability to account in a satis

factory manner for call the phenomena. But, contrary to what

might have been expected from Newton's usual accuracy and

candour, he has laid down a new law for the refraction, without

giving a reason for rejecting that of Huygens, which Mr. Haiiy

has proved to be more accurate than Newton's ; and, without

attempting to deduce from his own system any explanation of

the more universal and striking effects of doubling spars, he

has omitted to notice that Huygens' most elegant and ingenious

theory perfectly accords with those effects in all particulars, and

of course derives from them additional pretensions to truth." *

   Dr. Wollaston was induced by these observations of
Young, to subject the construction of Huygens to a
more accurate examination than it had hitherto re

ceived, by bringing to bear upon the enquiry the

ingenious method which he had recently devised for

the determination of the refractive indices of liquid

and crystalline bodies. His examination fully esta

blished the accuracy of the Huygenian measures.

  I" think     the   result of these   comparisons," says  he,  at the
               his                    must be admitted to  be   highly
conclusion of       investigation, "

favourable to the Huygenian theory ; and although the exist
ence of two refractions at the same time in the same substance

be not well accounted for, and still less their interchange with

each other when a ray of light is made to pass through a
second piece of spar situated transversely to the first, yet the

                     Works, vol. i. \>. 100.
Chap. XU. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOC*H. 375

oblique refraction, when considered alone, seems nearly as well

explained as any other optical phenomenon.  For since the

theory by which he was guided in his enquiries affords (as has
lately been shown by Dr. Young) a simple explanation of

several phenomena not yet accounted for upon any other hypo

thesis, it must be admitted, that it is entitled to a higher

degree of consideration than it has hitherto received."*

   Whatever disposition, however, Dr. Wollaston may              '
have felt to view this theory with favour, he was

restrained from adopting its conclusions by the habi
tual caution of his character, or rather, by the want of
that bold and enterprising spirit of speculation which
is more or less essential to those who make great revo
lutions in science.

  It was the kindred science of sound which had

suggested to Young his principle of interference,
and he was under a similar obligation to the same

science for the suggestion of the principle which
formed the first step in the solution of the great
problem of double refraction. Amongst the vast
treasure of acoustical facts which are recorded in the

works of Cladni, there is one which states that the

velocity with which sound is transmitted in the direc
tion of the fibres of a block of Scotch fir is to that

with which it is transmitted transversely to them, in

the proportion of the numbers 5 and 4.b It is a ques

tion which naturally springs out of such an observation,

to determine the velocity of the transmission of sound in
any other direction, or the curve surface which bounds
the simultaneous undulations which are thus propa

gated in every direction through a substance thus con

stituted. Is it not a spheroid, whose axes are in the

direction and in the proportion of the greatest and least

" Philosophical Transactions, 1802.
b Dr. Young's Works, vol. i. p. 228.
376         MEMOIR OF DH. THOMAS YOUNG.                 Chap. XII.

velocities of propagation ? But if the fibrous structureais
     a                                                it, it,
of a mass of wood produces such an effect upon the vi            a
brations or sounds transmitted through why may not

   similar effect be produced by the internal constitution
of doubly-refracting crystal upon the luminiferous
ether which transmits the undulations which constitute

light   ?   For, inasmuch as the facts of ordinary re

fraction, interpreted in conformity with the undulatory

theory, compel us to admit that the elasticity of this

ether less within refracting body than without it,is
                                      a

the very existence of different refracting powers in the

direction of the axis, and transversely to in doubly-

refracting crystal, would lead us naturally to the con

clusion, that the ether in this case so modified by

the peculiar crystalline structure, that its elasticity in

these directions also different. Upon this assumpis

tion, Young proceeds to show that, under such circum

stances, the curve surface which bounds the simulta

neous undulations in all directions within the crystal
will be spheroid, whose axes coincide with the direc
tions, and are proportional to the square roots, of the
is
             a

                                       is
                                               is
greatest and least elasticities.
   The principle which involved in this investigation
   the same as that which made the foundation of

the subsequent and much more complete investigation
of Fresnel,a when all the conditions, which the solution

of the problem was required to satisfy, were before him             :
which is, that in medium constituted as the ether
a
             a
                                   a
within doubly-refracting crystal was assumed to be,
  particle infinitesimally displaced would not be urged

back in the direction of the displacement, unless such

displacement took place in the direction of the princi

pal axis of elasticity, or transversely to it. If the

             Mc.moiius du l'Institut, torn vii. p. 47.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 377

forces which this displacement brings into operation

be estimated in these axial directions, and then further

resolved in the direction of the wave's motion, --such

being the forces which alone are concerned in its pro

pagation, -- the whole elastic force of propagation will

be obtained, and the increment of the velocity corres

ponding to it will be proportional to its square root.

It may then be easily shown that the expression which

represents this increment is proportional to that of the

perpendicular upon the tangent plane to a spheroid,

which is therefore the surface which in this case bounds

the simultaneous undulations. It is hardly necessary

to observe that the velocity of propagation in any direc

tion is in all cases proportional to the corresponding

diameter.

Great as was the sagacity shown by Dr. Young in

giving to this acoustical observation of Cladni its ana

logical interpretation in the constitution of the lumi-

niferous ether within a doubly refracting crystal, --

the existence of biaxal crystals being at that time un

known, --and clear as was the conception shown in the

investigation of the machinery by which undulations
would be propagated in such a medium, it must never

theless be allowed that the solution given by him was

incomplete, even when viewed with reference to the

form in which the question was presented to him.
For, whilst it sufficiently accounted for the propaga
tion of the extraordinary, it failed to show the exist

ence of the ordinary, ray ; in other words, the whole

of the incident light should appear, from the investi
Itgation, to be absorbed in the extraordinary ray.
                                                    is

well known that Huygens felt the difficulty of ac

counting for the resolution of the incident into the

ordinary and extraordinary ray by the operation of
378  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. XII.

the same medium ; and it was for the purpose of
evading it that he assumed the coexistence of two
media within the crystal, one of which transmitted the

ordinary and the other, the extraordinary, ray.*
   Attention, also, had not yet been sufficiently called

to the important observations of the same illustrious
philosopher on the action of a second crystal, with its

principal axis placed at right angles to the first,
through which the bifurcated ray is transmitted, when
it is found that its separate branches are no longer
subdivided, but the ordinary ray of the first becomes
the extraordinary ray of the second, and conversely."

    The same observations, when subsequently made by

Newton, exercised, as is well known, no inconsiderable

influence upon his views of the theory of light. The
affections impressed upon the two branches of the di
vided ray were attributed by him to a species of polarity

in the luminous molecules, -- a remark which induced

Malus, when he discovered a similar affection pro
duced, under certain circumstances, in reflected light,

to give to it the name of polarization. It was subse

quently shown that the two branches of the divided
ray in Iceland and in other doubly -refracting crystals
were always equal in intensity, and that they were
polarized in planes which were at right angles to each
other. No solution of this great problem could be
considered as complete which did not embrace both
these and all other effects which the action of the

crystal produced upon the incident ray.

   In a Review, also written by Dr. Young, in the fol

lowing year, of the second volume of the Memoires de
Physique et de Chimie de la Societe d' Arcueil, in which
an abstract of the celebrated memoir of Malus first

                        " Trailc tic la Lutuicrc, cap. v.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 879

made its appearance, he speaks of the phenomena of
polarization announced in as
                     is

                                  it,

                                        is

                                                      it by
" being conclusive with respect to the insufficiency of the undu-

latory theory in its present state for explaining all the pheno

mena of light." But we are not therefore                             any means per

suaded of the perfect sufficiency of the projectile system and
                                                                                                                     ;
all the satisfaction that we have derived from an attentive exa
                                                                                                                            a
mination of the accumulated evidence which has been brought

forward, within the last ten years, that of being convinced that

much more evidence   still wanting before                            can possibly be
decided. "h

More than five years afterwards, we find. him, in

letter to Sir David Brewster,  expressing                                                                      the same

opinion --
I:
       I

                                                                 in
" With respect to my fundamental hypotheses respecting the

nature of light, become less and less fond of dwelling upon
them, as learn more and more facts like those M. Malus dis

covered, because, though they may not be incompatible with

those facts, they certainly give no assistance explaining them.
But this observation does not extend to my laws of interference

as explanatory of the phenomena of periodical colours, since

almost every new case of the production of colours, which has

lately been discovered, ranges itself as simple consequence of
by

              is
                               a

                               by

                                     it a

                                                                                by
these laws, and as regularly deducible from them                                                                     calcula

tion, as the motions of the planets are deducible from the laws of

gravitation."0

The colours produced  polarized light, when pass

ing through certain crystalline plates, were first disco

vered Arago in 1811, though would appear that

Sir David Brewster was engaged upon an extensive

series of observations of similar kind about the same

period, though the results of them were not published

* Malus was of opinion that the phenomena of polarization were

equally irreconcileable with both the theories. See his letter to Dr. Young.
-- Works, vol. p. 248, note.
b

                     i.
                         i.

                                                                                     c

                                                                                         i.
                                                                                                           p.
Works, vol. p. 248.            Works, vol.                                                                     360.
380         MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XII.

before 1813. To Biot, however, is due the chief merit

of having generalized the facts connected with these

remarkable phenomena, and of expressing the general

law by which they appeared to be governed. It was

in the notice of the Memoir" in which these last inves

tigations were contained, which is given in the Quar
terly Review for 1 814,b that Dr. Young made a very

important   ste"parein   advance,   by showing that these
phenomena               reducible,  like all other cases of

recurrent colours, to the general laws of the interference

of light."

The solution of this problem, which is one of no

ordinary complexity, requires the determination of the

lengths of the paths and of the relative volocities with

which they are described, of the ordinary and extra

ordinary ray through a thin plate of a doubly re

fracting crystal, cut in any direction with respect to

its axis. In Iceland spar, where the ratio of the

greatest and least refractive densities is nearly that of

the numbers 10 and 9, the two rays may make a con

siderable angle with each other, and the velocities of
their transmission may also differ considerably so as to

make it difficult to secure a plate sufficiently thin to

exhibit the phenomena advantageously ; but if the

ratio in question approaches nearly to equality, as,
amongst many other crystals, in sulphate of lime, in

the form of Muscovy talc,0 where its terms are as 175

to 176, the ratio of these velocities can never be

expressed by smaller numbers than these and their

   * Me.moire sur de nouveaux Rapports entre la Reflexion et la Polari

zation de la Lumiere. -- Lu a l'lnstitut, Juiu 1, 1812.

   b Works, vol. i. p. 269.
   0 This is a biaxal crystal, a circumstance which does not, in this case,
very materially modify the phenomena ; it was, at this time, conceived that
even in such crystals, one of the two rays followed the ordinary law of

refractiou.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 381

angular separation is necessarily very small. Under

such circumstances, therefore, the ordinary and ex

traordinary rays, when they emerge parallel, would

be superposed and in a condition to interfere, pro

vided the modifications which the crystal produces

upon them, are such as would allow them to do so.

The thickness also of such a plate of such a sub

stance must be at least 175 times the length of an

undulation, in order that one ray may lag behind the

other by a single undulation : and inasmuch as a re

tardation of several undulations may take place, as in

the analogous case of Newton's rings, before the over

lapping of the different colours, produced by inter
ference, obliterates their distinctive characters, it would

be allowable for us to expect the occurrence of such

phenomena, even with plates of a thickness so con
siderable as to come far within the limits of mechan

ical subdivision.

  It remains to trace generally the course of the

portions of the two rays which are not transmitted

at the second surface but reflected back into the crystal.

These reflected portions are found to be subdivided,

like the ray first transmitted, into two others, follow

ing the same laws as the first, and forming therefore

If Efour reflected rays following different but nearly coin
cident paths.  the letters 0 and  be taken to

represent the paths of the ordinary and extraordinary
branches of the ray transmitted at the first surface,

and o and e, e and o be the paths of the reflected rays

respectively, then we may represent the entire paths
                                formed --after leaving the
of the four     systems thus   and returning to it again, --
first surface
               of the crystal

by Oo, Ee, Oe, and Eo respectively ; it is obvious that

the two last will reach the first surface simultaneously
382  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                 Chap. XII.

inasmuch as the direct and reverse portions of their

entire paths are equal, and the retardation or accelera
tion of the ordinary branch of the ray in one direc
tion will be equal to the acceleration or retardation
of the extraordinary branch in the other ;" but the paths
represented by Oo and Ee are described throughout,

one by the ordinary and the other by the extraordi
nary ray ; one of them will therefore lag behind the
other, and at their emergence at the first surface,
whether combined or not combined with the light
reflected from they will be in condition to inter
fere. The phenomena should apparently represent
the reflected rings of Newton's scale in the first case,
and the transmitted rings in the second, whilst in the
     it,

                           if a
general result they should be found to be mixed and
confounded with each other, and, in a condition to

interfere, would tend to neutralize each other.

    The principle involved in these investigations,
which Young embodied in very complicated formulae

and applied numerically to the principal cases enume

rated and classified by Biot, was the true key to the

explanation of these and similar phenomena. Its appli

cation, however, required very important limitations.

It failed, as Arago observed, in showing under what

circumstances the interference of the rays can take

place, and why we see no colours unless the crystalized
plates are exposed not only to light previously polar
ized but also modified after emergence by being trans
mitted through or reflected by what has been termed an

analysing plate and was not until much later period
b
         a
                                 ;

                          a it

                                                               a

                                                                                                                                                                  b
that all these limiting conditions were fully determined.

 In biaxal crystal both branches of the ray are extraordinary, though

different from each other,  circumstance which does not materially

modify the explanation in the text.

Tn a letter from Fresnel to Young in January, 1825, when speaking
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVEMES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 383

It was about two years after the publication of the

Review, in which this theory was proposed, that the

same able observer, in conjunction with Fresnel, made

the important discovery that rays polarized in opposite

planes would not interfere. Every day, in fact, in that

remarkable period --when so many great observers were

endeavouring to outstrip each other in the career of

discovery --was making known modifications and phe

nomena of polarized light, which no existing theory
Itwas yet competent to explain.
                                 was polarization

which still continued to cast a dark cloud over the

hopes and fortunes of the undulating theory."
   Whilst Young was thus engaged, occasionally only

and at distant intervals, in endeavouring to connect

his own views of the nature of light with some of the

rich harvest of results which, chiefly through the

labours of Brewster, had followed the discoveries of

Malus ; and whilst Biot was labouring with unwearied

energy and not without apparent success in a simi

lar attempt, by means of his theory of moveable

polarization, to reconcile them with the old estab

lished doctrines which were sanctioned with the au

thority of Newton and which continued to receive the
support of the great body of his contemporaries, a
young officer of engineers, inferior to none of those

of their respective shares in these discoveries, he says :-- " You first

observed and demonstrated that the colours of crystalline plates proceeded

from the difference of the velocity of transmission of the ordinary and ex
traordinary rays, but it remained to establish the direction of the polari
zation of these rays within the plate ; it was necessary to explain why
their interferences produced no colours unless the emergent light was
analysed with a plate of Iceland spar, or by any other mode of polariza
tion ; and why it was also necessary that the light should have received a
previous polarization before it passed through the crystallized plate. --
Works, vol. i. p. 405.

   · See Dr. Whewell's observation. -- Dr. Young's Works, vol. i. p. 248,

note.
384  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XII.

who had preceded him in experimental and mathe
matical skill, and inventiveness," had recently made
his appearance upon the scene, who was destined in

the course of a few years to connect these scattered

and apparently incongruous phenomena by a consist

ent theory, and to give a new aspect to the whole face
of optical science.

    The first Memoir of Fresnel on Diffraction, which

we have had elsewhere occasion to notice, had already
been presented to the Institute, and had been re
ferred, in the ordinary course, to a commission for

examination. Arago, who was the reporter of this
commission, was so much struck by its merits, that
he sought the friendship of the author, and became
associated with him for the remainder of his life in

common labours, both experimental and theoretical,

for the promotion of optical science. It was from

Arago that Fresnel first learnt that the ground which
he had marked out as his own had been already almost

entirely occupied by Dr. Young, and it was under his

auspices and advice that the Memoir was revised and
enriched with new experiments and modes of observa
tion, including one of great interest and importance of
which he was himself the author.b

   In a letter which accompanied the presentation copy

of his Memoir, Fresnel assures Dr. Young, that when he
first presented it to the Institute, he was not aware
that he had been anticipated by him, or that he had

  I* adopt this term from T)r, Whewell ; there is no other term which

adequately expresses the peculiar power and resources which some of his
later writings display, more especially his Memoire sur la Loi des Modifi
cations que la Reflexion imprime a la Lumiere polarizie.

   h By making the internal hands of diffraction disappear, by the intro-
position of a thin piece of transparent glass instead of an opaque screen.--
See Dr. Young's Works, vol. i. p. 379 ; and Annales de Physique et de
Chimie, for 1816.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 385

produced as new, explanations of his experiments which
had been given many years before. After referring to
some few points in his Memoir, of no great importance,
which Young had not noticed, or which he had exhi

bited under a somewhat novel aspect, --and also to

some difficulties which he could not explain, such as
the loss of half an undulation under certain circum

stances, and the black spot (in reality due to the same
cause) in the centre of Newton's rings seen by reflec

tion, -- he modestly adds :--

    " When we believe that we have made a discovery, it is not
without regret that we find that another has made it before us ;

I Iand will frankly confess to you, sir, that such was the feeling

experienced when M. Arago shewed me that there were only a

small number of observations really new in my original Memoir.

But if anything could console me for not having had the advan
tage of priority, it is that it has brought me into contact with a

philosopher who has enriched physical science with so great a
number of important discoveries, a circumstance which has not a
little contributed to increase my own confidence in the theory

Iwhich have adopted." a

    The discussions which arose out of this Memoir, and
the ample references to Dr. Young's writings which it
contained, were the means of calling the attention of
men of science in France both to the undulatory theory
and to its author. Arago, as we have seen, adopted it
with the ardour which belonged to his character, as
well as Humboldt, his most intimate friend and ad
viser :b Ampere, a man of great candour and of eminent

" Dr. Young.s Works, vol. i. p. 378.
b In a letter to Young, acknowledging his election, in conjunction with
                    one of the foreign members of the       Royal Society,
Gay    Lussac, as   vous, Monsieur, vous savez, j'espire,                      he
says                                                       le cas que Von
      -- " Quant a                                                          fail
dans ce pays-ci de vos experiences neuves et ingenieuses sur la route de lu
himiere. M. Arago a fait rece'mment des observations tris fines qui se lietit
merveilkiwment bien a ce que vous avez decouvert sur ces ondulations."

Like.                                                      2C
336          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.        Chap. XII.

philosophical attainments, was also disposed to regard

it with favour. But La Place, who was naturally
regarded as the Jupiter Olympius" of the Institute,

and whose opinions were commonly received as abso
lute decrees, was violent in his opposition, and Poisson,

who took the next rank to La Place as a mathema
tician at least, if not as a philosopher, followed in his

train. Biot, in addition to his instinctive reverence for

the same great man,b and his passionate admiration of
the optical writings of Newton, was not a little influ
enced in his opposition by his anxiety to uphold his
own views. He had once noticed the adverse theory, in
a considerable work0 which he had recently published,

merely for the purpose of refuting a fundamental ex

periment which had been brought forward as decisive
in its favour ;d and Arago, in a letter to Young, stig
matizes in indignant terms the " contemptible argu
ments by which he supported his opinion."6

 See the curious reference to La Place in Arago's Histoire de ma

Jeuiusse, p. 17, in the first volume of his Works which are now in the

course of publication.

b See Dr. Young's Works, vol, i. p. 220, note.

0 Traite de Physique Experimentale et Mathemrttique, vol. iii., ad fmern.
  The suppression of the internal bands in diffraction by stopping the

light on one side of the object.

  "I· In a letter to Sir David Brewster, written shortly after a visit to Paris, in

1817, Dr. Young says -- suppose M. Biot had the candour to tell you that

he had read none of my papers whatever : he promised me that he would do

it in the course of the summer, but I dare say he has not found leisure.
M. La Place has now arrived at so happy a pre-eminence in science

that he thinks it sufficient to assert, where others would assign their

reasons, and having once asserted he is not very impatient to retract.

He told me in July, as he had often declared before, that the Huygenian

theory was incapable of determining the relations of the angles of incidence

and refraction ; and when I could hardly help smiling at the absurdity of

the assertion and endeavoured to prove to him how easily and necessarily

the law was deduced from the hypothesis, he begged me to send him a

short demonstration in writing ; I did so, and instead of either admitting
it,

                        i.
                                    a
                                                          a

                                                                                                           it
                                                                                                                            is
or endeavouring to point out its deficiency, he now tells ine that

only an "aperfu," sketch or presumption. (See his letter, Dr. Young's
Works, vol.  p. 374.) With respect to M. Poisson, when we know how
Chap. XIT. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 387

The same two distinguished men, Arago and Biot,

became severally the representatives of the supporters
of the opposite theories. The battle was renewed in

the hall of the Institute, whenever a new experiment

was brought forward or a new Memoir read in favour

of one or the other. In 1822, a remarkable Memoir

by Fresnel," in which the theory of the colours of crys
talline plates was freed from nearly all the difficulties

which had hitherto embarrassed  it,
                                                           it
                                was referred by the
Institute to Arago and Ampere, who reported upon
in terms of approbation so emphatic and unconditional,

and showed so pointedly and decisively that the theory
of moveable polarization was not reconcileable with the

results of observations which this Memoir recorded,

that Biot objected to its reception as irregular, in con

sequence of its appearing to compromise the opinions

of the Institute as body. The Report was subsequently
                it a

                       ;b
modified, but not sufficiently so to meet the objections

which he made to           and in the debate which ensued,

Arago attacked the rival theory of Biot, which was
really at issue on this question, with so much vehe

mence both of language and argument, that the
friendship between them which had been cemented by
common dangers and sufferings in extending Mechain's

meridian from Barcelona to Formentera, as well as

by various and important common investigations and

labours, was permanently dissolved. In the face of

repeatedly and how deeply he has committed himself in praising and in
imitating some of M. La Place's least successful speculations, we cannot
be surprised at his bearing him out on this point. He praises, for instance,

both the theory of capillary attraction and that of oblique refraction as

among the highest efforts of human genius, while to me they both appear

worse than nugatory." -- Works, vol. p. 372.
   * This was the date of the Reports the Memoir had been presented three

years before.

      Annates de Chimic. For 1821, p. 225 and 258.
b
                                                                           :

                                                    i.
                                                                                         2
                                                                                               C
                                                                                                    2
388  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.     Chap. XI L

such opposing influences, the reception of the various
Memoirs which Fresnel presented to the Institute in

rapid succession was not generally encouraging, and
some of the most considerable of them remained un

published for many years, and only became known to
men of science by imperfect abstracts of them in the

Annales de Chimie, and other journals. In a letter to

Dr. Young, written in 1823, seven years subsequently
to his first appearance as an author, after referring to

several other Memoirs, he adds :--

I" All these Memoirs, which have presented in rapid succes

sion to the Academy of Sciences, have nevertheless failed to

open me its gates. It is M. Dulong who has been nominated to

fill the vacant place. The members of the Section de Physique

have not placed me on the same rank with him ; they have put

him the first and me the second. You see, sir, that the theory

Iof undulation has brought me no good fortune ; but this does
not disgust me ; and  console myself in my unhappiness by

studying optics with a new ardour."

   The increasing sense, however, not only of his own
merits, but also of the correctness of the views which

he advocated, became too powerful for the opposition
to withstand, and he was elected a member unani

mously before the end of the same year.

   In the course of the summer of 1816, Young re

ceived at Worthing a visit from Arago, accompanied
by Gay Lussac. The circumstances of this visit, which
was itself a very significant indication that he was now
rapidly becoming famous, are thus noticed in the
well-known Eloge, with which Arago subsequently
honoured his memory, as one of the eight foreign
members of the Institute :--

  "In the year 1816 1 visited England, in company with my

learned friend Gay Lussac. Fresnel had recently made his
debut in the career of the sciences, in the most brilliant manner,
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 389

by his Memoir on Diffraction. This work, which, in our

opinion, contained a capital experiment irreconcileable with the
Newtonian theory of light, became naturally the first subject of
our conversation with Dr. Young. We were astonished at the

number of restrictions which he imposed upon our commenda

    a
          it,

                     it,
tions of when at last he declared that the experiment which

we valued so highly was to be found, since 1807, in his Lectures

on Natural Philosophy. This assertion appeared to us unfounded,

and long and very minute discussion followed. Mrs. Young
                                                                         --as the
was present at without offering to take any part                    in
                                                                       it

fear of being designated  by  the ridicule implied in the sobriquet

of bas bleus makes English ladies reserved in the presence of

strangers our neglect of propriety never struck us until the
    ;

moment when Mrs. Young quitted the room somewhat precipi

tately. We were beginning to make our apologies to her hus

band, when we saw her return with an enormous quarto under

her arm. It was the first volume of the Treatise on Natural

Philosophy. She placed        on the table, opened the book,
       a
                          it

                                                        is
without saying word, at page 387," and showed with her finger

a- figure where the curvilinear course of the diffracted bands,

which were the subject of the discussion,                           found to be esta

blished theoretically."

    There were many circumstances in this visit which

were particularly gratifying to Young, and he refers to

it with great satisfaction in letter to his sister-in-lawI:
Emily, who was at that time, with other members of
                                         a
her family, at Paris --

   " Do you know that almost fancied you would have heard

of me at the sitting of the Institute which you attended for
                                                                           is ;
am told that my theories of light have been the subjects of some
                                                                               I
very warm discussions among the members on some public occa
sions. They have certainly attracted much more notice at
Paris than in London and Humboldt the traveller writes to

me warmly, wanting me to come there. To show you how far
is

                                                    ;;

                                      it
                                         i.

                                                                 a
    » The reference apparently should be to page 467, and the figure 445.

It more probable that the discussion referred to the propagation of the ex

ternal bands in diffraction, in hyperbolic curves, as the screen           moved

farther and farther from the object, fact which Fresnel considered to be

both new and important    was, however, as Young remarked, known

to Newton Sue Works, vol. p. 281.
:590  MEMOIR OF DU. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XII.

 I1wliteness will go : had a visit on Sunday week from Gay

 Lussac the chemist, and Arago the astronomer, who came down
 from town on purpose to spend an evening with me, and told me,
 as a motive for their visit, ' On se seroit moque de nous si nous

 Ietions retournes sans vous voir.' They promised to come again

 a few days hence, on their return through Brighton, and hope

 they will stay a longer time."

   If Young was able to communicate important infor

 mation to his visitors, he was not less fortunate in

 that which he received from them in return. Amongst

 other facts of great interest and value, such as the
 equality of the intensity of the colours of thin plates

 formed in reflected and transmitted light-- which it was
not easy to explain upon any theory-- he was now

informed of the decisive experiment by which Arago
was enabled to show that rays of light polarized in
opposite planes will not interfere with each other.

It was the knowledge of this experiment, and of other

apparently anomalous facts relating to polarization,

which not only rendered it necessary to revise his
investigations with regard to the periodical colours of

crystalline plates, but likewise served to stimulate him
to a still more earnest effort to find out the principle of
this mysterious affection of light, which all theories

had hitherto failed to explain.

    The result of his reflections on this subject was an
nounced in a letter addressed to Arago on the 12 th

January, 1817 :"--

  I" have been reflecting," says he, " upon the possibility of

giving an imperfect explanation of the affection of light which
constitutes polarization, without departing from the genuine

doctrine of undulations. It is a principle of this theory that all

undulations are simply propagated through homogeneous me
diums, in concentric spherical surfaces, like the undulations of
sound, consisting simply of the direct and retrograde motions

                                      » Works, vol. i. p. 383.
Uhap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 301

of their particles in the direction of the radius, with their conco
mitant condensations and rarefactions. And yet it is possible to
explain in this theory a transverse vibration, propagated also in the
direction of the radius and with equal velocity, the motions of
the particles bearing a certain constant direction with respect to
that radius ; and this is polarization."

   He recurs to this suggestion in the Article Chro
matics, in the Supplement of the Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica, which was written -- as appears from the first
rough copy of it contained in a large manuscript
volume now before me, every page of which is accu
rately dated-- between the 4th September and the 8th

of October, 1817. It contains a condensed review of all

his former optical theories, correcting and enlarging
them, as might be expected, to meet the new views
which were opened to him by recent discoveries, and
more especially those connected with the polarization
of light, and with the colours and other properties of
crystalline bodies. After showing that the theory of
emission, whether as interpreted by M. Biot or in any
other manner, was incompetent to account for the phe
nomena of polarization, he then proceeds to suggest
some very refined considerations connected with the
possible constitution of elastic mediums, by which
vibrations may be generated which are transverse to
 the direction of their propagation.

    The conception, however, of such vibrations, and of
 such a mode of propagation, was at that time opposed
 to the prepossessions of philosophers of every school.
 Even Fresnel himself, as he himself assures us, when
 the notion of transversal vibrations occurred to him, in
 18 1C, as offering the only legitimate explanation of the
 important observation which he and Arago had made,
 that two rays polarized at right angles always give the
 same quantity of light by their union, hesitated to adopt
392         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                   Chap. XII.

or announce it until he could reconcile it better to his
mechanical notions. " M. Young, however," says he,
" more bold in his conjectures, and less confiding in
the views of geometers, published it before me, though
perhaps he thought of it after me:" and it is stated by

Dr. Whewell," from personal knowledge,
" That Arago was wont to relate, that when he and Fresnel had
obtained their joint experimental results of the non-interference
of oppositely-polarized pencils, and that when Fresnel had

pointed out that transverse vibrations were the only possible
translation of this fact into the undulatory theory, he himself

protested that he had not the courage to publish such a con
ception ; and, accordingly, the second part of the Memoir was

published in Fresnel's name alone. ^Tiat renders this more

remarkable that occurred when Arago had in his possession
the very letter of Young, in which he proposed the same sug
b
gestion."b
        is
                  is,

                           it
* History of the Inductive Sciences. Vol. ii. p, 418.
     It
         toowbsheicrhvedwebyhaFvreesbneeflo, reinrehfeisrreMde, m"otihraotn  the Colours  of Crystalline
Plates,                                                                       remark in     letter of Dr.
                                            I is                                        a
Young, dated on the 29th April, 1818, which M. Arago communicated to
                                                it                                       Ia
me, helped to raise in my mind doubt of the existence of longitudinal vi
                                      a           it I a                                       it
brations. Dr. Young inferred from the optical properties of crystals of twoa
                                                                                                                    a
axes, discovered by Sir David Brewster, that the vibrations of the ether

might probably resemble those of stretched cord of indefinite length, and

be propagated in the same manner. There undoubtedly great analogy

between this definition of luminous waves and that which have given

above, but do not believe that Dr. Young has shewn in what manner to
         I

                 a
reconcile such mutual dependence of the molecules of the ether with its

fluidity, and to conceive the production in of such vibrations to the

exclusion of vibrations in the direction of propagation. Now, was this

difficulty which had embarrassed me up to the present time, and hindered

me from resting satisfied with my first idea.                                ought, nevertheless, to

acknowledge, though he may not have given this explanation, that Dr.

Young the first who has announced positively the possibility of such
         is
            a

              I

                        is
                                t.

                                   I
property of an elastic fluid.         am ignorant whether this learned philoso

pher has published his views on this subject, or whether they have

assumed definite form in his mind, but have thought that the pub
licity about, hope, to be given to them, cannot be disagreeable to him." --

(Annates de Chimie,  xvii., p. 184, for 1831). This important letter, to
which reference made in the text, was not found amongst the other letters

of Dr. Young, which Arago most kindly entrusted to my care                                ;     probablv

                                                                                            it

remained in the possession of Fresnel, to whom was communicated.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 393

   Apparently, and not unreasonably, dissatisfied with
the theoretical considerations which he was able to

produce in favour of transversal vibrations, Young pro
ceeds to state that :--

  "If we assume as a mathematical postulate, in the un-

dulatory theory, without attempting to demonstrate its physical
foundation, that a transverse motion may be propagated in a
direct line, we may derive from it a tolerable illustration of the
subdivision of polarized light by reflection in an oblique plane."

He then shows in what manner, when polarized light
is reflected from such a plane, the law which Malus disco
vered, of the square of the cosines,* for determining the
relative intensities of the reflected light, may be de
duced from it ; and at a subsequent period, when the
important experiments contained in Sir David Brew
ster's celebrated Memoir On the Laws of Polariza

tion and Double Refraction in regularly-crystallized

Bodies, were brought under his observation, under
circumstances which have been elsewhere noticed,b he

pointed out, in a letter appended to the Memoir, as
the only interpretation compatible with the facts, that
the direction of the polarization must be determined
by the direction of the greatest and least refractive
densities of the crystal, and not by that in which the

ray is propagated.
   The tendency of all these speculations was mani

fest. Polarization was connected with transversal

vibrations ; its phenomena were otherwise altogether

inexplicable. It was further connected with the direc

tion of the greatest and least refractive densities of a

doubly refracting crystal, and therefore with the phe
nomena of double refraction, which Young had shewn

to be dependent on them. Brewster's great dis-

* Works, vol. i. p. 335.  b Works, vol. i. p. 373.
394  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.   Chap. XII.

covery of biaxal crystals, and the accurate experimentalif,
analysis of their properties which had been made bya
himself and Biot, had opened extended views of the
action of crystalline bodies upon light, and greatlya
increased the number of phenomena which the future

theory, if ever it was to be found out, would be re

quired to explain. Both the rays in crystals of this
species, forming much the most extensive class of such
bodies, were in reality extraordinary, though observation

had failed to make the discovery. It was at this point

in the progress of these researches that Young suggested

that an ellipsoid or some almond-shaped surface {amyg
daloid) might represent the form of the wave surface
in biaxal crystals in the same manner as the spheriod

in those with one axis ; and it is sufficiently remark

able that instead of resting satisfied with a mere

suggestion, founded on somewhat vague analogy,
of what the form of this surface might be, he had

applied the principles of his former investigation to
the effect which would be produced by three axes of
elasticity, all of which were unequal instead of two of
them only, as in crystals with one axis, he could

 hardly have failed to discover the characteristic pro
perty of the wave surface in such cases, and thus to
 reduce the determination of its equation and the
 properties of the surface itself to a question of pure

 geometry only. His own resolution also of polarized

 beam, upon the hypothesis of transversal vibrations
 by oblique reflection into two others, and the deduction
 from these of the law which Malus had discovered,

 would have been another step to conduct him to the

 explanation of the origin and polarization of the two
 branches of the bifurcated ray. Near as were these

 approaches to the true and complete theory, and com
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 895

pletely master as he had shown himself to be of the
position from which a first and successful assault upon

it could be made, he was diverted from the attempt

by other and more pressing occupations," and thus left
to his younger and more enterprising successor a dis
covery which will make his name for ever memorable
in the history of optical science.

  It was a most important observation of Arago, to

which we have before referred --that the intensity of
the colours of thin plates is the same, or very nearly
so, when seen both by reflected and transmitted light
--which set Young upon an enquiry into the possible

physical causes of a result apparently so different from
that to which the ordinary reasonings in this and
some similar cases would have led. He had long per
ceived the necessity of the conservation of the vis viva
in the estimation of the intensity of light, as following
the square and not the simple power of the energy of
the elementary particles of the ether, as measured by
the amplitude of their vibrations ; and by supposing
the inertia of the particles of the ether, within and
without the refracting or reflecting body, to be different

from each other --without attempting to assign its
cause -- he was enabled, by following out the analogical
effects of particles of this ether, within and without

this body, impinging upon each other, to shew, upon
extremely probable grounds, that the relations between
the light reflected and transmitted would be nearly
such as Arago had observed. The same principles are
further applied to determine the intensity of reflected
light under different circumstances, and to give results

   · He had written and prepared for the Encyclopaedia, in the course of
little more than one year, the articles Bridge, Carpentry, Chromatics,
Cohesion, Egypt, all of them remarkable for laborious and original re
search.
396  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XII.

which are not very discrepant from observation. The
same principle was confessedly made by Fresnel," the
foundation of his most ingenious researches on the in
tensity of the reflected and refracted ray of polarized
light, under all circumstances of incidence with respect

to the plane of polarization.

  It required a somewhat different, though an analo

gous, machinery to account for the loss of half an
undulation, under various circumstances ; but the at

tempt which he has made, though by no means so
satisfactory as in the former cases, is equally remarkable

for its sagacity and fertility of illustration. b It is in

researches like these, where we have no a prion know
ledge of the constitution of the luminiferous ether or
of the influence of crystalline bodies upon its proper

ties to guide us,< that we are left to speculation alone --

controlled however by just mechanical principles when

ever analogy will enable us to appeal to them --in

devising hypotheses which experiment may possibly

hereafter enable us to verify. It was in framing such

hypotheses that Fresnel displayed all the peculiar
resources of his genius.

   At the close of an admirable exposition of the undu-
latory theory, which was given in his great work on

Optics, shortly after the completion of this great series
of discoveries, Sir John Herschel has awarded, as is
usual with him, the honours which are due to its

    " Annates de Chimie, tom. 17, 1821 ; Note sur la coloration des lames

crystallisees, p. 191.

   b Article Chromatics. -- Works, vol. i. p. 330.
   0 The late Professor McCullagh, of Duhlin, whose investigations in connec
tion with some of the most refined and difficult questions of the undula-
tory theory, have gained him a just celebrity, was accustomed to insist
upon this absence of a principle, like that of gravitation, as constituting
the real difficulty which will probably long continue to check the progress
of theoretical optics.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 397

authors with a justice and propriety which all persons

who have carefully followed in the train of their dis
coveries will be ready to confirm :--

" Such is the beautiful theory of Fresnel and Young ; for we

must not, in our regard for one great name, forget the justice

which is due to the other ; and to separate them and assign to

each his share would be as impracticable as invidious, so inti

mately   are they   blended together throughout every part of this
system             acute, and pregnant suggestion characterizing
        --early,

the one ; and maturity of thought, fulness of systematic deve

lopment and decisive experimental illustration, equally distin

guishing the other."

With such praise, coming from such a quarter, Young
was very naturally highly gratified. After quoting it
in a letter to Mrs. Earle (November, 1827), he says :--

I I" think he has divided the prize very fairly ; and  dare

say poor Fresnel, if he had lived, would have preferred his

I Ishare of the honour as much as do mine. It was before

knew you that mine was earned ; and acute suggestion was then,

and indeed always, more in the line of my ambition than expe

rimental illustration. But surely one that is conscious that

if

                                                                                          it,
such things may be said with some truth, or who imagines

has no farther temptation to <be President of the Royal Society,

even he could."

   The health of Fresnel, which had always been deli

cate, began rapidly to decline soon after the completion
of the last of his Memoirs. Mr. Macvey Napier, the
editor of the Supplement of the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica, who had obtained an Article on Chromatics from

Dr. Young, and had been promised another on Polariza
tion by Arago, was anxious to obtain an exposition of
his later theories from Fresnel, and thus to combine in

one publication, in the illustration of one department
of science, the labours of three of the greatest theorists

and experimentalists of the age. In a letter addressed
398  MEMOIR OF PR. THOMAS YOUNO.  Chap. XII.

to Dr. Young, at the close of the year 1824, Fresnel
expressed a willingness to execute this task, though he

never accomplished it :--

  I" could produce," says he, " in a small compass, an Article
Isufficiently interesting (bien nourri), in expounding the views

which entertain on the principal phenomena of optics, which

Ifor some years have been sufficiently definite ; but it will be a

fortnight before can begin, and a month before you can re
ceive it."

And, in conclusion, under the depressing influence of
his fatal malady, he adds --: .

   " Je vous prie de mexcuser mon brouillon ; je suis accable jiar

la fatigue et le besoin de sommeiV *

   It was in reply, not long afterwards, to another letter

from Young renewing his inquiries, that he declined
the execution of his task, on account of the serious
nature of his illness. His correspondent would appear
to have referred to the notice wluch his own labours

were likely to receive in the exposition of their com
mon optical theories which was thus expected to be
forthcoming, and to have insinuated that he had
planted the tree, whilst Fresrtel had gathered the fruit.
There is something very touching in the mixture of the
querulousness of the invalid and of the noble candour
which was proper to his character, which is observable
in his comment on this comparison. After complain
ing that sufficient attention had not been paid in
England to his determination of the general law of
double refraction, his formula for determining the
quantity of light reflected obliquely from transparent
bodies, and the discovery of circular polarization, he

adds :--

   " If I should succeed in demonstrating to M. Ilerschel, Dr.

                          * See Dr. Young.s Works, vol. i. p. 4(X).
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 399

Wollaston, and other English men of science who are attached

to the system of Newton, that the undulatory theory merits the

preference, they would not fail to say that it is entirely due to

your labours that we owe the subversion of the system of emis
sion and the progress of the theory of waves. If, disabusing

Iyour savans on the subject of moveable polarization, made
Ithem adopt the explanation which have given of the colours of

crystalline plates, and those general methods by means of which

one may calculate the tints in all crystals 'when one knows the

double refraction of each species of ray, they would say that the

explanation of these phenomena is due to you. They would

equally attribute to you that of the complicated phenomena of

diffraction."

   " It appears to me (if my self-love does not blind me), that
what you had left me to do in these different parts of optics was

as difficult as what you had done. You have gathered the
I Iflowers ; may be allowed to say,

dug down laboriously to discover
                    thweithrooEtnsg?lis"h  modesty,    have

I" am far from pretending to what belongs to you, as you
I Imay see in what have writtea
                                 have publicly confessed,

with sufficiently good grace, on several occasions, the ante

riority of your discoveries, of your observations, and even
Iof your hypotheses. Nevertheless, between ourselves,
                                                       am

not persuaded of the justice of the ingenious expression (mot

spirituel), in which you would compare yourself to the tree,
Iand me to the apple which that tree has produced.
                                                       have

the inward conviction that the apple would have (pousst)

Ibudded and put forth branches without the tree ; for the first
explanations which  gave to myself of the phenomena of

diffraction and of coloured rings, of the laws of reflection and
Irefraction, were drawn from my own resources, before
Iseen your work or that of Huygens.                    had

                                     had myself remarked

that the difference of the paths of the ordinary and extra

ordinary ray upon issuing from a crystalline plate was equal
to that of the rays reflected from the first and second surface of

Ithe plate of air which gives the same tint in the coloured rings.

It was when had communicated this observation to M. Arago,

that he told me for the first time of the note which you had

published two years before on the same subject, but which he
had not before that sufficiently understood. This, however,
400  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                   Chap. XII.

does not give me the right of sharing with you, sir, the merit of

your discoveries, which belong to you exclusively by right of
Ipriority. Likewise,
                      have judged it useless to inform the
Ipublic of all that have found out by myself independently,
Ithough after you ; and if speak of them, it is merely to justify

Imy paradoxical proposition, that the apple would have come
without the tree.  have long wished, sir, to speak to you on

these subjects with open heart, and to show you cordially the

whole extent of my pretensions."

After speaking in very strong and somewhat exagge

rated terms of the habitual injustice of English scien

tific journals, in speaking of French discoveries, he
adds : --

   " This letter will perhaps appear to you, sir, the outbreak

(boutade) of an invalid tormented by the bile, whose self-love

was hurt at the little attention which has been paid to his
Ilabours in your country.
                           am far from denying the value
Iwhich would attach to the praises of English men of science, or

to pretend that they would not have flattered my pride. But

Ifor a long time, that sensibility or that vanity which is called
the love of glory has been greatly sobered in me.  work less

to attract the suffrages of the public than to obtain that inward

Iapprobation which has ever been the sweetest recompense of my

efforts. Without doubt have often needed the spur of vanity

Ito stimulate me to pursue my researches in moments of disgust

and discouragement ; but all the compliments which have re

ceived from Arago, La Place, or Biot, have never given me so

much pleasure as the discovery of a theoretical truth, or the

confirmation of my calculations hy experiment The little

Ieagerness which have shown to publish my Memoirs, of which
Iextracts only have appeared, shows that am not tormented

Iwith the thirst for fame, and that have sufficient philosophy

not to attach too much importance to the enjoyments of vanity.
But it is useless to say more on this subject in writing to a man

too superior to be a stranger to this philosophy, and who will

easily both comprehend me and believe me."

It would appear, from a second letter which Fresnel

wrote in the month of January following, that Dr.
Chap. XII. OPTICAL DISCOVERIES.-- SECOND EPOCH. 401

Young, in his reply to the first, had endeavoured, and

not without success, to soothe the somewhat troubled

spirit of the invalid, by showing, from the terms in

which his observations and theories had been noticed

both by himself and his countrymen, that there never

existed any just grounds for charging them with reluc

tance to do full justice to his claims. It would, in

fact, be difficult to refer to any other example in the
history of the sciences, where the combined efforts of

men of science of different countries have brought

about some great discovery, where national jealousies

have been less offensively displayed, and where the

verdict of their contemporaries has been so generally

and so promptly confirmed by that of their successors.

   In the year 1825, Fresnel was elected one of the

fifty foreign members of the Royal Society ; and two

years afterwards, the medal which Count Rumford had

founded, to be given biennially to the author of the

most important discovery relating to light and heat,

was unanimously voted to him by the Council. The

Ip"Hreforrposocmhsietilbo. neingf"ortowtohaissmopubuclihrgpeodsinetteorwebasestesdmileadninet"  by Sir John
                                                                                                says Young,

                                                                                                the subject ;
but in fact there was no opposition." In commu

nicating this intelligence to Fresnel, in his capacity of

Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society, and forwarding

to him the medal and a sum of money which fol

lowed the award, he adds a hope that he will never

again have occasion to complain of the neglect which

his labours had experienced in this country.

I" also," says he, " should claim some right to participate

in the compliment which is tacitly paid to myself iu common

witn you by this adjudication ; but considering that more than
a quarter of a century is past since my principal experiments

Life.                                                                                           2D
402  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XII.

Iwere made, can only feel it a sort of anticipation of posthumous
Ifame, which have never particularly coveted. ""

    Six weeks afterwards, the same letter which gave
him the intelligence of his own election as one of the
eight foreign members of the Institute, announced also

the death of the eminent man whom the Royal Society

had so recently honoured :--

   " You have doubtless heard," says Arago, " of the cruel loss

Iwhich the sciences have recently experienced. Poor Fresnel

was already half dead when gave him your medals. His
death has plunged in the deepest grief all those who are worthy
of appreciating the union of fine talents with a fine character."b

He died in the fortieth year of his age.
   Almost exactly a quarter of a century before, the

same medal, adjudicated on the same grounds, reached

Malus on his deathbed. He was the precursor of the
great series of discoveries which had reached their cul
minating point by the labours of Fresnel. Like
Fresnel, also, he died in the flower of his age ; like

Fresnel, also, he was lamented by the lovers of science
in all countries, who measured the magnitude of the

loss they had sustained by the standard of what he

had done.

     * Works, vol. i. p. 409.  b Works, vol. i. p. 410.
Chap. XIII. VALUE OF LIFE AND LIFE ASSURANCE. 403

                    CHAPTER XIIT.

RESEARCHES ON THE VALUE OF LIFE AND LIFE

                               ASSURANCE.

The years 1824 and 1825 were memorable for one

of those great disturbances of the financial and mer

cantile world, which occur at intervals of ten or twelve

years with a regularity, which seems to point them

out as constitutional paroxysms of great commercial

communities, and which are probably not without their

advantages as periodical warnings to impress upon
them those great lessons of prudence and good sense,

which are as necessary for the welfare of nations as

of individuals. It is recorded that out of 624 schemes

which were projected during the first outburst of this

fever of speculation, not more than one in five survived

           a

                                        if

                                                              it,
the cold stage of reaction which succeeded                                                               and of

these not      few were seriously,  not irreparably,

crippled, by the ruined or damaged fortunes of many

of their founders.

   Though the Palladium Insurance Company had its
origin in the general excitement of this period, its

projectors gave the best proof that could be afforded

of their desire that its affairs should be conducted upon
just principles, by selecting man of Dr. Young's
scientific eminence as their Inspector of calculations
·

                            is
                                     a

                                                    a

                                                                                         2
                                                                                     d
                                                                                                      2
and medical referee." The most liberal terms were

The following       copy of the resolution of the Directors appointing
him, " 30th March, 1824- Resolved, that Dr. Young, F.R.S., be requested
404  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. XIII.

offered to him, and, in addition to his salary, the
directors placed at his disposal a considerable number
of reserved shares, which then bore a high price in the
market ; an arrangement which was equivalent to the
gift of the whole of the premium upon them. With
characteristic forbearance, however, he refused to reap
where he had not sown, and declined to accept the

offer. In the same spirit, he afterwards voluntarily

proposed and accepted a reduced salary of 400Z. per
annum, as soon as he had ascertained that the duties

of his office occupied a much smaller portion of his
time than he had at first anticipated ; a rare example
of conscientiousness in the administration of such
institutions, which are not unfrequently less designed
by their founders for the benefit of the general body
of shareholders and insurers, than of the officers who

conduct them.

   It was not the practice of Dr. Young to content

himself with the performance of the merely routine
duties of any office which he undertook, but to make
important questions which arose out of them, the
occasion of elaborate investigations. He had many

years before proposed an empirical formula, adjusted
to the results of observation, for expressing the value

of life, and had founded upon it a method for calcu
lating the value of any number of joint lives, which

was more expeditious, if not more correct, than any

which had been previously made use of :" and he was
naturally invited, by the subjects which were now

brought so frequently under his notice, to a renewed
consideration not merely of his former speculations,

to undertake the situation of Inspector of Calculations, at a salary of 50OZ.
per annum, to commence from the establishment of the Society ; and that
he be permitted to hold the appointment of Physician at the same time."

    Works, vol. ii. p. 359.
  Chap. XIII. VALUE OF LIFE AND LIFE ASSURANCE. 405

 but also of many other questions of considerable in
 terest connected with reversionary payments and an
 nuities.

     The proper value of the expectation of life, an ele
 ment of political science affecting so many moral and

 material interests, is capable, even under the most favour
 able circumstances, of an approximate solution only.

It is different for different classes of society, for different
localities, for different nations. It has been materially

increased by the protective effects of vaccination, by
improvements in the practice of medicine and surgery,
by the increased temperance and better social habits
both of the rich and the poor; and there exists a
moral certainty that it will continue to increase with
every improvement in the application of science and
art to the business of life, and most of all by the gene
ral adoption of those better sanitary arrangements for
our towns and villages which are now in the course of
introduction, and which it is the duty of a wise and pro
vident government, not merely to encourage, but to

enforce.

    Three quarters of a century ago, Dr. Price, the real
founder of correct views both of the theory and prac
tice of Life Insurance, called attention to the fact that
the duration of life was much less in large towns than
in the open country. Out of every 1000 inhabitants,
there died annually at that period, 52 in Stockholm,
48 in London, and 37 in Northampton. The town
population of Manchester was 27,000, and the morta
lity 36 in 1000, indicating a degree of salubrity which
in those days was somewhat unusual in large towns ;
but in the rural parts of the same parish, with a popu
lation of 13,000, one generation of the inhabitants,
lived as long as two in the town, the annual mortality
406  MKMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNO.  Chap. XIII.

not exceeding 18 in the 1000. Similar results, though

not always ©f so striking a character, were elsewhere
observable -- so great was the sacrifice of life which
was occasioned by the unwholesome dwellings of our
crowded cities and by the debased habits of the inha

bitants which were to a great extent consequent upon

them.

   There is no other proof of the improved comforts
and moral habits of all classes, and more especially of

the poor, which is equally remarkable with the general
reduction which has everywhere taken place, during
the last century, in the rate of mortality, and the rapid
increase of the population which has resulted from it.
The millesimal mortality of London has been reduced,
since the time that Dr. Price made his first observa

tions, from 48 to 27. The tables which were con

structed by him from observations at Northampton, and
which were conceived to represent, as they probably did
 at the time they were made, the mean mortality of the
kingdom, now afford a mean value of life, reckoned from
the moment of birth, in the very locality for which
they were framed, which is too small by one-third."
Even a millesimal mortality of 23 is now reckoned so
much beyond what is considered to be consistent with
adequate sanitary arrangements, that it has wisely been
made, by an Act of the Legislature, a sufficient ground
for compelling the inhabitants to adopt them. Even
in our rural districts, the improvement in the condition

    This table was constructed by Dr. Price from observations made at

Northampton between the years 1735 and 1780. It was long almost exclu

sively used, and has been made the foundation upon which the premiums of
nearly all the Insurance Companies of London have been calculated ; it
is, however, so erroneous, even for the middle of life, that it can hardly
be resorted to except for purposes of deception and fraud. In a recent

aud very important instance, its use has l>een forbidden by the legislature.
 Chap. XIII. VALUE OF LIFE AND LIFE ASSURANCE. 407

 of the people, though less marked than in our towns,
is considerable ; and it has been sufficiently shown, by
the marvellous effects which have been produced in
particular localities, even in the midst of our most

crowded cities, by perfect sewerage, by the abundant
supply of pure water, and by good ventilation, that the
rate of mortality, more especially in middle life, admits
of a diminution so considerable, as to justify the most
strenuous efforts of all friends of humanity to se
cure it.

    When we consider how different are the conditions
which determine the value of life in different places
and at different times, it would seem to be hardly prac
ticable to include them in any single general formula,
even supposing the constant numbers which it includes

to be adjusted by special observations. Many such
hypotheses, or the equivalent formulae, into which they
are translateable, have been proposed ; and Dr. Young
has added several to their number. But, though
many of them are applicable to some periods of life,
none of them can be considered of much value when

extended to all ages. The most celebrated, and much
the most useful of such formulae, is that founded upon
the arithmetical hypothesis proposed by De Moivre

more than a century ago. It assumed that out of 86

persons born, 1 died annually -- an hypothesis entirely
inapplicable to infancy and old age, but showing a
very remarkable accordance with some tables of mor

tality --more especially with the Northampton tables--

during the whole middle period of life, when interpreted
as indicating the same number of deaths among suc
cessive bodies of survivors. Thus, by the last-named
tables, it would appeal" that out of 1000 persons living

at the age of 20, about 14£ would die annually for the
408     MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                        Chap. XIII.

next 50 years, without presenting any remarkableit,
breach of the continuity of this law at any intervening
period." As these tables were formerly accepted verya
generally as correctly representing the law of mortality,a
and as this law afforded formula; of great comparative
simplicity for the calculation of the values of annuities,              a
they became the basis of nearly all the tables for that
purpose which were used in the vast multitude of imis
portant transactions connected with them, until they
                                 ;
were partially superseded in recent times by more     9

correct principles and more accurate observations.                     it

0b We have before referred to Young's formula for
           aexpressing the value of life which he contributed to
                        9
the Philosophical Magazine in 1816. In the Philo
     ;
sophical Transactions for 1826 we find another Essayb
on the same subject, where a second formula of ex

tremely complicated structure is proposed for expressing
    formed with view of exhibiting law of mor

tality which gave mean of the results of the best
authorities.0 He was disposed to justify his predilection

for empirical formulae, when carefully constructed and

adjusted to observation, as calculated to exhibit the
steady progression which characteristic of all natural

    In the Carlisle tables, constructed by Mr. Mylne, from observations

made at Carlisle between the years 1779 and 1787, the annual mortality
under the same circumstances would be about instead of 14^, for the
30 years, which succeed the age of 25 at the critical age of 55, rapidly
increases from to 17, and attains the maximum value of 25 or 26 at the
age of 73.

     Works, vol. ii. p. 366. A Formula for expressing the Decrement of

Life, in letter addressed to Sir Edward Hyde East.
      Such, besides the Northampton and Carlisle tables, were those founded

upon the French tontine, beginning in 1695, which had been tabulated by De
Parcicux the English tontines and government annuitants, beginning in
1800, which had been computed by Mr. Finlaison the results of 30 years.
experience ol" the Equitable Society, which had been analyzed and some
what variously interpreted by Mr. Morgan, Mr. Bahhagc and Mr. Pavics
and some others.
                           ;
                                                                                  ;
Chap. XIII. VALUE OK LIFE AND LIFE ASSURANCE. 409

laws and to avoid those somewhat violent transitions

in the value of life, which are exhibited by some of the
most popular of our tables and which thus afford mani
fest indications of their being deduced from imperfect
observations. But it should always be kept in mind
that the correctness of such formulae must be in all
cases brought to the test of the most carefully con
structed tables, and when discrepancies are observed in
the results which they afford, it is the authority of
the latter which must always be allowed to prevail.
The extreme uncertainty which exists in the statistics
of life in large towns and even in entire kingdoms,
not merely from natural causes which no legislation
can control, but also from the influence of good or
bad government upon the condition of the people,
must continually tend to derange not merely the con
stants of such formulae, but even the algebraical con
nection of the variable elements which enter into

them.

   It was another serious objection to the formula pro

posed by Young, that its extreme complexity made it

altogether inapplicable -- unlike the simple formula
which symbolized the arithmetical hypothesis of De-
moivre -- to the calculation of annuities. He was in
duced by a sense of this defect to enter, at a subse
quent period, upon a Practical Comparison of the
different Tables of Mortality," with a view of testing
the correctness, during certain periods of life, of some
other hypotheses, of a simple nature, respecting the
law of mortality, as well as their use in the calculation
of annuities. One of these, to which he has given the
name of the quadratic hypothesis, supposes that out of

   * hi 1828, in a letter to Sir Edward Hyde East, published in Brando's
Journal, for 1828. Sec Works, vol. ii. p. 389.
410  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. XIII.

86 persons born, the number of survivors at the end
of any number of years will not be expressed, as
in the arithmetical hypothesis, by the excess of 86

above the given age, but by dividing by 86 the excess
of the square of 86 above the square of the age. He

has pursued the results of this hypothesis through
all its consequences, in the calculation of the expectation
of life, of the probabilities of survivorship and of the
value of annuities both on single and joint lives : but
though they are found to be supported by some of
the best tables during certain periods of life, they are
less simple, and lead to conclusions not generally
entitled to greater confidence than those which are fur

nished by the hypothesis which it was designed to

supersede.

   It was in the course of these investigations that he

called attention, somewhat conspicuously, to a very
simple and elegant theorem, as a consequence of

Demoivre's hypothesis, for expressing the probability
of survivorship of the younger of two given lives,
which appeared to him to be original. The volume
of Brande's Journal which contained this Essay had

not been published more than a few days, before
Young found out that he had been anticipated in the
discovery of his theorem by Mr. Baily, who had

enunciated it in a note to his well-known work on
Annuities. An apologetic letter was instantly ad
dressed by Dr. Young to Mr. Baily, acknowledging
his oversight." His brother actuaries, however, who

resented with a truly professional instinct the intrusion
of a stranger into a province which they claimed as
their own, and some of whom had been not a little

offended by the tone of superiority which he assumed

                                " Works, vol. ii. p. 397.
Chap. XIII. VALUE OF LIFE AND LIFE ASSURANCE. 411

in criticizing the productions of some of their number,

were not slow to notice what they termed an attempt to
" deck himself in borrowed plumes, and then to hold

them so high that the slightest breath would blow

them away." It was with a view of silencing these

foolish slanders, and of placing himself in a right

position, that he inserted in the next number of
Brande's Journal a letter to Mr. Baily, candidly
acknowledging his error, and calling the attention of

his readers to what he considered the  p"ritmhearysupoberjeiocrt
of his Essay, which was to establish

convenience of a good formula over all tables founded

upon a limited observation for all ordinary cases
of the valuation of annuities between the ages of

ten and seventy years ; and also to show that a uni

formly increasing decrement of survivors, such as
his quadratic hypothesis affords, will give a value

of mortality sufficiently near the results of tables,

even the most discordant among themselves, provided

that the rate of increase be properly adjusted to the

table."

The experience of the London Life Offices, of which

seventeen had been established a sufficient length

of time in 1843 to afford materials for discussion,

has afforded a table of the expectation of life from

the age of 20 upwards, so nearly in accordance with
the results of the Carlisle Tables, as to leave no doubt
of its correctly representing the rate of mortality, for

the middle of life, of a past generation, amongst that
class of persons who are concerned with insurances on

lives : but the question may reasonably be asked,
whether it is equally competent to furnish the value

of this expectation for future generations as well as

for the past ?
412  MEMOlR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.    Chap. XJII.

Though the progress of sanitary reform and the

more general diffusion of the comforts and conveniences

of life affect the longevity of the lower much more

than of the higher classes, yet they are not without
Ittheir influence upon the latter.
                                    has been asserted

by one of the best informed and most profound of our

actuaries, in a Report addressed to the House of

Commons,* that "the duration of existence now

compared with what it was one hundred years ago
is as four to three in round numbers ;" a conclusion

which is probably true of the great mass of our

population, though Dr. Young has given very good
reasons for doubting the correctness of some of the
special grounds upon which it was founded, by shewing

that the annuitants upon the French and English

Tontines, the first at the close of the seventeenth

century and the other a century later, were almost

equally long-lived : but it is very possible that a more

careful selection of lives at one period may have

operated as a compensation to the general increase

of the value of life at the other. The fact, however,

of a steady diminution in the rate of mortality

amongst the rich as well as amongst the poor, is
indisputable ; and there are few questions of greater

political and economical interest than to define the

influence of good legislation and improved social

habits upon the progress of the population, as well

as upon all the other elements of national prosperity.

   In one of his Essays, Dr. Young pointed out what

he conceived to be an error of Dr. Price and his
followers, in the estimation of the values of annuities

when paid half-yearly or quarterly instead of yearly.
The term followers referred principally to Mr. Morgan,

     * Works, vol. ii. 1>. 3f!7.
Chap. XIII. VALUE OF LIKE AND LTFE ASSURANCE. 413

one of whose statements, which was an obvious over

sight or error of the press, he had noticed in the same
Essay in a manner which was calculated to give
offence. Mr. Morgan was the nephew of the cele
brated Dr. Price, whose memory he idolized, and by
whose influence he had been appointed actuary of the
Equitable Society, which he continued to manage,
with greater prudence than equity, for more than half
a century. He was a laborious and useful, though a
very obscure and inelegant, writer on the subject of
annuities and life insurances, and having been for many
years regarded as the highest authority on all such

subjects, he was prompt to resent any imputations
upon the correctness of his own views, and resisted
with characteristic obstinacy any observations dero
gatory of the celebrated Northampton Table, which
his uncle had framed, and his predilection for which
he persevered in retaining, in defiance of the results
which the experience of his own office was daily
furnishing him. He lost no time, therefore, in reply
ing to Dr. Young, and at the close of a vindication
of Dr. Price and his followers, whilst retaliating, not
without effect, upon his opponent, he did not neglect
the opportunity of expressing his discontent at the

progress of these new opinions : --

   " The public," says he, " have lately been overwhelmed with
tables of the decrements of human life, framed either by

amalgamating all the old tables into one heterogeneous mass
and thus giving the true probabilites of life in no place what
ever, or by interpolating some of the decrements in one table
into those of another ; for which purpose a vast variety has been
given of complicated and useless formula?. But little or no
advance has been made in determining more correctly the pro
babilities and duration of human life. The tables published in
the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons, are, in
414  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap XIII.

general, bo incorrect and some of them even so absurd, as to be
unfit for use, and serve only to encourage the popular delusion
of the improved healthiness and greater longevity of the people
of this kingdom."

    There can be little doubt that the tables which are
used in calculating annuities and reversions should be
adapted, not merely to the general chances of life of
the classes for whom they are intended, but also to
the motives of those who make use of them. One

class of tables might be suited to life insurers for
considerable sums, who usually belong to the upper
classes, whose healthy condition is made the subject of

previous investigation; a second, to benefit societies,
composed of artisans in our large towns, exposed to all
the influences of unhealthy occupations and still more
unhealthy dwellings ; a third, to the purchasers of
government annuities for themselves or others, who
have the strongest inducement to select the most

healthy lives, and whose selection is not subject to

challenge. In these and in all other cases there would

be also one table for males and another for females ;

but if the object of research was the general progress of

the population, in calculations which have no reference
to special classes or special localities, then an amalga
mated table, such as that which Dr. Young attempted to
deduce from his general formula, would properly come
into operation. For such a purpose special tables like
those above mentioned, or others, would be as inap
plicable, as the experience of a country town, like that
of Northampton or Carlisle, to cases altogether discon
nected with the population of those places, unless the
results which they gave were verified by experience.

   Dr. Young proposed several methods " for calculat-

                            · Works, vol. ii. pp. 361, 401, and 410.
Chap. XIII. VALUE OF LIFE AND LIFE ASSURANCE. 415

ing annuities on single and joint lives which are founded
upon empirical formulae for expressing the value of
life, some of which are remarkable not merely for
brevity and facility of application, but also for the
near approximation of the results which they afford
to those which are given by the ordinary and much

more laborious processes. Such empirical methods,
however, when they do not involve some novel and
important principle of calculation, which is capable of

much larger application, are of very little value, more
especially where the results of the calculation, as in
all cases relating to annuities, are of such importance
as to justify the labour of constructing tables, which

are not approximatory merely, but correct. It is well

known that there is no result of experience in what
ever manner acquired, having a positive bearing upon
such questions, which is not promptly tabulated,
whatever be the labour which its calculation involves.
4L6  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

                      CHAPTER XIV.

                        MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.

We propose, in the present chapter, to call the at
tention of our readers to some of the more remarkable
Memoirs, or Philosophical Essays, of Dr. Young,
which have not elsewhere been noticed ; selecting
those which are distinguished by the importance of
the subjects of which they treat, or of the conclusions
to which they lead, or which are otherwise calculated
to show the extraordinary capacity which he possessed
of solving the most difficult problems in the appli
cations of mathematics to natural philosophy, by pro

cesses apparently the most inadequate to the purpose.

He never confined himself to the beaten track of a
systematic investigation. "We find in his writings no
symmetrical formula) or analytical refinements. There
is no seeking after generalities, when the particular
question which he has in hand does not require them ;
whilst every expedient is freely resorted to, however

irregular and unusual, if it serves the purpose which

he has in view. Important and difficult steps are
passed over as manifest, terms are neglected as insig
nificant, analogies take the place of proofs, and we are
surprised to find ourselves at the end of an investiga
tion, even within the limits of space which would com
monly be deemed hardly sufficient to master the diffi
culties which meet us at the beginning. But his rare
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.      417

sagacity hardly ever deserts him ; and though he has

occasionally been led to hasty and premature conclu
sions, or committed mistakes in numerical calculations,

from the brevity and rapidity of his processes, yet
nothing can be more surprising than the general
soundness of his views of mechanical principles and
their applications, and the correctness both of his

philosophical and numerical results.

   We shall consider these Memoirs generally in the
chronological order in which they were written.

   A Memoir on Hydraulics, printed in the Philo

sophical Transactions for 1808, was introductory to
another in the same Collection for the following year,
on the Functions of the Heart and Arteries. The

connection between these subjects was considered by
him, as we have before observed,* sufficiently close to

give them both a professional character, and thus to
exempt them from the restriction which he had im
posed upon the class of publications which alone should
be allowed to appear under his own name.

   The motion of water in rivers and canals, both
straight and crooked, and in tubes with different dia

meters and under various circumstances, had been

made a special subject of investigation by a long suc
cession of eminent Italian, and by several French,
writers, but by very few of our own. The questions
which it involves are extremely interesting from their
important practical bearings ; but, like all those con
nected with the motions of fluids, the conclusions to

which they lead are extremely unsatisfactory, being ex
pressed generally by empirical formula only, con
structed chiefly with a view of representing the results
of experiment, and with little reference to physical

            " Supra, p. 212.

Lire.                               2E
418  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

 grounds, which were too difficult to investigate, and
 too little understood to afford a secure basis upon
 which they could be founded. The important element
 of friction alone, which enters so largely into all these

 questions, has never yet been, and probably never
 will be, brought completely within the control of an

 accurate analysis.

    It was the formulae proposed by Du Buat, one of

 the most laborious and most successful of the French

 writers on Hydraulics, which were tested by Dr.
  Young, when preparing his Lectures for the Royal
 Institution, by an extensive series of experiments, and
' which received at his hands several amendments of

 their form, in order to adjust them more nearly to the
 results which those experiments gave. He was at
 that time ignorant of a nearly contemporary work a on
 this subject by Prony, who had availed himself of a
 happy application which another French engineer,
 Gerard, had made of Coulomb's theory of friction to
 the estimation of the resistance of water in pipes and
 canals, and who had been enabled, by means of the
 assistance which it gave him, to construct a formula
 not only much more simple than those of Du Buat or
 Young, but also much more conformable to experi
 ment. This formula failed, however, in correctly

 giving the discharge of water through very narrow--
 and much less through elastic --tubes ; and it was

 therefore not available for the physiological researches

 for which Young's investigations were chiefly designed

 to be subservient.

     As a basis for these ulterior inquiries, Young makes
 a series of hypotheses with respect to the arterial and

     " Rechcrches Physico-Mathfoiatiques sur la Theovie des Eaux C.ou-

  rantes." Paris, 1804.
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.                                                    419

venous systems of the human body, and the quantity
of blood which they contain, which, though they as

sume a regularity of distribution as a foundation for

calculation which anatomical examination would not

altogether justify, is sufficiently accordant with truth

to enable us to reason with tolerable correctness with

respect to the general effects which would follow from

it. The aorta being supposed to be three-fourths of
an inch in diameter, and the arterial circulation to be

continued through a succession of twenty-nine classes
of bifurcating branches, each pair of which are about

three-fourths the diameter of those from which they
issue, they will end in extremely minute capillaries,

not exceeding one eleven-hundredth of an inch in dia

meter, but sufficiently wide to transmit freely two or
three particles of blood side by side, according to the

Ifestimate of their magnitudes which he had made by
the aid of his Eriometer.a  we further assume the

length of the aorta to be nine inches, and that of each

successive class of arteries to be five-sixths of that

preceding -- making that of the last of the capil
laries about one-twentieth of an inch only, --the weight
of the whole blood required to fill such an arterial
            it,

                                             i. a
                                                                         2
                                                                       e
                                                                                   2
Ifsystem would be about ten pounds, or nearly one-
fourth part of that in the whole frame.  we should

further assume the heart to pulsate seventy-five times
in a minute, and at each pulsation to throw out an
ounce and a half of blood, the velocity of its trans

mission in passing from the first to the last of this

arterial series would diminish from about eight inches

to one-ninetieth of an inch in second.

  It was the celebrated Dr. Hales who made the bold

and singular attempt to measure the hydrostatic pres-

            * Works, vol. p. 350,
420  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

sure propelling the blood in the arteries. He found it

to be more than nine feet in the arteries of a horse, and
five in those of a dog ; and it was assumed, upon very
probable grounds, to be seven and a half feet in those
of an ordinary man, being reduced when it reaches the
veins to about six inches, leaving a balance of seven
feet in the former to continue the circulation. Dr.

Young, assuming these facts as the basis of his reason
ings, then proceeds to consider how far the results to
which they lead may possibly be modified by the
antagonistic effects of the resistance from friction and
the muscular contractions of the coats of the arteries ;

but arrives at the conclusion that neither of them are

so considerable as they have commonly been supposed
to be, and that they may be neglected, in our physio
logical reasonings upon the phenomena of the arterial
and venous circulation, without the danger of any very

material error.

  If it be the business of the mathematician, aided by

the researches of the anatomist, to explain the action
of the machinery by which the circulating system of
the human frame is carried on, it is that of the physi

cian and physiologist to trace out the various causes

which may derange it --to point out, in fact, the in

fluences exercised by exposure to heat and to cold, by
fevers and inflammations, by bleeding from arteries or
from veins, and by various diseases and their treat
ment. The deviations, which may thus be produced,
from the healthy state of the circulation, are followed out
with great minuteness of detail, in connection with the
medical agents and other applications which may be best

I Icalculated to counteract them. Few persons can be

found --and readily confess that am not one of their
number --with a union of acquirements so remote from
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIliS.  421

each, other as to be able to prosecute an inquiry of this
nature, or to judge of the correctness of the conclusions
to which it leads ; but as such it was exactly suited to
Dr. Young, who delighted in questions so obscure and

difficult, where his various knowledge and bold spirit
of speculation had full room for their exercise.

    The Article Bridge, in the Supplement of the En
cyclopaedia Britannica, was prepared by Young with

more than ordinary care and labour. The theory of

bridges has usually been considered by mathematicians
as one of pure geometry only, where the curve of
equilibrium was to be determined under any assigned
law of the distribution of the weight, with the super

added condition of such an arrangement of the outer
and inner curves of the arch as would be sufficient to

secure its stability within any reasonable limits of
variation of the load to which it could be exposed.
Little or no regard was paid in such theories to the
character of the materials of which such structures

were required to be composed, and they were always

assumed to be absolutely inextensible and incompres

sible, if not crushed and disintegrated ; and even the

friction of their surfaces in contact was rarely taken
into consideration as one of the elements of stability.

    Dr. Young had already called attention, in his Lec

tures, to the cohesion, the elasticity, and the strength
of materials, in questions of construction, and to the

principles by which their mechanical effects could be
estimated ; and he has incorporated in this Article the

ordinary theory of bridges, with the conclusions to

which these principles lead ; presenting the whole sub

ject in a form which was calculated materially to assist

an engineer --provided that he was capable of appre
ciating the import of his investigations -- in combining
422  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                 Chap. XIV.

  sufficient strength and stability with a due regard toit,;                     ;;
  economy in the use and the choice of his materials.                         ;
                ;
     In the year 1801 a plan was proposed by Messrs.;;
  Telford and Douglass --the first of whom was after                ;
                                                  ;
  wards so well known for the construction of the Menai

  Biidge and other great engineering works -- with a

  view to the improvement of the port of London, by
  replacing the old London Bridge by one of iron, with
. a single arch of the span of six hundred feet. As

  might have been expected, considerable doubts were
  expressed of the feasibility of a proposal which was at
  that period so novel and so bold ; and the Committee of

  the House of Commons, under whose consideration it

   came, drew up a series of twenty-one questions respecting

       which were submitted to some of the most eminent

  men of science and engineers of the age. Amongst
  them we find Dr. Maskelyne, the Astronomer Royal
  Dr. Milner, of Cambridge Dr. Robertson, of Oxford
  Professor Playfair, of Edinburgh Dr. Robison, of
  Edinburgh Dr. Hutton, of Woolwich, and Mr. Atwood,
   of Cambridge, all of whom had written largely on the
  theory of arches and bridges the well known Mr.
   Watt General Bentham, the primary inventor of the
  block-machinery Sir John Kennie and several other
  practical engineers. The questions were very skilfully

   drawn up, and passed for some time under the some

   what irreverent designation of the Bridge-builders' Ca

   techism, as expressing very briefly and clearly the prin
   cipal points of inquiry which may be suggested by
   every considerable structure of this nature, more espe

   cially where materials are employed which are sensibly

   elastic and therefore compressible. The answers which

   were given were singularly humiliating to the pride of
   philosophy: they were not only altogether at vari
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  423

ance with each other, but in every instance incomplete
and unsatisfactory. Some of them, like Dr. Milner,

were conscious that the problem presented to their
consideration was new, and that there were no recog
nised principles of estimating the distribution and
effects of the pressures on the different parts of a
bridge on so vast a scale, built of expansible and

compressible materials, and no experiments to be
referred to, which were competent for its solution :
others evaded the difficulties which they could not
meet ; whilst the majority of the practical engineers
cut the Gordian knot, not by answering the questions,
but by proposing plans of their own. The scheme, as

is well known, was afterwards abandoned. But the

interest attached to these remarkable questions, and the
importance of the principles involved in the answers
to them, were not confined to the particular occasion .

which gave rise to them ; and it was for this reason
that Young, who was attracted by a problem, which
had so completely baffled his predecessors, has given a
complete series of very careful and elaborate answers to
those queries in the Article under consideration, as
affording the best means of exemplifying his own views

of the theory of such constructions. It would be diffi

cult to refer to any contemporary or subsequent con
tribution to the science of engineering which was

equally original and important.
   The article Carpentry, in the former Supplement of

the Encyclopaedia, had been written by Dr. Robison,
of Edinburgh, with his usual vigour and clearness of

exposition and fulness of practical detail ; but it was

subject to many of the same deficiencies as had hitherto
prevailed in the theory of bridges, as well as to others

which more affect the peculiar material employed in
424  MEMOIR OF Dli. THOMAS YOUNG.                                                  Chap. XIV.

this art, such as the measures of its power to resist
extension or compression, or of its stiffness to resist

flexure or tension, or of its strength to resist pres

sure, or of its resilience -- a term first used by Dr.
Young-- to resist impact. In the determinations of
the measures of these powers, the modulus of elas

ticity becomes a most important element, which all

previous works on this subject had left entirely un
noticed. We have before referred to these and other

kindred investigations as really forming a new epoch

in practical mechanics. It was the conviction that he

alone amongst his countrymen was in possession of
the key to the solution of problems of this nature,
which induced him, as we have elsewhere observed,

in spite of professional and other objections, to under
take the task committed to him by the Admiralty of
reporting upon the changes, introduced by Sir Robert

Seppings," into the construction of our ships of war.

   In connection with this subject we may notice two

other essays, one of which he contributed to Dr.

Hutton's Mathematical Dictionary b and the other to
the Philosophical Magazine.' The subject of one of
them was the pressure of semifluid and cohesive sub

stances, and was chiefly foimded upon principles laid
down in an early essay by Coulomb,'1 to which he has
himself referred, as having furnished the principles of
many of his investigations. The second originated in
a very serious accident which occurred in one of our

great breweries in consequence of the failure of the

hoops of a vat of vast size : it was entitled An Inves-

" Supra, p. 350. Works, vol. i. p. 536.

b  "WSourkr s,unveol.apiip.licpa. t1ioGn6.  des         · Works, vol ii. 1>. 159.  a  quelques
d                                                Regles de Maxiinis et Minimis

IYohlemes de Statique, relatifs a l.Architecture." -- Main, dm Savaus

Etmngem, torn. vii. p. 343. Sec also Pr. Young's Works, vol. ii. p. 529.
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  425

tigation of the Pressure sustained by the Fixed Sup

ports of Flexible Substances. It is not otherwise re

markable except as shewing his great promptitude in
bringing his science to bear upon any subject to which

his attention was called by local or other circumstances.

  It was in connection with the investigations of

Captain Kater, which we have elsewhere referred to,"
that Young addressed two papers to the Royal Society,
as well as some others to scientific journals. The first

Memoir was read in the year 1818, and gave a very
simple demonstration of a theorem which had been

previously investigated by La Place, by the aid of a

very difficult and refined analysis. The convertible
pendulum employed in these researches performed its
oscillations on knife edges, which, mathematically con

sidered, were more or less perfect portions of cylindrical
surfaces. Was Captain Kater justified in assuming
the distance of the knife edges to be the length of
the convertible pendulum, or was it necessary to apply
a correction to it dependent upon the radii of the

rolling cylinders of which those edges were portions ?
The theorem in question shewed that the first assump
tion was correct, and it further appeared, from the same

investigations, that its correctness would not be sen
sibly affected by slight irregularities in the form of the
knife edges, which are found to be inevitable, however
 carefully they might be formed. The same conclusion
was still more easily deduced as a corollary to a theo
rem of Euler, as Dr. Young shewed in an Appendix
 to a second Memoir published in the following year,
the contents of which we shall now proceed to notice.

    This Memoir embraces three subjects. The first,

 the estimation of the probabilities of error in physical

                                                      * Supra, 350.
426  MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

observations ; a question which has occupied the at

tention of   the greatest  mathematicians of modern
                           Legendre, of Gauss, and of
times, --of  La Place, of

Bessel. The second, the effect of pressure in aug

menting the mean density of the earth through the
compressibility of the substances of which it is com

posed. And the third, the effect produced on the
direction of a plumb-line and the vibrations of a

pendulum by irregularities on the earth's surface, and

of masses of materials near the place of observation

whose densities are different from the mean density of

the crust of the earth. These several questions have

little connection with each other except through their

common bearing on the solution of the problem upon
which Captain Kater was at that time engaged.

   We are accustomed to accept it as a fact that the

mean of several measurements and observations is

likely to be more accurate and trustworthy than one of

a smaller number, and that the combination of a multi

tude of independent sources of error, whether they be

confined between given limits or not, has a tendency to

diminish the aggregate variation of their joint effect.

Thus, the ratio of male to female births, so variable in a

small number of families, becomes nearly, if not abso

lutely, constant for the whole kingdom : and however

much the number of dead letters which pass through

a country post-office may vary, those which reach the
Metropolis will be found to bear, from year to year, a

nearly constant ratio to the whole number sent. Such

circumstances are apt to present to an unprepared mind

an appearance of mysterious fatality, whilst even to a

practised mathematician their explanation involves

considerations of no ordinary difficulty and refinement.

The solution of this class of problems which Young
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  427

has proposed, is not the least remarkable of the many
attempts which he has made, and with so much

success, to evade the more elaborate processes which

other analysts have felt it necessary to employ : his

conclusions also are reduced, as is usual with him, to

forms which are easily adapted to calculation, and are
exemplified by their application to questions of great
interest, both in history and literature, to some of
which we have elsewhere had occasion to refer.*

  It is in the determination of unknown elements in

philosophical inquiries --and more especially in astro
nomy -- from a great number of observations, that the

question perpetually arises of so adjusting their errors
or discrepancies as to obtain the most probable result.
Such observations may furnish equations of condition
much more numerous than the unknown quantities to
be deduced from them. How are these equations to
be treated, in order that the values of the elements

obtained from the joint consideration of the whole of
them may be invested with the highest authority
which the observations can give ? The method of
least squares which is commonly employed for this
purpose is undoubtedly one of the most valuable con
tributions which analysis has made to astronomy ; but
there are many cases where the formula which has been
proposed by Dr. Young will serve to effect the same
object with equal certainty, and with much greater
rapidity. The application, however, of such methods
should in all cases be made with great caution ; for
when the observations which we are discussing are
made by one instrument or by one observer, and in all
cases when the essential condition of absolute fortuity
is wanting, the most refined applications of analysis

                                                 · Supra, p. 242.
428     MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

for the determination of the minimum or the limits, of

error, may become altogether nugatory. Such was the

opinion expressed by Bessel in a letter to Dr. Young,

with reference to this Memoir ; but whilst we venture

to deprecate the dogmatic assertion of extreme accu

racy in many astronomical and other determinations

to which the occasional abuse of these methods has

given rise, we readily allow that their judicious use

has been the real foundation of the increased accuracy

which they are daily attaining.

The subject of the second part of this Memoir is

equally interesting to the geologist and the astrono
Itmer.
        has been sufficiently ascertained that the

mean density of the earth bears to that of its crust a

proportion of not less than three to two ; and assuming

that this density increases uniformly, or according to
any other law, in passing from the surface to the
centre, it may be asked, to what cause is this increase

owing? The usual reply which was given to this
question referred it to the increased proportion of

metallic and heavier materials the farther we recede

from the surface. Dr. Young was enabled, by an easy

investigation, to show that this result might be ex

plained by the compressibility of the ordinary sub

stances of which the earth is composed, and that a

modulus of elasticity equal to half the earth's radius,

or about twelve million feet --which exceeds that of the

hardest and most elastic material with which we are
acquainted -- would be more than sufficient for the pur

pose. A sphere of water, with a modulus of elasticity

     a
                             is

                                              if

                                                                     it,
such as the experiments of Canton assigned to would

give much higher ratio between the superficial and

mean density than known to exist, whilst the dispro

portion would have been enormous  water had been
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.        429

replaced by air ; -- sufficiently great, in fact, even if ex

tended to the much smaller globe of the moon, to

afford a plausible explanation of the much agitated

question of the disappearance of her atmosphere, by its

absorption within those vast volcanic cavities by which
it has been imagined that she is penetrated.

   These researches of Dr. Young were very favourably
noticed by La Place, in a Memoir on the Figure of

the Earth, which appeared in the Connaissance des
                         year. " Until
Terns for the following                   now," says he,
" mathematicians have    not included in  their researches

the effect resulting from the compression of the strata.

Dr. Young has called their attention to this subject by

the ingenious remark that we may thus explain the

increase of the density of the strata of the terrestrial

spheroid." Young a when noticing, on another occa
sion, these and other remarks of this great analyst on

the density of the earth, proceeds to combat an opinion

which he had expressed that the law of elasticity of

solid bodies increased much more rapidly than their

density, and to show that a modulus of ten million

feet, acting according to his original assumption, would
produce a spheroid with an ellipticity and distribution

of density sufficiently conformable to the various ob

servations which have been resorted to for the purpose

                it,

                           a

                                                                  it
of determining  as well as to the effects which

produces on precession and nutation and the motions
of the moon.

The investigations contained in the third and last

part of this Memoir, pointed out, amongst other con

clusions of importance, considerable error in the cor

rection usually applied in connection with experiments

   * Works, vol. ii. p. 78. Remarks on La Place's latest computation of the
Density of the Earth.
430  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

for determining the length of the seconds pendulum,
for elevation above the level of the sea. The correction

which Kater had applied in the first reduction of his
experiments in the preceding year was shown to be
too great by nearly one-third, and the error was recog
nised by him in a subsequent Memoir." The final

result of this and other theoretical corrections, applied
to his first determination, increased the length of the
pendulum by about seven ten-thousandths of an inch

-- a quantity considerably beyond the limits of error

which were likely to occur in the measurement of the
distances between the knife edges.

    The propriety of this correction was at first doubted

by La Place, but it has since been generally admitted.
Young subsequently gave, in a short article in Brande's
Journal ,h a masterly vindication of the correctness of

his conclusion.
    The effect produced by the resistance of the air,

and the law which it follows, could hardly escape the
attention of one who was so much engaged with the
theory of the reduction of pendulum experiments, at a
period when they were made with so much diligence.
There will be found in his works 0 a short Memoir on
this subject, where the effects of some different laws of
resistance are considered, more especially of such as are
simply proportional to the velocity, which was indi
cated in some of Captain Kater's observations'1 at a
later period. Bessel 0 called attention to the necessity
of introducing corrections for the inertia of the air put
in motion by the pendulum, as well as for its buoyancy ;

    * Philosophical Transactions for 1810, p. 353.
    b Works, vol. ii. p. 99. Brande.s Journal for 1820.
    r Works, vol. ii. p. 93. Brande's Journal for 1823, vol. xx.
    d Philosophical Transactions for 1819, p. 337.
    * Berlin Memoirs for 1820. Astronomische Nachrichten, No. 128.
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.                                                43 1

and very important experiments were instituted by
Colonel Sabine," both in vacuo and in airs of different

densities, and in some of the gases, for determining both
the necessity and the amount of this correction. The
difficulty of eliminating all the sources of error in such
experiments seemed to be increased rather than dimi

nished by the elaborate researches on the subject which
were instituted by the late Mr. F. Baily.b Their whole
theory has received an admirable discussion by Pro
fessor Stokes, in the Cambridge Transactions0 for 1851 ;
by whom also we are promised a series of experiments
on the vibrations of pendulums in gaseous atmos
pheres, which can hardly fail to lead to results of no

ordinary importance.
    There were few -subjects of public interest, where

investigations involving a difficult application of me
chanical principles were concerned, in which Young's
assistance was not required ; and when required it was

rarely withheld. It is recorded in his Journals, that

when he was a medical student in London, in his
twenty-first year, a Mr. Churchman, the author of a
Magnetic Atlas, proposed to him a problem for deter

mining the dip of a magnetic needle, in case it was

attracted to two magnetic poles any where situated on

the surface of the earth. After making the question
the subject of his night thoughts, he produced in the
morning a correct and not inelegant solution of upon

three different suppositions first, when the attractions

were equal secondly and thirdly, when they varied
inversely as the distance or its square. The results
0b
                         ;
                                                                               :

                                                                             it,
   * Philosophical Transactions, 1829.    the Internal  Friction  of Fluids on

      Philosophical Transactions, 1832.
      Vol. ix., part 2. On the Effect of
the Motion of Pendulums, p. 8.
432  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

of any of these hypotheses, as might have been anti
cipated, would only approach to a very rude representa
tion of the phenomena of the dip and variation of the
needle ; and the modifications of them which are sug
gested, rather than proposed, in his Lectures, are suf
ficient to show how little these phenomena had at that

period been made the subject of accurate observation.
    The observation of the movements of the magnetic

needle in high latitudes, and the possible determina
tion of the position of one of the magnetic poles, was

Jone of the chief objects proposed by the first Arctic

expedition under Sir ohn Boss and Captain Parry ;
and we must look to the results of the observations

which were made by Colonel Sabine in the course of

that expedition as having given the first great impulse
to the systematic study of the phenomena of terrestrial
magnetism ; and it is to the same distinguished ob
server that we are chiefly indebted for the organization
of the vast system of magnetic observatories which
have been established in later times, and for the com

plete discussion of the observations which they have
afforded, and which have totally changed the whole

aspect of the science. It appeared from the statement

which he communicated to the Royal Society upon his
return," that the directive force of the horizontal needle
in the Arctic regions was so much reduced by the
greatness of the dip, that the best suspended compasses
not only traversed with great difficulty, but were so
much dominated by the magnetism of the masses of
iron, whether induced or permanent, of the ships
themselves, that their indications became utterly use
less. The attention of Dr. Young was naturally called

not only to the general inferences with respect to the

                            * Philosophical Transactions for 1819.
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.         433

distribution and variation of intensity of the earth's

magnetism which followed from these important ob
servations, but also in a more especial manner, from
his connection with nautical astronomy, as Editor of
the Nautical Almanac, to the practical expedients then
recently proposed in their first form by Mr. Barlow,

for neutralising, under ordinary circumstances, the
disturbing action of the magnetism of the ship. The
short Memoir" which he wrote upon this subject --

though its value has been superseded by later investi

gations -- is remarkable for the thorough mastery which
it shows of the subject, both in its theoretical and

practical bearings ; he gives a table of corrections

for clearing the compass of the regular effect of the

ship's permanent attraction for different values of the
dip, and for all angular distances of the magnetic
North from the fine joining two neutral points or
positions of no disturbance in the ship : pointing out
also some disturbances in these corrections which do

not vary with the dip, and which he attributes to the

temporary or induced magnetism of portions of soft
iron in the ship. He then proceeds to some observa

tions, characterised by his usual acuteness, on the
theory of Mr. Barlow's sphere, and on the circum
stances which may limit the sufficiency of the correc
tion which it affords.

  It has been generally observed that the advances

of science go hand in hand with its useful applica

tions to the business of life. It was the careful study

of the theory and phenomena of magnetism with a
view to their action on the needle which enabled Mr.

Barlow, to his lasting honour, to make the first great
step towards protecting its movements from the effects

            " Works, vol. ii. p. 102.

Life.                                  2V
434  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

of local disturbances. It was the same union of

theory and practice which guided the Astronomer
Royal in the appUcation of his compensating mag
nets in ships constructed of iron plates strongly
magnetised by the processes of hammering and rolling
which they have undergone; an application which
must ever be regarded as one of the most valuable
gifts which abstract science has made to navigation,
notwithstanding the doubts which have been thrown
upon its permanent efficiency, in certain cases, by some
recent observations of Dr. Scoresby.

   When Young was first appointed secretary to the
Board of Longitude, he proposed to compile, or super

intend the compilation of, a Corpus Astronomia?, in a

series of treatises, comprehending all that was known,
or rather all that was required to be known, of prac
tical, plane, and physical astronomy. The only part
of this scheme that was ever executed, was a small

octavo volume, entitled Elementary Illustrations of
the Celestial Mechanics of La Place, which was pub

lished in 1821. It embraces the laws of equilibrium

and motion, both of solid bodies and fluids, and in

cludes among the latter several of the most important
propositions on the theory of the oscillations of the
sea and the atmosphere, exhibited in a much more
simple form than that which they assume in the great
work from which they are taken. This Treatise pre

sents a somewhat mosaic character, being preceded by
the Rudiments of Mathematics as given in his Lec
tures, whilst the propositions transferred from the Me-
canique Celeste are intermixed throughout with de
monstrations and remarks founded upon his own views
on the elementary doctrines of motion and other
subjects, which, though often original and extremely
Chap. XIV.      MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIHS.                                              435

valuable, are altogether out of harmony, both in

character and form, with the singularly systematic

treatment which they have received in the original.
   We have elsewhere had occasion to call attention to

the valuable Appendix which is added to this Treatise,

on the Cohesion of Fluids."

Dr. Young was accustomed to regard his Theory of

the Tides as nearly the most original and successful of

his physico-mathematical investigations.        The sub

stance of it was stated with great clearness and preci

sion in his Lectures ;b but it was first presented, of

course anonymously, in its completely developed form,

in Nicholson's  Journal    for  1813    c  as,  however,                        it was
                                      ;

probably little read and still less understood, it passed

into entire obscurity and was never noticed.

   At a later period, he revised his theory in the Article

Tides, printed in the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia

Britannica,d when his more matured study of the works

of La Place and of the processes of modern analysis,

enabled him to give to his investigations a more com

plete development ; and he subsequently gave, in the
Royal Institution Journal,6 a popular exposition, -- as

far as so difficult a subject admitted of being made so,

--of the results which he had obtained, a considerable

part of which had previously appeared in the Quar
terly Review/ So little, however, had public attention

been called to these researches, notwithstanding the

celebrity which had long been attached to his name,

that when the present Astronomer Royal was preparing
his well-known Article on Waves and Tides for the

Eenxicsytcelnocpea.ed"iaYoMuetarospkomlityanoap,inhioenw,"assaiygsnohrea, nitn  of  their
                                                                                    letter
                                                                                a

· Works, vol. i. p. 485.              b Lecture xlvii. p. 576.
                                      " Works, vol. ii. p. 291.
· Works, vol. ii. p. 262.             ' For October, 1811.
· Works, vol. ii. p. 330.

                                                2P2
436  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Chap. XIV.

addressed to me, " of Dr. Young's Researches on Tides.
IAs far as they go, they are capital ; when
Iwriting my Article,                         was

                      totally forgot Dr. Young,
Ialthough well knew that in writing on any physical
subject it is but ordinary prudence to look at him

first." a

   It is well known that Newton pointed out and as

signed generally, not only the nature and the magni

tude of the periodical forces which are concerned in

producing the tides, but likewise indicated their true

character as undulations, in one very remarkable pro

position,b as well as in a special explanation of the
phenomena presented by the tides of the Port of

Batsha 0 The equilibrium theory of Daniel Bernoulli d

adopted the first part of Newton's views, but alto

gether neglected the second.

  It had been shown that if the earth was a spherical
body covered with water, and if both the earth and

moon were at rest, the water would assume the form

of a spheroid of equilibrium, of extremely small eccen

tricity, such as would be due to the disturbing action

of the moon's forces. A similar but less eccentric

spheroid would be formed beneath the sun. Under such

circumstances the joint effect of the elevations or de

pressions of the two spheroids would produce the
elevation or depression of the water, or the tide. The

theory further assumes that the same effects icould follow

if the earth revolved round her axis and the earth and

   * Works, vol. ii. p. 262. Note

   b Principia, lib. i. prop. 66, cor. 19.
   0 Principia, lib. iii. prop. 24, ml finem .
   * Traite sur lc Flux et Efflux de la Mer. An Essay written in 1740,

for the prize offered by the Acade.mie des Sciences at Paris. Euler and

Maclaurin were also competitors for and sharers of the prize. 'All these

Treatises are given in the edition of Newton's Principia by the Jesuits
I,e Sour and Jacquier.
Chap. XIV.   MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  437

moon in their orbits, and that no effect teas produced by

the spontaneous oscillations of the sea. Totally false
as are the principal assumptions upon which this theory
is founded, it is extremely remarkable that it not only

sufficiently separates from each other the principal
movements of the tides, but represents generally the
law and order of succession of the periodical pheno
mena which they present. " The greatest mathemati

cians  and   the most   lAabiroyr,iou" sincolbusdeirnvgerSsiroJfohtnheLupbrebsoecnkt
day,"  says  Professor

and Dr. Whewell among the number, have agreed

equally in rejecting the foundation of this theory, and
comparing all their observations with its results."

    The same eminent authority has pronounced the

theory proposed by La Place in the Mecanique Celeste,
-- if viewed with reference to the boldness and compre

hensive character of its design rather than to the suc

cess of its execution -- " as one of the most splendid

works of the greatest mathematician of the past age."
The problem, however, was not considered by him in

the most general form which it is capable of receiving.
He assumed the earth to be entirely covered by water,

and its depth to be uniform, at least throughout the

same parallel of latitude, and he neglected the resistance

both of the particles of the fluid amongst each other,
and of that which arises from the irregular surfaces in

the channels over which the tide is transmitted. He

was consequently obliged to omit the consideration of the
tides in canals, rivers, and narrow seas, which constitute

some of the most interesting, and by no means the most
unmanageable, of the problems which later, and even in
some respects more simple, investigations of the oscilla
tions of the sea have brought within the control of

analysis. Imperfect, however, as the results of this theory
438  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

were as it came from the hand of its author, their im
portance cannot easily be estimated too highly. Dr.
Young adopted the general principles which they in

volved, though he has subjected them to a totally
different treatment ; and Professor Airy, who has ma
terially simplified the investigations which it contains,
by rejecting some conditions which they included, such
as the density of the sea, by which they were made
needlessly difficult and complicated, has not only veri
fied the more remarkable of the conclusions at which

La Place arrived, but has also made important use

of his methods in his own theory of waves and tides,
which is by far the most complete and comprehensive
that has ever yet appeared.

   There is one result of a very unexpected kind, which
La Place regarded as one of the happiest of his disco

veries, --it is the entire evanescence, if the sea be of

uniform depth, of the diurnal tide in elevation, but

not in horizontal motion. At the equator, under

such circumstances, the water moves north and south,

resting for a moment at the change of motion. At

the poles the motion is transverse to the meridian

passing through the luminary. At all other points on

the earth's surface it is perpetually changing. Few
persons have, attempted to follow the mazes of the
difficult analysis by which this great mathematician
has arrived at this conclusion, which has been verified

by the Astronomer Royal." Its correctness, however,
has been disputed by Dr. Young,b who contends that
the diurnal tide will not disappear, unless the depth of
the sea be not merely uniform, but evanescent.

   Though Dr. Young was not disposed to give his

                Tides and Waves, § 102, Encyclopaedia Metropolitana.

           b Works, vol. ii. p. 357.
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  439

assent to the results of an extremely difficult analysis,
-- which few persons of his age could venture to follow,
and which might appear to those who could not trace
them through the long train of consequences which
connected them with the principles from which they

were deduced, to be either paradoxical or contradictory

to the first principles of mechanics -- he was sufficiently
prepared to seize the general purport of other parts of
this comprehensive theory ; and by divesting it of the
unnecessary generalizations by which it was encum

bered, not only to bring its principles to bear imme
diately upon the ordinary phenomena of the tides, but

to apply it to cases which it was otherwise incompetent

to reach. Such were the tides of narrow seas and

rivers, and the modifications which those tides undergo

from the effects of the resistance of the particles of

water upon each other, or upon the channels through
which they are propagated. The same questions have
been made the principal subject of the investigations
of the Astronomer Royal, in his Article on Tides
and Waves, in the Encyclopaedia Metropolitana, where
they have been treated with that rare combination
of mathematical skill and clearness and complete
ness of exposition for which all his writings are so

remarkable. It will be found, however, that there are

not many of his results which Young had not already
attained, though in a much less definite form, by
methods which are, it is true, much less regular and
systematic, but which are not less distinguished for
the sagacity and philosophical power which they dis

play-
   There are two principal species of waves which the

theory of the tides requires us to consider. The first
are the great waves of the ocean, produced by the ac
440         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.   Chap. XIV.

tion of the moon and sun, such as are alone considered

in the equilibrium theory, where they are assumed

immediately    to obey the     action   of the forces, with
whose periods                   such
                also--for all          forces are periodic --

they entirely coincide. Such waves are called forced
waves, as being compulsory and not spontaneous. The

second class are those which are primarily produced by

the disturbing action of the periodical forces, but which

Iffollow spontaneously the laws of oscillation of water.
    the length of such waves be great, but less than one

thousand times the depth of the water, the velocity of

their propagation is sensibly dependent upon that depth

only, being equal to the velocity which a free body
Ifwould acquire by the action of gravity" if it fell
through a space equal to one half of it.  the length

of the waves be not greater than the depth of the
water, their velocity will be proportional to the square
roots of their length.b For intermediate relative

values of the lengths of the waves and of the depths of

the water, the velocity is dependent upon both these
Itelements, by a somewhat complicated law.
                                            is the

first of these classes of free or spontaneous waves only,

which have hitherto been considered in the theory of

the tides.

   There are two classes of forced waves, produced
respectively by the lunar and solar forces acting upon

every particle of the sea ; the first of which is more

than twice as great as the second. They form one great
wave by their interference, producing the two tides of

each tidal day of about twenty-four hours and fifty mi

nutes ; when the solar and lunar tides entirely corrobo

rate each other, they tend to form the spring tide, and

     * Encyclopaedia Metropolitana, Tides and Waves, § 171.
     b This is Newton's proposition. Principia, book ii. prop. 45.
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  441

the neap tide when they oppose each other. But these
effects are materially modified in their magnitudes,
and in some degree also in the time of their occurrence,
by other waves which also interfere with them, as well

as by the resistances which they experience.

  In fact, the same forces which agitate the whole

mass of the water, to produce the forced waves, produce

also spontaneous or free waves, whose natural period
Ifof undulation, as we have seen, is determined by the
depth of the sea.  this depth was about thirteen

miles or fourteen miles, the free wave would move

with nearly the same velocity as the solar wave at the

equator in one case, or as the lunar wave in the other.

In such cases the free wave would synchronise with

Ifthe solar or lunar tide, and produce by its corroboration
a maximum effect.           the depths of the sea were

greater or less than is required to produce synchronous

oscillations, the free would precede the forced wave in
one case and lag behind it in the other; but their
periods of oscillation would be sooner or later com

pelled to synchronise with those of the periodical

forces ; the forced waves would be increased by them in

the first case and diminished in the second, --the first

being called a direct or positive, and the second an

indirect or negative wave.

Young assimilated these effects to those which

would be exhibited by a compound pendulum under
the following circumstances. Let there be two pen

dulums one of which naturally vibrates in the period

of the forces, whether of the sun or moon, and the

other in that of the spontaneous oscillations of the

sea ; let the first pendulum be supposed to vibrate

round a fixed centre, and let its extremity carry the
second ; then whatever be the initial condition of the
442  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV.

pendulums, they will sooner or later arrive at a state of
permanence, and the period of vibration of the second
pendulum with a moveable centre of suspension will
become identical with that of the first, but its motion
will be in the same or in opposite directions to that of
its centre, according as the time of this compulsory
vibration is greater or less than that of its natural

oscillations; and inasmuch as these vibrations ultimately
become symmetrical with respect to each other, passing
their middle points at the same time, it will follow
that the maximum effect of the second pendulum,
representing that of the free oscillations of the sea,
will corroborate the forced oscillations due to the

periodical forces for direct waves, and oppose it on

the other. It will follow, therefore, generally, that

the time of hvjh water will coincide with the passage
of the luminary over the meridian in the first case
and with that of low water in the other.

    The theorem for determining the laws of vibration
of a pendulum with a moveable centre of suspension
in a medium, whether absolutely non-resisting or

where the resistance varies according to the simple
power of the velocity or its square, were investigated

by Young in his first published Essay on Tides,
partly by the aid of simple and elegant geometri

cal constructions and partly by other expedients,
which display in an extraordinary degree his great
resources in dealing with problems which were
beyond the legitimate powers of the machinery which

was brought to bear upon them : it was like the
capture of a fortified town by open assault, without

resorting to the more regular and slow, but therefore
more certain approaches which the rules of war

prescribe. In the revised and amplified form of this
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  443

Essay, which is given in the Supplement to the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, the same problems are
solved by analytical processes which, though greatly
deficient in symmetry and elegance, are not only com
plete but also in a form immediately adapted to the
deduction of the inferences which the phenomena of
the tides should present in conformity with the refined
conception by which the causes which produce them
were thus brought into immediate connection with

each other.

    There exists no method of determining from obser

vation the effects which resistances produce upon the
time of high water, or the law according to which

they vary. La Place had neglected the consideration

of them as being altogether inconsiderable ; but Young,
relying upon some calculations and experiments of

Du Buat, which he has noticed in his Memoir on Hy

draulics and elsewhere, had arrived at a very different

conclusion. Assuming such resistances to vary accord
ing to the simple power of the velocity, they would be
found not to disturb the regularity of the oscillations

concerned, only retarding them when direct and acce
lerating them when inverted by a quantity which
admits of a definite expression. For an equal resistance

varying as the square of the velocity, the displacement
of the time of high water would not be very materially

different ; but if we pass from general to particular

effects, such a resistance would serve to explain some
peculiar circumstances in the phenomena of the tides

which have caused considerable difficulty and embar
rassment : thus the proportion of the lunar to the solar
forces which has been deduced from the heights of the

spring and neap tides, --being assumed as proportional

to their sum in one case and to their difference in the
444  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Ckap. XIV.

other, -- has been found to be much greater than other

and more trustworthy results furnished by the lunar

theory would warrant ; and La Place, who found this

proportion, as deduced from the tides of Brest, to be
three to one, instead of about five to two as it should

have been, was obliged to resort to some local pecu
liarities to account for a discrepancy so considerable.

Young, however, was enabled to give at least a
plausible explanation of this anomaly, by shewing
that the proportion of the effects of resistance upon
the lunar and solar tides would approach more nearly
to that of the periods than of the magnitudes of the
forces which produce them, and that consequently the

residual tides, when those effects are abstracted, would

no longer furnish the means of determining, unless
the effects of the resistances were given, the proportion
of the forces of the sun and moon. Another anomaly,
of a still more embarrassing description, namely, the
retardation of the time of the highest tides, by intervals
varying from half a day to a day and a half, behind
the time of new and full moon, has been shown by
Young, upon very probable grounds, to be referable to
a similar cause.

   Dr. Young has applied his theory with great success
to the tides of canals or narrow seas, making any

angle with the meridian : if such seas coincide or

nearly coincide in direction with the meridian, the

periodical forces vanish ; if they extend east and west

to a great length, the phenomena which they present

will approximate to those of the open sea ; if that

extent be comparatively limited, and the tides be
reflected from the terminating shores, there will be no
tide but a great horizontal motion at the middle, and
it will be high water at the west when it is low water
Chap. XIV.  MISCELLANEOUS MEMOIRS.  445

Ifat the east, and conversely.  such a sea or lake be

not more than about eight degrees across from east to

west, the waves would be direct, if its depth exceeded
two hundred yards ; if the depth was not less than one
mile the waves would be of a similar character, if its

length was not less than twenty-five degrees ; whilst
for a sea like the Atlantic, whose breadth across varies

from fifty to sixty degrees, it would require a depth of

four miles to produce direct waves : and as there is

reason to conclude that the waves of this sea are not

direct but inverted, we have a limit of average depth
which it cannot exceed ; -- it is probably considerably

less than four miles.

The same principles of calculation are applicable to

the explanation of the tides of the atmosphere : they
will be very small at the poles, of moderate amount at

the equator, but about the latitude of 42°, where the

rotatory velocity of the earth is nearly equal to that

with which any impression is transmitted by the
atmosphere, the height of the oscillations will only be

limited by the resistances, the greatest elevation
occurring about one hour after the transit of the

luminary. It is unfortunate that no sufficient obser

vations have been made upon atmospheric waves to

enable us to bring them to the test of this or any

other theory.

   Though Dr. Young has indicated the general cause

of the rapid rise of river tides compared with their

slower fall, he has not pursued the application of his

theory to the detailed examination of the phenomena

which they exhibit. The theory of such tides and the
effects of friction upon them, have been very fully
investigated by the Astronomer Royal ; and it would
be difficult to refer to any physical essay which has
14(5  MKMOIK OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XIV

appeared in later times where an extremely difficult
analysis has been so successfully brought to bear upon
the explanation of so great a number of curious and
apparently anomalous facts of observation. The method
which he has adopted in the treatment of this and
every other department of this theory is extremely

different from that which has been followed by Dr.
Young ; and whilst we admire the straightforward
and systematic march of the investigations which is
pursued by the one, and his lucid and vigorous inter
pretation of the results which he obtains, we cannot
fail to do justice to the rare sagacity by which the
other was enabled to explain the machinery of the
tides by a conception so novel and ingenious, and to
deduce from it a series of results which had evaded the

Laborious researches of the greatest of modern writers
on the mechanism of the universe.
Chap. XV  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.  447

                       CHAPTER XV.

  MISCELLANEOUS EVENTS IN LATER LIFE. HIS DEATH.

We have had occasion to mention, in our account of
Dr. Young's literary and scientific labours, those
events of his later life which were especially connected
with them, leaving, as might be expected, very few
others sufficiently important to be noticed. Few,
however, and unimportant as they are, some reference
to them is more or less necessary to give some de
gree of continuity to our narrative ; and it may be
urged as an additional reason for noticing them that
it is usually considered as one of the privileges of-
those who have deserved well of mankind that more
or less of interest is always attached to every detail
which tends to make us familiar with their habits and

characters.

   His course of life, considered apart from the variety
of his occupations, was remarkably uniform. He
resided in London from November to June, and at
Worthing from July to the end of October. His pro

fessional engagements restricted his visits elsewhere
within very narrow limits ; though we find him
occasionally at Sunninghill, with Mr. George Ellis,
or with Mr. Gurney in Norfolk. But he had really
no taste for life in the country ; he was one of those
who thought that no one who was able to live in
London would be content to live elsewhere. He
448             MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

loved occupation, and was never embarrassed by tbe

variety of forms under which it presented itself. In

writing to a friend, who complained of ennui and a
want of resolution to employ himself, he says : --

   " About this time last year," -- the letter is dated December,

"I I1820, -- was giving myself a holiday of a few weeks, and

Ifell into a sort of fidgetty languor, and fancied was growing
Iold. It wore off very soon, however ; and am convinced there

is no remedy so effectual for this and other intellectual diseases

I Ias plenty of employment, without over fatigue and anxiety. This

autumn have been, in fact, going on with a work which was

then almost frightened at having undertaken, and am already

printing the first part of it,* being only a translation with a

Icommentary ; it will do better without my name than with it.

  am also writing over again my Article on Languages in the

Quarterly Review, with many additions,b for the next Supple

ment of the Encyclopaedia Britannica ; and a Biographical

Memoir on Lagrange will be almost as long, requiring a list of

Ione hundred different papers on the most abstruse parts of the
mathematics.'.  have then the business of the Board of Longi

tude to manage, and some of the Royal Society. The Arctic

expedition is now settled ; but we are fitting out our astronomer

for the Cape with all his books and instruments. d Then there

is a Committee of Elegant Extracts to consider the tonnage of

ships, appointed by the Royal Society, the Admiralty, the

IBoard of Trade, and the Treasury -- which will not take long,

but shall have the onus. Then there is my hospital --to

Ispeak nothing of my private patients, who are very discreet at

this time of the year. Then I must not forget that must

shortly do a little more to the hieroglyphics ; and after one

   * Elementary Illustrations of the Celestial Mechanics of La Place, pub
lished in 1821.

   b Works, vol. iii. p. 478.
   0 Works, vol. ii. p. 557.
   d The late Rev. Fearon Fallows, the contemporary of myself and Sir
John Herschel at Cambridge : an excellent mathematician, and a very
zealous and skilful practical astronomer, who lost his life in attempting to
carry on the business of the observatory, whilst labouring under the
effects of a severe attack of fever. His observations at the Cape have been
published, at the ex|iense of tbe Admiralty, by the Astronomer Royni.
Chap. XV.         EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.                                449

Inumber more shall be able to judge if the thing is worth con
Itinuing or not.
                  suppose the Review of Belzoni will give the

       some  popularity.
       have  not seen the
I Isub"ject
                            Article,   but  suppose my friend

IBarrow will feel less remorse in exposing my infidelity to my

professional consort than have generally done myself. Cer
tainly, if a man that is married to a profession cannot avoid

keeping a mistress or two, he ought not to be the first to blazon

to the world the liberties he takes."

At the conclusion of a letter full of lively observations,
he adds --

  I" do not believe that you are much the older for anything

I Ithat occurred when you were a boy ; nor do think that
Ishould have been the worse in health if 1 had been less rigid in

my regimen. It is well for me that have not to live over
I Iagain : doubt if should have made so good a use of my time

Ias mere accident has compelled me to do. Many things could

certainly mend, and spare myself both time and trouble ; but,

I Ion the whole, if had done very differently from what have,
I I Idare say should have repented more than now do of any

thing ; and this is a tolerable retrospect of forty years of one's

Ilife. have learned more or less perfectly a tolerable variety of

Ithings in this world ; but there are two things that have never
Iyet learned, and suppose never shall --to get up and to go to
Ibed. It is now past twelve o'clock, but must write for an hour

longer."

The Arctic Expedition under the command of

Captain Parry had returned in the autumn of this

year, and it was the duty of Young, as Secretary to

the Board of Longitude, to examine the officers en

           it,

                 a
                        aa
gaged in with view of ascertaining whether they

had reached sufficiently high northern latitude to

entitle them to portion of the reward which had
                                       In
been  offered  b--y Parliament.             letter on the subject
      he says                              a
itof           :                                                 2
                                                                   (I
Life.
          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.            Chap. XV.

I" And here is the polar expedition arrived, whom  am to

examine on their oaths, to get them their five thousand pounds,

Iwhich it seems will be well spent in lowering the price of oil
by the information they have given the whalers.  imagine

also they have set the practical question of the passage at rest,
as it is obvious that there would be no reasonable chance of

getting to Behrings' Straits in the short arctic summer of six

weeks, even if there is a passage, which seems by no means im
probable -- though Barrow's ' Polar Bason,' is certainly nothing
but a rock of ice -- for they found that it was only near land that
there was anything like a possibility of navigating, the mean

annual temperature of the year being 0" on the islands, which

is 30° lower than would be inferred from the analogy of the in
Ihabited world.  should not, however, be surprised if the

Icuriosity of the Admiralty prompted them to continue the

research, and have no objection to curiosity in others, though

Iit is a great many years since was scolded for that quality

myself."

   The same able and energetic writer who had first
stimulated the public and the Admiralty to undertake
these expeditions, was enabled, nearly a quarter of a

century later, to rekindle it ; and melancholy as the

result of that renewed experiment is now known to have
been, we venture to hope that the time is far distant
when either dangers or failures will extinguish the
spirit of daring enterprise which has ever been the
great characteristic of our seamen, and the existence
of which is the surest safeguard of our national

greatness.

   It was in writing to the same friend about three
years before this time -- in October, 1817 -- that he

intimated his intention of establishing an Egyptian

Society.

  I I" have done little in hieroglyphics," says he, " since saw
Iyou ; but. can never get to the end of them as long as there
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.                     451

Iare materials which exist unexamined and uncopied.  suppose

they might furnish employment to an academy of forty members
for half a century, and it will be enough for me to have disco

Ivered a mine by which others may enrich themselves. But
Ido mean to make out more ; and in a year or two shall pub
Ilish what have done --still anonymously, as far as the form
Igoes ; and then intend to set about establishing something

between a society and a subscription for getting all the hiero

glyphics in existence collected and published, with any explana

tions and comments which may be proposed in a separate

series --and perhaps for employing some poor Italian or Maltese
to scramble over Egypt in search of more. All this might be

done under the name of an Egyptian Society, without becoming

too prominent individually."

   A year or two afterwards, this scheme was carried

into effect. Dr. Young became the Egyptian Society,

without colleague or assistant. The principal sub
scribers to it were Mr. Gurney, Lord Montnorris,

Lord Aberdeen, Sir Joseph Banks, Sir W. Rouse
Boughton, Mr. William Hamilton, Mr. Marsden,
Mr. Taylor Combe, Mr. George Ellis, Dr. Butler, Mr.
Lloyd, and Mr. Drury, of Harrow. Two fasciculi were

published, containing about thirty plates, the last

fasciculus of the two being devoted entirely to the
Rosetta inscription, with a comparative index. The

costs of the engravings, however, were found to exceed

considerably the amount of the subscriptions --notwith
standing a large contribution from one of his friends
--and the publication was upon the point of being
abandoned, when it was proposed by some members of

the Royal Society of Literature, which had recently

been established and munificently endowed by the
Prince Regent, that the Society should adopt it as

their own. After some negociations, Dr. Young

agreed to the proposal, and continued, as before, to
edit the work, being allowed to exercise his own dis

                                  2G 2
452  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                      Chap. XV.

cretion with respect to documents which should be     it,
engraved. The papyri found by Mr. Grey, the inscrip
tions copied by Sir Gardner Wilkinson, and documents                                                                                       ;
from other sources, supplied him with abundant mate                                                                                                                         ;
rials. But the rich treasures collected by Mr. Bankes
and his agents were withheld, with a somewhat unbe

coming jealousy, from the publication, being reserved
for a separate work which unhappily never appeared.

    The appearance of Belzoni's Travels had excited
more than common interest, not merely on account of

his extraordinary discoveries and the courage and per
severance he had displayed in making them, but from
the beautiful exhibition of the scenes in the Royal

Tomb which he had discovered and opened at Thebes,
where tfle fine alabaster sarcophagus was found which

is now in the museum of Sir John Soane. Young

had furnished Belzoni with some remarks on his plates,
and also with an argument to show that the tomb was

that of Psammes the son of Necho, and that the ins

criptions upon as far as their purport could then be
made out, would agree sufficiently well with the his
torical notices relating to the father which are found
in Herodotus and in the Second Book of Chronicles.

These observations were preceded by copious extracts

from the Article Egypt, in the Encyclopaedia, the
whole designed to call public attention to those re

searches, and to furnish Barrow, who reviewed the
book, with an opportunity of noticing and popularizing
them, as he had undertaken to do. The result of all

these preparations was very unsatisfactory to Young
for, in the first place, some very cogent arguments
urged by Mr. Bankes, as well as other considerations,
induced him to think that he had been mistaken
in his identification, of the names of the kings and,
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.  453

in the second place, Barrow not only failed in his
promise to make the Review a vehicle for an analysis
of his researches, but he spoke of him in terms which

rather recognized his diligence than his sagacity.

   " You know," says he, in writing to Mr. Gurney, " how

Ilittle undervalue the praise of diligence, believing, as you are
Iaware do, that there is little else that distinguishes man from

man. But surely something might have been said of sagacity,

if not of talent, where the subject was such as to render mere

Idiligence almost a negative merit. But no matter ; know

myself what he ought to have said, and that is the true satisfac
tion after all."

   The summer and autumn of 1820 were the last

which he passed at Worthing. His connection with
the Board of Longitude had made his pfofessional

emoluments less important to him than they once
were, and he had long contemplated a tour in Italy, to
which he proposed devoting the following summer."

In the execution of this project, he started, in com

pany with Mrs. Young, in the middle of June, 1821,
and reached Paris in sufficient time to attend a meet
ing of the Institute, where he met La Place, Cuvier,
Arago, Humboldt, and some of the other great men,
who made it, at that period, by far the most illustrious
scientific body in Europe. Though his optical theories
had already been made known by the able advocacy of
Arago, and had recently received in the bosom of the
Institute itself a striking confirmation and extension

   * Mr. Hodgkin, the companion of his studies at Youngsbury, when
informed of his projected tour, had asked him, in the words of the poet --

                              Et quae tanta fuit Romam tibi causa videndi ?

when his prompt reply--

                                   Libertas, qua? sera tamen, respexit inertem,

expressed the somewhat buoyant feeling of pleasure at his emancipation,
not from his usual, but his compulsory, labours.
454  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

by Fresnel's well-known Memoir on Diffraction, they
had hitherto made few converts ; whilst his hiero-
 glyphical researches had not yet become a popular topic
of discussion, Champollion having only lately left his
retirement at Grenoble, and not having yet emerged

from obscurity. Though cordially welcomed by Arago
and Humboldt, his reception was not such as he expe
rienced at his subsequent visits, when other circum
stances had directed public attention both to his literary

and scientific discoveries.

    He took the usual route through Lyons and Cham-
bery, over Mount Cenis, to Turin ; and, like all tra
vellers, he was delighted with the first aspect of the

greater Alpine scenery :--

   " We were delighted," says he, " beyond measure with Savoy,

a country which seems too little known to travellers in compari

Ison with Switzerland, at least it far exceeds any idea which

had formed of Switzerland without having seen it. Turin is a
most magnificent city, and deserving of a better fate than to be
betrayed into a demonstration of independence by the imbe
cility of its sovereign, and then to have its most respectable
inhabitants imprisoned for the acceptance of the very constitu
tion which he offered to them."

    Historians however will probably be disposed to
touch lightly upon the untoward events which dis
credited the opening of the reign of this unhappy
sovereign, when they are also required to record the
courage and self-sacrifice which marked its conclusion.

    The great Egyptian Museum, of which the collection
formed by Drovetti was the basis, and which furnished
so many valuable materials to the researches of Cham
pollion and Lepsius, was not yet established.

   At Genoa he renewed the acquaintance which he had

formed at Gotha, on his German tour, with the Baron
Chap. XV.                    EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.             455

de Zach -- an astronomer, a scholar, an antiquary and
the most indefatigable of correspondents --who, during
nearly half a century, continued to retail, in the most

agreeable form, the gossip of the astronomical world.
   " He lives," says Young, " with the Duchess of Gotha,

complaining bitterly that he has no intercourse with civilized

society, though he publishes every month a volume of astrono

mical correspondence --and still a little out of humour with the
courts which have made the Queen of Etruria unable to pay

for the instruments which she has ordered, through him, for the
new Observatory at Lucca, so that he has had to pay for them
himself."

This was, in fact, the dominant age of the Holy
Alliance, when every act of those who had been con

nected with the family of Napoleon, even when

designed exclusively for the public benefit, was re
pudiated, and when every indication of a tendency to
opinions in favour of a constitutional government was

promptly and sternly repressed."

   Having recrossed the Apennines, he proceeded by
Pesaro, Foligno, and Terni to Rome, where he passed
the last half of July and the first week in August,
before the season of fevers had set in : but they found
them very general upon their return about the end of
the same month : the period at which they begin is

greatly dependent upon the range of the temperature.
Mr. Dodwell, whom he had known at Cambridge,

acted as their guide to the more remarkable monu
ments of antiquity and art. He was an artist and a
scholar, and the author of Travels in Greece, wlnch

    Mr. De Morgan has called my attention to a curious example of this
spirit, which is noticed in a letter addressed by Zach to Mr. F. Baily. In

the course of a criticism on the advantages which arise from different ob

                      their  methods together, he had added    a quotation from
                     esprit  doit se rotter contre un autre."   This was struck
fsMeornvetarisgnceom--pa"rinUgn
out by the censure.
456  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

were magnificently illustrated : he was domiciliated

at Rome, where he had married a Roman lady cele

brated for her beauty and accomplishments. At Naples
he found Sir William Gell, who was contemplating

a visit to Egypt, though he never accomplished it.
He also had addressed, in the preceding February,

inquiries to Dr. Young respecting his Hieroglyphical
Dictionary and his Article Egypt, which he knew
were in the hands of Mr. Bankes, and copies of which
had been presented, through Mr. Dodwell, to the
Vatican Library. He afterwards maintained a lively
and interesting correspondence with him, which is
printed in the third volume of his works.

  I" Naples," says Young, " delighted lis extremely ; and our

expedition to Paestum repaid us better than had expected ;
but much more by the beauty of the scenery about Salerno
than by the magnificent copies of the cork models which we
had seen in London, for the ruins seem to be perfect imita
tions of pieces of cork on a large scale. Gell says there is a
deplorable want of literary society at Naples. We fell into a
good deal of society at Rome, chiefly among the diplomatic

people."

    Young's route on his return from Rome was through

Sienna to Pisa and Leghorn, and thence to Florence :--

   " Pisa amply repaid us for taking this circuitous route ;
Leghorn, if possible, still more. But what you will be better

Ipleased to hear (he is writing to Mr. Gurney), is the discovery

that made of a bilinguar stone among Drovettis things, which
promises to be an invaluable supplement to the Rosetta inscrip

Ition, as dare say Drovetti is well aware. There are very few-

distinct hieroglyphic characters about the tablet, and the rings
for the name of the king are left blank ; but there are one or

Itwo well-known personages of the Egyptian Pantheon whom

shall be glad to find named in Greek, and the blank names can
be of little consequence, as they must have been some of the

Idynasty of the Ptolemies, and think there are some emblems
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.        457

of Ptolemy Philopater. Under the tablet are about fifteen
lines of the enchorial character, and about thirty-two in Greek,

Inot at all distinctly legible, but nowhere totally effaced, so that

   believe with care every part of the inscriptions may be

legible.

  I" could not get leave to take a copy, the merchant having

no authority to do anything beyond the safe custody of the col

Ilection. But he has consented that should send an experienced

artist from Florence, to take two casts, or rather impressions, of

Ithe stone, one or both of which hope Drovetti will let me
Ihave, for myself or for the Museum, on fair terms ; but if he

does not, have only stipulated that whenever the collection is

embarked, the copies shall remain safe at Leghorn until it has
arrived safe at the place of its destination without injury from

Ishipwreck or other accidents ; and shall have the satisfaction
Iof thinking that have at least done something for the second

great treasure of Egyptian literature."

In the note which Young addressed to Drovetti's

agent on the subject of this tablet, he urged, as a rea

           a
             a

                                               it,
                                                                  it

                                                                                                       a
son for his asking for a cast of that he was the only

person living who could fully appreciate its value* He

justified the use of this language, which, though at

that time literally true, afterwards exposed him to

charge of presumption,b on the ground that was

such as mercantile man was most likely to under

stand as   reason for his application.  The very

urgency, however, with which the application was

made, was probably the cause of its failure, as Drovetti

very naturally concluded that the greater the impor

tance of this inscription, the greater would be the de

preciation of the value of the whole collection from its
                                had passed from his hands. It
publication before
b

  A

                      p. is it
was not until seven years afterwards that Dr. Young

    * copy of this letter given in his Account of Hieroglyphical Disco

veries. See Works, vol. iii. p. 287.
       In an Essay by Mr. Peyron, of Turin. See Dr. Young's letter re

specting it, Works, vol. iii. 398, and Peyron's reply, p. 422.
458        MEMOIR OF DU. THOMAS YOUNG.               Chap. XV.

received, from the Chevalier San Quintino, the cast

which he had once been so anxious to possess." It had

then lost much of its value, inasmuch as other docu

ments had been in the mean time brought to light,
which furnished much of the information which it was

designed to supply. The enchorial inscription also

was found to be nearly, if not altogether, illegible.

   The travellers, upon their arrival at Florence, found
letters giving very alarming accounts of the health of

Mrs. Young's mother, which induced them to hasten

their departure from Italy : after visiting Venice and
Milan, they proceeded by the ordinary route over the

Simplon to Geneva, where they received intelligence
of her death.

   " Our expedition," says he, " has been extremely prosperous
I Iand, like most other things which have done in my life, am
Ivery glad that have done
                           it,  though am     It byno means sure
                                I it I
that should have the resolution to do again.         seems like the
   I

last act of my boyhood, and the first of my old age on the
                                                     ;

                                                          a
one hand sort of finish to my Latin and Greek, and on the
        a

other a setting at defiance all professional conveniences in way
that may be deemed very imprudent in a servant of the public.

But do not owe the public much, and suppose shall never be
   II                                      II
paid much of what the public owes me.                                                                  :
   " Of the science or literature of this country know nothing

but cannot help fancying that Pozzo di Borgo must have been

dreaming when he told me at Paris that the Italians were

making great strides in the improvement of the human intellect

I  do not think there are any living poets of transcendent

merit none certainly to rival some of ours in painting they
     :                          :
                                                        :

                                                                                                    :
have nothing but a few good draughtsmen and copyists in

sculpture, they have Canova who probably comes next to

Michael Angelo they have Thorwaldsen, Bartelini, and a few
           ;

others, about as good as our own their taste for music seems

to be altogether exhausted, and we sought in vain for a little

    See Chevalier San Quintiuo.s letter, Dr. Young's Works, vol. iii.

J>. 389.
Chap. XV.            EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.                                                                                 459

harmony at St Peter's and the Pope's Choristers. At Naples,

however, their opera and their ballet is well mounted : and the

Itheatre of San Carlo illuminated was the most magnificent spec

tacle ever beheld."

    From Geneva, the travellers proceeded rapidly

through. Switzerland to Schaffhausen, and thence by
the usual route, through the valley of the Rhine, to
London, where they arrived about the end of October.

  A wish had been expressed by Mr. Gurney to possess

a portrait of Young, and negotiations were entered
into, through Mr. Chantrey, the sculptor, to induce
Sir Thomas Lawrence, who was at that time in the

zenith of his reputation and overwhelmed with engage

ments, to paint it. In a letter, written at the end of
September, 1822, he says :--

" The Maxwells intend to spend the greater part of the

Iwinter in Florence, and Mrs. Young and myself have agreed to
escort them as far as Paris.  called yesterday at Chantrey's ;

he is still strenuous in desiring me to make the application to
ILawrence through him ; while am absent he promises to
Icomplete the negociation, and will let you know his success
I Iwhen return.
                     am told that Lawrence will certainly under
take and even his beginning will be the greatest-- or rather
it,

      I
              is I

                                     it

                              I
                                  I

                                                      of

                                                  I
                                                                                                                        ;
the only --personal honour that  have ever received for

which, as for sundry other particulars, shall not forget my

obligations to you.  hope, for the sake my friends and the

public, that shall not be blown up in the steam-boat before

this important affair completed, and still more before have

made another attempt at Paris to aim another blow at Drovetti

and his stone of Menouf."

   The portrait was not only undertaken by Lawrence,it
but, what was not always the case, was finished by

him. It was the original from which the engraving

which forms the frontispiece of this volume was taken.

It was said of this great painter, that he rarely failed
460  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

to realize whatever was most distinguished in the
intellectual expression of the face of a man, or graceful
and attractive in that of a woman ; and his portrait of
Young was no exception to the truth of this observation.

   A letter addressed to Miss Caroline Maxwell, now

Countess of Buchan, on her route to Florence, refers to
some occurrences which signalized this visit to Paris,
and which have been elsewhere more particularly
noticed/

  I" have been extremely interested to-day at a sitting of the

Academy of Inscriptions. The principal paper that was read

Ibelonged as much to my pursuits as the one heard on Monday

at the Academy of Sciences -- both being an extension of my
own researches, this on hieroglyphics as that was on optics ; and
its author, M. Champollion, has adopted all my interpretations,
almost without alteration ; but he has had the good fortune to
discover several important documents which were unknown to
me This morning has been occupied with optical
discussions with Fresnel, who really has been very ingenious in
extending my theory of light, and who is doing himself very
great credit by his investigations. M. Ampere has come again
 to talk of magnetism. Champollion is to be here on Sunday,
 and Dureau de la Malle, a bel es[irit and a poet, who brought
 me a letter from Humboldt last year, is to be here on Monday."

  IIt was Arago who introduced Champollion to Dr.

 Young, who gave him--as am informed by Mrs.
 Young, who was present at the interview --the most
 cordial reception, expressing the pleasure which it

 afforded him to welcome a successor to his hieroglyphi-

 cal studies who possessed leisure and so many qualifi
 cations to pursue them with effect. He readily pro
 mised him also whatever assistance his own collations of

 the Rosetta stone and other collections could give him.

    The letter of Champollion to M. Dacier, which shortly

                                                    " Supra, p. 321.
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.  4(51

afterwards appeared, tended not a little to dissipate
these flattering illusions, and rendered it necessary for
him to take some measures for vindicating his own
claims to discoveries which had either been ignored , or

misrepresented in this publication. Was he to perse
vere, as hitherto, in a vain attempt to preserve his
anonymous character, now that his scientific celebrity
was too great to be concealed, or was he, as he him
self expressed it, " to throw away his cane and wig and

show his bare forehead to the public, undefended and
without disguise?" His more intimate friends were
strenuous in urging him to adopt this second course,
not merely as due to his public character, but as in
reality calculated to increase rather than diminish his

practice as a physician. The recent discovery also of
the papyri of Mr. Grey, and the new views which they
opened to him respecting the extent to which an alpha
betic element was used in enchorial texts and in the

expression of Egyptian as well as foreign names, sup
plied an additional motive for bringing them before
the public, in connection with his own vindication.

In a letter to Mr. Gurney, written on St. Andrew's

Day, the anniversary of the Royal Society, he an
nounced his intention of bringing forth an octavo

volume, under the title of " An Account of some
Recent Discoveries in Egyptian Literature and Anti
quities, by Thomas Young, &c. &c." The work was

published at the beginning of February in the following
year, so prompt was he in the execution of whatever

he had once undertaken.

    Though he ceased from this time to undertake any

regular hieroglyphical investigation, excepting the
collection of documents and the preparation of ma
terials, from time to time, for the publications of the
462  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

Egyptian Society and for his Enchorial Dictionary, yet
we find in his correspondence frequent references to
various points of the controversy between himself and
Champollion, which shortly afterwards began to rage
with considerable violence. Nor was Champollion the

only one who was disposed to trespass upon the rights
which an unquestionable priority of publication had
given him. The hieroglyphical vocabulary attached to
the article Egypt, had been distributed amongst Egyp
tologers, in Paris and elsewhere, in the year 18 IS, and
the article itself appeared in the early part of the follow
ing year. Some months afterwards, Jomard, one of
the principal editors of the great French work on

Egypt, read a memoir at the Academie des Inscriptions,
announcing the discovery of the hieroglyphical nume
rals, which were conspicuously noticed in the Hiero
glyphical Vocabulary, a copy of which, given to him

by Young, had long been in his possession. A plagi

arism so gross and so manifest was instantly and indig
nantly denounced, both at the Academie and in the
Moniteur, by Humboldt," who had studied both the
Article and the vocabulary with the interest and admi

ration which was due to a work at once so learned and so
original. M. Jomard, in a letterb to Young, endeavoured
to slur ever the appropriation of his discovery by

asserting that he had made it out ten years before. It

seemed to be the fate of Dr. Young, in every thing

relating to his hieroglyphical researches, to be plun

dered, misrepresented or misunderstood.

    The celebrated mummy case of Petemen, discovered

by Cailliaud --which, as we have elsewhere shown,"

· See his letter, Dr. Young's Works, vol. iii. p. 208.
b See the letter, with Mr. Leitch's note, Works, vol. iii. p. 207.
° Supra, p. 332.
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.  463

furnished the first decisive proof of the use of phonetic

hieroglyphics to express Egyptian as well as foreign

names, and served also to show that the ring which in

closed them was not used as a mark of phonetization --

exhibited upon the exterior of its lid a representation
of a zodiac, resembling in many of its characters the
zodiacs of Denderah and Esne, which some writers on

Egyptian antiquities had attempted to raise to an ex
treme antiquity. The Greek inscription* on this case,
which was extremely mutilated, was restored by Le-
tronne, an eminent archaeological scholar, in an Essay
on this and other Egyptian zodiacs, who appealed to
its date, near the close of the reign of Trajan, as
affording a very plausible argument, that other zodiacs

which resembled it were not nearly so ancient as they
had been generally assumed to be. He then pro

ceeded to show, with no inconsiderable display of learn
ing and ingenuity, that this zodiac of Petemen was
an astrological scheme of his nativity ; that similar

representations were by no means uncommon on monu
mental records of various kinds, and that there was

abundant historical evidence to show that astrological

ideas were very prevalent emongst the Egyptians about
the age to which those zodiacs were referred. This
Essay, soon after its publication, was communicated to
Dr. Young, who, in a postscript to a letter which he
had written to Arago on optical subjects, requested
him, whilst he thanked the author for his present, to
remind him that nearly every part of his theory had
been anticipated in the Article Egypt, where, in

   » The translation of the restored inscription was--" Petemen, called also
Ammonius, whose father was Soter, the son of Cornelius Pollius, and
mother Cleopatra, the daughter of Ammonius, died at the age of twenty-
one years, four months, and twenty-two days, in the nineteenth year of
Trajan the lord, on the eighth of Payni."
464  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

an admirable chapter on the Egyptian Calendar, Young
has given very sufficient reasons for considering the
zodiac of Denderah as a mythological scheme, relating

to the birth of Isis :--

   " The beetle which appears at the beginning of the series of
signs is the symbol of generation, where he is represented as
depositing his globe. On the opposite side is the head of Isis,
with her name as newly born. The two long female figures
are appropriate representations of the mother, whilst the zodiac

which is interposed between them, expresses the 'revolving
year ' which elapsed between the two periods. This explanation
is completely confirmed by a similar representation of two
female figures on the ceiling of a tomb of the kings at Byban
el Molouk -- one with the beetle, the other-with the name of the

personage just born ; between them, instead of the zodiac, are

two tablets, divided into two hundred and seventy squares, cor
responding to the number of days in nine Egyptian months ;

with ten circles placed at equal distances, probably intended to
represent full moons, and relating to the ten imperfect lunations
to which these days must belong. The number two hundred

and seventy is too remarkable to be supposed to have been in

troduced by mere accident ; and when the argument is con

sidered in connection with the evidence, in itself sufficiently
convincing, the whole must be allowed to be fully conclusive."*

  An extremely candid letter of apology from Letronneb

was the immediate result of the communication which

had been made to him ; he pleaded ignorance of the
precise purport of Young's theory, and as he was a
man of high character, there is no sufficient reason to
doubt the truth of his explanation.

   In the summer of 1824, he paid a visit for a couple

of months to Spa, with Mrs. Young and some other
members of her family, and before returning home, he

made also a short tour in Holland. In writing to Mr.
Gurney, who was at that time in Italy, he says : --

· Works, vol. iii. p. 124.  b Works, vol. iii. p. 378.
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.      465

  I" have lounged away a summer in the Belgian dominions

with very tolerable comfort in a state of torpidity. The old
Belgians are a kind, good-natured people. They complain of
their new masters as they did of their old -- probably not with
out some reason. The poor are wretchedly poor-- not, as it
seems, from the want of civilization, but from the excess of it

Ifor the moment, the introduction of machinery having thrown

thousands out of employment ; but suppose for a few gene
rations only. The Dutch seem sufficiently prosperous, though
the people are still Dutch, phlegmatic and avaricious, as far as

appears to a traveller; but the government seems to be en

lightened, and to be very laudably bent on the encouragement

of the arts and general instruction. At Spa we had rather a

paucity of interesting characters ; the standing patrons were
the Binnings and the Lovaines ; the flying visits of Lady Davy,

the Huskissons, Sir J. Mackintosh, and the Somervilles, were

the more appreciated as there was otherwise some scarcity of
intellectual enjoyment. We staid there till the end of Septem

ber, and returning by Antwerp, we left our carriage there, and
went through Holland either in the boats, which are nearly as

good as gondolas, or in hired carriages, which are also comfort

able enough. From Antwerp we went by Breda to Utrecht,
thence by water to Amsterdam and Haarlem ; from Haarlem
by Leyden to the Hague and Rotterdam, whence the river
brought us back in eleven hours and a half through the mazes
of the river to Antwerp. We were greatly interested, on our
return, with some pictures and churches at Bruges and Ghent.

ITo me the voyage back from Calais was rather memorable, as
   was the only one of our party that did not suffer from the
motion. My companions have found wonderful benefit from
their season at the Well ; but their saddles were probably as

much concerned in their amendment as their glasses."

Dr. Young was not altogether exempt from the

weakness of occasionally appearing to affect to merge

the character of a man of science in that of a man of

the world. He had studied, from an early period of

life, to adapt his habits to those of cultivated and

refined society, and found a greater relief from his

Life.                             2H
466         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

severer studies in the lively conversation and elegant
amusements of accomplished women than in the

graver discussions of those who are brought into

contact with each other by a community of scientific,

literary or political interests. In such society, his

manner sometimes assumed an appearance of flippancy
and dogmatism from the peculiar precision of his know

ledge and the prompt and off hand replies to which it
occasionally gave rise. He alludes to the impression
which this manner sometimes produced in the fol

lowing extract from a letter written to Mrs. Earle :a

it refers to a conversation which had taken place at
Lord Dudley's table :--

" Miss \Vhite,b the other day, had made Sir Humphry

(Davy) believe that Sotheby considered me the most dogma

Itical and contradictory person in the world, because had

expressed dislike of the style of Livy in the beginning of his
History. Lord Dudley said he delighted in contradiction, and

if he became a sovereign he would certainly make me his lord

chamberlain, that he might have the pleasure of being often

contradicted ; though he must say that he had never himself
observed the said propensity which was imputed to me. In

fact, there was nothing contradictory to Sotheby's expressed

Iopinions in my remark ; and if I had happened to say that

did not like turtle soup or hock, he might think it want of good

taste in me, but he could not feel it as personally disrespectful,

as it would be to call in question a matter of fact or even of
Ijudgment.
            believe our conversation last year began upon
ISchiller's Thirty Years' War, which thought full of odious

affectation of language and in Livy's worst style of poetical

Iprose ; did not say that Sotheby.s prose was poetical or that

his poetry was prosaic ; but it certainly did appear to me when

I read Livy that he began his history upon stilts, and that it

   * November 20, 1824.                                        to as

  b A lady of extremely popular manners, who was accustomed

semble at her house the most distinguished society of London.

   ° The translator of the Oeorgics of Virgil, Sec. &c.
Chap. XV.           EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.                     467

was not until he had worn his stilts down that he began to

Iwri"teLolirkde
           a gentleman.  not  agree  with  me ;  and  he  is  much
           Dudley could

more familiar with Livy than am, and he is certainly an ad

mirable prose writer ; but the distinction between the different

parts of Livy's History could not well have been an invention

of my own fancy. It seem3, however, impossible that all per

sons should agree in their taste respecting beauty of style, even

if they were equally capable of feeling and judging correctly ;

for certainly the taste is formed very much by the established
habits of reading, and a person who has read as much Latin as
English and a great deal of French and Italian, must have

acquired a different susceptibility of the impressions made even

by the style of an English author from a person who has read
Inothing, for instance, but English and German.
                                                          was ex
Ipressing, one day, the gratification that derived from the
Istyle of Robertson the historian ; it was remarked, think by
I IHallam, that it wanted idiom : said that hated idiom. In

fact, every idiom seems to me in the nature of a proverb, and

to abound in idiomatical phrases seems to me a deformity of

the same kind as to interlard every speech with proverbs : there
is something in it like the affectation of being very fashionable,

or rather like the wish of a school-boy to look knowing; at

Ileast this is the impression that idioms make on me ; and am

stupid enough to take Lord Chesterfield's precept of being

Ineither the first nor the last in the fashion, though in language
   would rather be the last, because the language of a civilized

and cultivated people ought not to change materially when it is

once established."

   Young's own style of writing, if not idiomatic, was

singularly pure : he had studied very carefully the
principles of grammar, and one of his earliest essays in
the Leptologist" was in illustration of them : his sen

tences are usually short : he chooses the most simple
words which will express his meaning : he rarely

attempts to form carefully balanced periods, and never
resorts to figurative expressions when those which are

                    .> Sen supra, p. 120.

                                                 2h 2
468  MEMOIR OF BR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

 direct and immediate will answer his purpose : he was
 as little disposed to admire and imitate the poetical
 prose of Schiller in history as of Davy in philosophy,
 and was apt to regard them both as almost equally

misplaced. It is but just to him, however, to observe

that in the same criticism in which he has intimated this

opinion, he willingly concedes a great latitude to diver
 sities of taste, and allows that an ornamented and popu
lar style of expression may stimulate the interest and
command the attention of many readers who would be
repelled by a more rigid exposition addressed to the

understanding only, however perspicuous and philoso
phical it might otherwise be.

   In the year 1826, he removed from his house in

Welbeck Street, where he had resided for a quarter of
a century, to another in Park Square, which possessed
more ample accommodation, which had been built under
his own directions, and which he fitted up with great ele

gance and taste. In noticing this change of residence

in the autobiographical sketch to which we have before
had occasion to refer, he adds the observation -- ' ' That

he had now attained all the objects of importance for

fwhich he had hoped or wished : non impudenter vitce

quod reliquum est, petit, cum ounce quod satis est, habet.
But, in fact, the life which he loved was little else than

the pursuit of such fame as he valued, or at least of those
acquirements which he thought deserving of it."

    On the sixth of August of the following year, he
was elected one of the eight foreign associates of the
Academy of Sciences, at Paris, in the place of Volta.
The other competitors named were the great astrono
mers Bessel and Olbers, Robert Brown the botanist,

Soemmering the anatomist, Blumenbach the naturalist,
Leopold Von Buch the geologist, Dalton the chemist,
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.               469

and Plana the mathematician. This is the greatest
honour that can be conferred on a man of science.
Davy and Wollaston were already members : their

places, and that of Young, are now not less worthily
filled by Brown, Faraday, and Brewster.

   The propriety of the selection which was made by the
Institute of France, of Wollaston, Davy, and Young,

as the most eminent representatives of English science

in that age, was disputed by very few of their con

temporaries who were capable of forming a correct
opinion of their merits. Wollaston, who was the

oldest of the three, is less known by any striking dis

coveries   than by the    happy invention of   many novel
processes   in chemistry                       of which he
                          and the arts --some

made subservient, during his lifetime, to the interests of

his fortune --as well as by various essays on very dif

ferent branches of philosophy, which are generally re

markable for great precision of thought and statement

and by a command of the subject of which he is treating,

so complete, that he was very rarely mistaken in his
conclusions. He was a good geometer, a good optician,

and a thorough master of mechanical principles, as far

as his very limited knowledge of analysis would enable

him to apply them ; but he was wanting in the courage

of Young and the enthusiasm of Davy, and would

rather have sacrificed the credit of the greatest dis

covery than expose himself to the danger or the impu

tation of failure ; and there is every reason to conclude

that much of the credit which Dalton and Berzelius

have gained from the proposition and establishment of

the great principles of the atomic theory would have

been appropriated by Wollaston, if his courage and

enterprise had been equal to his knowledge and to the
clearness of his views of the proper import of definite
470  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                Chap. XV.

chemical analyses and combinations. His name is
consequently not permanently connected with any
great real epochal advancement in the sciences, and it

is on this account that posterity is not likely to main

tain the same high estimate of his powers which was

made by his contemporaries.

Of Davy, it has been said that he was born a poet
Itand became a chemist by accident.
                                      was indeed

a happy accident which gave to the    sciences   a man
who united so many qualifications to   adorn
                                                them --

great skill and promptitude in performing, varying and

devising, experiments ; great speculative boldness tem

pered by the true spirit of inductive philosophy, and

united to a power of exposition both as a lecturer and

a writer which has rarely been equalled, unless by the

eminent chemist, who, once his pupil, has since suc

ceeded to his office and his honours. The discovery

and demonstration of the law which connects the

electrical affections of bodies with their chemical powers,

which was speedily followed by the decomposition of

the alkalis, was sufficient to change the whole face of

chemical science. Having rapidly risen to honours and

fortune, his character, in later life, as a man of science,

became somewhat subordinate to that of a man of

fashion, whose society was equally courted from his

great celebrity and his remarkable powers of conver

sation : and we subsequently find him relaxing from
those habits of active and laborious research which

are more or less necessary, even for the most gifted of

mankind, to maintain their leading position in the
advance of the sciences. But though his productions
were less numerous and his career less brilliant in

later than in early life, there was no subject which he

touched upon which he did not adorn ; for both his
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.  471

philosophical and inventive powers were of the highest

order, and the most obscure indications and analogies

which would have escaped the notice of common
minds, became with him the guides to some of his

most considerable discoveries : such was his safety-

lamp, one of the happiest practical conclusions that

was ever deduced from a philosophical fact through a

most delicate but perfectly connected net work of con

sequences, and his invention for protecting the copper

sheathing of ships, the failure of which, from extra

neous causes, was no derogation from the merit of the

philosophical conception upon which it was founded.

   The lapse of a quarter of a century, since the grave

--within the brief space of six months -- closed upon the

labours of these three eminent philosophers, has some

Ifwhat changed the order in which they were classed by
their contemporaries.  Young held the lowest place

in the order of precedency then, he unquestionably

occupies the highest now. The most brilliant achieve

ments of Davy, whether considered singly or collec

tively, are probably surpassed in importance by the

discovery and demonstration of the interference of

light ; but whilst the first received the prompt and

unhesitating acknowledgment of the scientific world

and at once secured for their author the honours and

rewards which were due to his merits, the second, even

after emerging from a long period of misrepresentation
and neglect, had to make its way, step by step as it were,

and with various and fluctuating fortunes, against

the opposition of adverse and long established theories,

supported by the authority of the two greatest men

known to the scientific history of the past and the present

age ; and it only received a tardy and reluctant recog
nition -- and that rather by implication than avowedly
472       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

--when near the close of his life, the Rumford medalit,

was awarded by the Royal Society to Fresnel, who
completed the structure of which Dr. Young had laid

the foundations.

  If we refer to his other scientific works, embracing so

wide a range of subjects, and some of them --more
especially his essays on the tides and the cohesion of
fluids-- so remarkable for the boldness and originality

of their treatment, we shall find that they were rarely
read and never appreciated by his contemporaries, and
even now are neither sufficiently known nor adequately

valued : whilst if justice was awarded more promptly
and in more liberal measure by his own countrymen

to his bieroglyphical labours, these also were singularly
unfortunate, as far as concerned the general diffusion
of his fame, by coming into collision with adverse
claims which were most unfairly and unscrupulously
urged in his own age, and not much less so by some
distinguished writers in very recent times. The great
variety also of his titles to commemoration as a classical
scholar and archaeologist, a medical writer, an optician,

a mathematician, or a physical philosopher, increases

the difficulty of judging his relative rank amongst men
of celebrity, whether they were his contemporaries or
not : for the position which he might not venture to
claim in virtue of his contributions to any single de
partment of human knowledge, might be readily con
ceded to him when his combined labours were taken

into consideration.

   In the summer of 1827, Sir Humphry Davy, whose

health had been for some time declining, and who had
been lately residing on the continent of Europe, in the
hope that new scenes and occupations might tend to
restore resigned the presidency of the Royal Society,
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.  47 3

and Mr. Davies Gilbert, the treasurer, was elected by the
council temporary president until the anniversary meet
ing of the Society on St. Andrew's Day. Various
speculations were afloat respecting the selection of a
permanent president, but as somewhat costly duties of
hospitality have been customarily attached to the office,
no one could be chosen whose fortune was not adequate
to meet the expenditure. Davy was anxious that Peel
should be his successor, but that great statesman, with
his characteristic good sense, gave no encouragement
to those who made the proposition to him : some
members were favourable to Lord Lansdowne, others

to the Duke of Somerset. There were not wanting ad
vocates of a total change of a system which excluded
men of science from a position which, under other
circumstances, would have been the most appropriate
reward of the highest scientific merit, and, amongst
those who favoured such views, the claims of Dr.

Young could hardly be overlooked. In writing to his

sister-in-law, Mrs. Earle, who was then in Italy on
her marriage tour, he says :--

  I" find there has been a pretty general conversation about
I Imaking me President of the Royal Society, and I really think

if were foolish enough to wish for the office, am at this

moment popular enough to obtain it ; but you well know that
nothing is further from my wishes.

    The choice, at the anniversary of the Society, fell upon
Davies Gilbert, a man of most amiable character and pos
sessed of very considerable scientific and general know
ledge, who had taken a leading part, as a member of the
legislature, in promoting, on all occasions, the interests
of science ; but his good nature sometimes amounted
to weakness, and unfitted him to keep under due

control some members of the council or of the society
474  MEMOIR OP DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

     ipnrevfeerryrintegmcpoemraptleainlatsnguoarguer. gi"ng
who were perpetually

Ireforms, and that not
told him," says Young, " that he had not quite enough

of the devil in him ; that Sir Joseph Bankes should

have left his eyebrows to go with his cocked hat, if he

left the Society nothing else."
   We have referred before" to the circumstances attend

ing his last journey to Paris and Geneva in the summer
of 1828, and to the symptoms of decaying strength

which were unmistakeably manifested before its con
clusion. He had hitherto enjoyed a singular freedom

from complaints of every kind, with the exception of
the consumptive tendency which had visited him in

youth, and no person appeared to give greater promise
of longevity. He returned in the autumn to his resi
dence in Park Square, to his usual occcupations, and

though old age appeared to be creeping upon him,
there was no relaxation of activity in the prosecution

of his studies. In a letter, written soon after his
return, he says :--

I I" As for myself am perfectly content with the life lead :

walking on business of routine every day from eleven to two :

the rest of the day sitting over my hieroglyphics or my mathe

Imatics, and conversing in my library with people beyond the
Alps or the Mediterranean.  have lost all ambition for a more
I Ibustling life or more active scenes, and believe am as happy

I Ias a person so old in soul is capable of being. In mental facul

ties am not yet old, and amuse myself almost daily with

Isome petty bonnes fortunes among some of the nine sisters.

  hear nothing whatever from the Admiralty, and so much the

Ibetter, except receiving three hundred pounds a year instead of

four hundred.b As for Croker, never believed a word of his

     Supra, p. 342.
   b Supra, p. 364. The Board of Longitude, of which he was secretary,
had been recently abolished, and no arrangements had yet been made for
officially advising the Admiralty on matters of science.
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.                   475

Igoing out, and he may remain in for ought care and be Lord
Melville's master, if he chooses ; for the stronger of two heads
Iwill generally direct the weaker in the long nia
                                                   am deep in
Ithe value of life, and really begin to think that people do live

longer than was formerly supposed, though not in the extra

vagant degree that was asserted." *

   In the autumn of 1828, Dr. Wollaston was attacked

by a disease, the character of which, though it left
in the first instance his faculties unimpaired, gave him
no hopes of recovery : he consequently took measures
for communicating to the Royal Society some processes
which he had kept secret on account of the income

which they secured him, and at the same time made a
deed of gift to the Society of two thousand pounds, the
produce of which was to be applied by the Council to
the encouragement of experimental researches. This
gift was augmented by another of one thousand pounds,
from Mr. Davies Gilbert, the new president, and by
smaller benefactions from Mr. Warburton, Mr. Guille-

mard, and other members. In writing to Mr. Gurney,

in reference to these transactions, he says,

    " When Gilbert had announced his benefaction, Amyot said

Ihe had never heard me make a speech, and summoned up

courage to take the first opportunity of muttering out : ' Mr.
President, a gentleman on my right observes that he never

Iheard me make a speech. Now, Sir, cannot help remarking

of you and your magnificent donation,

                                              Tu mutis quoque piscibus
                            Dcmatura cygni, si libeat, sonum . . .

IAnd as am accidentally the senior officer of the Society,
Ithough by no means in the highest rank, take the liberty of

thanking you and Dr. Wollaston, in the name of the Society,
for your princely liberality, and for the example you have set of

   * Works, vol. ii. p. 389. Practical Comparison of different Tables of
Mortality.
476         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

the way in which science ought to be encouraged in this country,

and not by tormenting the government to do this, that, and the

other for us, but by doing what is wanted for ourselves, which

is the truly dignified character of an independent English gen
If Itleman.'
Ilaid, as         had wished to be applauded the plot was well
            was unavoidably a sharer in the tremendous noise

which was made for Wollaston and Gilbert. Wollaston is said

to be sinking daily.""

   The principle, advocated in this address, that science
should be independent of the patronage and assistance
of the government, was the basis,b as we have seen, of
Young's opposition to any extension of the Nautical
Almanac, for the sole benefit of those who were engaged

in the cultivation of astronomy. It was, in fact,

little more than the simple affirmation of the prin

ciple which had previously been uniformly acted upon
by the legislature of this country, and it was com
monly defended upon the plea that such assistance
or interference would tend to paralyse private enter

prise and defeat the very purposes it was designed
to serve, and that it was consequently safest to trust

to things as they were and to the effects produced by
the natural progress of the arts and of knowledge,

which had hitherto been found sufficient to secure the

continued improvement of the general condition of the
Itpeople.
              was probably forgotten, however, by those

who were accustomed to rely on such arguments, that

many material, social and moral evils were in the mean

time apt to increase much more rapidly than the

natural remedies by which they were assumed to be

counteracted : that whilst our great towns increased in

wealth and population, they became more and more

completely encompassed by wretched and unwholesome

suburbs, without adequate drainage and water, or any

     * Ho died on the 22nd of December.  b Supra, p. 365.
Chap. XV.  EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.     477

other provision to protect the public health : that whilst

the masses of the people were rapidly advancing in poli

tical privileges and in a sense of the power which they

thus acquired, there was no corresponding advance in

their education or in the acquisition of those moral and

religious habits which alone could make them safe or

useful members of the commonwealth : and whilst the

connection between our material prosperity and even

our moral welfare, with the more general diffusion of

scientific and all other species of knowledge amongst

the better classes of society, became daily more and
more manifest, it was the legislature and not the

exertions of individuals, however public spirited and

liberal, which alone could maintain the just balance

between the demand for instruction amongst all classes

and the means of supplying it. In later times, wiser

counsels have happily prevailed, and we have already

began to experience the advantages which result from
a centralizing and controlling action of the government

sufficiently powerful to give definite direction and sup

port to local enterprise without interfering unduly

with local administration.

   In a subsequent letter, he speaks of the proposition

which had been made for collecting contributions to

augment the Wollaston Donation Fund sufficiently to
make its produce the means of affording effective

assistance in the performance of philosophical experi

ments : he objected to this scheme as tending to
merge the gift of Dr. Wollaston in a multitude of

others :--

" For my part," says he, " it is my pride and pleasure, as
Ifar as am able, to supersede the necessity of experiments, and
Imore especially of expensive ones.
                                     have just been inventing

a mode of determining the figure of the earth from two points
478          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.               Chap. XV.

in sight of each other, without going either to Lapland or
Peru ; * and this must stand instead of my contribution to the

I I IDonation Fund ; for, if save expense, do more than if

paid it."

   In another part of the same letter,                 speaking of
                                                       Archdeacon
his Enchorial Dictionary appended to

Tattam's Coptic Grammar, he says :--

" My Dictionary is getting into the hands of the litho-
Igraphist.b
             give no hieroglyphics, except as illustrations of the

running hand, where they are well identified ; partly to avoid

discussion and partly because there is more difficulty in pre

serving the Enchorial words without some such work than the

distinct characters, which would lead me too far."

In a postscript, after some references to the new Coun

cil of the Ro)ral Society, which Mr.  Davies Gilbert   was
not generally able to keep in order,
                                      he adds :--

   " We had Peel last week at our new Council, and certainly

he did us great service and helped us to get the business done

Ian hour before the usual time, though he said not a word that

   heard. But the consciousness that a man respected by tlic

jmblic is present has a wonderful effect in keeping triflers in
awe and making people think before they speak."

There are few persons familiar with the proceedings
of such meetings who will not feel the truth of the last
observation.

 JThe last letter, in the month of anuary following,

Iwhich find in my possession, refers to the death of

· See Appendix (B).    ten  days before, he bad said,  " I have just finished
b In a letter written
Ithe fair copy of my little Egyptian Dictionary, except that must copy it

all over again as the lithography goes on, which will be the work of two or

three months for the fingers and eyes, but little or nothing for the head.

It contains little or nothing striking ; but it preserves from oblivion all

that 1 have made out of the running band, which is no where methodically
recorded. It makes about a hundred pages."
Chap. XV.       EVENTS IN LATER LIFE.  479

Dr. Wollaston, and the appointment of the new Com

mittee of Longitude.
   " Poor Wollaston's disease," says he, " was exactly what we

all expected : we are rather more modest than we were in
Sydenham's time, when he said, that if he once knew a disease
he could always prescribe for it. Our new Committee of Longi
tude is settled, at least for the present, though the radical
abuse of the Nautical Almanac is likely to continue ; but for

tunately for. my security, they have put the Admiralty and the
Nautical Almanac together, so that they may do their worst.

Croker has appointed Sabine and Faraday and me to constitute
a Scientific Committee to advise the Admiralty, which was all
that the Board of Longitude could do, and it is better that

things should be called by their right names."

The agitation relating to this subject, which had

previously raged with so much violence, reached its

culminating point when the appointment of this com

mittee was made known, and led, as we have elsewhere

stated, to the presentation of a Memorial to the Duke

of Wellington, who was at that time Prime Minister,

to which Young was obliged to draw up an elaborate

reply. The labour incident to the preparation of this

Report, and the harassing effect of the personal attacks

                   is it,

                                        a
                                               a

                                                                       a

                                                                      it
which preceded     exacerbated complaint, which

afterwards appeared must have been long in progress,

but which was now bringing him rapidly to state of

extreme debility.

   We shall avail ourselves of the account which Mr.

Gurney has appended to short Memoir --chiefly,

though by no means entirely, founded upon an auto
biographical sketch which he had himself prepared -- of
the circumstances attending Dr. Young's last illness and

death, and which in exact accordance with the repre

sentations of the same melancholy scenes which have

been made to me by Mrs. Young.
480          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.             Chap. XV.

" He had from the month of February, 1829, suffered

from what he considered repeated attacks of asthma,
and though he said little of as unwilling to alarm
                    a
those about him, was evidently uneasy at the situation
of his health. This gradually deteriorated. He hadit,

in the beginning of April great difficulty in breathing,

with some discharge of blood habitually from the

lungs, and was in   state of great weakness. His

friends and physicians, Doctors Nevison and Chambers,

considered that there was something extremely wrong

in the action of the heart, as well as that the lungs

were very seriously affected.

   " Though thus under the pressure of severe illness,

nothing could be more striking than the entire calm

ness and composure of his mind, or could surpass the

kindness of his affections to all around him. He said

that he had completed all the works on which he was
engaged, with the exception of the rudiments of an

Egyptian Dictionary, which he had brought near to

its completion, and which he was extremely anxious to

be able to finish. It was then in the hands of the

lithographers, and he not only continued to give direc

tions concerning    it,but laboured at with pencil
                             it            it        a

when, confined to his bed, he was unable to hold        a

pen. To friend who expostulated with him on the
     a

        if
                 a
danger of fatiguing himself, he replied was no fatigue,it
but great amusement to him; that was a work
                                                 it

which        he should live would be satisfaction to
                                           it
him to have finished, but that         if      were otherwise,
                                              a

which seemed most probable, as he had never witnessed

complaint which appeared to make more rapid pro
a

         it
gress, would still be great satisfaction to him never
                    a

to have spent an idle day in his life.
   " His last anxiety concerning the proceedings of one
(Jhap. XV.  LAST ILLNESS AND DEATH.              481

or two persons who had made him the object of
reiterated attacks, in consequence of being dissatisfied
with the arrangements of the Nautical Almanac, was,
that nothing should go forth on his part to increase
irritation, and when papers were sent him which went
to enumerate and to prove the errors, into which these
individuals had fallen, his desire was that they should

be "suInpprtehsesevd.ery last stage of his complaint, in the last
lengthened interview with the writer of the present

Memoir, his perfect self-possession was displayed in the
most remarkable manner. After some information

concerning his affairs, and some instructions concerning
the hieroglyphical papers in his hands, he said that,
perfectly aware of his situation, he had taken the

sacraments of the church on the day preceding - that

whether he should ever partially recover, or whether

he were rapidly taken off, he could patiently and con

tentedly await the issue : that he thought he had

exerted his faculties through life as far as they were

capable of, but for the last eight years he had been

careful of straining them to more than he thought they

could compass without injury ; that he had settled all Ins

concerns ; that if his health had been continued to him,

he might have looked forward to the prolongation of

much that was to be enjoyed ; but that though he was

in no other suffering than that of great oppression and

weakness, still that if life were continued in the state

he then was of inability to any of his accustomed em

ployments, he could hardly wish it to be long protracted.
   " His illness continued with some slight variations,

but he was gradually sinking into greater and greater

weakness till the morning of the 10th of May, when

he expired  without a struggle,  having  hardly  com-
   Lipe.                         '
                                             2I
482       MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.               Chap. XV.

pleted his fifty-sixth year. The disease proved to be
an ossification of the aorta, which must have been in

progress for many years, and every appearance indi

cated an advance of age, not brought on probably by

the natural course of time, nor even by constitutional

formation, but by unwearied and incessant labour of
the mind from the earliest days of infancy. His

remains were deposited in the vault of his wife's family,

in  the   Church of Farnborough      in Kent.
           delineate adequately the  character
    " To                                        of  Dr.  Young

would require an ability in some proportion to his

own, and must be ill supplied by one incompetent to

judge of the talents of a man, who as a physician, a

linguist, an antiquary, a mathematician, scholar, and

philosopher, in their most difficult and abstruse inves

tigations, has added to almost every department of

human knowledge that which will be remembered to
aftertimes -- ' who,' as was justly observed by Mr.
Davies Gilbert, in his eloquent address to the Royal
Society, over which he so worthily presided, ' came

into the world with a confidence in his own talents

growing out of an expectation of excellence entertained

in common by all his friends, which expectation was

more than realized in the progress of his future life.

The multiplied objects which he pursued were carried

to such an extent, that each might have been supposed
to have exclusively occupied the full powers of his

mind ; knowledge in the abstract, the most enlarged

generalizations, and the most minute and intricate

details, were equally affected by him ; but he had most

pleasure in that which appeared to be most difficult of
investigation.' The president added, that 'the ex

ample is only to be followed by those of equal capacity

and equal perseverance ; and rather recommends the
Chap. XV.  LAST ILLNESS AND DEATH.  483

concentration of research within the limits of some
defined portion of science, than the endeavour to em

brace the whole.'

   " Dr. Young's opinion was, that it was probably most
advantageous to mankind, that the researches of some

inquirers should be concentrated within a given com
pass, but that others should pass more rapidly through

a wider range --that the faculties of the mind were

more exercised, and probably rendered stronger, by

going beyond the rudiments, and overcoming the
great elementary difficulties, of a variety of studies,
than by employing the same number of hours in any

one pursuit --that the doctrine of the division of

labour, however applicable to material product, was
not so to intellect, and that it went to reduce the

dignity of man in the scale of rational existences. He
thought it so impossible to foresee the capabilities of
improvement in any science, so much of accident
having led to the most important discoveries, that no
man could say what might be the comparative ad
vantage of any one study rather than of another ; and
though he would scarcely have recommended the plan
of his own as the model of those of others, he still was

satisfied in the course which he had pursued.

   " It has been said, that the powers of imaginatiou

were the only ones of which he was destitute. From
the highly poetical cast of some of his early Greek

translations, this is at least doubtful. It might,

perhaps, have been said more justly, that he never
cultivated the talent of throwing a brilliancy on ob

jects which he had not ascertained to belong to them.
Dr. Young was emphatically a man of truth. The
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
was the end at which he aimed in all his investiga

                                                            2i2
484  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.                        Chap. XV.

tions, and he could not bear, in the most common

conversation, the slightest degree of exaggeration, or

even of colouring. Now, all exercise of what is ordi

narily called imagination, is the figuring forth some

thing which, either in kind or in degree, is not in

truth existent ; and whether originally gifted with

this faculty, or otherwise, Dr. Young would, on prin

cip"le,Tohasvuemabusptaitnheed   from  its indulgence.  passes  all
                                whole  with that which

acquirement, Dr. Young was a man in all the relations

of life, upright, kind-hearted, blameless. His domestic

virtues were as exemplary as his talents were great.

He was entirely free from either envy or jealousy,

and the assistance which he gave to others engaged in

the same lines of research with himself, was constant

and unbounded. His morality through life had been

pure, though unostentatious. His religious senti

ments were by himself stated to be liberal, though

orthodox. He had extensively studied the Scriptures,

of which the precepts were deeply impressed upon his

mind from his earliest years ; and he evidenced the

faith which he professed, in an unbending course of

usefulness and rectitude."

   Of the family of Dr. Young, two brothers, Richard
and John, and two unmarried sisters, Hannah and

Anne, all resident at Taunton, still survive him.
His eldest brother Robert died a few years ago,

leaving two sons and three daughters : his eldest son,

Robert, who had long been physician and confi
dential agent of the Newab of Bengal, died lately at
Moorshedabad ; the second, Thomas, is a distinguished
member of the same profession with his illustrious
uncle, who took a great interest in his education and
Chap. XV.  MEMBERS OF HIS FAMILY.  485

establishment in life. The eldest of the three sisters,

Mary, is unmarried and lives with her relations at
Taunton ; the second is married to the Rev. Charles

Escott, Vicar of Sandall Magna, near Wakefield,
Yorkshire ; the third, who was the wife of the Rev.
A. Cridland, Incumbent of Hensall, also in Yorkshire,

died two years ago, leaving three children.

  It was the anxious wish of Mrs. Young to place an

appropriate monument to her husband in Westminster
Abbey, and a place for that purpose was kindly offered
by Dr. Buckland, the Dean, as an expression of his
respect for the memory of so great a man. Sir Francis
Chantrey readily undertook the preparation of the
bust by which it was designed to be surmounted : the
cast, however, which had been taken alter death, and

the picture, by Sir Thomas Lawrence, represented his
front face only, so that the artist, though perfectly
familiar from frequent personal intercourse with the
general character of his head, found himself foiled in

his attempts to produce a correct representation, in
consequence of some peculiarity in its form which he

could not reproduce. A profile medallion was therefore

substituted for the bust, of which a representation is
given in the engraving which forms the frontispiece
of the first volume of lns works. The inscription
on the slab beneath it, which is given in the following
page, was written by Mr. Gurney.
486  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG.  Chap. XV.

                                 SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF

        THOMAS YOUNG, M. D.,

    FELLOW AND FOREIGN SECRETARY OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY,
           MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FRANCE;
                                  A MAN ALIKE EMINENT

        IN ALMOST EVERY DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN LEARNING.

                      PATIENT OF UNINTERMITTED LABOUR,
     ENDOWED WITH THE FACULTY OF INTUITIVE PERCEPTION,

                         WHO, BRINGING AN EQUAL MASTERY
                      TO THE MOST ABSTRUSE INVESTIGATIONS

                            OF LETTERS AND OF SCIENCE,
     FIRST ESTABLISHED THE UNDULATORY THEORY OF LIGHT,

                    AND FIRST PENETRATED THE OBSCURITY
                            WHICH HAD VEILED FOR AGES

         THE HIEROGLYPHICS OF EGYPT.

ENDEARED TO HIS FRIENDS BY HIS DOMESTIC VIRTUES,
HONOURED BY THE WORLD FOR HIS UNRIVALLED ACQUIREMENTS,
HE DIED IN THE HOPES OF THE RESURRECTION OF THE JUST.

     BORN AT MILVERTON, IN SOMERSETSHIRE, JUNE 13th, 1773,
            DIED IN PARK SQUARE, LONDON, MAY 10th, 1829,
                           IN THE 56th YEAR OF HIS AGE.
APPENDIX.
                      APPENDIX-- A.

              11ERCULANENSIA;"

                                                                      OB,

   AKCHEOLOGICAL AND PHILOLOGICAL DISSERTATIONS:
           CONTAINING A MANUSCRIPT FOUND AMONG
                     THE RUINS OF HERCULANEUM.

                         From the Quarterly Review for February, 1810.

The publication of this highly interesting volume must ever be
considered as a memorable event in the history of classical
literature. One only of the eight hundred manuscripts, found

almost fifty years ago at Herculaneum, has hitherto been
printed ; the remainder has been lost to the world till the
present day, when we are informed that no less than eighty
volumes have been rendered legible, by persons employed

   a The article in the text, which was omitted in the selection made of Dr.
Young's Philological Essays, is appended to this volume in consequence of

tho frequent references which are made to it in Chapter IX. It produced
replies both from Mr. Hayter and Sir William Drummond. Upon the copies

of these replies, found in a volume of Tracts belonging to him, Dr. Young
has written a series of notes and criticisms, which are not less damaging to
the character for scholarship and good sense, both of the editor of the Frag
ment and his commentator, than those which are contained in the Keview.

IWhen was engaged in writing the Chapter referred to, I was not aware

that the Article which was there stated (page 237) to have been with
drawn from the Edinburgh Review had really made its appearance

in the number for August, 1810. It is moro discursive, but much less

minute and critical, than that which is given in tho text, but is not
unworthy of the high reputation for scholarship and ability of the dis
tinguished person to whose pen it was attributed.
490  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix--A.

under the munificent patronage of the Prince of Wales. We
are confident that every lover of elegant literature in these
kingdoms must feel the exertions of His Royal Highness on
this occasion as a personal tie of gratitude, giving additional
force to those sentiments of duty and respect which he is bound
to entertain for the heir to the crown of the empire : and that
so marked a demonstration of an enlightened zeal for the culti

vation of learning, exhibited to the world under many difficulties,
and in a distant country, cannot but add another ray of glory to
the lustre of the British character.

   The Herculanensia are the joint production of the Right
Honourable William Drummond and Mr. Robert Walpole.

We most willingly bear testimony to the profound erudition
and extensive knowledge which they have displayed in their
dissertations ; and we thank them most sincerely, Sir W. Drum

mond in particular, for their co-operation in promoting the

great work of rescuing these remains from oblivion. We shall
proceed to give some account of the steps which have been
taken for this purpose at different times, in the words of our

authors."

   1. Of the ten dissertations contained in this work, the first

relates to the size, population, and political state of the city o
Herculaneum. Sir W. Drummond maintains that it was large,
crowded with inhabitants, wealthy, and luxurious ; and that it

was rather a colonia than a municipium, though called occa

sionally by both names. 2. The second is an essay, by Mr.
Walpole, on Campania in general, and that part of it called
 Felix ; which last he limits to a breadth of 28 geographical
miles, from the Mons Tifata to Misenum, and a length of 25
from the Pons Campanus to the Sarnus. 3. The etymology of
 Herculaneum Sir W. Drummond refers simply to Hercules,

 which he construes as a Hebrew or Phoenician compound,
 meaning universal fire, and alluding to the attributes of the

   * There follows in the original a long extract from the Dedication to the

Prince of Wales and from the Preface, containing statements respecting
the circumstances which led to the publication which forms the subject
of the Review, and of the various attempts to unroll the papyri, which

have cither lost their interest or have been otherwise sufficiently noticed
in the article Herculaneum reprinted in the third volume of Dr. Young's
Works.
Appendix-- A.     HERCULANENSIA.                             491

sun. 4. He next copies and explains two Latin and two

Etruscan inscriptions found at Herculaneum, and illustrates the

subject by three plates of the Etruscan characters.
   5. In the fifth dissertation, which is the longest of the whole,

Sir W. Drummond displays much learning and ingenuity in

deducing the names of places, in the Campania Felix, from the

Phoenician ; certainly, in the words of the manuscript, TH2

APIMTTHT02 AnOAATHN AKOniASTHS. He

argues that Phoenicia was probably peopled from the East and

from Egypt ; that a Phoenician colony was established in

Lydia ; that the Lydians colonised Umbria and Etruria ; and

that their descendants became the Osci, Tyrrheni, Pelasgi, and

Samnites, and retained a dialect founded on the Phoenician

language, until the Romans conquered them. On p. 61 of

this dissertation, we must observe, that the author appears to us

to have been somewhat precipitate in his conjecture respecting

the sense of a passage in the Bacchae of Euripides : he thinks

that Io, O,  and Ion may probably    have  "mwehaennt  Lord, the common
appellation  of the sun ; and says,  that              the Bacchants are
fi,asked whom they worship, and when they answer 2e/Som.sv

We worship 0,a we can scarcely be justified in understanding a

simple exclamation." But, in fact, they are not asked whom

they worship : Bacchus is present in person : the chorus, or

perhaps rather the semi-chorus, exclaims, Dionysus is under
this roof, adore ye him I The semi-chorus answers, O yes, we

do adore him. The interjection Z is used in a similar manner
in the Ion, 716. O Xoit', oXoit', w, woTviav i£awa<p»v Ifjuiv. In

page 65, Kxraxip on is an adjective, and not a substantive : and
we are not quite satisfied with the passage of Eustathius, as

here quoted and translated by our author : we should rather
AEPAread it thus, Bairaxpai tlpum-evai Sia to /SaViv 1st'
                                                             iroieTaSai,

ifSia to fAaviwlis : they were called Bassarae, as from walking
on the   air, on  oafccwoiuanatuvo, fhtehediorefsrannotticmeaatntitu"decsh. ess,W" hpe. n69H,ebrout
dotus
        speaks

backgammon. Salmasius has given a figure of the rifiha, or

tables, Hist. Aug. p. 466 ; and we learn from an epigram of

Agathias, that the game was played with three dice. Chess is
said to be an Eastern invention of much later date.

        " The Edinburgh Reviewer concurs in this criticism.
492    MEMOIR OF DR. TUOMAS YOUNG. Appendix--A.

6. The sixth is an interesting dissertation, by Mr. Walpole,

on the Knowledge of the Greek Language, and on the State of

the Art of Painting, among the Romans, before and about the

time of the destruction of Herculaneum. He might have found

some additional matter in an excellent essay on the state of

painting among the ancients, published by Mr. Cooper, in the
third volume of the Manchester Memoirs. 7. As the principal
materials on which the ancients wrote, Sir W. Drummond

enumerates tablets of stone, tablets of lead, of wood, of wax, of

brass, and of ivory, skins and parchments, the bark of trees,

leaves of trees, and linen books, which last he thinks consisted

of cloth covered with wax.

8. The next article is a very ingenious essay by Mr. Walpole,

entitled Palaeographical Observations on the Herculaneum

Manuscripts, written at Palermo in the year 1807. He informs
us that the whole of the manuscripts then in Sir W. Drummond's

house, amounting to more than eighty, were Greek, with the

exception of one fragment of a Latin poem Of the line which

he quotes from this fragment, a fac-simile has already been

published in this country ; coiisiliis nox ajita ductim, lux aptior

armis ; another line, he tells us, speaking of Cleopatra, ends

with trahiturgue libidine mortis. The Greek manuscripts are

all in capitals, without any spaces between the words, and

without accents. Mr. Walpole adduces an inscription from the

Pitture Antiche di Ercolano, written on a wall, in small or

running characters, and accented in the common manner. He

has quoted several authors, in order to prove that accents were

sometimes employed in writing, at least as early as Callimachus,

in the 133rd Olympiad, although their invention is commonly

attributed to Aristophanes of Byzantium, who lived in the

145th ; but it does not appear to us that any of the passages

require to be understood, as relating to the accent employed in

writing, rather than to the pronunciation only : their general

tendency is however to confirm the accuracy and utility of the
modern mode of accentuation. We could indeed have wished

that these statements had been accompanied by a little more

attention to the accents in Mr. Walpole's own quotations, and

had    induced his  colleague   not to   disfigure his Greek by their
total                          ancients
       omission. "  That the              had some method of making

the accentual process harmonize with a just regard to quantity,"
Appendix.-- A.                        HERCULANENSIA.                  493

is  n"otcotmo pbleicdaotiuobnte"din;  but  we do not see  any great " difficulty "
or                                    the  subject. The
                                                          modern musical nota

tion is capable of expressing length or shortness, acuteness or

gravity, and force or softness, all accurately, and independently

of each other, so that every good musician may give to
each of these qualities its proper expression. The length and

shortness of the syllables of the ancients were correctly denoted

by their quantity, so much that, among their musical characters,
they required no particular marks to express the duration of the

corresponding sounds. Accent in speaking was and arways is

distinct from quantity, though not always independent of it :

with the Greeks it seems to have consisted in a combination of

force with acuteness or gravity ; with us it implies force, gene
rally, but by no means universally, united with length. The

French have little or no determinate accent ; and although they

have some distinction of quantity, yet their poetry is almost as

independent of it as ours, which is governed by accent alone.

There is something inconsistent in the high value which is

attached, in critical researches, to prosody, and the low estima

tion in which rhythm is held by musicians : a single modern

sonata exhibits a greater variety of prosody than the choruses

of a whole Greek tragedy ; and yet musicians scarcely con

descend to take any notice of this subordinate department of

their art, after the first elements of its notation have been

explained. It is well known that the hemistich of Homer,

which Mr. Walpole says Aristotle's commentator could not find,
is extant almost literally in the twenty-first Iliad, v. 297 ; and
that the memory of the great philosopher must have failed him

when he referred it to another part of the poem.

    9. The ninth dissertation contains the manuscript of Hercu-
                   '
laneum,  entitled    We§I             ray  §eS»,'  with a commentary  by Sir W.

Drummond. 10. The tenth relates to some Latin inscriptions

at Herculaneum, at Stabiae, and at Pompeii, and to the paint

ings found at Herculaneum. Mr. Walpole observes that none
of these inscriptions are accented, although some other Latin

inscriptions have accentual marks, which are in general correct :

it is remarkable that some of them exhibit a cnaracter resembling

the small Roman letters now in use. Among these inscriptions

the author has printed, by some oversight, a modern one, which

relates to the restoration of the statue of a horse from its frag
494          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- A.

ments, by order of the King of Naples ; " regia cura." In

mentioning the    temple of Isis, Mr.          Walpole takes occasion                              to
insert the altar  of Dosiadas, with a         literal translation, " for                         the

sake particularly of observing a circumstance in it which escaped

III.the learned Salmasius," but which did not escape Brunck,
AnaL         L. 95; and the circumstance
is                                                                                   that the poem
                                                                                is,
   an acrostich, as Lacroix first        observed. In                                the   fifth line,
Brunck's ^/Sovto appears to be                                                       to
                                         far preferable                                   " piSoivro."

Aivo&algnxer, page 182, are the men, and not the armour. The

Latin translation of Euripides seems to have puzzled Winkel-

mann and Mr. Walpole very unnecessarily, by putting, besides

another error, inter, ij.era^u, instead of intra, for ilau. Orestes

was only to enter the vacant space within the triglyphs, or within
the walls which supported them. The last page of the work
                                                                                                 it
occupied   by figure of a sun-dial at Orchomenus, taken from a                                           : is
              by a
drawing made       a     Dr. Clarke  ;        must obviously have been

constructed          byperson very ignorant of his art.it it

As a specimen of the state of the manuscript, we shall exhibit

its first page, which the most defective, as nearly as possibleis

in the form in which we suppose to stand."

   This the Academicians     read:        We are disposed to read                                thus

KAAESEIv tir rrp> irpo-t                 KAAEIv tit Tqv irpo-
eSPlav, ovtos tirti                      tJPIav ovtuis ticti
                                         iraPa&tSovrai tivts
irdPabtbovrai rives
                                         MtV ayadoi (<ai tvtp-
Mev ayadoi, Kai evtp-
                                         .ytrli<Oi, (<fXtuctiv
ytrlitOI K<\(vartiv
TIMAv aYrour 0Y2I-                       TIMAv oYtovs 6Y2I-
AIs totawais. avros                      AIs toiavrais. avros
A' ouK v^acdai tois                      A' ovK tv(airOai toiy
&oI2 bioptav, yap
EINAI MH&v Stei-                         #toI2- ti<oplaP yap

XH*Ot<i irtpi avrav                      AN EINAI, MHdt> Sui-
eOPYBEiv tavrov. aX- -                   XH*Oto irtpi avtwv,
AA OIETat xp<"rlir-                      eOPYBEiw iavrov ak-
                                         AA 2EBE26ai. \pvcrlir-
1102. TO Ilav tlliSia-
                                         II02 AE, TO Uav till Sia

 A page in the original Review, printed with types cast for the purpose

of representing conjecturally the state of the first thirty-three lines of the

Fragment, with the spaces assumed to correspond to the letters obliterated

in the process of unrolling the papyrus, has been omitted partly on
                                         it,
account of the difficulty of reprinting
                                                                                              :
                                         and partly on account of its want

of authenticity from not having been founded u1H>n an actual comparison
with the original.
Appendix-- A.                            HERCULANENSIA.                    495

   This the Academicians read :          We are disposed to read it thus :

KPINQN EN to irpo-                       ANA*EPQN, EN to wpo-
TO HEPI 9EQN StaPpr)-                    TQ nEPI 6EQN, 81a tfrj-
AHN THN *PENa ttov-                      2IN EINAI NOYN airav-
TQN, KAI nAvra Xayov
kAI THN tov oXou \^u-                    TQN, KAI nAn-a Xoyov,
X^N, KAI tt; tovtov                      kAI THN tov oXou yjrv-
/xEN ¥YXH iravra                         Xt;N. KAI TJ; TOVTOU
IIANTAXOY TINEo-                         /lEN nPONOIA 7ravra
6at 6EON, km tovs XI-                    nANTAXOY TINEo-eAI,

Sovr. 8to km Cr/va                       Kai TA ZQA (cat rout XI-
KaXE2oVu 81a SotH-
                                         Sous. 8to rat fi/va
piov, AYtov tf Kocrftov tov avoao-       kaXEI2flfii 81a 8otH-

N fft^rv\ov tivm, Kat                    OlOV. TOP Tt KOO~p.OVCO)-'

6W Kai to i/rEMONI-                      MA fityj/v^ov eivat. Kat
»tov EINat rqv oAOY                      6Vov EINai to ^rEMONI-
*YXHv- «"1 0Trt°                         kov, Kai tijv TOY Ko2MOY
AvaXyov fvvAZES-
                                         *YxH"-                 OYTw2 MEN
6\u rov 81a, Ka* T?;v
                                         AvaXyov fuvAZE2-
Koivr1v iravrov tpvtTiv.
                                         #at tov 8ta* Kat rrlv

                                         Koim)i> iravrov EINAI (pvo-iv.

KAIWe also read, in p. 2, line 10, is                           /u.rio'e ; 1. 16, MHva ;
1. 18, Te0EI20*.; 1. 25, to <Mlr Se ; 1. 31, irXarT^ctt
AYTOY. av^ftnOEIAEI2,                    KA0' ov. P. 3, 1. 3, toN h ;

L4J«i; 1. 19, MY0IK* ; 1.                23, OYr ; 1. 26, cturuN ; 1. 29,

f22 <pno-i xav ; 1. 30, m.»>AEN. P. 4, 1. 4, truvoixetflZEoT- xav

rai weoI aqsruv lTIP.QT.fi, Tov Sia vo^tov <p»)tr<N eivai ; 1. 9,

xaTaSx*J; 1- 15, 2YNO,xOAOrEI; 1. 18, irPnrD, MEN
triv vYxra ; 1. 32, xa. Xoyow enATEI . . OI2 H AOHA
                                         MENP. 5, 1. 2, £a,ov ; 1. 16, tov
nEriYKvo/Ta. Travrar.                                                                     ;
                                         1. 25, OYA' EISoYVe.v
1. 19,  AE9TeSi6X6iv               ;     1. 28, EINar ra te     SteOvs AAAOtoWs
OY5"
        eio-XHtEIv ;                                            tov S.oj, to ; 1. 31,

woo-E.S-ftNA EIv«I. P. 6, 1. 1, xAI TON nAATMv* ; 1. 2,

* Mr. Hayter attacks many of the restorations proposed by Dr. Young

as not properly adjusted to the spaces in the papyrus where the original
letters are wanting. In this line, which is apparently complete in the
original, Mr. Hayter introduces eight additional letters, making twenty-

hthereetrainnslaaltle, sthoitug"h   few  of the other lines contain more than seventeen     :
                                   that  the order (tgiv avoo-av) of indefectible things
                                                                                          is

animated," pretending that it expressed a great mystery of the stoical

philosophy, to which the fragment related. The restorations of Dr. Young

are not only much better adjusted to the deficient spaces than those of

Mr. Hayter, but have the additional recommendation of being generally

good Greek and intelligible.
496          MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appekdix-- A.

W,&s l. 4, TO V e«, toN alOsga ; 1. 13, yxP ; 1. 14, mtIy,
xaXelo^ai ; l. 15, ev MEN ; L 18, t»)v A0»iv*v yf=r<mvAI : 1. 21,
<pum EINAI ex ; l. 24, CitoMs.^ AE TOY©* &ti TH TEXm
2Yve9»i HipgovwTM; 1. 29, nAAAA SaSe, xai TPITOrENe.aN.
P. 7, l. 4, atn-HS ; 1. 17, ol voWous ; 1. 19, Kav iNA ^ONoN
AEinfloriv, av«i§Eiv ; 1. 21, ton woXXoiS ; l. 31, fxefxEAnxatfiv
KAIL                                                                                     ;
                                                                                         ;
ev
34,     t.NAS.    L  P. 8,   10. ,22, TMOTMT !v. o/x.P^.w.9v.   ;   1.  12, xa&«re<j
        22, tE ;                                               1.       aNEXei^egnTego.
; 1.                 34, S'                                        8,
ai1. 20,
             Ev.o. ; 1. 28, <j>*,vE20A. ; 1. 31, ApSagTow. P. 10,
l. 1, x«N ; L 15, 9rgo$ a /xey»2Toir ; 1. 19, t« THPEIA ; L 34,
illtiv' aliAovqou. P. 11,1. 2, OTAv tE Aeyouoi ; 1. 11, a^e^euSai ;
1. 13,       OTIMev ; 1. 14, «A»xiar ; 1. 24, /3XE5TETM S' owN

AerO]W;xal ; 1. 32, naeyuSi avai<r&ntoor. P. 12, L 2, tivej ei<t» &eOI
SOxOYNrar, or                                         1. 9, ai/rfiv, 1. 11, <pi\*PXixs ;

1. 19, xaigor av eIH Ewi.
   We do not mean to insist on every one of these corrections

as certainly preferable to the text which has been printed, much

less as affording us decidedly the genuine words of the author ;

but we imagine that the greater number will be admitted as

indisputable. In several instances we have made some slight

alterations of doubtful passages, in order to bring the lines as

nearly as possible to a uniform length, so as to contain from

fourteen to seventeen letters, or a very few more or less. We

should often have been able to judge with much more confidence

of the true reading, if the relative situations of the remaining

letters in their respective lines had been accurately represented,

and we do not see that there would have been any difficulty in

doing this : even the insertion of spaces between the words, at

the discretion of the copier, may often unintentionally have

given rise to error. On a few passages we shall make some

more particular remarks.

a Title. At the conclusion of the manuscript, the work is

" The last words of the Fragment as restored by Mr. Hayter are, Katp6s

dv fVI  tAk   Trtpi rijs  tW" tIjt3eiisarproXpoyeorv    rrjs  Kar' tirti<ovpov Avtov irapayph<f>tiv,
which   he   translates,                              time    here to subjoin to the Discourse

upon Piety (a Discourse upon Piety) according to Epicurus :" making, as
Dr. Young remarks, au ellipsis of the whole subject of the sentence, and

leaving irapaypa<ptiv, supposed active, without a case. Dr. Young intro

duces tu) (the (     is in  "tIhte   papyrus) before the tVi, and translates the
passage, as in the   text,          is now time to conclude this Treatise on Tiety

according to the doctrines of Epicurus." Mr. Hayter objects to the use of
Appbndix-- A.        HERCDLANENSIA.                                             497

called nEPI EY2EBEIA2 KAT' EniKOYPON; and

there does not appear to be any authority for entitling it

nEPI TON ©EHN. Page 1. 1. 26. This line, as printed,

contains twenty-five letters, and is totally unintelligible : by

leaving out rov avo it may be made to accord perfectly with the
context. P. 2, 1. 16. Ilava. We cannot find that Pan was

ever identified with the moon, although she is said to have

been once his mistress. Our reading Mr,va. is fully supported

by, Strabo, who speaks of more than one »sgov MtivoV. Orpheus

also calls the moon  §fi\vf  re xal ago-Tiv.  "         See Casaubon in Hist.
Aug. script, p. 132           consult the               pressmen at Oxford," *
                     ; and

who are supposed, by some of our contemporaries, to be

extremely well acquainted with the god Lunus. It appears

from this passage that Strabo could not have been the inventor

of the Greek appellation Mw, as Casaubon seems to suppose :
1. 25. The letters of the manuscript are printed rovt 5s tov

AjtoWo/, xoei Ttii ATi/u.7)Tga! y v , u to ev aurn yoveufjaz : but,
besides the redundance of the plural article, it could never

have been intended that Apollo should be identified with the

earth or its fruits ; and to <pa>s may easily have been corrupted
into rov!. P. 5, L 29. The corrected text stands thus: to

//.ev SIS t«v &aX.aTTav Starsrayos YloireiSwva, to S' eiS t*iv ym

the verb irapaypdfaiv in the sense of " to conclude," but Young justifies it

by the occasional use of the noun irapaypa<pfi to express the conclusion of a
sentence or paragraph. The Edinburgh Reviewer would read the concluding

words thus, Katpos &v ei?; TTtp\ rrjs fWf/3fiar \6yov   ktit' tTTiKovpov        : A"vrSoov
irapaypd(pfiv, and translate (including the preceding   sentence) thus

that now, this part of the subject at first proposed having been sufficiently

discussed, it may be time to write, in   th"eFonrexitt   place, the   division  "wfhroicmh
treats of Piety according to Epicurus."                 is evident,"  he adds,

the style of this fragment, that it was only one section of a larger treatise ;

and as this chapter treats in general mpl 6ea>v, so the next seeuis to have been
ir-tpi rijr fuo-fjStW kot' EirUovpov." The Reviewer seems to assume that

there was some authority, beyond the character of the Fragment itself, for

entitling it a treatise irtp\ Btav, which can hardly be considered to have
been the case ; for the vague conjectures of Mr. Hayter, upon which he
arrived at that conclusion --as is evident from his own defensive statement --

are not entitled to any credit.
   * The reference is to a passage in a celebrated article on the Oxford Strabo

in the Edinburgh Review, vol. xiv. p. 438, -- " Is it possible that even

the pressmen of Oxford should be ignorant that there was at Rome a deus
Lunus as well as a dea Luna."

Life.                                                                 2K
498         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- A.

A?)f£7)Tga, to X' eir tov xtqx Hgctv, nxSairiq xai YlXovtwvx \tyeiv,
                                          nr,
us xav      sroXX-axif    an§ Xeyn         of    egeiv  Hga. ouJeir rov ae§a
A^»ivav.                the Cratylus                     we have these words,
             Now in                            Plato

"\aui 5e (AtreupoXoyuv o vo/xo&e't?)* tov ae'§a
itrixatrirrojuevor, &e»V t»iv apyjnv e7ri teXeftw. ymi-nt S' av e»
iroXXaxir Xpyoir to taj "H^ar ovoa*« : and it is remarkable that

Sir W. Drummond, in his learned note on the word Pluto,

which ha3 no connection whatever with the context, should have

quoted a part of this very passage of Plato, without being

aware that the author of the fragment alluded to it. This is

certainly a good specimen of verbal criticism.* Our correction,

to S' eir tov aibepx A&»ivav, is supported by a passage ot
Diogenes Laertius, in his life of Zeno, 147, A0HNAN Se,
AI0EPAxovra; rm eir                       ^ixraa-tv tov irye/xovixol/ xbrov. HPAN St,

xaTa tt,v eIs AEPA. The passage, as it seems to have been

understood, in direct contradiction to the authority of Diodorus

Siculus, as elsewhere quoted by Mr. Walpole. P. 6, 1. 8. Zti/r

atggnv, Zeus. &?)Xi/r. .^gov»urtv 7 <xv eivai, Sio tm ^witov xx\ta$xt :

                        V
                                              it,

                                                   ; is

                                                  II
                                                                              by
this passage, as we have corrected                    illustrated the words

of Orpheus in his Hymn to Minerva xya&ois (pgow<nr ap<mv
MHTI.fAev kxI §f>\us tiput, sroAe/xittoxe
                                                             The corrected text

continues, Xguo-iTWOv                     ev tu o-rn&ei to nye/ixovixov eivai, xaxei tt/V

tyuvnv xi ytyovevai, yeoman ovaav. tu Xe t»iv Quvnt ex rns xttya\ris
If twexxgiveff&ai Xeyeiv ex
                                          Xep«X»ir uTroSevirxi oieiv or» tej^vh auteQvi

ipgovniir.  this passage were both coherent and grammatical,

* " What connection," says Mr. Hayter, " the passage in Plato has with

this passage, as far as mentions Pluto, cannot divine, nor upon what
           it                                  is, I
account the words of Plato can interfere with a deity, mention of whichit,

                                   is
                                    a it
has occurred before in this Fragment, and in this place, agreeable to the

"whTohlee  sense of the passage." To this Young appends       the observation,
           passage has only connection with this passage, as  far as does not
                                                                                  it

mention Plato, who not at all agreetible in this place. That the reading

Plato should not have occurred to Mr. Hayter not surprising, but that
                                                      is

when was once suggested, he could have had the slightest hesitation in

adopting    does appear to be beyond all conception." Sir William

Drummond, in his letter to Mr. Hayter, after intimating that he was at

first disposed to think with the Reviewer,     r"elbapusted  into his original        opinion
upon again consulting the Hcrculanensia   is :               leave you," says
                                                                                      he, "to
                                                   I
defend your own interpolations, and shall only state that nAOYrava still
appears to me the true reading." It
                                               hardly necessary to observe that
the letters n, A, O, were introduced to replace those obliterated in the
            Y

papyrus.
Appendix-- A.  HERCULANENSIA.                     499

it would still be unconnected with the subject discussed by

Diogenes : we have suggested, xaxsi tdv ASmxv ysyovevai,
tw^gowiim ouaxv. rsa Ss n)v tywrnv eivat ex
                                             xt^aXrir, eXxgivetr&cti
X.e76IV ex t»j XepaXni' un'oSeiSjasi Se Tou&~ oti tti tej^v*) <tuve&7) »i

^govrxm. In the preliminary origin of Minerva from the

parent's breast, as here supposed, there may have been some

allusion to the story of Jupiter's having swallowed her first

mother Metis before her birth, as related by Hesiod, Theogon.

890. Immediately afterwards we find xxi A&wav m.sv oiov

AhriKw xv eigriabat. OagStviSa 5e xxi r"ogyopoveiav Si* to m>

^govwcnv ex Tgia/v a-vttavnxtvai Xoyaiv. There is a line quoted,

if we recollect rightly, by Hephaestion, IIAAAA2 TPITO-
rENEI', avoto-o-' A© AN A, which sufficiently justifies our correc

tion of this passage ; to say nothing of the etymology of Tgn-oy eveiat,
ex tqiwv Xoytwv. The learned editor observes very truly, that

Minerva seems to have been known at Athens by the name of

the Virgin ; but where do we find the term ITagSsvir? He

expresses some doubt respecting yogyotpoveiav, but does not

propose a less objectionable term. P. 10, 1. 19, Tx ygu em
ttuv axxvSituv ita-TrKuv. We cannot find that ygu was ever
applied to gossamer ; it means the paring of a nail, or some

thing nearly similar : the appropriate term is yojgtiov, which is

used by Aratus and by other authors : thus Nicander says in

his Alexipharmaca, a poem, by the way, of which the obscurity

is equalled only by the stupidity, cix re tir> THPEIA veov

TsSgy/x/xeva nxirirou, risq' Itti^Xx^omtx. Sia^xt'qouaiv xi\\zis.
L. 34 ; we can scarcely imagine that the Academicians ever

meant to propose so portentous a combination of letters as Tiva
te Soug' ov @wij.os e9riTgi\J/eiev xv ; the lines of Timocles are found

in the seventh book of Athenaeus : the alteration which our

editor, in defiance of his text, has borrowed from Casaubon,

Tiv' aiXfgoio, is not much less objectionable than the reading

imputed to the Academicians. Dawes had proposed xtoXovqw,

in his remarks on the Acharnenses of Aristophanes, but Pierson,

the acute commentator on Moeris, has very justly preferred

aieXougou, as better supported by the authority of grammarians
as well as of manuscripts ; and it is extremely satisfactory to

have found a single letter in so unquestionably ancient a

manuscript as this fragment, which fully establishes his opinion.

With these corrections, the sense of the whole fragment may

                                             2K2
  500 MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- A.

  be understood, as we apprehend, without any material chance
  of error : how the Academicians and the editors have intended
 some of the passages to be construed without them, they have
  not thought proper to inform us, and we are wholly at a loss to
 conjecture. We shall proceed to lay before our readers such a
 translation as will enable them fully to comprehend the author's
 meaning ; we shall not, however, attempt to free every expression
 from all appearance of embarrassment, for fear of making the
 copy less faithful, in rendering it more agreeable.

          " FRAGMENT OF A TREATISE ON PIETY,

                                            ACCORDING TO EPICURUS.

    " [As it is natural that those who are distinguished

 for their virtues should] be invited to take precedence of others,
 so, the Gods being described as good and beneficent, he advises
 us to honour them with such sacrifices : but for himself, he has
 made no vows to the Gods, thinking it a folly for one, who has no
 distinct conceptions respecting them, to give himself trouble on
 their account ; and regarding them with silent veneration only.

 (A) But Chrysippus, referring everything to Jupiter, maintains,
 in his first Itook, that Jupiter is the mind, the reason, and the soul

 of all things, and that every thing in every place owes its
 existence to his providence, not only animals, but even lifeless
 stones: (B) and that Jove is therefore called ZHNA, as giving
 existence, and that the world is as it were an animated body,
 and that God is the governing power, and the soul of the whole.
And thus that Jove remains at rest, and without pain : and that
he is the same with the common Nature of all, with Fate, and
with Necessity ; and that Equity, and Justice, and Concord, and
Peace, and Venus, and the like, are all the same being. And
that the Gods are no more male and female than cities, or
virtues, but that their names only are masculine and feminine,
the substances themselves not differing, as Luna and Lunus.
And that Mars is put for war, and for the science of tactics : that
Vulcan is fire, and Saturn the continual flow of the stream of
time: Rhea the earth; Jupiter the air; the light, Apollo; and
Ceres the earth or its fruits : and that it is a mere puerile fancy
to represent them, by words, or paintings, or sculpture, under
the human form, as we do cities, and rivers, and places, and
moral qualities. And Jupiter he supposes to be the air above
the earth ; that which is dark to be Pluto ; and that which per
vades the earth and the sea Neptune. In the Bame manner he
Appendix -- A.  HERCULANKNS1A.  501

 adapts the other Gods to other inanimate substances ; and he
 thinks that the Sun, the Moon, and the Stars are deities, as well
 as the Law ; and he maintains that men also may hecome divinities.

 (C) In his second book he treats of the stories related of the Gods
 by Orpheus, and Musaeus, by Homer, Hesiod, and Euripides, and
by the other poete : whom Ci.eanthus also attempts to accommo
date to the opinions of the sect. According to him, the .ZEther,
which is every thing, may be both father and son : and in his
first book he maintains that it is not incongruous that Rhea should
be both the mother of Jupiter and his daughter ; making them
the same by his appropriations. And in his first book on the
 Virtues, he says that Jove is the law, and that the Graces are our
libations, and our acknowledgments for benefits. He also
writes in a similar manner in his books on Nature, agreeing with
Heraclitus in reducing all things to qualities. In the first look
he says that Night is the first of the Goddesses ; and in the third,
that the World is one of the intelligent principles, governing in
common with Gods and men ; and that War and Jove are the
same, as Heraclitus also affirms. In the fifth book he has intro
duced all the reasons by which his sect is supported in believing
-- that the world is animated, and rational, and sentient, and, in
short, a deity. And in his work on Providence, he explains the
same identifications of the soul of all, and accommodates the
names of the Gods to his purpose, allowing full scope to his

acute and indefatigable imagination. (D) Diogenes, the Baby
lonian, also, in his book concerning Minerva, asserts that the
World is the same with Jove, and that it comprehends that
divinity as the body of a man does his soul : that the sun is
Apollo, and the moon Diana : that Jove can neither enter into

the forms of other Gods, nor receive them in his own ; and that
the thing is impossible. And with respect to the parts or
attributes of Jove, that which extends to the sea is called

Neptune, that which belongs to the earth Ceres, and to the air

Juno ; as Plato also observes, that if we pronounce the word AHP
several times in succession, we shall say HPA ; and that which

belongs to the aether is named Minerva, being called AGHNA, as
if A0HAII : making a male and female Jove. And that some of

the Stoics affirm, that Minerva is the governing principle in the
head ; for that she is the same with intellect, and is therefore

called Metis, or Wisdom : but that Chrysippus places the

governing principle in the breast, and says that Minerva

originated there, being identical with intellect: and since the

voice is uttered from the head, therefore Minerva is supposed to
          502 MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Aipendix-- A.

          have been born from the head; which indicates the natural
          union of intellect with art. Arid that she may have been called

        Athena, as if A8I1AH; and also Pallas; and Tritogenia, because
         intellect is composed of three elements, the physical, the moral,
         and the rational faculties. And in the same manner he appro

          priates very elegantly the rest of her appellations and attributes.

       All the followers of Zeno, therefore, if they have left us any

          Gods at all, as some of them have left none, and others have
         taken away many, say that God is one ; or in other words, the
         universe and its soul : and those, who allow a plurality, vary in

       their statements, being aware that, if they affirmed the existence

          of one God only, they might be traduced before the multitude as
          destroying the Gods, by allowing only one universal Deity, and
         not several, much less all those who are generally held in esti
         mation : while we assert the existence not only of the Gods
          worshiped by the Greeks, but also of many more. Besides,
         they have not thought fit to leave even those, respecting whom
         they agree with us, in a form like that in which they are
         universally worshiped : for thoy admit no Gods in the re
         semblance of men, but only the air, and the winds, and the

I· asther : so that should confidently assert that they are more re

         prehensible than even Diagoras: for he has treated the Gods with
         levity at most, but has not directly attacked them, as Aristoxenus
        has observed in the Customs of the Mantineans; and in his
         poetry, he remarks, Diagoras has adhered to the truth, intro
        ducing nothing like impiety in any of his verses ; but in the
        capacity of a poet, speaking with reverence of the Deity ; as,
         besides many other passages, is evinced by one which is ad
         dressed to Arianthes of Argos :

                                      ' The Deity's all perfect mind
                                       Directs each action of mankind :'

         And, again, to Nicodorus of Bithynia, he says,

                                     ' Frail man, for each adventure's end,
                                       On God and Fortune must depend.'

        And the Encomium of the Mantineans contains other similar
         expressions. But these philosophers, although they insert the
        names of the Gods in their writings, annihilate them in reality
         by their reasoning: being deliberately more illiberal than
        Philippus and others, who have simply denied their existence.
         In the next place we must censure them as affirming, that the
         Gods are not, as some say, the causes of injuries and evils to
Appendix. -- A.  HERCULAXENSIA.  5U3

men, with the view of inducing them to abstain from unjust
actions : in these positions we agree with some of their sect : but
the greatest and best existences, if they establish their notions
respecting the nature of the Deities, must appear to be secondary
in their origin, and perishable : but we, with uniform consistency,
maintain that the Gods are eternal and incorruptible. As to
what follows, therefore, leaving the rest to be discussed on a
future occasion, if they declare that the Gods do sometimes
injure or benefit us, it shall be shown that this second opinion is
also inconsistent with their principles. For it must be evident
to every one, that no man ever abstains out of fear of the
air, or the aether, or the universe, from doing the slightest
injustice, much less from those things to which he is incited by
the strongest desires ; any more than he would regard a heap of
sand, or the down on the feather of a thistle, which he evidently
perceives to be insensible. It seems to me, therefore, that we
may apply to these philosophers what was said by Timocles, in
his comedy of Egypt, respecting the Gods of that country :

             ' While even the Gods, whose power all nations own,
              The crimes of impious men but slowly punish.
              What perjured wretch shall dread Grimalkin's altars?'

And when they speak of the Gods from conceiving them such as
their arrogance has represented them, while each man must con

sider himself as at liberty to do ill at his pleasure, wherever he

has an opportunity, can we suppose that he will abstain from
any of the greatest crimes for fear of the Air ? And if this is the
principal check for repressing injustice, they may be very fairly
reproached with transferring to mankind the habits of wild

beasts ; especially if they disregard, as they profess to do, the

clamour of the multitude on this account. It appears, therefore,
even on the grounds that have been advanced by all those
who have undertaken their cause, that no man would ever be

deterred from injustice by the fear of those beings, who are
utterly unable to approach him, or are even manifestly insensible ;
nor upon the principles of those who say that we are ignorant,
 who, or what, the Gods are ; nor of those who either openly
 declare that they do not exist, or merely allow them an ex
 istence, in order to deprive them of all active properties; nor of

others who, if they were permitted, would be urged by their
ambition to wage an eternal war with all the Gods : so that,

 having sufficiently discussed this part of the division of our
 subject which was laid down in the beginning, it is now time
504  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- A.

to conclude this Treatise on Piety according to the doctrines of
Epicurus."

One of the principal points which Sir W. Drummond has

endeavoured to establish in his dissertation on this manuscript,

is this,--that the work was employed by Cicero in compiling

his treatise De   Natura Deorum, and that the commencement of

the fragment "    seems to have been  the prototype of   a"ciotnwsioduelrd
                                      ;" observing that
able part of the  speech of Velleius

be idle to suppose that the Greek author was the plagiarist."

Now, that Cicero, writing upon the doctrines of the Greeks,

must have borrowed his matter from some Greek authors, is

too obvious to admit of dispute ; and that he did sometimes

borrow more than the mere matter, is evident from his own
Ifstatements, in many of his works.
                                      therefore Sir W. Drum

mond had even made good his charge, the offence would

certainly not have amounted to the guilt of plagiarism, for

which no writer had ever less occasion than Cicero. But in

fact, he appears to us to have failed altogether in rendering it

probable, that Cicero had ever seen this important fragment :
the passages in which there is any resemblance, relating, without
exception, to what each author is reporting of the doctrines of
certain older philosophers, as expressed in their works ; and the
reports are not by any means so precisely similar as to induce us

to suppose that Cicero had even taken the very justifiable liberty
of saving himself some little trouble, by making use of another

author's abstract from Chrysippus, and from Diogenes the Baby

lonian. There is often a resemblance between our anonymous
author and Diogenes Laertius ; but they had both, of necessity,

the same things to relate, and therefore very naturally some
times used almost the same terms. We shall translate the

passages of Cicero which Sir W. Drummond quotes, referring
by letters to the corresponding parts of the fragment.

  " (A) Chrysippus asserts, that the divine power consists in

reason, and in the soul and mind of the universe : and that God
is the world itself, and the mind diffused through it : and the

government of all things, depending on mind and reason ; and
the common nature of things, containing all things; and the

concatenated order and necessity of future things : besides this,

that the same being is fire, and the aether : and also identical
Appendix-- A.  HERCULANENSIA.  505

           with the fluid elements, as water ; and with the earth, and the
            air, the sun, the moon, the stars, and the universe which con

            tains them all ; and with those men who have become immortal.

           (B) He also insists, that the aether is the same with Jupiter;
            and the air which flows on the sea, Neptune ; and the earth

            Ceres : and in the same manner he goes through the names of

         the other Gods. (C) All this we find in the first book on the

            Nature of the Gods : and in the second he attempts to accommodate
           the fables of Orpheus, of Musasus, of Hesiod, and of Homer, to

            what he had said respecting the immortal Gods in his first book :

            so that even the oldest of the poets must have been Stoic philo
           sophers, without knowing any thing of the matter. (D) And
            his follower, Diogenes the Babylonian, in his book entitled De
           Minerva, explains the history of the pregnancy of Jupiter, and
           the birth of the Virgin, in a physical sense, and annihilates
i altogether its mythological signification."

    The attention which we have bestowed on this fragment, we

presume, will entitle us to the indulgence of our readers, if we

venture to offer our opinion on the most eligible mode of

proceeding, with respect to those manuscripts which remain in
the possession of the Prince of Wales ; and we sincerely wish
that our sentiments may obtain an impartial consideration from

those who are likely to influence his Royal Highness on the
occasion. Almost forty years were spent in preparing for the
press one work of Philodemus, which had been completely
unrolled in 1755, and was only published in 1793 : when we
consider this, and reflect on the shortness of human life, and on

our own grey hairs, we tremble to think how little chance
there is of our being benefited by any great proportion of the

eighty manuscripts still unpublished ; especially if some of the
most learned of our commentators are to hang whole pages of

notes, on words which have even been erroneously inserted, or
are to copy whole poems, for the sake of repeating remarks,
which are to be found almost in our school books. The public

of Great Britain too, we apprehend, has some pretensions to be
considered : besides the liberal patronage of his Royal Highness
the Prince of Wales, some expenses have been defrayed by the
community ; of these every enlightened individual will most
cheerfully contribute his share ; but trifling as they are in this
point of view, some complimentary retribution ought perhaps to
                    MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- A.

be conceded to the public ; and this can in no way be done so
effectually, as by allowing the collectors of books to acquire the
whole of these treasures at an easy rate, without filling their
shelves with eighty large volumes of commentaries.

   There was indeed a man, whom the nation might, consistently
with its own dignity, have invited, by the offer of a liberal
remuneration, to undertake the employment of editing and
illustrating these monuments, in a manner that must every way
have been conducive to the advancement of literature. But

our prophet is no more ; and where shall we find his mantle ?

Where shall we look for his critical acumen, for his rapid per
ception, for his unerring sagacity, for his inexhaustible memory,
and for his solid judgment ? And had we even a Porson to
undertake such an office, it would still be highly desirable that
the simple text should be published somewhat more expeditiously
than would be compatible with an elaborate discussion of every

point requiring investigation or illustration.
   Even without so good a reason for delay, the tardiness of

our academical printers and publishers is sometimes truly dis

heartening. We remember that about twenty years ago a
subscription was raised for the publication of a most valuable
work of Hoogeveen, in the form of a Dictionary of the termi
nations of Greek words, which, even in the task of correcting

a mutilated manuscript, would have rendered us the most
material assistance : it was certainly 3ent, not long after, to the
press at Cambridge ; but some unlucky stagnation of the alacrity
which, as we suppose, is usually felt within the walls of a college,

has hitherto prevented its appearance."
    We should therefore earnestly recommend that the simple

text of the manuscripts should appear at once, in all the pristine
dignity of an editio princeps, unsullied by the addition of any
extraneous matter. The editors of Philodemus are universally

allowed to have succeeded admirably in their attempts to
restore the genuine text of their author ; but we are very sorry
to observe how lamentably the modern Academicians of Portici
appear to have fallen short of their predecessors: and we
believe that their labours have hitherto been extended to a

small part only of the manuscripts which have been unrolled.

    * The hint thus given was attended to, and the work of tloogcvecn was
shortly afterwards published.
Appendix-- A.  HERCULANENSIA.  507

At the same time, their suggestions may certainly render occa

sional assistance to a reader, and even the greater facility
afforded to a modern eye, merely hy the separation of the

words, would he a sufficient advantage to justify the reprinting
of the text on an opposite page, with the insertion of such

letters or words only as are obviously pointed out by the con
text. The characters of the Alexandrian manuscript are not
materially different from those of the work of Philodemus,

which has been published, and they probably approach still

nearer to those of some of the other manuscripts. As a
specimen of the mode which we think might be adopted with

great propriety, we have printed the first page of the fragment,

with some types which were obligingly cast, at a very short notice,

by Mr. Fry. In this form, two or three octavo volumes would

contain everything that is really wanted by the literary world ;
although we are informed, from good authority, that the bulk
of the manuscript copies which have been brought to this
country i3 by no means inconsiderable, and that many of the

pages exhibit but very few deficiencies.

   In the work before us no mention whatever is made of those

specimens of the charred volumes, which, as we have under
stood, were sent over by the court of Naples in the first instance
as a present to his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. The

caution which is said to have been adopted with respect to
these valuable relics deserves to be highly applauded. Four of

them, we believe, are still altogether untouched : the other two
were first submitted to the examination of some persons high in
office in the Royal Society and in the British Museum, and of

several other literary men ; and such experiments were made
as were thought to afford the best prospect of leading to a
method of unrolling them : but none of these attempts appear
to have succeeded : the external parts of the rolls, as far as

they have been penetrated, being almost uniformly conglutinated
into one mass by so strong an adhesion that nothing could
separate them, without destroying the brittle substance of the
charcoal. The machine employed in Italy must have been
totally inapplicable in such cases, since it afforded no means
whatever of overcoming any considerable adhesions ; and it is
probable that the outside of such manuscripts has always

hitherto been destroyed ; the fragment on Piety appearing,
508 MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- A.

for instance, to consist of only a small portion of the central
parts of a roll. After some time, these two manuscripts were
placed, at the recommendation of a person every way well
qualified to give an opinion on the subject, in the hands of a
medical gentleman* who was known to have formerly employed
himself in minute anatomy, and to be familiar with the processes
of mechanics and the operations of chemistry, in hopes that he
would be able to discover some means of detaching the con-
glutinated surfaces from each other. At first, as it often
happens in such cases, he appeared to be very confident of
ultimate success ; but difficulties afterwards occurred, and he

did not continue his experiments long enough to overcome
them, or even very materially to lessen them : his professional
engagements interfered ; much of his time had already been
sacrificed ; and the intelligence, that Sir \V. Drummond had
succeeded in obtaining possession of the whole collection of the
works which had been unrolled made his own attempts appear

comparatively too insignificant to deserve immediate prosecution.
   We understand, however, that one mode of treating the

papyri occurred to this gentleman, which appeared to him to
promise a decided advantage to such as might hereafter pro
ceed in the operation. This was the employment of the
anatomical blowpipe, an instrument which he had many years
before been in the habit of using for delicate purposes, in
the place of a dissecting knife. The blowpipe served him,
like the ciV Katrrogor in the epigram, for a knife and a
forceps ; for the gum, the goldbeater's skin, and the threads
of the Italians. No instrument can be so soft in its pressure

as the air, for holding a thin fragment by suction, without
danger of injuring it : no edge nor point can be so sharp
as to be capable of insinuating itself into all the crevices
which the air freely enters. But the humidity of the breath he
found to add much to the utility of the instrument : the slight
degree of moisture communicated to the under or inner surface
of a fold, made it curl up and separate from the parts beneath
where the adhesion was not too strong ; while dry air from a

bladder was perfectly incapable of detaching it But the pro

cess of separating every leaf in this manner was always tedious
and laborious, where there was much adhesion, and sometimes

                                                    " Dr. Young.
Appendix-- A.            HERCULANENSIA.                               509

altogether impracticable. Chemical agents of all kinds he tried

without the least advantage ; and even maceration for six
months in water, applied at first with very great caution, was

unable to weaken the adhesion. It is remarkable that the cha

racters were not effaced by this operation, so that the gum
which had fixed them on the paper must have wholly lost its
solubility, and the rest of its original properties."

   It has indeed been supposed by some travellers that the

manuscripts were in reality never charred, the ashes, thrown
out by the volcano, having been probably incapable of commu
nicating to them a sufficient degree of heat for producing this

effect. In fact it is said that some of the spices found in an

embalmed body retained a considerable portion of their aro
matic smell. But there is no doubt whatever that the papyri

are now complete charcoal, such as is formed by heat only : a
small fragment of their substance burns readily, like common

charcoal, with a creeping combustion, without flame and with

a slight vegetable smell : fresh papyrus burns with a bright
flame ; and almost all mineral coal, which may possibly have

been formed from vegetable substances without the operation

of heat, flames abundantly ; Bovey coal, for example, which
retains much of the appearance of wood, exhibits a considerable

flame. It is highly probable that many of the adhesions have

been formed by the oily and smoky vapours distilled off from

the hottest parts, and irregularly condensed in the colder : and

so far as this conjecture may be true, it would perhaps be

advisable to             try the effects of a longer maceration in    "alscpoehaorl
oanf dAcinhielltehser",   than has hitherto been employed. The
                                                                        hopes
                          might also be applied with very reasonable

of success : a repetition of the exposure to heat, kept up more

equably and more powerfully, might very probably expel the

adhesive substances, without injuring the texture of the char

coal ; proper care being taken to preclude completely the
access both of air and of water, which might be done first by
means of the air-pump, and then by the insertion of a little

potassium, together with the roll, in a vessel hermetically
sealed. But the adhesions appear sometimes to be of a mere

   ' The farther progress of the attempts to unroll these papyri is detailed

in the article ' Herculaneum,' from the Supplement of the Encyclopedia
Britannica, which is reprinted in the third volume of Dr. Young's Works,

p. 560.
510         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- A.

mechanical nature, being derived from the irregular folds into

which the manuscripts have been pressed, or from some rough

nesses of the contiguous surfaces.
   Until the manuscripts already unrolled shall have been pub

lished there can be little inducement to bestow much labour on

the few that have been brought to this country in their entire

state : but at a future time, we think that some attempt to

unrol them ought to be made, even with such means as we

have at present in our power, without however sacrificing any
part of their substance. The outer parts might be separated
into as many portions as possible, without breaking through

the adhesions, so that the characters on the internal surface of

each piece might remain legible ; and we should probably find

that the internal parts would be capable of being much more

completely unrolled : the adhering portions might be kept in
proper order, until the discovery of some more effectual means

of separating their component parts.

   We are informed that the gentleman to whom we allude had

gone so far as to ascertain that the two manuscripts entrusted
to his care appeared to be in prose, and that their subjects were
probably of a philosophical or critical nature. They were cer
tainly not the dclicatissimi versus which Philodemus, as Cicero

informs us, had addressed to Piso, not in order to enforce the

genuine Epicurean precepts of temperance and frugality, but in

compliance with his pupil's predilection for that school, which

has put a more popular construction on the dogmas of the

philosopher. But whatever may have been the moral value of

these poems, they would certainly be far more esteemed, by the

genuine votaries of Greek literature, than a thousand grave

Ifessays on the Metaphysics of Music, or on the Piety of
Atheism.    we calculate upon the doctrine of chances, we

fear that there is little probability of the discovery of any

works of a class very superior to those which have already

been rendered ligible ; although, on the other hand, it appears

to be scarcely possible that the library of the Pisos should

retain no traces of the elegant genius and poetical talent of the

Gracvs facilis et valde venustus, who had been so intimately
connected with their ancestor : nor is it very probable that many

more performances will be found in the collection relating to

subjects so totally unattractive as those which have already been

published.
     Appendix -- 1?.        FIGURE OF THE EARTH.                                                    511

                   APPENDIX--B.'

                     DETERMINATION OF THE

       FIGURE OF THE EARTH

                  FROM A SINGLE TANGENT.

     Having observed the latitudes and any two azimuths obliquely

     situated in the same horizontal plane, touching the earth's
     surface at the first point, take the tangent of the difference
     of azimuths, and divide it by the sine of the latitude of the
     first point : the quotient will be the tangent of the difference

     of longitude, as is easily shewn from the elementary principles
     of plane trigonometry.

        The first azimuth being a and the second a', considered as

     angles of the same triangle, then the tangent of the difference b

     of azimuths      will  be,   tan  (<*-{-«'.)  and                            to":              will be the
                                                                                      S1U. int.

     Iftangent of A, the difference of longitudes. (1.)
             we call the distance of the points unity, the linear tangent

     of the difference  of latitudes will be --                                 ^ !ii
                                                                            COS.
                                                                                                 y
                                                                                  ^flt"f" Ct . an(j j^e chords

        * The investigation, which forms the subject of this Appendix, wasis ait ita

is   never published. A rough copy of was found amongst Dr. Young's;                                is
    b
     papers, written upon small sheet of note paper few months before his
     death, as appears from a reference to in a letter to Mr. Gurney, which

         noticed in page 477. The preliminary propositions are involved in the
     method proposed by Dalby for determining arcs of parallel, which was used
     in the English and Indian surveys the special application in the text
     novel and ingenious, and well deserving of notice.

            By azimuth here meant the angular distance of the observed station

     from the meridian.
512                         MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- B.

of the parallels of latitude, as measured in the tangent plane,

,,will                                                                                                        in
          be     " 8.'?'        1+ « .N  and  cos. s4.°(' «"+, »m)'     the  mean,' when             reduced
                 COS.J(«

the ratio of the radius to the cosine of half the difference of

latitudes ^, becoming the double tangent of half the difference

of longitudes ; and while the angles are small, the same mean
may be considered as simply equal to the tangent of the

jdifference of longitudes or 28'c"08' ""4^) = r tan- A, tne linear
tangent of A, r being the radius of the parallel ; while § tan. S

is the linear tangent of the difference of latitudes, e being the

                                                                                                 ""'

                                                                                            S = COS. } (« + « )
\radius of curvature of
                                              the meridian              and  p*       tan.
j--»HTence
                 ({-     =  tan. A       2 sin, («-')           =«-          (/Q2.)
                                TS-      ,in. ,,+gi,,.

      Now when the diameters of an ellipsis are c and d, the
^ t ... ....rad,.ius
              g       =  [ C»d« + (C»-ift) (4CT-4T«i                 )       (Simpson, art,. 71); and this
                         \                                           \

becomes, when we substitute r for c--x, and write 2a and 2b
                                                                        -| = T{ w -r\-^ -^))
forcandrf,?= |

= * (l _                         - £, if we put <? = 1                       : (3): but if we neglect the

higHer powers of                                this expression becomes = a
                                              e8,                                                             +e*
                                                           <p,                                 g     "
                                                                                                            {
(*-g)} and »=f =                                                             £)} (4).                         1
                                                                                                                           ^ <p
   But the latitude being0 we have--o = /.(..i--ee°'stm'f .'.f). = cos. T2 (10 -^

  ~+ sin.*?) nearly: and equation (4) becomes =

(1- ii sin.'?) IW - £) = 5^ - (sin.^-l +
                                 {                              }                     (1i
                                      e»
    ov COS.      ^f             +          N(cos.>T<p-3         cos. *T?)J   =              ^(l-2<? cos.5T?)
                                                                                  COS.         e* N           *'
                      (v1                p
                                                                                                                    :
                                        (i

                                                     1
consequently n cos.                             = -- 2c2 cos.2<p and                        =                 =

gee-                        ''
    cos.

      It remains to be proved whether there                                  is         any error in this
                                                                                  is
reasoning, or whether, even the thing accurate, the method
                                                if
Appendix-- R.         FIGURE OF THE EARTH.                                                                 513

is capable of practical application with advantage. The only

theoretical imperfection appears to be the taking the angular
change of latitude from the radius of curvature appropriate to

the middle of the arc : and this might be avoided, if it were

necessary, by computing the exact length of the elliptic arc of

the meridian between the two latitudes. But in very small

triangles we may simplify the computation still more, and use

the arcs indifferently for the tangents, and use the tangent of

the  mean    azimuth  for   2gin"                                          and  the   latitude  of the

                            sin. «+sin. a

middle of an arc reduced to the horizon for that of the first

point here considered.
   Taking for an example Captain Kater's Observations at

Orowborough and at Fairlight," we have a = 121° 4' 58-36",

  = 5S' 33' 26-14".<p = 5(V 57' 57 -59" and = W 41-42"; the

calculation will stand thus --
<z'                                                                             5
                        <p                                                           7

                                                                    :
     Log. tan. diff. az. 21' 35 1" - - 7930179
     Sin. 50' 57' 57-59"- - - - 9-8902938

     Tan. A, 27' 47-8" -                                                                  90772417
                                                                                - 7-4927043
Other methods give 27' 47" or 27' 53"

     Log. tan.  a S,  10' 41 42"·                                      -   -

     i^-fLog°. tan.                                                                              -4150198
                                                                       - - - 9-7832744
     Log. tan. 31 15' 46"

     Log. n                                                                             -1982947

     Log. cos. 50 57' 57-59" - - 9-7991896p,

     Log. · 994224 - - - - - · 9974843
     -nLocr. 005776 =                                                      - - 7-7616272^1
           t»                               cos.                       <p
                          2<p
     Log. cos.                           1                                            9-5983792

                                    2;
     Log. 2^ -01456 = 1632480.

Hence = -00728, and                                                    -1 = 00364=      the ellipticity

for the county of Sussex.

   " See Captain Kater's Account of Trigonometrical OperationR in the'
years 1821, 1822, and 1823, for determining the difference of Longitude
between the Royal Observatories of Paris and Greenwich,' in the Philo
sophical Transactions for 1828, pp. 153 and 185.

   Life.
                                                                                        2

                                                                                           L
514  MEMOIR OF DR. THOMAS YOUNG. Appendix-- B.

   It will be found that a difference of · 001 in the ellipticity,

for example between 003 and 004, would in this example
cause a change of 3" . 4 in the difference of the azimuths : and
an error of this magnitude could scarcely occur in the mean of
a large number of observations, so that it appears perfectly

possible to employ the method in practical surveying and to
determine the figure of the earth with sufficient accuracy for
the correction of parallaxes, by means of the angles observed at
two stations only within sight of each other.

   The operation may be continued from station to station in
the same parallels of latitude across a whole continent, and the

true .azimuth only will require to be derived from celestial

observations at the extreme stations, and by these means the
effects of any local change of curvature may be compensated.
Thus from Falmouth to Seeberg the latitude varies but little,
and by computing the difference of longitude separately for
each triangle employed, the whole difference will be obtained
with extreme accuracy, and the mean value of the proportion
of the radii of curvature, compared with the mean latitude,
will give the eccentricity with little or no sensible error : and
the longitude of Falmouth with regard to Greenwich, which is
of importance for the regulation of chronometers, may be

deduced at once from the triangles employed in the survey
without the introduction of any heterogeneous elements of un

certain magnitude.

     *6

     LONDON: PBIKTEP BY W. CLOWES AND SONS, STAMFORD STKKIkX
                                            AIJD CHAKINO CKOSS.
:
                                          3 2044 058 254 616
THE BORROWER WILL BE CHARGED
AN OVERDUE FEE IFTHIS BOOK IS NOT
RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON OR
BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED
BELOW. NON-RECEIPT OF OVERDUE
NOTICES DOES NOT EXEMPT THE
BORROWER FROM OVERDUE FEES.

    BOOK D'JE

                            WIETENER

                      r

