The wonders of science, or, Young Humphry Davy ... : the life of
a wonderful boy : written for boys / by Henry Mayhew ...

Mayhew, Henry, 1812-1887.
London : D. Bogue, 1855.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/njp.32101067208569

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
\ (Reared
         a arant nrom

   The Cartwright Foundation

/

             PRINCETON

                UNIVERSITY

           V LIBRARY /

                                 From the bequest of

                     Dr. Theodore W. Hunt

                                      Class of 1865
   I--
           MMn(--__ J,_~l
           ^^i^^"^B*«fc

!  (Retfored     tfrhrrr<roomuffi
)
        a ora«(

  The Cartwright Foundation

f

                  PRINCETON

                   UNIVERSITY
                      LIBRARY

                      From the bequest of

                 Dr. Theodore W. Hunt

                           Class of 1865
                        THE

WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
                    LONDON:

Printed by G, BARCLAY, Castle St. Leicester Sq.
HIMI'HRY ANI' HIS '' WONDKRi L'L LAMP."

                                         ..
                                       THE

WONDERS OF SCIENCE;

                                                               OB,

          YOUNG HUMPHRY DAVY

(THB CORNISH APOTHECABY'S EOY, WHO TAUGHT HIMSELF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY
             AND EVENTUALLY BECAME PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY).

                        fife 0f a »nteM |ffg

                            WRITTEN FOR BOYS.

                                                                                                           SI

                   HENRY MAYHEW,                                                                                                     " LONDON"

AUTHOR OF " THE STORY OF THE PEASANT-BOY PHILOSOPHER,"
                              LABOUB AND THE LONDON POOR," ETC.

I" WMThaiTtyjehhsyivtmiicieavdni,esytdeweaarpovlicen!k-gbsaeehaar,mitnyogernotgcsktes;lpovrteeo,carollve,      Enthusiasm-- Nature's child-                                                    wild,
                                                                                                               IHeArlel  sung  tome  her wood-songs
                                                                                                                         warm  with  native fire ;
                                                                                                               ItfIebtlatbdahedeemr ysmoebuol ss-atorwmikaekbeutnhrinenglfyorrfela.f"ammee, ,
The former   pleasures  anofdmyyounsogu. l.
  When life  was gay

             DAVY'S Ode to St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall. Written at the age of 13

                  LONDON:
DAVID BOGUE, 86 FLEET STREET.

                                                MDCCCLV.

               [The right of Translation reserved.]
                A WORD OR TWO

                                       BY WAY OF

EXPLANATION AND DEDICATION

        MICHAEL FARADAY.

MY DEAK SIR,

         I INSCKIBE your name on one of the

fly-leaves of this little book, with the same

devotion as youths are wont to carve upon the

trunk of some forest tree the name of those

Iwhom they admire most in the world; and

do so for many reasons.

First of all, because Davy was, as it were,

the foster-father of your great genius; and,

secondly, because it allows me to tell the lads

for whom this book has been written the graceful

story of the way   in   which the   hero of it    first
                                                   ap
befriended you --  the   young "   bookseller's

prentice, very fond of experiment, and very

averse to trade "-^ in your own dignified Ian
VU1 PREFACE.

Iguage; and, moreover, because know your

zeal in the cause of education, and that you are,
like all generous minds when fired with the
beauty of fine truths and discoveries, unable to
rest, as it were, till you have imparted them to

others, and so made them as happy as yourself
with the wondrous knowledge. Indeed, it is
the glorious privilege of intellectual pursuits

that they are not marked by that " selfishness,"
which made you as a boy " desirous of escaping

from trade;" for wisdom, happily, can share
its riches with the world, and yet be all the
richer for the sharing. None know better than
yourself that every science is built up of an
infinity of such contributions ; and that, had the
human mind been impressed with a desire to

hoard its intellectual gains -- to keep them

locked in the coffers of the brain -- how little
even you --who have added, by your many pro

found discoveries, more to the knowledge-fund
of the world than any other single p
could yourself have known. There is no finer
instance, perhaps, of human magnanimity than

the chemist working unseen in his laboratory --

watching alone for hours the action of different
kinds of so-called dead matter upon each other,
in the hope of being able to add his little mite.
PREFACE.  IT

if truth to that store of mental riches, which is

M benefit not only his own generation, but all
those to come for ages after. Nor can we de-
ract from the natural greatness of the act by

 scribing it to any lower principle of our soul --

such as that petty craving for praise which we

call " vanity" in women, and a desire for fame

among poets and philosophers ; for every true
scientific mind knows that there is sufficient

reward in the intense beauty of a new discovery
--the first flash across the brain of some deep
insight into the mysteries of Nature -- to repay
him, over and over again, for all the long puzzling
of his thoughts ; and that, were he even alone in
the world, without a voice to cheer him on, he

must still continue spelling out passage after
passage of the Great Poem of Creation, from
the mere love of the Poem itself.

  I can readily understand that it was some such

 generous purpose that first rendered you anxious
 " to enter the service of science, which," as you

say, you " imagined made its pursuers amiable

 and liberal," for this is impressed in every line

 of the following letter, which becomes peculiarly
 interesting as a record of the circumstances
 which brought together two of the greatest
 chemical geniuses that the world has yet seen.
X PREFACE.

" To J. A. PARIS, M.D.

                      " Royal Institution, Dec. 23, 1829.

" MY DEAR SIR, --You asked me to give you

an account of my first introduction to Sir H.

IDavy, which -am very happy to do, as I think

the circumstance will bear testimony to his

goodness of heart

  II" When was a bookseller's apprentice, was

very fond of experiment, and very averse to

trade. It happened that a gentleman, a member

of the Royal Institution, took me to hear some

of Sir H. Davy's last lectures in Albemarle

IStreet. took notes, and afterwards wrote them

        in a quarto volume.
        to escape from trade,
out morefairly

  I" Mydesire
                               which

thought vicious and selfish, and to enter into the

Iservice of Science, which imagined made its

pursuers amiable and liberal, induced me at last

to take the bold and simple step of writing to

Sir H. Davy, expressing my wishes, and a hope

that, if an opportunity came in his way, he

Iwould favour my views; at the same time,
Isent the notes had taken at his lectures.

  " The answer, which makes all the point of

Imy -communication, send you in the original,

requesting you to take great care of and toit,
PREFACE.                                   XI

let me have it back, for you may imagine how-

Imuch value it.

  " You will observe that this took place at the

end of the year 1812, and early in 1813 he

requested to see me, and told me of the situation

of Assistant in the Laboratory of the Royal Insti

tution, then just vacant.

  "At the same time that he thus gratified my de

sires as to scientific employment, he still advised

Ime not to give up the prospects had before me,

telling me that Science was a harsh mistress;

and, in a pecuniary point of view, but poorly

rewarding those who devoted themselves to her

service. He smiled at my notion of the superior

moral feelings of philosophic men, and said he

would leave me to the experience of a few years

to set me right on the matter.

  I" Finally, through his good efforts, went to

the Royal Institution early in March of 1813, as

Assistant in the Laboratory ; and in October of

the same year went with him abroad, as his
Iassistant in experiments and in writing.
                                           re

turned with him in April 1815, resumed my

station in the Royal Institution, and have, as

you know, ever since remained there.

      I" am, dear Sir, very truly yours,

          « M. FARADAY."
XU PREFACE.                                                         i

   The following is the note of Sir H. Davy,                        1
alluded to in Mr. Faraday's letter :--                              1

       To MR. FARADAY.

                                             " Deceinber 24, 1812.

I" SIR, -- am far from displeased with the

proof you have given me of your confidence,

and which displays great zeal, power of memory,
Iand attention.
                 am obliged to go out of town,

and shall not be settled in town till the end of

IJanuary: will then see you at any time you

wish.
" It would gratify me to be of any service to
Iyou.
       wish it may be in my power.
                 " I am, Sir,
       " Your obedient, humble servant,

                               «H. DAVY."*

   And now let me add, by way of excuse for
the many short-comings of the present volume,

Ithat have found some little difficulty in develop

ing my object, which was to show youths how
one of the greatest natural philosophers had,

when a lad, like themselves, made himself ac
quainted with the principles of science, and thus

* Extracted from Dr. Paris's " Life of Davy."
                     PREFACE.

to induce  them  to  " go and  do  likewise   "  for,

                                             ;

assuredly, there is no education like that self-

education which is sure to follow directly a fer

vent taste is created for any particular branch of

knowledge. To create such a taste was my sole

motive for writing this book. Nevertheless,
I Iwhen
           came to deal with the subject,        dis

covered that it was impossible to follow literally

the scientific history of Davy's mind, since he

had begun by adopting the most nighty theories.

To have evolved all his visionary notions when

a lad, in a work that was meant to have an

educational tendency, would have been merely to

have taught error. I have, however, in adapt

ing the book to the present state of science, de

viated as little as possible from the biographical

Ifacts, and have, moreover, in all things striven

to be true to the character of my hero, which

after all is the great truth required in "story-

Ihooks." Again, by a pardonable license, believe
I have made the boy foreshadow some of his

after-discoveries -- such as the safety-lamp --·

Iand for all these deviations can only plead a

desire to show youths that they have it in their

own power to do as the Cornish apothecary's boy

did, if they will but set about the work quickened

with the same determination to succeed. It. is
XIV PREFACE.

my belief that our present system of education
begets in the minds of youths too great a sense
of dependence, and too little reliance on their
own powers, so that it is thought by a lad on
leaving school to be impossible to learn anything
without the help of a master to teach it. Now
my object in such books as the present is to
show boys that some of the greatest minds the
world has yet seen have been self-taught; and
by letting the young note how the great men,
when they were young too, set about the task of
informing themselves, thus to breed in youthful
minds not only a faith in their own capabilities,
but a taste for the beauties of knowledge, as well

as a strong purpose to number themselves, if pos

sible, among the future teachers of mankind.
   And now, my dear Sir, let me, in conclusion,

thank you for your generous encouragement of

Imy labours when was engaged in inquiring

into the condition of the " London Poor." Many

know your wisdom, but none are better ac
quainted with your goodness than

                            Yours, very truly,

                                HENRY MAYHEW.

   Bonn, Nov. 25th, 1854.
           CONTENTS

    CHAP.  THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHKBLESS           PAGE

    I.                                           .1

   II.     YOUNG HUMPHRY'S EESOLVES . . 19

 III.      HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER       .        . 84
           THK FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL  .        . 54
  IV.
    V.     THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-
                           . . .75
  VI.      LAMP         .
 VII.
           THE WONDERS OF HEAT: ITS SOURCES . 94
VIII.
           .....THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT .   116
  IX.      THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT         .  173

   X.      THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT            188

 XI.       (continued)

           THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT

                   (concluded)                      221
           HUMPHRY AMD HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP "       265
XT! CONTENTS.

   CHAP.                                                                                                            .     PAGE

XII.      HUMPHRY PRACTISES ES A SURGEON                                                                               .293
XIII.
          ON HIMSELF     ...                                                                                           . 303

          THE FIRST SUN-PICTURES .  .

XIV.      THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF

          LIGHT       ·                                                                                                815

    XV.   THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF
  XVI.
            LIGHT--(continued) . . .341
 XVII.
XVIII.    THE WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF                                                                              377

          .....LIGHT                                                                                                   391
                                                                                                                       417
          THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHO
              TOGRAPHY

          CONCLUSION
   THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                       CHAPTER I.

          THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.

I" WELL, gentlemen, have gone over your several

accounts, and find that the debts of the late Mr.
Robert Davy amount altogether to the sum of

13001."

    These words were addressed to a little group of
tradesmen and others who were assembled in a
small room over a mercer's shop, in the town of

Penzance. There was Jan Penberthy, the neigh

bouring miller, who, though in his holiday clothes,
had sufficient of the flour clinging to his black eye
brows and whiskers to indicate his calling ; and
Malachy Carteret, the carpenter and builder, who
had slipped on his best coat, as he ran out from his
work, to be present at the meeting, and had still
the brass ends of his foot-rule projecting from the
little fob at the side of his fustian trousers. There
was Mr. Trevisky, too, the sporting lawyer, in his
check shooting-jacket, all over pockets, and those
at the hips large enough for game or law papers,
 8 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

 and who held in his hand a square, horny-looking
 parchment deed ; and close beside him sat the
village apothecary, in a long, snuff-brown great
coat, between the skirts of which might be seen,

shining in the light, his high boots, that reached
well up to his knees ; and there were two or three
other of the village tradespeople besides, all seated
at the end of the little apartment, and who, when
they heard the amount of their united claims, ex
changed glances with one another in astonishment
at the largeness of the sum.

   At a table in front of the little assembly sat

Mr. John Tonkin, the old gentleman who had
addressed them. Nor was he the least remarkable
among the company, for he was habited in the
costume that had been fashionable in the previous

century. Over his shrivelled and veiny hands
flapped deep lace-ruffles, and the top of his head
was white as a twelfth-cake, with the large
powdered wig that surmounted it. The straight,

stand-up collar of his Quaker-cut coat was as if

mildewed at the back with the powder that fell
from his peruke, and the large fan-like frill that

protruded from his waistcoat--which was long as
a modern groom's --was speckled brown in places

with snuff, as thick as nutmeg on a custard ; while
from underneath the table at which he sat peeped a
pair of gold shoe-buckles and black silk stockings.
On a chair by his side lay the cocked hat which
      THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.                                      3

completed his antiquated costume, and the under
neath part of which was greyed with hair-powder
and long usage.

   Peculiar as was the old gentleman's dress, yet it
had more of a quaint than comical appearance with
him; for his features, though creased with age,
and his form, though slightly bowed with his load
of years, were still of too manly a cast to excite
any irreverent feeling, even in the lightest minds ;
indeed, he had too stern and austere a look to dis

pose any to smile at the oddity of his costume.*

   *  Mr.  hTisonbkrionthe(sra)ys"  Dr.   John   Davy, in his Memoirs of the
Life   of                           will   long  be remembered in Penzance,

both for excellences and peculiarities. The latter marked him

as a person of the gone-by time, and attracted the notice even of

the careless observer. He held in aversion modern changes of
fashion, and in his old age wore the dress of his youth --the

cocked hat, large powdered wig, hand-ruffles, upright collar ; in
brief, the professional dress of the beginning of the last century --

and his manly form and countenance suited well with this vener

able costume." Dr. Davy says, moreover, that Mr. Tonkin
" held a distinguished place among his fellow-townsmen, being

looked up to for his sterling worth and strength of judgment,

and very dear to his friends               for his benevolence, kindness,     and
                                                                           quick
very generous and  "frbieuntdhlyis        disposition." He was " of a
temper," he adds,                         anger was of short duration." -- See

Life of Sir Humphry Davy, vol. i. p. 109.
 IfSir Humphry himself, in his last letter           Mr. Tonkin, says,
                                                 to
" I was nearer I would endeavour to              be  useful to you. I

would endeavour to pay some of the debts of gratitude I owe to

you, my first protector and earliest friend. As it is, I must look
forward to a futurity that will enable me to do this ; but believe
I Ime, wherever
           am, and whatever may be my situation,                           shall

never Jose the remembrance of obligations conferred on me, or

tie sense of gratitude which ought to accompany them."
4 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   After a short pause the old gentleman continued
his address to the company before him. " Now to
meet this sum of 1300/. there is the property of the
farm at Varfell, which is valued at about 1501.
a-year, and upon which Mr. Trevisky's client has

a mortgage to a small amount.*

   At the mention of the name of the attorney, that

gentleman proceeded to open the square deed before
him, and to throw back the huge skins, that looked
like large sheets of bladder, as he glanced his eye
down them one after another.

   " This little property, gentlemen," proceeded
Mr. Tonkin, " is all that the widow and her five
children --the eldest of whom, you will permit me

Ito remind you, is but sixteen years of age--have to

subsist upon. Mrs. Davy, therefore, think, has a
claim to some little indulgence and sympathy at
your hands. Some years must pass before her
children are old enough to obtain a maintenance
for themselves, and in the mean time they have to
be supported, educated, and apprenticed. How

this is all to be done upon such slender means is a

Imatter that need not tell you adds severely to the

widow's distress ; for not only has she the grief to
bear on losing the partner with whom she had lived

  * " When Mrs. Davy became a widow, she was in her thirty-

fourth year, with five children, ali of whom were still to he edu
cated, excepting Humphry her eldest son. Her income at this
time was about 1501. a-year, and it was encumbered with a debt
of 1300!." --Dr. Davy's Life of Sir Humphry, vol. i. p. 7.
THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHEELESS.  5

in happiness for nearly twenty years, but she has

the greater grief, if possible, of knowing that her

children are fatherless, and that she herself lacks

the means of providing for them in comfort. Her

sorrow, then, gentlemen, has a double sting. It

Iarises not only from regret for the past, but a dread
of the future.  am sure, therefore, she will, under

her great affliction, meet with every consideration

from you."

   At this point Mr. Malachy Cartcret -- a little

'man, remarkable for the blackness and bushiness

of his eyebrows, which grew so close together as to

look like one long one, rather than a pair, and who,
from his being considered a " good prayer-maker "

at the chapel to which he belonged, was always glad

of an opportunity of displaying his oratorical powers

-- ventured to observe, that he was sure all then

present felt for Mrs. Davy under her trials, but

they had most of them children of their own, and
it was their duty to look at home first; for who

could tell how soon they themselves might be called

away, and their little ones left in the same distress
ing situation, unless their bills were duly paid?
" Now my little account," proceeded the carpenter,
" has been standing so long as the new house at

Varfell has been built, and that were the same year

Ias Dolly Pentreath died -- mean her as were 102

year old-- and that's some time agone, you know ;

so I'm sure no one can't say as I've been hard about my
6 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

little matter. But we were a-thinking among our
selves, Mr. Tonkin, that as you'd always been suchy
kind friend to the family, and as we hadn't no wish
to trouble Mrs. Davy under her affliction, that
maybe a -- a -- you--- you -- you wudn't mind be

coming security yourself for the debts, and then

they cud stand over for another year or two if need

be. You'll excuse ma making maself so bould, sir ;
but I'm a plain man, and think plain speaking is

better than double-dealing at ale times."
   The old gentleman's brow fell suddenly, and

looking the carpenter full in the face, he said,
scornfully, -- " Though you have no wish to trouble
Mrs. Davy under her afflictions, you would not
object, it seems, to involve her friends in her lia
bilities. You allude, sir, to my past services, and
surely the recollection of the melancholy occasion
which rendered such services necessary should

have made you less eager after what is due to you,
and less anxious to entangle in the family diffi

culties a person who, when he found that his assist

ance was needed, has never added to the distress by

waiting till asked for it. In this very house, now

thirty-seven years ago, it was my sad lot to see
three young girls deprived of both father and
mother in the same week. Mrs. Davy was one, and
the youngest of those three -- left almost in her
infancy without a friend or counsellor to help her
through the world. And now in her womanhood
        THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.                                             ?

the same hard fate attends her--bereft of him whose

affection had made him her protector, and finding
her children fatherless, as she herself was, at the

very time when needing most a father's care.
Surely the remembrance of a double bereavement

like this, sir -- for hardly is she out of her orphan

age before she is doomed to enter on her widow

hood -- should teach you that Providence must

have some special design in visiting so much misery

Iupon this poor lady.* Nevertheless, am happy to

say that Mrs. Davy needs no pecuniary assistance
from her friends, and requires but little indulgence

from those to whom her husband was indebted. It

is proposed to increase the mortgage upon the farm

at Varfell to the amount of 1300A, though this --

* " Mrs. Davy was the third and youngest daughter of Grace

and Humphry Millett         Mr. Millett was engaged in busi

ness in the town of Penzance as a mercer. He and his wife died
young, and in the same week, -- he on the 3d of June, 1757, and

she on the 9th              Mr. John Tonkin was their friend, and

supplied the place of a father to them (the orphan children), and
they retained through life a most grateful sense of his kindness,

and of the great obligations they owed to him. At the time of

the death of Mr. and Mrs. Millett, he (Mr. Tonkin) was residing

in their house (I suppose in lodgings), and there he continued to

reside for some years, the children being under the care of a

Miss Peggy Adams, their cousin, in whose name the mercer's

business was continued, by the profits of which the family was
chiefly supported." -- Dr. John Davy, p. 7. vol. i.

   Dr.  Paris, in his life  omf SoitrheHr,um"pHhreyr  Davy (p.   2), says,  speak
ing of  the philosopher's                             maiden    name was     Grace

Millett, and she was remarkable for the placidity of her temper

and the amiable and benevolent tendency of her disposition. She
                    THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

even if Mr. Trevesky can obtain the money at 4

per cent -- will reduce the family income to less

than 100?. a-year ; and immediately the mortgage is
completed and the money paid, your accounts, gen
tlemen, will be discharged. The reason of my
requesting your attendance here to-day was not to
seek to make any compromise with you, nor to
crave any unusual indulgence at your hands, but
merely to ascertain the amount of the collected
claims against the late Mr. Davy, and to inform
you that steps were being taken for a speedy pay
ment of them, so that you might not trouble his
widow with any importunities on the matter. She,
poor soul, has enough to bear with in the privation
she has recently suffered, and those worldly ones

had been adopted and brought up with her two sisters, under

circumstances of affecting interest, by Mr. John Tonkin

To withhold a narrative of the circumstances which led Mr.

Tonkin to the adoption of these orphan children would be to

deprive the world of one of those bright examples of pure and

disinterested benevolence which cheer the heart and ornament our

nature  The parents of these children having been

attacked by a fatal fever expired within a few hours of each

other. The dying agonies of the surviving mother were sharp

ened by her reflecting on the forlorn condition in which her

children would be left. For, although the Milletts were originally

aristocratic and wealthy, the property had undergone so many

subdivisions as to have left but a very slender provision for the

member of the family to whom she had united herself." On the

decease of Mrs. Millett (Dr. Paris tells us), Mr. Tonkin  "imcmoen
diately took charge of her three orphan daughters, and

tinued their kind benefactor until each in succession found a

home by marriage."
THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.  9

which threaten herself and children in the future ;

but, thank Heaven, she is prepared to meet all her
trials with resignation and courage."

   Then, rising from his seat, he bowed haughtily

Ito the company as he said, " Now, gentlemen,

wish you a good day."
   The words were no sooner uttered than Mr.

Trevisky, who had previously folded up the deed,

and sat fldgetting on his chair for the last quarter

of an hour -- now twisting a piece of red tape round
and round-- then paring his nails -- and then twid

dling the brass fox's-head buttons of his shooting-

jacket,-- the words were no sooner uttered, we

repeat, than the lawyer started to his feet, and,
pulling out his watch, said, half to himself,

I" Egad, shall be in time for the cock-fight yet ; "

and then, waving his hand rapidly in the air,

shouted as he darted from the room, " I'll see to
that directly, Mr. Tonkin, -- I'll see to it directly."

    Malachy Carteret was the last to leave, for

he purposely remained behind to plead his excuse

to Mr. Tonkin for the use he had made of his

Iname.
    " hope no offence, I'm sure, sir," began the

Ilittle carpenter. " always thoft ma money safe

 enow, but ya see times is hard, and there's the men
 to pay every Saturday night, and that's a great

pull. No one feels more for Mrs. Davy than your
 humble servant M. C. does. Her husband always
10 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

behaved honourable to me, and M. C. is ' ever

grateful for past favours,' as my card says. That
there wor a bit of poor Mr. Davy's handiwork,

            Mr. Tonkin ?" added Malachy, pointing
worn't  it,
                     it

                                                                                               :
to the oak mantel-piece, that was elaborately and

beautifully carved with birds, fruit, and flowers.

   " Yes," returned the old gentleman, dryly " Mr.

Davy presented   to me when he used to come

courting here, at the time his wife and her sisters

were under my care."

   " Ah, he wor very clever with his tools," con
tinued the carpenter. " The last of the carvers,"
I
              I I'    remember him afore he
we used to call him.

went to London to larn the business --he lived with

his uncle Robert then. used to work for the uncle
                                                                                                  I;
indeed sarvcd my time with the late Mr. Davy's

father -- the builder, ya know, -- so, of coose,
cudn't mean anything but kindly to the family --

only money's very scarce just now, sir, and I've

a-mashes of bills to meet this quarter so hope no
offence, hope no offence, sir. You doan't want
                      :

                        I

I

nothing in my way, do you, Mr. Tonkin?"

   The old gentleman shook his head.                                                              ;;

   " Very well, sir," proceeded the tradesman
" when you do, M. C. will be proud to take your
orders -- ever grateful for past favours, sir, and

hoping for       continuance of your kind support.
        I
              a
Allow me to give you one of my new cards, sir

you'll see says as much there." So saying, the
THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.  11

pushing little carpenter thrust one of the printed
bits of pasteboard into the old gentleman's hand.

   Suddenly a loud shout was heard in the street
beneath.

   Malachy and Mr. Tonkin looked vacantly at one
another, as they both inwardly wondered as to the
cause of the noise.

   In a few minutes the shouting was repeated, and

this time the ear, quickened by curiosity, could
distinguish the shrill cries of the village boys and

women among the rest.

    The carpenter, in the excitement of the moment,

forgot his customary obsequiousness, and rushing
towards the window threw open the little diamond-
paned casement, making its metal frame twang
again as he did so ; and as he craned his neck over

into the street he cried, " Oh, Mr. Tonkin, Mr.
Tonkin ! here, you never saw suchy thing in ale
your life!"

    The old gentleman was sufficiently curious to be
unable to resist sharing in the excitement, and pro
ceeded to join the little carpenter, who was still

eagerly surveying the mob that was gathered round

about the " Star Inn," on the opposite side of the

street.

   " It's Squire Giddy's new conveyance, sir !" ex
claimed Malachy. " The gardener told me last
night it had come down from London the day
afore, with all its wheels done up in haybands
12 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

like an Irish reaper's legs. It's the fust as has

ever bin seen in these parts, and so of coose the

whole town has come to have a peep at it."

   Ay, so it had ! All Penzance was out to behold

the first carriage that had ever appeared in its

streets.

    There were the fishwomen from the neighbouring
villages of Mousehole and Newlyn, who had stopped

in their rounds to join in the throng, and who had
their " cowals " or panniers of fish slung round the
crown of their broad-brimmed hats, with the load

of pilchards glittering like lumps of silver at their

backs. And there were the ruddy-faced oil-girls,

who had put down their heavy pitchers and ceased
for a while their cries of " Buy ma traa-in ! Buy
              "           " the
ma  traa-in      to  eye         big  box  upon  wheels,!'
             !

as they called it. The portly town-crier, too, was

there, with his huge dustman - like bell turned

upwards, and looking like a big tulip in his hand ;

for having found that his audience had suddenly

deserted him, and were more attracted by the sight

of the new conveyance than with his announce
ment that the grocer " had just received several

chests of the best tea from London," the bellman

had himself helped to swell the crowd, and was
now as eager as any to obtain a view of the new

wonder. Mingling with these might be seen the

forms of the boatmen --half-smugglers, half-fisher
men -- from the neighbouring shore, with their tight.
THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.                                       13

fitting blue " Guernseys," their yellow, greasy-look

ing, fan-tail hats, and their large high jack-boots,

that bagged about their legs and looked as rusty as

if they had been made out of brown paper ; whilst

at the outside of the motley group the eye fell upon

the news-boy, mounted on a podgy pony, with his
long tin horn in his hand and pad of " SHERBORNE

MERC CRYS" under his arm ; and he, in his eagerness

to catch sight of the strange-looking vehicle, was

leaning over on one side of the saddle, as a butcher-

boy loves to ride. All the shop people were at their

doors : some in long aprons, and others with white

sleeves on their arms over their coats ; and the boys

kept darting across from the houses towards the

mob ; while the upper windows all down the street

were knobbed over with heads, each bent towards

the one grand focus of attraction.

"It's a queer-looking consarn, aint sir?" in
quired Malachy " and there                 's
                                              a

                                                            it,

                                                                   a
it,                                        good bit work in

                   aI've no doubt."
                                ;
"It's a hideous lumbering affair," responded the
                                        ;
old gentleman, as he turned away from the window,

"and it's great pity that persons haven't some

thing better to excite their admiration than the

follies of the rich but there's such love of luxury
                                           a

coming over our people, that soon we shall become

as effeminate as those of the East, who are

borne about upon couches when they journey

from one place to another. In times past we were
14 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

a sturdy, energetic race, inured to hardship, and
loving, rather than avoiding, exercise ; but now we
must have soft, easy seats, and beds of down, or we
cannot rest. Not many years back the floors of
our nobles' houses were strewn with rushes, but at

present even our gentry are beginning to find a
sanded room unpleasant to their feet, and so they

must needs have soft carpets to tread upon-- as if

they had all at once grown as tender-footed as
negroes. There's Squire Austell has already car-
petted his best sitting-room ; and mark my words !
there 's sufficient of the monkey in our natures to
make his great and little neighbours ape the Squire's
manners. Ugh ! We shall be as unmanly as fid
dlers before many years have passed over our heads.
Haven't we got to drink slops for breakfast instead
of a horn or two of good strong ale, as they did in
our fathers' time ? and do you think, sir, strength,
and courage, and energy are to be got out of tea-cups ?
Soon we shall find it impossible to eat without
silver forks, as they do in London already ; and, by
and by, the dinner-bell will ring at the same hour

as the curfew-bell used to toll in olden times --for

what's called fashion is setting nearer that way
every day. But, thank goodness, we still dine
at noon here, and our parties are limited to tea

and Pope Joan at three o'clock, instead of grand
dinners or dances with Frenchified gavottes, and
minuets that begin with the owls and end with the
        THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.                                                                                  15

lark. T hate such new-fangled customs ! they

would put John Bull into stays like a Frenchman,

and exchange his top-boots for dancing pumps.

Take my word for        a          sir, since that four-wheeled

aid-to-laziness has appeared in our town we shallit,

shortly find every one of our would-be fine ladies

unable to stir yard from their homes without

one."*

   "You're quite right, Mr. Tonkin, quite right,
sir," chimed in the little carpenter " our rich folk
                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                      a
* " The state of society in the Mount's Bay only half century

ago," says Dr. John Davy, "was peculiar and different from

what    at present. Cornwall was then without great roads.
      it

           is

                      I
The roads which traversed the country were bridle-paths rather

than carriage roads. Carriages were almost unknown, and carts

even very little used.    have heard my mother relate that when

she was a girl there was only one cart in the town of Penzance,

and if a carriage appeared in the streets                                                     it  attracted universal

attention. Pack-horses were then in general use for conveying

merchandise, and the prevailing manner of travelling was on

horseback. In the same town, where the population was about

2000 persons, there was only one carpet the floors of rooms were
a
        '

                              it
                                 it

                                             is
                                                   it

                                                                                           ;
sprinkled with sea sand, and there was not a silver fork. The

only newspaper which then circulated in the West of England

was the Sherborne Mercury,' and was carried through the

country, not by the post, but by a man on horseback, specially

employed in distributing                                                                      Visiting was then con

ducted differently from what       at present. Dinner-parties were

almost unknown, excepting at the annual feast time. Christmas,

too, was then a season of peculiar indulgence and conviviality,

and round of entertainments were given, consisting of tea and

supper. Excepting at these two periods, visiting was almost

entirely confined to tea-parties, which assembled at three o'clock

and broke up at nine, and the amusement of the evening was
commonly some round game at cards, as Pope Joan or Com
I6 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

are getting more proud and fond of luxuries and

vanities every day of their lives. Why, what do you

think ? they're talking of putting cushions to all the

seats of the pews in our chapel, sir, just because the

gentlefolks has 'em to their sittings in Madern church !

Iand give you my word, sir, I've only just finished

setting a bright polished steel grate in the withdraw -

                        at Castle Horneck. It's
ing-room, as they call  it,

                                   I
just bin had down from London, and declare one

might see to shave one's self in any part of it. It

merce       Amongst the middle and higher classes

there was little taste for literature, still less for science, and their

pursuits were rarely of a dignified or intellectual kind. Hunt

ing, shooting, wrestling, cock-fighting, generally ending in

...drunkenness, were what they most delighted in.                                       Smuggling
                                                                                        and a low
was carried on to a great extent, and drunkenness
scale of morals were naturally associated with it.                                               Few

places have exhibited greater changes within the last half century

than Penzance. Not a single family belonging to the great

gentry now in existence west of Hayle, or in the Mount's Bay,

was known one hundred years ago."

Carriages,  may he added, are of French invention. Under
FHreannrcyisVII.II.(,A.tDhe. re15w1e5r-e15h4u7t),twwohionit
                                                           was contemporary             with our
                                                                                     ;Paris, one of whichbelonged

to the Queen, and the other to Diana, the natural daughter of the

French Henry II. There were but three in Paris in 1550;

Henry IV. of France (A.D. 1589-1610) had one, but of very rude

construction, and without straps or springs. The first courtier

who set up this equipage in France was John de Laval de Bois-

Dauphin, who could not travel otherwise on account of his enor

mous bulk. Previously to the use of carriages the kings of France

travelled on horseback, the princesses were carried in litters, and

ladies rode behind their squires. The first carriage seen in Eng.

land was in the reign of Mary, about 1553 but the art of making

them was unknown in this country at that time. Close carriages
           THE WIDOWED AND THE FATHERLESS.                          17

Inever was made to put a fire in, I'm sure. But

there's nothing can do for you in my little way;
is there, Mr. Tonkin ? I've got the newest designs
for furniture just arrived from town by the pack-
horse as came in last Monday."

   Mr. Tonkin shook his head, and turned towards

the window.

  I" hope no offence, sir," continued Malachy ;
I"another time, maybe, shall be honoured with

Iyour commands, and then can only say that your

of good workmanship began to be used by persons of the highest

quality at the close of the sixteenth century; Fitz -Allen earl of

Arandelis said to have been the first who used them, and this was

in 1580 ; their construction was various. They were first made in

England about the year 1590, when they were called ' whirlicotes.'

In the year 1601, an Act was passed to prevent the effeminacy of

men riding in carriages (43d Elizabeth) . The Duke of Bucking

ham, in 1619, was the first who had a carriage with six horses

to it ; and the Duke of Northumberland, on obtaining his libera

tion from the Tower (where he had been imprisoned since the
Gunpowder Plot) and hearing that Buckingham was drawn about

with six horses to his carriage, ordered, out of rivalry, eight

horses to be put to his, and in that manner passed from the
                        City." --Haydn's Dictionary.
Tow" eIrn  through the                                 of  luxury.  It is
           the twelfth  century carpets were articles

mentioned by old English historians, as an instance of Becket's

splendid style of living, that his sumptuous apartments were,

every day in winter, strewn with clean straw or hay. This was

about the year 1160. The manufacture of woollen carpets was

introduced into France from Persia at the end of the sixteenth or

beginning of the seventeenth century. Some artisans, who had

quitted France in disgust, came over to England and established
the carpet manufacture among us about 1750. Our Kidder
minster, Axminster, and Wilton manufactures are the growth of

tie last hundred years."-- Ibid.

                                                           C
18 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

orders shall be punctually attended to by your
humble servant, M. C. ; " and, having delivered
himself of this speech, the pushing little carpenter
bowed himself backwards out of the room.
YOUNG HUMPHRY S RESOLVES.  19

                   CHAPTER II.

                    YOUNG HUMPHRY'S RESOLVES.

" THE FIRST AND LAST INN IN ENGLAND, KEPT
BY RICHARD BOTHERAS," was the inscription re
corded on both sides of a sign-board that swung
backwards and forwards outside a little lonely
homestead -- more like a cottage than a tavern --
standing at the extreme western point of Cornwall.

   The open door revealed a room without a visitor;
the floor was white with sea-sand, and you could
tell at a glance, from the evenness with which the
sand was strewn, how scanty were the customers in
that part of the world, for it was plain that no foot
had trodden it that day. Above the ample chimney-
board was ranged a row of bright tin mugs, that had
been worn more by polishing than use. The top
of the little round deal table that stood in the

centre of the room was as clean as if it had

been newly planed ; and over the painted chest of
 drawers, in qne corner, stood what appeared like
 a quire of tea-boards, which, together with the
 written paper pasted against the wall, and in
it,20 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

forming the stranger that " parties were supplied

with hot water," gave one a notion of the many
visitors who came in summer to take tea at the

Land's End.
   The host, from lack of custom, was busy in the

garden at the back, digging in refuse fish as ma
nure for his next year's crop ; and the hostess might
be seen in the adjoining out-house, with her arms
half buried in a cushion of dough, preparing the
week's bread for the humble family.

   Suddenly the innkeeper paused, with his foot
resting on his spade. His quick ear had caught
the clink of a horse's hoofs on the neighbouring
granite. The man put his hand across his brows,
and looked under it in every direction to see who

was coming.

   In a minute or two afterwards he ran to his
wife, crying, " Come, tidy thaself a bit, dame !--
Here's Master Davy on his pony Derby jist at

hand : he's ale in deep black, too."
   The good wife was not long in scraping the

dough from her hands, and, having invested herself
in a clean apron, was quickly at the door beside
her husband, awaiting the arrival of the youthful
visitor.

   As the innkeeper had stated, the lad was dressed
in deep mourning, and the beaver of his hat was

completely hidden by the broad crape band that
encircled while the gloss, upon his clothes indi-
HUMPHRY AT THE LAND S END.
                                                  fage 21.
YOUNG HUMPHRY'S RESOLVES.                                                           21

cated the recent loss he had met with. To a casual

observer there was but little in the youth's ap

pearance to mark the budding genius which in

spired him, excepting the ample forehead and the

full black eyes beneath it. He was, however,
generally considered an " extraordinary - looking
boy." He was of diminutive stature, while the
roundness of his shoulders gave him somewhat --
as it has been termed --of a " bucolic aspect."
His hair was chestnut brown, and hung in neg

lected curls about his brow ; his eyes were dark
and piercing, but the rest of his features were any

thing but finely chiselled. His complexion ap

peared paler than ordinary, from the contrast of
the suit of black in which he was habited, and

the dejected air and wet-looking eye gave a me

lancholy tone to his appearance that immediately
enlisted the heart towards the boy.*

"* Davy, it may be remarked, possessed, when a boy, a coun

tenance which, in its natural state, was very far from comely ;

while his round shoulders, inharmonious voice, and insignificant

manner, were calculated to produce anything rather than a

favourable impression. In riper years he was what might be

called ' good-looking ; ' although, as a wit of the day ob
served, his aspect certainly was of the ' bucolic' character." --

Dr. Paris' Life  of Sir  HDuamvypharsyaDna"vye,xtpr.a3o3rd. inaTrhye-loDookcintogr  after
                                                                                    boy."
wards describes  young
" His manners were retreating and modest," says Mr. Poole

(one of Davy's oldest friends), in a letter to Dr. Paris, speaking

of Sir Humphry in early life; "he was generally thought

naturally graceful, and the upper part of his face was beau

tiful. When he first lectured at the Royal Institution, the
22 THE -WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   The lad said but a word or two in answer to
the greeting of the couple, and jumping from the
saddle, gave the reins to the innkeeper, who forth
with led the plump little animal round to the

stable.

     The instant after the youth had disappeared

among the rocks.
     " Poor lad ! he seems deeply cut up ; doan't he,
            "
Richard         said the wife,         following                her  husband to
           ?

the shed.

     csrauicdi,bl'eTsh.'os"e--eDyers,  were made for something besides   poring
"Iladies                               John Davy's Life of his Brother,  vol. i.

over             was very young," Lady Brownrigg says, in a
p. 136.    Dr.
letter to       Davy, " when I first had the pleasure of seeing

your highly-gifted brother. We had been invited by Dr. Richard

son to go to his cottage at Portrush, to meet the famous

Mr. Davy. We arrived a short time before dinner ; in passing

through a room we saw                  aatyothuitsh,timase)he"  appeared," (Davy was
twenty-eight years of age                                       who had come in from

fishing, and who, with a little note-book, was seated in a

window-seat, having left a bag, rod, &c. on the ground. He was

very intent on this little book, and we passed through unnoticed.

When I went into the drawing-room I felt some little awe at

this great philosopher, annexing to such a character, at least,
the idea of an elderly grave gentleman --not, perhaps, with so

large a wig as Dr. Parr, or so sententious a manner as Dr.
IJohnson --but certainly
                                       never calculated on being introduced

to the identical youth, with a little brown head like a boy, that

Iwe had seen with his book at the window-seat, and who when

came into the drawing-room was, in the most animated manner,

recounting an adventure which had entertained him on the

Causeway, and, from his mode of telling it, was causing loud

laughing in the whole room."-- Given in the Life of Sir Humphry,
      Dr. John Davy, who
b"y  very descriptive of the           speaks of   the above account as being
"    at this time."                    appearance  and manner" of his brother
                          2S

" Ah, that he doa," returned Richard, as he

stooped down under the pony to loosen its girths.
" He's not tha maze-gerry boy he was a little while

agone, ·when he used to come over here, G-reace,

with a hammer a cracking all the stones that lay in

his way into 'midjons and jouds,' and scrambling,
like a young goat, over the rocks after some
trumpery bit of stone as took his fancy --just as

our Jan do after daws' eggs."

   " Yes, that he used to," returned the wife,

taking off her clean apron, and carefully folding

it up as she talked ; " and I've seed Master Hum

phry come back, after being out all day among

the rocks, with his cap full of old stones, as he

Iseemed to prize like as if they was lumps of goold,

but such as wodn't a picked out of 'a stomps' --

not I. Ah ! there's sad trouble at Varfell now,

take my word for     Richard. Mistress Davy,
!

           a
                it,
poor thing has seen enough sorrow in her time to

ha' broke many stout heart; and here she's left

with five young ones, and not cheeld-vean among
                     a    '
                       '              !)

'em as can get    penny to help her. Master
a
          a
Humphry's good scholard, they say; but laming

won't fill the cupboard, Dick and they tells me,
                     ;

down at Penzance, that Mr. Davy (rest his soul
was too fond of wasting his money in mines --as

we've seen many family ruined with in our day--
;
              a

               I
to leave his wife anything to fall back upon at

this time though I'm sure pity the poor widow
24 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

and her little ones from the bottom of my heart,

Ifor it isn't none of their bringings on. Sometimes,

do you know, Dick, fancy as there's a spell on

that poor woman."
" Go                                             "
      along       with  you  and  your  spells      indig
                                                !

nantly shouted the husband, as he held the pail
of water for the pony to drink from ; " you've
always got some stuff of that kind in your head,

IGreace."                                           shall
   " Well, you niay talk as you like, but

Ib'lieve in such things to my dying day," retorted
the superstitious little body. " Didn't             go to

IMadern Well and drop some pins into it ; and

didn't they fall with their pints together, should

like to know ? And wasn't our old sow took ill

the very week afterwards, and died on the very

day as we'd settled to kill her--eh ? Oh ! you're
as unb'lieving as a Jew ; you are, indeed, Dick."

   The innkeeper treated his wife's argument with

a hearty laugh, whereupon the dame proceeded to

cite to him a hundred and one such instances as

were current throughout the county, and in the
midst of which we must leave the worthy couple

for the present.

   The restless, pensive boy, had wandered to the
extreme point of the land, and here, resting upon
a shelf of crag far above the sea, that roared and
dashed against the base, he sat for a while, with
            YOUNG HUMPHRY'S RESOLVES.                    25

his tearful eye peering across the Atlantic, vacantly

gazing at the huge watery disc that heaved like a

giant breast before him. Behind the lad towered

tremendous pinnacles of granite, some with their

monster blocks, ranged in cubes one above the

other, like Nature's solid masonry ; others with

massive stones standing right on end; while some

seemed tossed about in such confusion as if the

"sixth seal" itself had opened, and the heavens

had rained rocks upon the land. Here a large

square lump protruded like a bond-stone from the

straight sides of some tall pile ; there a huge mass

was scored through at the top, leaving the blocks

standing up on either side ofa        as if castellated
                                       it
                                 it,          it ;
and there again was seen ponderous lump, so

delicately balanced on some high peak, that

seemed as the least gust would topple over
            if

into the sea beneath while the outline of the whole;

was as jagged as if had been gnawed, or as ifit

the entire granite pile were some immense crystal

that the sea was gradually dissolving away. Be

low the height the crags stretched far out into

the sea, their black and bluff heads peeping up

at different distances through the waves which

compassed them with ring of the whitest foam
            a
                                a

                                                                                                ;
while at the end of the winding, broken line, there

rose one rock higher than the rest, and on top of

this glistened the silver tower of the light-house,

that, like      star-tipped wand, pointed the way,
26 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

as it gave the first glimpse of home to the re
turning mariner.* Far beyond this, again, the eye
could just trace, in the mist of the distance, the

cloud-like islands f studding the crystal ring of the

horizon, while all the rest was one wide desert of
water stretching away to the Western World, that
even the fancy was weary-winged in its struggle

to reach.

   Nor was the scene behind the narrow tongue of
land that forms the very end of our island less grand
and solemn than that which lay before it. To the
southward the pathway was along the edge of a

precipice that the sea beneath had scooped into a
curve, and here, at one extremity, the ocean had
drilled huge caldron-like cavities in the rock,J and
pouring into these boiled with a roar that made the
cliffs boom again with the noise. Beyond this rose

the majestic headland of " Carn-y-Voel," its sum
mit half veiled by a light scarf of clouds, and its tall
sides, built of granite cubes, rising straight as a
fortress wall from out the sea. Here the ocean
had worked for itself a little bay, where the smooth
green water lay like a mirror, with the shadows of
the yellowish-red cliffs above it reflected deep into

  * These are called the " Long Ships' Rocks," and on one of
them is a "light." British ships passing this pay one halfpenny

a ton, and foreigners one shilling each vessel ; the annual revenue
thus obtained amounting to three thousand pounds.

  t The Scilly Isles.

   + Known by the name of "Enys Dodnan."
YOUNG HUMPHRY'S RESOLVES.                            27

the pool, and trembling, as the surface rippled, into
zig-zag lines that played with a thousand lights and
shades. On the other side of this bay a low granite
cliff jutted out like a buttress, the green ground

above sloping abruptly down ; and against this the

waves beat and dashed till the spray played around

the rocks like a cloud of smoke, and sparkled in the
sun delicately tinted with many a prismatic hue.
Here, again, the ocean had burrowed into the thick
granite wall, while near the verge of the cliff there
was a perpendicular shaft, the sides of which were

smooth and circular, as if they had been drilled

out of the solid rock ; and looking down these, as
down a dark well, the eye could see the white
waves tumbling and tossing below with a terrible

fury.*
    On the northern side of the promontory, called in

 Cornish "Antyer Deweth," or the Land's End, the

headlands were higher than those even on the south,
for there one tall rock rose out of the waves tower

ing high into the air, and formed also of granite
cubes, which looked in the distance so like a suit of
mail, that it had acquired the name of the "Armed
Knight ; " and here at the very top of one of the
craggy summits a singular cross of rock was to be
seen, while as the eye travelled along the curved
and crumpled shore, far away to the north, it rested

  * This is called in Cornish " Tol-Pedn-Penwith,''  which sig

nifies the holed headland on the left hand.
28 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

on the point of land known by the name of " Cape

Cornwall," the outlines and tints of whose slate

cliffs, seen through the atmospheric veil, appeared
soft and blue with the haze of distance.

   Despite the blocks of granite that protruded
through the land, like the bones of the earth itself,
the ground roundabout was rich in parts with
flowers. Now the soil was purple with the richest
heaths, and now it was yellow as a plate of gold
with the bloom of the dwarf-furze, the latter filling
the air with a perfume like apricots, while the
green patches of grass were almost iridescent with
the various wild flowers that peeped with their
delicate blossoms from out the blades. The air, too,
was savoury with the odour of the sea, and fresh
with the spray that, like a dew, brushed against the
cheek. Still amidst the solemn convulsion of rocks
and the vast belt of water which encompassed the
beholder as far as the sight could stretch, a feeling

of overpowering loneliness-- a sense of one's own in

significance and helplessness, such as travellers are

said to feel in deserts --oppressed the mind there --
there, at the very brink, as it were, of one's native
country --the last bit of the land with which all
one's affections and associations were linked --and

rapt in a ghastly silence, that was broken only by
the moan-like booming of the monster sea, as it beat
into the cavities of the cliff far beneath the feet, or,
now and then, by the shrill shrieking of the cor
       YOUNG HUMPHRY'S RESOLVES.                                         29

morant, or the whirr of some passing sea-mew's
wing.*

   The boy sat, as we said, for a while staring
vacantly at the waves that pranced, like curvetting
steeds, before him, and as he did so a heavy tear
drop fell now and then on the moss that spotted the
rock at his feet. Sometimes his lips would move,
though not a word escaped them, and he would

* Davy is said to have delighted as a boy in visiting the Land's

End.   thIne"osTpnheotyoifsahwsipsfuoelkaehrnelyigohpfto,uenmBdoserleoricticusumrLsa, ttiihsnennofoatmlllooewv,eind"gBoplaesrsiuamge,:"in
which

       By busy man ; and no one wanders there

       Save he who follows Nature --he who seeks

       Amidst thy crags and storm-beat rocks to find

       The marks of changes, teaching the great laws,

       That raised the globe from chaos ; or he whose soul

"It Is warm with fire poetic."                  " to understand          how

     is surely not difficult," says Dr. Paris,

it happened that a mind endowed with the genius and sensibility

of Davy should have been directed to the study of chemistry and

mineralogy, when we consider the nature and scenery of the

country in which accident had placed him. . . . Nor could

he have wandered along the rocky coast, nor have reposed for a
....moment to contemplate its wild scenery, without being invited to
geological inquiry.    ' How often, when a boy,' said

Davy to me (adds the Doctor) , on my showing him a drawing of

the wild rock scenery of Botallack Mine, ' have I wandered about

those rocks in search of new minerals, and, when fatigued, sat

down upon the turf,    and exercised my  fancy in anticipation of
                        (Botallack Mine  is situate at St. Just,
scientific renown.' "

a town near to Cape Cornwall, and but a short distance from the

ILand's End.)  "Tbehleieveg,r"anisteaysanDd rs.erJpoehnntineDarvoyc,ks"  of his native
                                                                          the first he
county were,

studied when he commenced the pursuit of geology, and both of

them were to him particularly attractive. The finest examples of
30 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

strike the air with his clenched fist as though a sud

den resolution had crossed his mind ; then a shudder

would pass over his frame, and he would clasp his
forehead with both his hands, and sway his body to
and fro, as he bent his head almost to his knees.

Presently, after a slight pause, he would raise
his head, and with his neck stretched back, look

steadfastly at the heavens as if gazing at some

spirit there. And when this fit was passed, he

these rocks were within a day's ride of Penzance ; and when he

visited home, a young man, he never failed paying the Lizard and

the Land's End a visit, and generally in company with some of

his old school-fellows. I remember when a boy," Dr. D. con

tinues, " being allowed to join one of these parties to the Land's
End, and it was a merry one -- as youthful parties commonly are.

After exploring the cliff scenery, we dined at a tavern at St. Just,

Iand well recollect the boisterous mirth indulged in when the

repast was concluded --the gymnastic feats attempted, the shouts

of applause, the unconstrained laughter, and all that abandonment

of spirit to mirth so common to young persons under excitement,

and which, excepting in youth, can scarcely be felt or enjoyed." --

Life of Sir Humphry Davy.
   In
          the commencement    of a work designed by Sir Humphry
Davy                           of Cornwall," the philosopher himself
          upon " The Geology

g"ivIens  the   following description   of  the rocks  at the   Land's End :
          the  great arrangement of    the  masses of  granite   of Cornwall,

the rock appears composed of an immense number of blocks of

different sizes. This structure is nowhere more perfectly ex

hibited than in the western cliffs. The incessant agency of the

Atlantic, its storms and its waves, have washed away or destroyed

all the loose materials of the shore, and left abrupt eminences of

rock from 50 to 360 feet in height. The arrangement of the granite

is in masses which approach to the cubical form, having, however,

rounded edges, heaped upon each other. . . . The masses

are grand, their colours uniform, and their uniformity increases

the effect upon the eye ; while the arrangements of this kind have
             YOUNG HUMPHRY'S RESOLVES.                                            31

would resume his seat, and clasp his hands as in

prayer.

I ISuddenly the boy started to his feet, crying,
"Yes, I'll do it-- that -will.                            will rescue them
all -- every one -- from the poverty that threatens
Ithem.
             have promised my dead father to do so.
I have prayed God to give me the strength and

firmness to carry out my purpose, and in a few

years our home shall be as happy as it's wretched

a peculiar wildness and sublimity. Nowhere is it seen upon a

greater scale, or in a more magnificent assemblage of forms, than

from a point between the Land's End and Castle Treene. Both

these grand promontories appear extending into the Atlantic ;

the cliffs between them are abrupt and lofty ; the waves are

broken by a number of small island rocks, which are scattered

along the shore. The few portions of soil that appear above the

cliff are covered with short green grass, tufted with heath and

furze, which, in the autumn, present mixed hues of purple and

gold. The rock throughout is of a uniform yellowish red, the

aTtirnheteeanpdeel,rafneocdrtlyb"ecyCooannstdtrale"steTSdrte. trLoyenvt,ha"enabscluheitu-gricrsehetmnosworneo,"fcotahrsreeicstteliyas."wsormit(teCetainms,telises

called -- though the chapel which formerly stood there has been

many years since washed away by the sea, the steps alone now

remaining.   "StT. oLl ePveadnn  lies a little            to the eastward of the head
land called                      PenwitJi."                A short distance from St.

Levan is "   Port Carnow Cove," which is bounded on the eastern

side by rocks that jut far into the waves, and rise to a great

height,  tbheeinngobhleeapheedadolnaendoncaanlleotdhe"r,   in magnificent order.   Here
stands                                                    Castle Treryn," above   whose

summit two huge slanting and imposing masses of granite pro

trude. There is a fissure between these masses leading to a

smaller group of granite rocks, on the top of which the huge

Logan stone (weighing some 65 tons) stands so delicately poised,
that by clambering to a fearful height atone of the angles, it may

be made to sway to and fro with the least force.
32 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

I Inow.
feel as if had just woke from a long

dream. What a thoughtless, idle fool, I've been!
but it's past --never to return. Poor mother ! I've

Icost her many a tear, know, of late. How have
I Iwasted this last year, when should have been

at some business seeking the means of adding to

If Imy mother's comforts, instead of lessening the little
that is left her at such a time as this !  had

only worked instead of squandering my time in

Isilly pleasures, might now have been a help to
Iher rather than the wretched burden am--with

out the power to earn a crust for myself. What do

I know that is of use to any one ? Who would
Igive me a penny for anything that can do ? and

yet I'm old and strong enough to get my own living.
Oh, shame ! shame ! that I, at my time of life,

If Ishould have to take from poor mother's little store.

   I'd had a proper spirit, should have felt this

long ago: but no matter, it's ended now; and I'll

go to work and so fill my mind with knowledge

Ithat mother shall soon be as pleased about me, as

know, poor thing ! she has been pained of late. Yes,

Iand father will watch over me ; know he will.
IOh ! if could only have changed before he died,

what a comfort it would have been to him in his

last moments : but as it was, I, like a wretch, let

him leave me in doubt as to what was to become of
I Ifme. Why didn't wake up before ?
                                           it had

only been a month ago, he might have felt no pain
            YOUNG HUMPHRY'S RESOLVES.   33

on my account. Oh, shame ! shame ! but, thank God,

I'm different now, and I'll go back home and tell

I Imother all mean to do. I've the power in me --
Iknow have. I'll go back and tell her not to
Igrieve, and that I'll do all can to help her and

my brother and sisters for the future."*

  * Dr. John Davy says, "The greater part of the year fol

lowing" (the period of his quitting Dr. Cardew's school at
Truro, which Humphry did at the age of fifteen, when his school

education was considered as complete) ·'.' he was, I believe, in an

unsettled state, studying in a desultory manner, by fits and starts,
and yielding to the allurements of occasional dissipation, and the
amusements "which constitute the delight of active youth-- as

fishing, shooting, swimming, and solitary rambles. This was

perhaps the most dangerous period of his life, and in conversation
Kith me he has so spoken of it. Amusement threatened for a time

to obtain the mastery, and keep him down to the common level ;

but his good genius triumphed, and, after a few months' vacilla

tion, he applied himself in earnest to the cultivation of his mind

and to the acquisition of knowledge ; and the name once kindled

burnt on till it expired in death." Speaking of the circumstances

which induced Humphry to relinquish all his boyish habits about

the period of his father's death, his brother says:-1-- "This

Ievent, probably, had a powerful effect in giving steadfastness to

his resolution, and am quite certain that the circumstances of
his family became with him an additional and powerful motive to

exertion."

"Like most young persons, Humphry when a boy," says Dr.

John Davy, "was fond of declaiming, and indulged in it in his

solitary walks and     rambles. On one occasion it is recorded of him,
                       visit a poor patient in the country " (during his
that, on his way  t"o  in the fervour of declamation, he threw out of
apprenticeship),

his hand a phial of medicine which he had to administer, and that

when he arrived at the bed-side of the poor woman he was sur

prised at the loss of it. The potion was found the next day in a

tay-field adjoining the path" (p. 55).
34 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                 CHAPTER III.

                   HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.

THE resolution once formed, young Humphry
hastened to convey the glad tidings to his mother,
and as he rode along he kept talking to himself all
the way, running over the many "fine things" he
meant to do for the future, and dreaming that some
day he might perhaps become distinguished for his
learning and wisdom. He amused himself, too, by

speculating as to what he would do with his money if

he ever got to be rich. He would have his little bro
ther John well educated then, and comfortably started
in life. Yes ! and he would give up his share in the

property at Varfell to his mother and sisters--that
he would do first of all; and if he grew to be a

very wealthy man, he would give a certain sum of
money to the Grammar-school, so that the boys

might have a holiday every year on his birthday --

he would like to be able to do that, for then he
would be remembered by them as long as the school
lasted. Further, he would give something a year
to his aunt Sampson's Phillis, and his aunt Millett's
maid as well. Poor Mary Launder and Betty
HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.                                                        35

White should get something, too ; and he would

have a number of old pensioners besides, that had

known him when he was young. He would take

care, moreover, that his pony Derby and his dog

Chloe wanted for nothing in their old age, and

wherever he might be he would have a box of

apples sent him at Christmas from the tree he had

planted in the garden when he was a little fellow.*

On reaching the humble farm at Varfell, Hum

phry found his mother seated beside a table, the

  * The greater number of these resolves were fulfilled in after
life. Dr. John Davy says : -- "The interest he took in me more

resembled that of a father than a brother, and it is with peculiar

pleasure I reflect on his various kindnesses --my numerous obli

gations, many of which were delicately concealed at the time --his

valuable hints and generous regard to my studies, leaving me free
to follow the bias of my own mind -- and his excellent advice in

respect to my conduct, in which was always infused a native

nobleness of sentiment well adapted to stir up virtue in a young

mind." In one of his letters to his brother, Sir Humphry says,
-- " You must study your own plans with respect to study. Pray

do not care about the expense, if it adds anything to the comfort

or respectability of your situation. I will, if you like, send you

40Z. a year, in addition to what my mother sends you. My dear

John, let no difficulties alarm you; you may be what you please.
Let no example induce you to violate decorum -- no ridicule pre

vent you from guarding against sensuality or vice. Live in such

a way that you can always say the whole world may know what I

am doing."

  Dr. Paris says: -- "No sooner had Davy found himself in a

situation which secured for him the necessaries of life, than he

renounced all claims upon his paternal property in favour of his
mother and sisters." In a letter to one of his sisters, Davy says :

-- " I enclose a one-pound note, which you will lay out in books or
                             I
in anything else you like.      enclose another   omnea-npnoeurnd: --n"otTeo,  which
I wish to have disposed     of  in the following                               Mary
86 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

top of which was black with a hillock of little

skirts and bodies that she had been busy making up
for the children's. week-day wear. The quick eye
of the boy could distinguish as he glanced at the
pile of mourning that the gloss of the bombazeen
was dulled in places with the tears that had fallen

upon it.
   Humphry, from a sense of the grief that per

vaded the house, had entered the room so softly
that his presence was unperceived by the widow, and

Launder, 5s. ; to Betty White, 5s. ; and with the rest you will buy
some ribbons or little articles of dress for the Doctor's Jenny, my

aunt Sampson's Phillis, my aunt Millett's maid, and my mother's
servant, as New-year's gifts." In another letter he writes thus :

" I enclose a ten-pound note, which I beg you will lay out in the

way you think best for my sister's children and any old pensioners
                       in my youth." "No Swiss
t"haetvekrnesiwghmede                              peasant,"  says Dr. Paris,
                       more deeply for his native  mountains   than did Davy

for the scenes of his early years. He entreated his nurse (when
ill at the Royal Institution) to convey to his friends his ardent

·wish to obtain some apples from a particular tree which he had

planted when a boy, and he remained in a state of restlessness

and impatience until their arrival." Moreover, it should be

stated, that, in addition to his will, he left at his death a paper

of directions, which have been religiously observed by his widow.
In these he desires that the interest arising from 100J. stock may

be annually paid to the master of the Penzance Grammar-school,

on condition that the boys may have a holiday on his birthday.

"There is something," adds Dr. Paris, "singularly interesting

in this favourable recollection of his native town and of the asso

ciations of his early youth. It adds one more example to show,

that, whatever may have been our destinies, and however fortune

may have changed our condition, where the heart remains un-

corrupted we shall, as the world closes upon us, fix our imagina

tions upon the simplicities of our youth, and be cheered and warmed

by the remembrance of early pleasures."
          HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.                       37

for a minute or two be stood watching his mother

as she sat there with her flooded eyes fixed intently

on the large carved oak-chair (her late husband's
handiwork) that stood beside the mantel-piece. Her
cheek rested on her hand, and it was plain by the

fixedness of her gaze that the seat was no longer

empty to her, and that her mind was far away in

the past.

   The sight of that sad wife, widowed almost in

her youth, was sufficient to have touched many a
stouter heart than young Humphry's. The widow's

hair was still unsilvered by age, and its blackness
contrasted forcibly, and even painfully, with the

close white muslin cap that half concealed it. The
dead black of the crape made her cheek as pale

as marble, while the tears that dewed her eyes gave

them an almost glassy look, so that they seemed
jettier than usual. Her face, though young in
years, was prematurely old in expression, for the

features,- which were naturally well formed, were

pinched ; and there was an air of mild resignation

over the countenance that told you the poor woman

had long ago learnt to bear affliction, almost with
out complaint. Nor did it need a second glance to

discern the tenderness and affection of her nature,*

  * " In  all the various  sDitauvayti,on"sshoef  life  in which my mother was
          says Dr. John                            so   conducted herself as to
placed,"

gain the regard and good-will of every one. She possessed a

most kind and affectionate heart, a pious mind, sound under

standing, and perfect integrity. She was devoted to the perform
88 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

-- for though there was a settled melancholy in her

face, there was still so much kindliness in its ex

pression that the heart could not help extending to

her the sympathy that it knew she would be the

first to afford to others who had seen as much

trouble as she herself had in the course of the few

years that had passed over her head.

Humphry drew towards his mother's chair, and

resting against the back curled his arm gently

about her neck. So unexpected, however, was the

embrace, that the widow shrieked with alarm as she

was suddenly roused from her melancholy reverie.

The next moment, pleased at the idleness of her

fright, she clasped the pet boy to her ; and while

the tears gushed from her eyes she kissed him

again and again, as though she loved him the more

now that he and her other children were all that

she had left to engross her affection.        said Hum

   "What! in tears again, mother?"             " Nay, do

phry, in a tone of kindly remonstrance.

ance of all her duties, and was remarkably free from all guile and

foolish pride. When she became a widow, she was in her

thirty-fourth year, with five children, all of whom were still to be

educated, excepting Humphry, her eldest son. Her income at

this time was about 150Z. a-year, and it was encumbered with a

debt of about 1300Z., contracted by my father chiefly in conse

quence of losing speculations in mining. Her good resolutions

did not fail her on this trying occasion ; she met all her difficulties

with courage and prudence."       mother,     says, -- " She was
   Dr. Paris, speaking of Davy's

remarkable for the placidity of her temper and for -the amiable

and benevolent tendency of her disposition."
       HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.                  39

not grieve," he added, as the widow rested her head

I Ion his bosom, " have come to promise you that

will do all in my power for my brother and
sisters."*

   " But what can you do, Humphry, my good lad ?"

asked the mother, as she looked up through her tears

and smiled at the youth. " It will take you some

years before you can earn a livelihood, and even

then perhaps you will gain only sufficient for your

own wants. What is to become of my little ones is

Imore than can bear to think of. How you, too,

Humphry, are to be put out in the world, I'm sure

I cannot say. My means, when all the debts are

paid, will be only 1001. a-year, if that."

   " There, there ; have no trouble on my account,
mother," returned the lad. " I've made up my

mind to lay aside all my idle habits, and to set hard

Ito work at something directly --though cannot tell
Iwhat, just now; and you shall see won't be long
Ibefore make you all happy here."

The mother half laughed at the sanguineness of

her son, and said, when she had kissed him for his

kindness, " But you talk like a boy, Humphry. You

Idon't know how hard it is to earn money yet."
" Yes  do, mother," replied the determined

  * " My brother," says Dr. John Davy, " at the time of my

father's death was sixteen years old. Seeing her (Mrs. Davy) in
great affliction, he, in a very affectionate manner, begged her
b'nroothtertoangdriesviset,e' rss.'ay"ing that-' he would do all he could for his
40 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

I Iyouth, as he pressed her hand. " But feel have

the power in me, and I'll do you shall see:---all by
                   I
                             it,

                           iIf
                                I

                                                       a
myself too-- aye, that will,  have to study

night and day. You don't know what lesson

poor father's death has been to me.  never saw

you in grief before, and all this last week my mind

has been at work, for your tears were more than           III

could bear. Not a night of late has past but

have reproached myself over and over again that

had wasted the last year of my life, instead of doing

something that would have given me the power to

help you at such time as this. When heard Mr.
               aa         I
                                 I
Tonkin, too, talking with you the other day about
the money you would have to live upon, and heard

him say that was high time should cease being
         a it
    burden to you,-- yes, those were his words,a

mother -- burden" (and the boy would have
   Ia
turned away from the widow, but she held his

hand) " felt the blood rush into my face with

shame, and new spirit came over me.  II                   didn't

say anything to you, mother, at the time, because         aI

thought could hardly trust myself; but went on
   it
thinking was burden to you, and the heaviest
     II
burden of all, too. So kept brooding and brood
                   I
                      aI
ing over, until at last made a solemn deter

mination that, instead of burden, would be
                              !I I
help to you and my brother and sisters for the

future. have sworn motherit,         have promised
   I

my poor father to do so this very day -- alone
HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.  41

Iamong the rocks made the vow, and I'm sure he

I I Iheard me, for feel as never felt before, and
Iknow I've the power to do as have said."

The mother in her delight hugged the boy

passionately to her bosom, and as her tears fell

thick and hot upon him she said through her sobs,

I" You have the power, know, Humphry ; and if

this sad bereavement which has come upon us all

does but stir you to make use of the genius that is
in you, it will be indeed almost a recompense for

Ithe heavy loss we have sustained. When you were

but a child, used to tell your dear father of the

Ibright hopes had of you, Humphry, and that
I was sure you would be very clever some day ;

though he, poor man ! only smiled at my words, and

thought it was my over- fondness that made me

/ Ifancy as much, saying all mothers did the same.

But knew differently, Humphry ; could see you
were not like other children, and even from an in

fant there was hardly anything babyish about you.
When you were only five years old you made rhymes
of your own, and used to recite them in the Christmas

Igambols, and knew there was no little thing of that

age that could do the same thing in these parts."

   "Yes, I've often heard you say so, mother,"

added the boy, smiling at the youthful reminis

cence.

 I" You were a very forward child--from a baby

may say, Humphry," continued the proud mother,
42 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

as she passed her fingers through the lad's hair, and

brushed it from his forehead, -- for she half forgot

her sorrow as the recollection of her pet boy's feats
stole, one after another, across her mind. " Why,

you were only nine months old when you walked

oflf, all by yourself; and you could speak as well,

and fluently, as a little man, before you were two

Iyears of age. Shall tell you, too, what you said

when your sister Kitty was born ? -- little sharp

thing as you were ! The servant had been assuring

you day after day, that when the baby came you'd

be no longer petted in the way you had been, -- for

then, as the maid said, ' your nose would be put out

of joint.' This seemed to make a great impression

upon you, for directly you saw little Kitty you put

your chubby fat hand up to your face, and cried,
' Mamma ! my nose not out of joint at all.' "

  " Did I?" laughed Humphry.

   " Yes, that you did," said the mother. " Ay,

and before you had learnt to write you used to

copy the figures in ' JSsop's Fables,' and print the
Inames of them in big letters underneath.
                                           really

think, too, you couldn't have been more than four

Iyears old when you could recite a good part of
' Pilgrim's Progress.' All know  is,you did so

                                     ;
                                                         a
before you could well read the book for your

memory was so great, that anything you had heard

once or twice you could repeat, almost without

mistake, afterwards; and when you were sent to
               HUMPHET AND HIS MOTHER.                                 43

Mr. Bushell's school -- you remember old Mr.

Bushell, Humphry -- you made such rapid progress
there in your reading and writing, that though you

were only six years of age, the old gentleman,

against his own interest, recommended your poor

Ifather to remove you to the Grammar-school."*
" When you could read, too,                                  often watched

  * " It is    reinmfaenmcyb,ered","thastaysheDwr.alJkoehdn  Davy,    speaking of Sir
                                                             off (to
Humphry's                                                             use a nursery
Iphrase) when he was just nine months old ; and have been told,

that before he was two years of age he could speak fluently.

About this time my eldest sister was born, and he was told by a
servant, that on her appearance ' his nose would be put out of

joint.' On seeing the baby, it is related of him, that he put his
hand to his nose, and said, ' Mamma, my nose not out of joint.'

Before he had learned to write, he amused himself with copying
the figures in ' ^Esop's Fables,' and under his drawings, in great

letters, he contrived to give them their names. His memory

was very retentive, in proof of which it is handed down in the

family, that when very young he could recite a great part of ' Pil

grim's Progress,' even before he could well read it. I believe
Ithat, like Pope, he lisped in numbers.
                                                             remember hearing my

mother say, that when scarcely five years old he made rhymes,

and recited them in the Christmas gambols. His disposition

as a child was remarkably sweet and affectionate. . . The first

school he was sent to was that of a Mr. Bushell, at which reading

and writing only were taught. This master, then an old man,

remarking the rapid progress of his young pupil (he was then
six years old), in a very disinterested manner recommended my

fath"eIrttois  remove him to   the Grammar-school."          perhaps,  of being
                a fact," says   Dr. Paris, "worthy,

recorded, that Humphry Davy would, at the age of five years,
turn over the pages of a book as rapidly as if he were merely

engaged in counting the leaves or in hunting after pictures, and

yet, on being questioned, he could generally give a very satis

factory account of the contents. The same faculty was retained

by him through life."
44 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Iyou at your books, and saw you turn over the
pages so fast, that   fancied you were merely

Icounting them, or hunting for pictures ; but on

talking to you about the book used to find, to
my astonishment, that you had read it through
in that short time, and that you really knew alj

       and could give a much better account of
itabout

            it,

                                                                                          ;
than children who might have taken hours, or

perhaps days, to get through it."

Humphry drew closer to his mother, and pressed

her hand between his palms as he looked up in her

face, and smiled with delight to hear her run over

all the feats of his youthful genius for with the

history of each little wonder he felt the faith he
wished to have in his own powers grow stronger in

him, and he shook his head proudly as he inwardly
thought of the greater wonders he would achieve

in the time to come.           as he seated himself

   " Go on, mother," he said,  feet, " tell me some

on the stool at the widow's

more things  used to do when was a little
I
            I

                  aI

                                  it

                            I
                               I

                                    iIf
                                       I

                                            I
fellow --tell me some more, they fill me with the

same hope as you say they did you, and want

to have all the trust can in myself; for I've made

up my mind to be great man, and                                                              doubt my

power to accomplish the task have set myself,

shall, perhaps, give  up almost at the first

difficulty. Tell me something more, mother;

want all the faith in myself you can give me."
HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.              45

  I I" wish could give you as much confidence in

Iyour own powers, Humphry, as have in them,"

returned the widow, " though now you begin to

Ispeak with all the aspirations have longed to see
Icoming upon you ; and for the last year cannot
Itell you how grieved have been to behold one, of
Iwhom had formed such high hopes, giving him

self up to pleasures that serve to breed only habits

of thoughtless amusement rather than wise reflec

I Ition."  have pained you, mother," added
   " know
Humphry, " but it's all at an end now. You re
Imember when was at the Grammar-school, how

Mr. Coryton used to pull my ears for not minding

I Ithe lessons he set me. But do you know, mother,
  have often thought, that though learnt little at

Mr. Coryton's school, it was, perhaps, better after

Iall that should have been left to teach myself ;

for what we learn from our own liking, we seldom

I Iforget ; and am sure remember more about the
I Ibooks have had from Mr. Tonkin, and that used
Ito read through one after the other as fast as
Icould get them, than all the Latin and Greek was

forced to get by heart at school."*

  * " The Rev. Mr. Coryton (the master of the Grammar-school)

was a man of irregular habits, and ill-fitted for the office of teach
ing youth. He was occasionally severe, and punished heavily
slight offences. Pulling the boys' ears was practised by him in
the most capricious manner, and my brother was too frequently a

sufferer from this infliction. It is recorded of Humphry Davy,
46 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   " Ah, but Mr. Coryton," interrupted the mother,
" was a man little fitted for teaching youth,

Humphry. He was careless about the boys' studies,

Iand often very severe for the slightest faults.

remember once you went to school, unknown to me,

with a large plaster on each ear, and when Mr.
Coryton asked you ' what was the matter with your

ears,' you told him ' that you had put the plasters on

to prevent a mortification.' But if you didn't stand

very well with the master, you were at least in high
favour with the boys, Humphry, for you used to do
the Latin and English verses for half the school ;

and as for writing valentines and love-verses, why

I am sure your play-time was mostly taken up with

that he appeared before Mr. Coryton with a large plaster on each

ear, and that when asked by his master ' what was the matter

with his ears,' he replied with   amvoerrtyifigcraatvioenf.a' c"e,--'  that he had put
the plasters on to prevent a                                           Dr. John Davy,

p. 14. In a letter to             his mother,   Sir Humphry Davy says,

speaking of this school,          " I consider  it fortunate that I was left

much to myself as a child, and put upon no particular plan of

study, and that 1 enjoyed much idleness at Mr. Coryton's school.

I Iperhaps owe to these circumstances the little talents that have,
Iand their peculiar application. What I am, have made myself.
I say this without vanity, and in pure simplicity of heart."

Davy seems, indeed, to have been more distinguished out of

school, and by his comrades, than by any great advance in learn
       " From his
ing.                fa"cihliitsy  in composing   Latin  and English verse,"
says  his brother,                assistance in  these  exercises was often

requested, even by boys much older than himself ; and in writing

valentines and love-letters, he shone so pre-eminently, and gave

his aid so willingly, that he is said to have been generally resorted

to, on all emergencies of boyish loves. Another cause of popu

larity among his comrades was his power of diverting them by
             HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.                                                                                                          47

scribbling rhymes to first Miss This and then Miss

That for some little urchin in a jacket, who fancied

himself to be smitten with the young lady. Then

of an evening you were always to be found under

the balcony of the Star Inn-- for you were shel
tered there --with a group of boys round about you ;

and, if there happened to be a cart on the spot, you

would be sure to mount and there you'd remain!I I
                           it,
narrating all kinds of romantic stories to the littlea

mob of school-fellows who came regularly to listen

to you.  ;I  never knew such boy for story-telling

as you were, Humphry  have many time heard
                                                 a

you make up the strangest kind of tales out of your

own head and while was in the parlour at work,

telling them stories and so attractive were the tales, commonly
             ;

of wonder and terror, which he related, that they were in the

habit in an evening of collecting at a particular place to wait for

him, as under the balcony of the Star Inn, which afforded shelter,

and where, there happened to be cart, he would get into it,if
and hold forth to his young audience." (Idem, p. 15.) " The
earliest indication that am aware of," says Davy's brother,
" which he showed of his fondness for experimenting, was in
                I
                                       a

making fire-works. My eldest sister well remembers that she

was his assistant in this undertaking, and that their workshop

was an unfurnished room, in which, in bad weather, the Rev. Dr.

Tonkin (the elder brother of Mr. John Tonkin, the friend of our

family), then advanced in age and a valetudinarian, took exercise
on his chamber-horse -- large arm-chair attached to spring
'
              a                                                                                                                               the in
                                               a                                                                                               Paris,
                                                               a                                                                              of pre

                                                                                                  a
bgsproeeadardikesinn, tgswohofifchthhiseboysaqoruduistbhsfsuaelnrvdaemdcursafoecrmkeernstt.as",ble""fwoDarsacvoiynm,"pthosueanyhdsainbDgitr.

paring detonating composition, to which he gave the name of

thunder powder,' and which he would explode on stone, to the

great delight of his young playfellows" (p. 5).
;45 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

      it,II used to listen to you, as you and young Batten

sat out in the porch, with your arms curled round
each other's necks, and you would be there hour
after hour ; for you were never tired of inventing,
nor he tired of listening to the stories of wonder

Iand terror you both delighted in."
   " can remember it all well, mother," added

IHumphry. " And do you recollect how fond was

of making fireworks, and how Kitty used to help me
till her fingers were as black as sticks of liquorice
with the gunpowder ; and how we used to mix up

the composition for our squibs and crackers on the
spring-boards of old Dr. Tonkin's chamber-horse
that stood in the empty room, when we lived at
Penzance, and that the poor old gentleman used to
take his exercise upon in wet weather ? "

  I" Yes, that do, Humphry," smiled Mrs. Davy ;

" and many a time you have nearly frightened me

out of my wits with your ' thunder-powder,' as
you called which you used to delight in putting
under the chairs, so that the moment any one sat
down, there was such an explosion that everybody
in the room felt as though all their bones had
been suddenly broken. Your poor father only per
ceived in such tricks an idle, thoughtless disposi

tion but women see more keenly into character
than men, and not only recollected, but knew, the

quick boy you were, and how rapidly you could
acquire anything to which you applied yourself;
besides,       HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.  turn        49

          I had noticed your inventive        from

a child, and the force of your imagination in the

stories you made up and the poems you had written

I--for at twelve you had composed an epic that

have by me still ;--and all these things gave me

assurances that one day you would take a foremost

place among the great men of the country. A

mother's heart may have led me to have these

hopes of you, Humphry ; my understanding, how

ever, convinced me that they were not mere dreams

begotten by affection, but conclusions calmly come

to after narrowly watching --as a mother only can
watch --every little turn and trait in your cha

racter."

   " No, mother ! " burst out the boy ; " they are

not dreams, but clear foreseeings ; and you yourself

shall witness the realisation of them before many

Iyears have passed."  may live to do so, my boy,"

   " God grant that

murmured the widow, as she raised her eyes to
          " ' Life,' as some wise man says, ' has
heaven.

few better things to give than a talented son,' and

it seems to me there can be no greater pleasure

to a mother's heart than to witness the genius

which she has watched bud and expand from year

to year ripen into excellent wisdom, and come to be

acknowledged and reverenced by the world at

large -- no joy more exquisite to a woman's nature

than that which she must surely experience on

                                        E
00 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

finding that the mind which she had tended from

its very dawn --catching up the first glimpses of

intellect, and garnering them in her bosom as house
hold wonders and bright things of promise --has
fulfilled all her best hopes, and that the visions she

had formed of the fame and honour that were to

attend her boy in after-life have not been mere
dreams of her admiration or her pride. But rather,

that the being whom she has loved, and wished to

have loved by others, lives to be at length praised

and esteemed by all, for the talents and virtues that

she was the first to notice and to foster. This,

Humphry, is the brightest and sweetest reward a

woman can meet with in her old age ; and, having

          she parts from life with sense of duty
Iareaped
                it,
                I
                                a it
                             I
                                                                          a
                                                                                                    ;
fulfilled, and a feeling that the affection with

which she welcomed her child into existence,

and the care with which she tended him in his

youth, have not been unprofitably bestowed, but

repaid her in the richest coin the world can offer to

parent."

Humphry for a while remained in silence, while

his mother's words sank deep into his soul then

he said, softly, " May be my proud lot, mother,

to render you such reward.  am thankful to

the Creator that have passed through the most
dangerous portion of my life with few errors, and

hope to devote myself for the future to pursuits

useful to mankind, and which in after years may
          HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.                                                            51

perhaps obtain for me the applause of enlightened
men." *

   The widow laid her hand on the boy's head as he

sat at her feet, and she said, solemnly, " My blessing

be on you, my son. May God give you strength to
                                 "
maintain  your  noble  purpose
                                !

   Then she threw her arms about him, and bursting

into a flood of tears, cried, " Oh, my boy ! my boy !
you know not how happy you have made me.

ITour words are like oil to my wounded heart.

Sometimes, of late, have wondered why it should
please Providence to visit me so sorely--me, who

never knowingly injured any one in thought or

Iact. And yet, even almost in my infancy, was

deprived of father and mother at one blow, so

that the very features of my parents are unre-

Imembered by me, *nd the blessing of their love

a joy was scarcely allowed to taste. And now,

before my own children are able to help them

Iselves, he who would have been their best pro

tector is snatched from me, and again am alone

Iin life, bereft of the love and care had hoped

* The above are Davy's own words, taken from a fragment of

a letter which his brother says exists in one of Sir Humphry's

note-books, kept during his youth, and which was addressed to

one of his early home friends, the letter itself being descriptive of

htoiswenssc.ape"Afronmatchteivevicmesinwdh,"ichhearwe rtihteesm, o"sta  seductive to youth   in
                                                                         deep ideal feeling  of

good, a look towards future greatness, has preserved me from

these."
82 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

to share for years to come, and left with five

young children, and only a woman's arm to shield

them from the bufferings of the world. It needs

no little faith in the goodness of God, Humphry,

Ito believe that there is mercy in all this ; and often,
in the bitterness of my tribulation,    have been

wicked enough to doubt it : for I, with my mind dis

Itempered by suffering, could discover no trace of

kindness in it all. But now see the purpose of

my affliction. It was to stir you, Humphry, to be

a protector to your brother and sisters --to develop

the high and noble nature with which you had been

gifted, and to raise up to me a son, the glory of

Iwhose future renown should be something like a

recompense to me for the partner have lost--a son

who should be the means of contributing not only

Ito the comfort and happiness of my children, but to
the welfare of mankind at large. Yes !  under

stand the reason of my trials now : and look you,

Imy dear boy, how good comes of evil. The first pri

vation and your aunts suffered was the means of

creating for us such a friend as is seldom met with

Iin this world ; mean Mr. Tonkin, who was not

only a father to me and my sisters, but has ex

tended his goodness to our children --for you, Hum

phry, have passed more of your time with him than

under your poor father's roof. And now, no sooner
is my husband taken from me than you --the giddy

boy, who had of late been so absorbed in pleasure
HUMPHRY AND HIS MOTHER.                      53

I Ithat
had almost begun to think the hopes
had formed were nothing but a mother's vanity--

become quickened in an instant with a new nature,

ifas suddenly exalted into manhood, instinct with

generous purposes and noble determinations ; and,

though you are but a mere youth in years, ready

to supply the place of a father to your brother and

sisters, and a friend and protector to me."
                   THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                    CHAPTER IV.

               THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.

A FEW months had wrought a great change in the

household at Varfell.
   The widow, when the stupor of her grief had

passed away, and the mental absorption of her first
sorrow had given place to the calm reflection of
melancholy, soon began to see that the comforts
and education of her children demanded energy
rather than tears from her.

   Then came the struggle. What could she do to
help them ? And what would the people think

and say if this or that were done ?

   But Mrs. Davy was not the woman to be
daunted by the petty exultation of neighbours ; so
that when an opportunity offered for her to embark
in business as a milliner in the neighbouring town,

it cost her hardly a pang -- free as she was from
all silly pride -- to sink from the worldly rank of

the gentlewoman into the humbler station of the
trader.
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.  55

    Accordingly, after consulting with Mr. Tonkin
 upon the matter, she was duly installed, in con
junction with a young French lady, as dressmaker
and milliner, in a little shop in the town of Pen-

 zance.

    Nor was Humphry long in finding a fitting occu
pation. Mr. Tonkin, to whom the youth had com

municated all his determinations, and who loved

the youth almost as if he had been a child of his

own (for the greater part of Humphry's life had
been passed with the old gentleman), was as
pleased as the widow had been to hear of the new

spirit that had come upon the lad ; and although
the boy's foster-father was not so sanguine as his
mother had been of the world-wide renown that

awaited Humphry in after life, he had, neverthe
less, sufficient faith in the talents of the youth to
believe that he might, by application, ultimately
win his way to competence and respect among the
circle of his native town. Accordingly, when the
ardent boy spoke to the calm old man of the fame
and honours he had made up his mind to gain

throughout Europe --saying, with all the fervour of

a boy-poet's nature, that he was resolved his mind
should become a light to all nations, and that his
name should be linked with noble associations in

every enlightened country, Mr. Tonkin smiled
incredulously (but still with good humour) at the
66 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

ambitious dreams of the lad, and told him he was

afraid one so young as he knew not how difficult it

was to excel, even in the most trivial thing, when

we had the entire world for rivals ; and that
powers which appeared great in the narrow circle
of our own family, grew less and less as the arena

of competition was widened. Therefore, if the

youth, instead of regarding the whole of Christen
dom as the theatre in which his future powers
were to be displayed, would but limit his views
to the humble town of Penzance, Mr. Tonkin said

he thought Humphry might, with industry and
prudence, some day attain a reputable position
in the neighbourhood ;* adding, that he should
consider himself well rewarded for the care and

   * When Davy was offered the appointment of Superintendant
of the Pneumatic Institution at Bristol, " he accepted it," says
his brother, " with the consent of all his friends, excepting Mr.

John Tonkin, who had hoped he would have       s"ettwleads  at  Penzance ;
and who," Dr. Davy tells us in another place,               so  angry with

Humphry for accepting the appointment, that he made some

alteration in his will in consequence." Dr. Paris's version of the

affair is as follows: "His old and valued friend, Mr. Tonkin,

not only expressed his disapprobation of the scheme, but was so

vexed and irritated at having his favourite plan of fixing Davy in

his native town as a surgeon thus thwarted, that he actually

altered his will, and revoked the legacy of his house, which he

had previously bequeathed him. Mr. Tonkin died on the 24th

December, 1801 ; so that, although he lived long enough to wit

ness Davy's appointment to the Royal Institution, he could never

have anticipated the elevation to which his genius and talents ulti
mately raised him." --Life of Sir Humphry Davy, p. 39.
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.  67

affection he had bestowed upon Humphry if he

should live to see him -settled as a surgeon in his
native town.

  It was a lovely autumn evening, -- such an even

ing as, at the decline of the year, is known only in
those parts of our island which, from the mildness
of their climate, have been styled " the Florence of
the North." Mr. Tonkin and Humphry had strolled
out by Marazion towards St. Michael's Mount,
journeying along the curved shore of the magnifi
cent bay, with the ocean spread out on one side, in
a broad expanse of unsullied azure, and fringed
with a thin border of silver foam, as the waves
came rippling la/ily over the yellow sands. As
they sauntered along, the breeze at sundown began
to set from the land towards the ocean, and, sweep
ing across the warm earth, it came laden with the
perfumes of the many exotics that bloom in the

open air in that part of the world -- the garden of

England ; for it was just the hour when the flowers

love to pour their odours into the lightened air,
like incense from a thousand chalices. The rays
of the declining sun gave a faint tint of purple to
the atmosphere, and the green sward, that was still
lustrous with the slanting light, was striped, here
and there, with the long shadows that streamed
from every object intercepting the beams ; while
the outlines of each form were growing more and
S8 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

more definite, and the sides and peaks of the rocks

glittered towards the west, as if they were blazoned

with red gold. The brown cattle were quiet in the
fields, and the tranquil flocks on the distant hill

sides rested there like clouds ; the branches of the

trees beside the roadwaj were shaggy, almost to
the tops, with the long stalks of wheat that dangled

from the twigs, telling of some high-laden harvest-

waggon that had lately swept by them. The white-

bellied swallows skimmed low over the earth in

zigzag lines, twittering as they went ; and there

was a soothing stillness all around that bathed the

soul in balmy quietude.

Towards the sea the scene was no less beautiful.

The ocean was like a huge green gem, and here

and there on its surface tiny boats seemed to revel
in the sundown breeze, now that it had sprung up,

and leant over on one side, as they went plough

ing through the liquid field, turning up the white

surf on their way, and leaving far behind them

a long trail, that looked in the distance like a
seam upon the water ; while in the offing tall ships

stood against the sky, with their sails pouting and
shining white in the sun, like a pigeon's breast.
Nearer the shore rose the majestic rocky mount of
St. Michael, towering above the sea like one of

Nature's pyramids, with the broken outline of its

ivied sides showing sharp and clear against the

grey, ariel distance ; one half of  it,  towards the
THE FIHST DRINK AT THE WELL.                                                      59

east, was dusked in deep rich shadow, while the

other, towards the west, was bathed in such a

glory of ruby light, that the Mount shone as if it

had been one huge carbuncle studding the bright

shield of the ocean. Then, in the far west, the sky

and the sea were as a sheet of molten gold ; and,

almost resting on the ring of the horizon, was seen

the round, liquid orb of the sun, trembling like a

well of light, with the broad beams streaming up

wards from  and tinting the distant masses of
a

                it,

                                                                   ;
                                                                               a
cloud, now ruby and now purple, till they looked

like islands of garnet and amethyst in the heavens.

  It was low water, and the couple crossed by the

sands from Marazion to the Mount and here, after

passing the little cluster of fishermen's houses that

skirted the base of the rocky pyramid, and mount

ing short distance up the cliff, they sat for while

enjoying and discoursing of the many beauties of

the majestic scene that encompassed them on every

side.

   And the prospect thence was indeed of the

grandest character. The shore stretched away,

revealing headland after headland, to where the

Lizard shot out far into the wave, the rocks there

seeming almost phosphorescent in the sun. Then

appeared St. Clement's Island and the coast to

wards the Land's End, forming shorter cape, and
            a

completing the horn of the crescent of land towards

the west, that looked, as the waves. grew crimson
60 . THE TVONDERS OF SCIENCE. '

in the sunset, as if bathed in a sea of wine. The

ocean here wore its most imposing attribute of un
controllable immensity; for the Atlantic, across the
Bay of Biscay to the most western land of Spain,
lay on the south, and melted into distance there ;
while, beyond .the extremity of our own island, no
shore intervened on the north between the line of
the horizon and the land of the New World.

   It was a sight that Humphry loved as deeply as

old Mr. Tonkin to look upon, and the couple sat for
some time silently watching both the seas rolling
there towards the far distant Spanish and American

shores.

    The boy, however, less capable of continuous
attention to the same subject, got to weary of the
scene sooner than the old man; and when Mr. Ton
kin noticed Humphry's admiration begin to flag, he
availed himself of the quietude of the time and
place to incite a taste in the lad for the profession
he wished him to follow.

   Presently the old doctor caught sight of one of
the little transparent zoophytes that had been left
on the rocks by the receding tide. In size it was
not larger than a bird's egg, of a globular form,
with several transparent ridges ranged along from

pole to pole, as were, and was nearly as pellucid

as the purest rock-crystal.

   " Look, my boy," said Mr. Tonkin, turning to
Humphry, and pointing to the little ball of jelly at
it
                  it

                                                it,
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.

                                                          Page GO.
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.  61

his feet; "here is an orb almost as wonderful as the

sun we have been lately gazing at. It gives light,
too, like it ; and though it looks there as if it were

only a few drops of the ocean gelatinised, it is

quickened with life, and performs motions that our

wisest engineers can but clumsily imitate."

   The eager boy was about to seize the wonder, so
that he might examine it more minutely.

   " Nay, if you touch it," cried the old man, hastily,

as he grasped the youth's arm, and held him back,

" it will immediately dissolve, -- thaw, as it were, to
death -- so frail is its life, and nothing but a little pool

of water will remain of a creature that once could
make the sea glow with its fire. These little things
are by some styled the ' lucid gems of the waters.'
By daylight, when in the ocean, they are visible only
by the bright rainbow hues that mark their path as
they paddle along ; but by night, Humphry, they
blaze with phosphorescent fire, so that some have
termed them ' the stars of the sea.' In warm and

calm evenings they often look like balls of light
rolling on the surface of the water, and the more

rapid their motion the more intense is the glow they
emit. Those eight transparent ridges you see there,"
continued the doctor, as he pointed with his cane to
the tiny watery globe, " support as many rows of
broad, pellucid paddles, and these are all instinct
 with life, and by their rapid motion cause the
 animal to glide, meteor-like, through the waves. We
62 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

wonder at the recent invention of the steam-boat,

and speak with pride of the paddle-wheels with

which we are to walk upon the waters ; but the tiny-

paddles here, boy, are far more perfect than any

ever contrived by human ingenuity, for in that little

aqueous ball the cumbrous machinery which is re

quired to move our vessels along, is not needed, since

each float, self-moving without even a visible muscle
or nerve to stir keeps time with all the rest." *

   " What wonder," cried the poetic boy, " here
            a

                      it,
                                                it
                                                                   a is
packed in little living crystal, as were, that can

make fire flash from what looks almost like globe

of water, and that can perform the most rapid mo

tions without, as you say, Mr. Tonkin, any visible
means of movement "
" Yes, indeed, my lad," went on the old man?
" there                                                                        ?;
         is large store of marvels locked in that

              a

                it

                          ?

                                                  !
little glassy casket. How does                                   get its food
                                                     is
How digest
                                                            it
                  and how                            its frail body nou

rished for we can trace no blood-vessels, nor

heart, 'nor glands -- indeed, hardly any organs at
all -- in the little clot of half-liquid life. All we

         is,                                         furnished underneath with so

                   it

                          is
know,       that

many tentacles or filaments, that serve for claws,
                                                     is it

                                                          a

                                                                 it
and that these, which are set round an aperture that

we call mouth, draw the food lives upon into its
         a

fis*h"Tkhneolwitntlebyzotohpehnytaemeheorfethdees"crBibeerdoe."  kind of small "jelly

on our shores.                                                   It may be often seen
     THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.      63

Ifbody--which is literally nothing but a stomach.

we were to watch long enough, we should see the

food thus seized and swallowed gradually dissolve

and be reduced to a fluid state, while the more

solid arid indigestible portion would be rejected

by the aperture through which it entered. The

nutritive matter we know to be absorbed by the

walls of the stomach, every part of which ap

pears to be endowed with equal power in this

respect; and it is then conveyed to the remoter por

tion of the body by the simple imbibition of one

part from another, without any proper circulation

through vessels. In some animals of this class the

external covering of the body and the lining of the

stomach so closely correspond in their structure as

to admit of being changed one for the other -- for

the animal may be turned inside out without its

functions being in any way deranged."
   " Can it be ?" said Humphry, filled with delight.

I I" Where can learn these things, sir ? Why was
                                "
not  taught  them  at  school
                               ?
" You shall learn them, my boy," replied the old

man, pressing the lad's hand with pleasure to find

the taste that he had longed to develope for his own

favourite study springing up in Humphry's mind.

" And think, if that little lump of jelly--which is,

perhaps, the simplest form of life, where the vital

mechanism is seen in its rudest form--can stir you

Ito so much wonder, --think, say, Humphry, what
84 THE WONDEES OF SCIENCE.

admiration will be excited in you when you come to

comprehend the beautiful processes and organism

Ifexhibited in complicate animals like ourselves !

a living, digesting creature-- a thing almost without
sense -- a mere moving mouth--can appear so won

derful to you in its structure, what marvels shall

you not find in the constitution of a thinking,
                                         "
speaking,  reasoning  being  like  man
                                        !

Then the old doctor ran over to the youth the

many sources of knowledge that the study of hu

man life opens up to the thoughtful and inquiring

mind.

   He told the eager boy -- as they sat there in the

subdued light of the evening, with the hum of the

sea that rippled into the caverns at the base of the

Mount, falling almost musically on the ear --how, in

the organism of the nerves and brain, we get our

first insight, rude though it be, into the subtle

processes of the senses, and even the mind itself.

He told him, also, how, in the senses themselves, lay

the rudiments of all the sciences ; how, without the
sense of vision, there could have been no " optics,"

and consequently no astronomy--for to the blind the

movements of the planets, and even the very exist

ence of the stars, must, of course, have remained

unknown : in like manner, without the sense of

hearing there could have been no "acoustics" and

no music ; and without the sense of muscular effort

no knowledge of weight, and consequently of "gra
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.                          65

vitation " -- the main-spring, as it were, of the me

chanism of the universe.

Mr. Tonkin explained to the youth, moreover, that

had we been formed without the exquisite organ of

the hand there would have been little work done,

and but little art achieved ; and without the organs

of the mouth, there could have been no inter-com
munication of thought --no transfusion of mind into

mind, by which one wise man now-a-days contains

stored in his own brain the wisdom of almost all

those who have preceded him. And further, if we

had had no appetites, and no pains nor uneasinesses

to stir us to action, we should, even with the beau

tiful muscular apparatus with which our frames

are fitted, have remained idle and inactive all our

time, starving to death with delight.

   " Some persons," said Mr. Tonkin, " have sup

posed that plants may be susceptible of feeling, as

well as ourselves and the rest of the animal race.

But that trees and herbs are incapable of knowing
                          "               " is
either pain  or pleasure     (he  added)        made  evi

dent, physiologically, by the fact that they are sup

plied with no organs of locomotion, and conse

quently deprived of the means of avoiding the one

and seeking the other. For, so benevolently is the

world arranged, that wherever feeling is given, the

power of acting is immediately associated with it ;
indeed, it requires hardly a moment's thought to

perceive that it would have been incompatible with

                                                F
66 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

All-Kindness to have made creatures sensible to
pain, and yet have denied them the means of escape
from it."

   After this the old man pointed out to Humphry,
that in the comparison of one system of life with

another, and so tracing the delicately interwoven
chain of animal creation, we perceive that the first

type of sentient existence was a mere stomach --a life
of pure appetite --susceptible of no other feeling than

hunger, and fitted only with organs for seizing and
assimilating its food ; while as we advance gradu
ally in the scale of development, we find nerve after
nerve added, and a new set of feelings and actions
brought out, with each new set of fibres. " We dis
cover, besides," he continued, " that when a little
kernel of nervous matter was superadded to the
previous sentient apparatus, the wondrous sense of
vision was first awakened in animal life, and how
the addition of another such little kernel made an
animal for the first time hear, and another gave
the first sense of odour to the world, while another
added taste to the food and drink."

   And when he had thus briefly explained to the
youth the uses and characteristics of the several
organs in man and the lower animals, the old

gentleman went on to point out to him how these
same organs were nourished, and the destruction

that was continually going on in the body --
" for," said he, " we cannot move a muscle, not even
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.  67

wink our eyelids, without wasting some tissue or

other" -- was being as continually repaired by the

food consumed. Pursuing this subject, he then

proceeded to explain to young Humphry how the
blood was made to circulate by means of the cun
ningly-wrought chambers of the heart through the
veins and arteries, distributing health and vigour
to the different organs in its course -- now reno
vating the tissues, now depositing little specks of
bone, then extending the filaments of hair, and
then exciting thought and developing feeling in
the nerves and brain, stimulating action in the

muscles, and diffusing warmth throughout the

whole frame, -- all these different functions being

performed by the one wondrous substance in which,
even when examined by the highest microscopic
power, it was impossible to detect even the rudi
ments of the many various tissues it formed.

   " Such," said Mr. Tonkin, " is a part of the mar
vellous process of secretion, -- a process so subtle that
even the wisest can only wonder in their ignorance
concerning the function ; for it is a mystery to them
how, by means merely of little glands, so many

different things can be produced from one and the
same fluid. How, for instance, skin, cartilages,

muscles, hair, nails, bones, tears, and the infinite
variety of products which our bodies are made up

of and evolve, can all come from the same ruby
stream, and that a small nut-like organ only shall
68 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

be necessary to eliminate each different substance
from it. Then, again, there is the beautiful pro
cess of breathing, by which the vital air is com
bined with the blood, and the blue fluid of the veins
changed into the crimson stream of the arteries ;"
and he recounted to him the while how respiration
among animals was merely a process of burning,
accompanied with the evolution at each exhalation

of so much invisible smoke from the lungs --the same

smoke, indeed, as comes from burning charcoal :
and he told Humphry that he would one day come
to see how the rotting wood underwent precisely
the same chemical cWange as the breathing man,
and that what is a process of death and decay in
the one is a process of life and health in the other.

    "Indeed," concluded the old gentleman, "there is,
perhaps, no sphere of knowledge so replete with
wonder and beauty as that which unfolds to us the

mysteries of our own existence -- no science which

gives us greater wisdom or deeper insight into the
constitution of our natures, as well as that of the
elements around us. To comprehend such a sub
ject, even vaguely, requires an intimacy with almost

every branch of learning, dealing as it does at
 once with the material and spiritual; while a just
 appreciation of the wonders it reveals cannot fail to
inspire us with the highest regard for life, even in

 its rudest forms, and render us more keenly alive
 to suffering than the rest of humanity, from the
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.                  69

agreater sense it gives us of the causes of pain,

    itwhile it arms us, at the same time, with the means

                                         is,of relieving anguish, restoring health, and often of

prolonging existence.

   " Some there are," he added, " who prefer poetry

to philosophy; but science, Humphry, rightly under
stood, is merely the translation of the Great Poem
of Nature -- that which the Almighty himself con
ceived when he designed Creation. There may be

high beauty in music, boy ; but, to my mind, there
is even higher beauty still in comprehending the phe
nomena by which the Creator has fitted us to enjoy

it. In the rich glories of colour there certainly,

an exquisite feast of visual delight; but what array

of tints, be they ever so beautifully blended -- what

tracery of form, be ever so cunningly put toge

ther--can fill the mind with ecstasy equal to the

 contemplation of that splendid little translucent

globe, the eye-- crystal world in itself, filled with
 an infinity of wonders --by which we are enabled to

 perceive the light, and to tell one hue from another?
 What work of art, however consummate the execu

 tion --what picture, however choice the painting or

 grand the composition-- what architecture, however

 commanding the mass or harmonious the details --

 and what poem, even though the verse be melli

 fluent as music on the water, though the imagery
 he luminous and profuse as the stars in winter, and
 the thoughts subtle as the mountain air, can bear
70 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the least comparison, either as regards the skill of its
art, the craft of its design, or the nice adjustment of
its parts, with the organism of the smallest ani
malcule fashioned by the Great Artist, Architect,

and Poet of All?"

   The sentence was barely finished when the sharp
report of a gun rattled amidst the rocks, and Hum
phry, whose eyes had been turned upward as he
listened to the wonders recounted by the doctor,
saw the gull, which but a moment before he had
noticed almost lying on the air, poised on its white
outstretched wings, bound suddenly upwards with
a shriek, and the instant afterwards it tumbled
heavily on the crag at Mr. Tonkin's side.

   The old gentleman stretched out his hand and
grasped the still warm and quivering form of the

Ifbird. " the wings of this body had been moved

by some piece of curious mechanism, Humphry," he

said, -- " if by some cunning combination of cog

wheels, and levers, and springs, it had been made to
beat the air and to rise by clock-work into the sky,
how would men have prized the marvellous appa
ratus ! Monarchs would have given immense wealth
to possess it: and yet the machine would have been, at
best, but a clumsy toy compared with the exquisite
arrangement here ; for in this wonderful piece of
divine mechanism the force was supplied by means
of little threads of nerves that the unaided eye can

scarcely trace -- the movement given by muscles so
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.  71

beautifully elastic that no artificial fabric can imi

tate their play --and the bones jointed together so

aptly, that when our wisest engineers wish to get
movements in all directions, they can only copy
their arrangement, instead of designing any such

hinges for themselves. Then, again, to give light
ness to the whole, these same bones were filled with

air, and the living, flying machine, so made more
buoyant in the thin fluid in which it was destined
to soar. But let us suppose, Humphry, that it might
be within the compass of art to reproduce such an
 apparatus as this by mechanical means ; still what
 mechanism, however skilful, could have supplied the
 wonderful motive power that lately quickened it ?
 What spring, or arrangement of weights, could imi
 tate the action of life ? Could steam even, or electri

 city itself, have moved the wings and guided them,
 like the subtle principle that stirred and directed
 this body only a few moments past ? And then, what

 cunning engineery could ever have performed the
 function of the senses ? Could mechanism have

 made the animal see ? Could the galvanic fluid --

 the most spiritual, perhaps, of all our motive powers

 --have made it love its young, or know when to
 repair its strength with food ? Ah ! had the thought
 less fool who, for wanton sport, Humphry, --who

 for the mere sake of hitting a moving mark in the

 air -- known and pondered over all this, do you

 not think he would have found more pleasure
72 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

in watching the performance of all its wondrous
functions than in destroying the beautiful principle
which animated them ? Had he needed its body for

food, hunger would have excused him. But no ! It

was simply the petty pleasure -- the little spasm of
exultation --that we derive from success in trials of

skill which led him to put an end to the life of the
poor bird, that had surely as much divine right to
its place in creation as even a king himself."

   Humphry was overjoyed with the lesson of kind
ness and wisdom he had learnt. He had been so en
raptured with the knowledge that Mr. Tonkin had
poured into his mind that he sat almost like one
entranced, with his spirit lulled in a dream of bright
things he had never heard or thought of before.

   The boy till now had been more smitten with the
beauty of creation than curious as to its mysteries.
True, in his romantic visits to the extremity of the
island, as well as to the Mount of St. Michael, he

had been often led to wonder how the huge masses

of rock had come there ; and he had many times
pondered over the origin of metals, as in his ram
bles he had passed the openings of the mines that
perforated the surface of his native country, wonder
ing as he went along why a vein of one ore should
be deposited here, and another there. As he no
ticed, too, the Atlantic waves lashing the Land's
End, he would repeatedly question himself as to
THE FIRST DRINK AT THE WELL.  73

what became of the rocks that the sea was for ever

crumbling into sand ; and he would form fanciful
theories in his own mind, as to how the detritus of

one ancient country became at last the substratum
of some new one. Again, the ebbing and flowing
of the ocean had led his mind to ruminate vaguely
upon the mighty pulsation of the tides, while the
sight of the liquid orb of the sun sinking below the
ring of the horizon, away towards the invisible
shores of America, had often turned his thoughts

to the revolutions of the planets, and set him rudely
speculating as to the source of the light and the
heat of the sun itself.

    Still the youth as yet had found more pleasure
in contemplating the golden glories of sunset, than
in seeking to comprehend the wisdom that de
signed them. The sea, too, to him had been more
an object of grandeur than a stimulus to thought,
while the sight of the rocks had filled his mind

with admiration far oftener than they had quick

ened it with inquiry. The mystery, and even the

beauty, of the principle of life, however, had never
before been heeded by Humphry; so that, when he
heard Mr. Tonkin relate the many wonders wrought
in the changes that were continually going on in his
own frame, the boy was almost overwhelmed with
the flood of new thoughts that poured through his

brain, and he felt as if he could have sat and

listened to the old man the long night through.
74 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   Accordingly, when Mr. Tonkin came to a con
clusion, Humphry begged him to proceed, saying
he had begotten emotions in him that he had never

known before ; and he felt as if a burning thirst had

come upon him for the truth, and he could drink of
such knowledge for ever without quenching it.

   Mr. Tonkin was pleased to find he had stirred

the boy's thoughts so effectively ; and he promised
him that, before long, he would place him in a
position where he should be able to pursue the
subject as far as his powers could carry him.

Not many weeks after the above conversation,

Humphry, to his exceeding delight, was articled to

Mr. Bingham Borlase, the surgeon and apothecary

of Penzance ; and there, alone in his little chamber,

at night, he wrote the following passage in his
note-book : --

  I" have neither riches nor birth to recommend
I I Ime; yet, if live,
trust                   shall not be of less
Iservice to mankind and to my friends than if

had been born with these advantages."*

   * This memorable passage was written in a diary kept by
Humphry Davy during his youth. His brother, after quoting it,
adds, "and this early sentiment never forsook him; even in his

last days he had a feeling of the same kind, looking forward,
were his life spared, to greater exertions."
      THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 75

                     CHAPTEE V.

      THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP.

HUMPHRY was hardly at home in his new quarters,
when an incident occurred that directed his mind
towards the investigation of one of the most subtle
and mysterious principles in nature.

   Mr. Borlase had returned from his day's rounds,

and as he was busy unfastening the long leggings
that covered his black silk stockings, he informed
the family, who, with the boy, were gathered round
the tea-table in the little parlour adjoining the
shop, that he had heard that day of a fearful
explosion which had occurred, during the last
month, in one of the Welsh coal-mines.

   " It seems," said the doctor, as he took his place

at the table, " that there were two ' shifts,' or sets,

of men employed at the pit. The first went to work
at four in the morning, and were relieved by the
next set at eleven ; and so secure was the mine con
sidered -- so little thought of danger, indeed, entered

the minds of the pitmen -- that the second shift of
76 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

men often entered the mine before the first had
left it. This happened to be the case, they tell
me, at the time of the accident; for shortly after
the second set of hands had descended the shaft,

the people above-ground were alarmed by a terrible

report, followed by others so quickly, that it sounded
like the firing of infantry, and a sheet of flame was
seen to flash from the mouth of one of the shafts.

The ground shook as if with an earthquake, the

tremor being felt for half-a-mile round the work
ings ; while the dull, subterranean boom of the ex

plosion was heard, they say, nearly four miles off".
Vast clouds of dust rose high in the air, in the
form of an inverted cone, and large masses of
timber and fragments of coal were shot straight

up from the pit-mouth, as from a huge piece of
artillery, and fell with a heavy crash near it ;
while the dust, borne by the wind, descended in a
shower upwards of a mile from the spot, and as it

Idid so, it caused a gloom, am assured, like early

twilight, in the neighbouring villages, inhabited
chiefly by the families of the miners.

   " The boom was no sooner heard," continued
Mr. Borlase, "the tremor of the earth felt, and
the darkness from the shower of ashes perceived,
than the wives and children of the miners rushed
frantically towards the pit. Horror and dismay
were painted on every face. The crowd thickened
from all sides, so that in a short time several hun
      THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 77

dreds of women and children were gathered round
the shaft. The air, the people say, resounded with
shrieks and cries of despair for the fate of husbands,
fathers, and sons, from many a bursting heart.

   " The machinery, it was then found, had been
rendered useless by the explosion, so that it was
near upon an hour before thirty-two persons -- all
that survived the dreadful catastrophe -- had been
brought to daylight, and of these twenty-nine only
lived to relate what had occurred in the mine

below.

   " It was now discovered that one hundred and

twenty-one, men and boys, had been in the pit when
the accident happened, so that eighty -nine poor souls
still remained entombed in the workings. Those
who had their friends restored to them appeared,
it is said, to suffer for a while as much from an
excess of joy as they had, a short time before, from
the depth of despair ; while those who were yet in
the agony of suspense filled the air with shrieks
and howlings, and ran about wringing their hands
and throwing their bodies into the most frantic and

extravagant gestures.

    "After some little time, it appears that nine

persons volunteered to descend into the pit, with
the faint hope that some engulfed below might
still survive. As the fire-damp, however, would
have been instantly ignited by candles, those who
went to search the mine lighted their way by ' steel
78 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

mills,' as they are called, which," added Mr. Bor-
lase, turning round to Humphry, " are small
machines for giving light, by turning a cylinder
of steel against a piece of flint ; for it has been

Ifound, should tell you, that though the fire-damp

is immediately ignited by flame, it is not explosible
by sparks."

   The remark evidently sank deep into the boy's

mind, for he knit his brows and bit his lips as if a

sudden thought had flashed across his brain. But
Humphry was too much interested in the narrative

to interrupt the doctor, so he said not a word, and
waited anxiously for Mr. Borlase to proceed.

   " The men who had descended the pit," continued
that gentleman, " attempted to make their way to

wards the spot where they knew the miners must
have been at the time when the explosion happened.
Their progress, however, was soon intercepted by
the prevalence of what is called the ' choke-damp,'

--an atmosphere which it is suffocation to inhale,--

and the sparks from the steel -mill, they say, fell
into this like dark drops of blood.

   " Deprived of light, therefore, and nearly stifled,

they were forced to grope their way back to the shaft.

   " As each came up he was surrounded by a group

of anxious inquirers, but not a ray of hope could be

elicited. It was impossible, they told the people,
for any breathing thing to live in the mine. At

first, the assertion seemed to obtain some credit,
       THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 79

but hope still lingered. All there recollected how

persons had survived similar accidents, and stories
were told how, upon opening a mine forty days
after an explosion, men had been found still alive,

having subsisted during the time on horse-beans
and candle-ends. Then distrust began to enter the
minds of the crowd, and some suggested that want
of courage or bribery had induced the men who had
descended to magnify the danger ; so that when it
was proposed by the owners to close the mouth of

the pit, and so shut out the air from it--for the most

experienced 'viewers' had pronounced the mine to

be on fire--the proposition was received with cries

of 'Murder !' and with expressions of determination
to oppose such a proceeding with violence !

   " All that night, they tell me," the doctor pro
ceeded, " many of the widows lingered about the

mouth of the pit, with the hope of hearing the cries
of a husband or a son.

   " The next morning it was again proposed to
exclude the air; still the populace, made furious by
their misery, would not allow the project to be
carried out until some others had again descended
the shaft. But none could now be found hardy
enough to enter the jaws of the burning cavern.

At length, however, two brave fellows were induced

to make the perilous attempt, and they nearly lost
their lives in so doing.

   " The account given by these adventurers (for
80 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

they confirmed the opinion as to the pit being on

fire) ultimately convinced the people of the impos
sibility of their friends surviving in so deadly an

atmosphere, and reconciled them to the plan of ex

cluding the air. Accordingly the shaft was closed,

with the eighty-nine poor souls entombed in and
                                    it
more than month elapsed before the mine was
        a                               it,
                        a

                    I
opened again and in state to admit of an examin

ation.                      leave you to imagine,"

   " During this interval,

went on the apothecary, "what must have been the

terrible suspense of those whose love made impos

sible to eradicate all hope from their bosoms. The

widows, anxious to believe that their husbands still

lived in the closed mine, gave ready credence to
                            a

the idle tales of escape that were continually being

circulated through the country. These inventions,

however, had the effect of daily harrowing up afresh

the sorrows of the people so that when the morn
        ;

ing came that had been appointed for the re-opening

of the pit, the distress of the neighbourhood burst

forth once more with almost redoubled fury.

  " A great concourse of people assembled round the

mine on that sad day some came out of curiosity,
        a
                                            :

                                                                    a
                                                                                     a
others out of public sympathy, but the greater part
came there with broken hearts and streaming eyes,

intent on once more beholding the loved form of

father, brother, husband, or son.
" Soon
        message was despatched for  number
        THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 81

of coffins to be in readiness at the pit-mouth. Up
wards of eighty of these had been ready prepared,

and they had to pass by the miners' villages on

their way to the shaft. As soon as a cart-load of
them was seen, the howling of the women, who had

not yet found their way to the melancholy spot,
floated on the breeze in low, fitful gusts, presaging a

scene of the greatest distraction and confusion ; and
as each load of coffins came to the pit, it brought a
long train of wretched mourners in its wake.

    " The bodies of the ill-fated men were found

under various circumstances. One, from his posi
tion, must have been asleep when the explosion
happened ; others were huddled together in ghastly

confusion --twenty-one were found in a heap in one

spot. The power of fire was visible upon all :
some were scorched ; others almost torn to pieces ;

while others, again, appeared as if they had been

stifled at their work.

   " Then came the heartrending scene," added

Mr. Borlase, " of mothers and widows examining
the mangled remains for marks by which to identify
the bodies of their lost sons and husbands. Few,

however, were able to recognise their relatives by

their features; their clothes, their shoes, and --

when these were too much burnt to be known again

-- their tobacco-boxes, or some token of affection,

were often the only indications by which the lost
friend could be singled out from the rest.

                                                                              O
82 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   " Every family had made some arrangements for

receiving the dead bodies of their kindred, but the
doctor had very properly stated that, in his opinion,

such a proceeding might spread a putrid fever
through the neighbourhood, and the first body,
when exposed to observation, presented so horrible
and corrupt an appearance, that the people were
induced to consent that each corpse should be in

terred as soon as it was discovered--on condition

that the hearse, in its way to the chapel-yard,
should pass by the door of the deceased.

   " And the condition was duly complied with,"
concluded the doctor, solemnly. " Hour after hour,
and day after day--for the finding and removal of
the bodies continued for upwards of a week--the

funeral carriage might be seen slowly wending its
way through the half-desolate miners' villages,
passing first by the door of one closed cottage,
and then by another, while at the hatches of the

others stood groups of women, the greater part of
whom were habited in black, with little things by
their side, and some with infants in their arms,
mostly wearing some humble mark of mourning.
As the hearse moved on, the women, with tears in
their eyes, would tell one another whose body was

then on its way to its last home, and each would
have some little story to recite of good done and
charity bestowed by the ill-fated man, while all
would sigh to think what would become of the
       THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 83

wretched widows and little orphans who, as the
bier stopped at the cottage, might be seen, with

streaming eyes and dejected heads, to issue forth
and follow the funeral carriage slowly and sadly
to the grave.

   " For ten long, melancholy days," said Mr. Bor-
lase, mournfully, " were the shutters of the houses

closed in the miners' villages, and for ten days did
the bell of the neighbouring chapel continually toll

-- for the finding of the bodies lasted all that time:

and by this one terrible accident there were no less
than ninety-two pitmen hurled into eternity, while
as many as forty widows and one hundred and six
orphan children were deprived of their protectors
and ordinary means of subsistence."*

   Mr. Borlase, oh finishing his melancholy story,
turned to Humphry, and saw the tears trickling

from his cheeks.

   There was a silence among all present, as if the

awe of the calamity was still pressing on their

hearts.

    Presently the impulsive boy started to his feet

   * The details of this accident are taken from the account of an
explosion which occurred at Felling Cclliery, near Suuderland,
on the 12th of May, 1812, and of which a narrative was prefixed
by the Rev. John Hodgson to the published form of the funeral

sermon he preached on the occasion. It was this fenrlul explo

 sion which led to the formation of the Society for the Prevention
 of Accidents in Coal Mines ; and it was at the request of the
 members of this body that Humphry Davy was induced to perfect
 his safety -lamp.
84 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

and cried, " I'll put an end to this shocking misery,

Iplease God will, some day."

   The quick eye of young Humphry saw a smile

Iplay faintly on the doctor's lip, and he added, "

Iknow, sir, you have reason to doubt my power to

do as say, and, perhaps, it may take me years of

hard study to gain the knowledge to enable me to

I Icompass my end ; but though it cost me a lifetime
will master it at last.  have sufficient faith

in the goodness of the Creator, to believe that these

terrible afflictions come upon us only through our

ignorance, and that if we but study His will,

as expressed in the laws of the universe in which
He has placed us, He has given us the faculty to
avert misery, and to turn the current of Nature to
our own welfare rather than injury."

   Mrs. Foxell (Mr, Borlase's sister), who was pre

siding at the tea-table, and who had already learnt

to esteem Humphry .highly for the generous qualities
of his nature, was moved almost to tears with the

benevolent impulses of the boy ; for she was natur
ally of a kindly disposition, and the melancholy
details of the accident had so affected her, that

when she heard the youth vow he would one day
put an end to such calamities, the transport of
joy she felt was too much for her woman's heart,

and though she would have cheered him on, there
was an hysteric spasm in her throat that prevented
her utterance for a time.
   THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 85

   Presently the lady said, " Do not be discouraged

by what my brother may say to you, Humphry.

He has lived too long in the world to be as hope

ful as you are, and he is so accustomed to scenes of

anguish that suffering with him, almost an every
                            is,

                                        I,
day occurrence. But you and                 boy, are, thank

Heaven, unused to such sights, so that the mere

recital of them stirs us to the depths of our natures.
Besides, it only woman who can fully compre
   a
hend the distress wrought by such catastrophe asis
                                ;
                   is it a              a
my brother has recounted to us for the real suffer

ing in all such cases falls lighter on those who are

even destroyed by           than does upon those whoit
                            not so much the dead husbands
are left behind. It

I grieve for, as the living widows the lost fathersI,
felt but momentary pang, but the fatherless child;
ren have years of misery to pass through and                       :
                                                       it
because my sex teaches me to understand these
things deeper than yours, that for the sake of the             a is

poor living victims --the wives and babes, beggared
in heart as well as in means --would not have

word said that would take away one spark of hope
from your noble purpose. Though the prospect of
success may appear barren to some minds, never

theless if you, Humphry, can, in the ardour of your

sympathy, imagine such an object to be barety possible

of attainment, say to you, Go on and God speed
you in your good work. You wish such result
   I

                                                       ;

                                   it

                                                              a
to be possible, and therefore believe to be so, and
86 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

;

       it,

            it, if
                           if

                                            it
                                                 it
believing perhaps you may find to be as you
fancy whereas you had no faith in you would

never work at     and consequently could never

accomplish it. Think, too, you should one day

gain your end, what honour would await you--how

many thousand poor creatures would hail you as

their preserver--what evils you would be the means
of preventing -- ay, and even what wealth you might

reap from such discovery, for you could secure
                  a
                                       a

                                                                 it
to yourself, and so derive large income from the

profits of it."

   " No, my good madam," replied Humphry, half

indignant at the idea of enriching himself by such
means, " would never think of such
II                                                                 Iathing.

         is iIf

                        a
My sole object would be to serve the cause of

humanity, and,           succeeded, should be amply
                           ;
rewarded in the gratifying reflection of having done
                             I
so. All desire             competence, and this, hope,

my profession will yield me more wealth might be

troublesome, and distract my attention from pursuitsI
in which, even now, delight. Eiches," he added,
                                                                       ;
" could not give me either fame or happiness

they might, undoubtedly, enable me to put four                 it
horses to my carriage, but what would avail me
to have said that Humphry Davy drives his

carriage and four?"*
*
                                                                 are taken, almost verbatim,
       a                                                       person," says the biographer

           it

                                                            a
       The above  ogf eMnerr.ouBsuddseient--ime"nts
from letter
                  whose extensive practical knowledge justly entitled
of our hero, "

him to be considered as the highest authority on all subjects con
       THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 87

   The noble disinterestedness of these sentiments
produced a deep impression upon all present, for
they were uttered, not in the same passionate tone
as that in which the boy had previously spoken,

but calmly and almost gravely, as if they were the

result of long reflection, and showed that the youth
had already learnt to prize fame more than wealth,

--that his mind was bent on winning an honourable

reputation rather than amassing a worldly fortune.
    Old Mr. Borlase, the venerable father of Hum

phry's master, looked with wonder and admiration
at the youth, and drawing him closely to him, ex
claimed, " There's a brave lad ! You remind me,

nected with the art of mining," and who was of great service to

Davy in carrying out       his  invention of  "thSeir         safety-lamp.           That
gentleman, writing to      Dr.  Paris, says,                   Humphry         Davy ac-

companie;! me into some of our fiery mines, to prove the efficacy

of his lamp. Nothing could be more gratifying than the result

of the experiments, as they inspired everybody with perfect confi

dence in the security which his invention had afforded. Sir
Humphry was delighted, and I was overpowered with feelings of
Igratitude to the

ever,*' continues
                 great     Bguedndiuies ,wh"icthhahtadheprdoiddunceodt  it. felt, how
                                                                        contemplate any
                  Mr.

pecuniary reward, and in a private conversation I remonstrated
Iwith him on the subject.
                                said, ' You might as well have secured

this iuvention by a patent, and received your five or ten thousand

a-yenr for it.'  The reply of this great and                  noble-minded     "m"asn&aycwi.nagsa,,s
' No, my good
                 f"rieInde, xpIonsteuvleartetdh,o"ughatddosf  such a thing,'
above given.                                                  Mr. Buddie,

that his ideas were much too philosophic and refined for the occa

sion.    He replied,  'I   htaroveubelensooumghe,'for"aallndmysovieowns,  and  purposes ;
more   wealth might                                                       the  remainder
                       be

of the speech being nearly word for word with that which young

Humphry has been here made to deliver.
88 THE WONDERS OK SCIENCE.

IHumphry, of my poor brother the clergyman, who

is dead and gone now, rest his soul !-- mean him,

you know, that wrote the ' History of Cornwall;'
                                                          too --he'd just the same
a wonderful book it                                       a is,
                                                                                 !
notions when he WHS youngster, and used to say,

that money was only of value for the happiness
                                                                                    I
could bring, and that there was more real pleasure                                         it

to be found in seeking and discovering the truth

than the richest fortune could purchase.                                                                                                             am

sure, for my part, lad, hope you may succeed in
            aI
                           ;
                     II
your noble object and have seen quite enough

changes in my time to think nothing impossible

now. Why, have heard my grandfather say that,

when he was boy, coal itself was seldom used as

fuel, and now see what wonders are being worked

by it. Haven't we just had one of those wonderful
steam-engines, which have been of late years in

vented by Mr. Watt, put up at the Wherry Mine

close by?"*

  The boy nodded quickly, as if he was well ac

quainted with the locality.
   " And there," continued the old gentleman, " that

great monster of brass and iron goes on, day after day

Watt's first patent was in the year 1769, and that for his
*

                        a
                                             a

                                                                                                                                                  ·
double engine was in .781. Dr. Davy, in speakingof the Wherry

haMdisidnsey, oau"stbwb, ehiinscaghys,hpa"ldacTeohneloyf  favourite resort with his brother during
                                                          steam-engine there (an invention," he

                                                               short time before been perfected by

Mr. Watt) was one of the earliest that had been introduced into

Cornwall."
THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 89

and night after night (though the shaft of the mine,

you know, is in the sea, and the workings entirely

underneath the sands), acting at a distance over the

surface of the ocean, and drawing up the water from

beneath its bed ; and all, too, by means of a few
I Ibushel of coals.
am sure when first saw the

engine lifting up its arms, and snorting away as if

Iwith the heavy labour it was doing, it put me in mind

of the old fable, learnt at school, of Prometheus,

who stole fire from the sun, you know, boy, and made

men with it out of the materials of the earth. For
it struck me as being a huge steam man -- a kind of

monster labourer, as it were, that would work on

for ever, withput needing any sleep, and without

knowing any fatigue ; and that wanted only coals,
instead of bread and meat, to keep it going. Ah !

we live in wonderful times, my lad, that we do ;

and whatever the world will come to in a few years,

I Iwhen am dead and gone, is more than can say.

Why, Mrs. Foxell here was reading to me the other
day, out of the ' Sherbourne Mercury,' a paragraph,

saying, that a Mr. --Mr.-- What was the name, my

dear?"
   " Symington," answered the lady appealed to.

  "Yes; that's it! --Mr. Symington," proceeded

the old gentleman, " had been making some experi

ments on the Clyde to propel a vessel, without sails

or oars, over the water --what do you think of that ?
--and that he had actually got a large boat to move
it90 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                                                                                        is,some three or four miles an hour by means of paddles

worked by a steam-engine on board the vessel.*

IDear, dear ! What shall we come to next, wonder !

They say in the paper, too, that the experiment was

Iperfectly successful ; so that, dare say, in a few

years our sailors will be no longer at the mercy of the

winds, and if they have only a stock of coals aboard,

they'll be able to traverse the seas which way they

like. Ah ! coal is a wonderful thing, that it
Humphry. But I'm afraid that when we sit and

warm ourselves by the fire, we seldom give heed to

the dangers and hardships suffered by the poor
creatures who are far away under-ground, digging

   out of the bowels of the earth for us."

   " That's true enough," interposed the doctor,
" and it's long been an opinion of mine that the
greatness of England will soon depend, not so much

on the energy of its people as the extent of its coal
fields. You have heard, doubtlessly, that Mr. Mur
doch, in our own county here, has, within the last
year or two, made successful application of the

   * W. Symington (according to Haydn's Dictionary) made
passage on the Forth and Clyde Canal in 1789. In 1807, Fulton
started steam-boat in America, on the river Hudson. In 1812,
steam-vessels first began plying on the Clyde but was not till
the year 1815 that the first steam-vessel made its appearance on
tee Thames. This was boat from Glasgow 'for was only in
that year the first steamer was built in England. Ten years after
wards (1825) Captain Johnston received 10,000i. for making the
first steam voyage to India in the hnterp'ise. In the year 1852
there were 1227 steam-vessels belonging to the United Kingdom.
a

                         aa

                                                                                                ;;

                                                                   it it
                                                                                               a
THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THE SAFETY-LAMP. 91

gas from coal to the purposes of illumination ; he
has produced by it a light much more brilliant than

that of any lamp, and which requires no feeding

Inor trimming, nor has it any wick ; and am told

that he speaks confidently of its being possible to

I Ilight our streets and houses by such means.* But
   must confess, that myself can hardly go with

the gentleman so far as that."
" Well, for my part, Bingham," interrupted the
I Ifather, " am ready to believe anything.
                                            have

lived to see mail-coaches introduced throughout the

country for expediting the post, and letters that

used to take near upon a fortnight to go from here

to London, now carried the same distance in little

more than two days.f So nothing they could do

   * Gas was first evolved from coal by Dr. Clayton, in 1739. Its
application to the purposes of illumination was first tried by Mr.
Murdoch, in Cornwall, in 1792. Ten years after this (in 1802)
Bolton and Watt's foundry, at Birmingham, exhibited the first

display of gas-lights during the rejoicings for peace. The first

manufactory permanently lighted by gas was a cotton mill at
Manchester -- this was in 1805. Gas was first used for lighting
Pall Mall, in London, in 1809, and in 1814 it had become general

throughout the metropolis. The gas-pipes in and round London

are now said to be more than 1100 miles in lengih.

   ^ Mail-coaches were first set up at Bristol, August 2, 1784,
and at the end of 1785 they became general in England, This
plan for the conveyance of letters was the invention of Mr.

Palmer, at Bath. The mails had previously been conveyed by
carts with a single horse, or by boys on horseback. From the
establishment of mail-coaches the prosperity of the Post-office

commenced. The year before their introduction the postal re

venue was only 146,000i. and it ultimately increased to 2,500,000i.
92 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Iwould astonish me after that ! No, not even if

was to hear that the mail-coaches themselves were

driven by coals, and at twice the rate they go at

now."

This was considered so wonderful a stretch of

imagination on the part of the old gentleman, that

the whole company laughed heartily at the apparent
impossibility of such an achievement.

   " You may smile," went on the old man, " but

steam is only in its infancy yet, depend upon it ;

Iand the engineer at the Wherry Mine, when

was talking to him about the machine there, told

me that there was force enough in a bushel, or
eighty-four pounds of coals, when properly con

sumed, to raise 70,000,000 pounds weight one foot
high. Now, the ascent of Mont Blanc, from the
valley of Chamouni, is said by travellers to be

the most toilsome feat that a strong man can
Iexecute in two days ; nevertheless,
                                      find by cal

culation" (and the old gentleman drew a bit of
paper from his waistcoat pocket), " that the

combustion of only two pounds of coal would be

sufficient, by means of a steam-engine, to lift a

man to the summit. Again, the great Pyramid of

Egypt is composed entirely of granite, it stands on

eleven acres of ground, and is 500 feet high, so

that its entire weight has been calculated to be

about 13,000 million pounds; consequently about
ISO bushels of coal would be sufficient to raise the
     THE FIRST GLIMMER OF THK SAFETY-LAMP. 93

entire mass twelve inches from its base.* So that

you see, Humphry, what a wonderful thing coal is,
and the large amount of force that lies locked up in

Ievery pound of it."
   " do, sir," said the boy, " and it is this which

makes me wish to decrease the suffering attendant
upon the working of so valuable a mineral. The
account of the accident, which Dr. Borlase has just

Itold us, has so harrowed my feelings, that shall

spare neither time nor labour in seeking to discover
the causes upon which such calamities depend, so
as to find out the means by which to prevent

them for the future. It may be some years before

I shall be able to perfect my plans, but perfected

they shall be one day if my life be spared ; and then

I have no fear that a discovery, having for its object

the preservation of human life and the diminution
of human misery, will be either neglected or for
gotten. However high the gratification of possess
ing the good opinion of society, there is a still more
exalting pleasure in the consciousness of having

laboured to be useful." \

* See Sir John Herschel's " Introduction to the Study of

Natural Philosophy."
tof
     These   a"re   Davy's own words, being  the  concluding  passage
   his work        On the Safety-Lamp."
                   THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                    CHAPTEE VI.

          THE WONDERS OF HEAT : ITS SOURCES.

HUMPHRY was so full of his project, that all the day
long he could think of little else, and at night he lay
awake in his bed for many hours, planning an infinity
of rude schemes for accomplishing the object he had
in view. He devised and fashioned a number of
odd contrivances, too, for the purpose, but each in
its turn was found to be of little or no avail.

    Nevertheless, the idea was too great to be hastily
abandoned, and the sense of the fame that success
in such an undertaking would assuredly give to his
name had entered so deep into the boy's mind, that
he got to crave more and more for worldly honours ;
and he would sit of an evening, alone among the
rocks, dreaming of the time when he, a poor Cornish
boy, was to be ranked among the intellectually
noble, and reverenced throughout Europe for his
genius and his benevolence.

    Nor did the lad fail, when he visited his mother,
to confide to her all his hopes of success and renown ;
and when the widow heard that he was bent on dis
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  95

covering the means of saving the lives of the poor

miners -- a class whom she had long learnt to pity,

for she had been brought up in the midst of them,

as it were --she felt prouder than ever of her darling

boy, and shed many a tear of joy over him.
    Mrs. Foxell, too, when she beheld Humphry's

vexation at the repeated failures of the models he

constructed, encouraged the lad in every way, re
minding him that he himself had said the project
would cost him years of hard study to accomplish.

   Accordingly, after many disappointments, Hum

phry himself began to see that he could only hope
to attain the result he desired by making himself
acquainted with all that was already known upon

the matter. He was ignorant even of the laws of

combustion in general, and the rude experiments he

had made had set his mind craving for knowledge

on the subject. " Why did this thing burn, and

that not?" he would inwardly inquire. "How

came it that one body, as gunpowder for example,
went alight all of an instant, and another, like
tinder, took a long time to smoulder away ? And
why was phosphorous so easy to kindle, and wood,
comparatively, so difficult, that the slightest friction
would inflame the one, whereas it required a long
time to light the other by such means ? What
mysterious process," he would ask himself, " went

on when any substance burst into flame, and whence
came the light and heat that were then given out
96 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

from materials that, a few moments before, had been

dark and cold? Could the light and heat have
been imprisoned in the substance, and were they set
free during the combustion ; or were these powers
generated merely by the burning of the bodies ?"

    Then Humphry's mind darted off to the deeper
question, " What were the principles of light and
heat themselves ? Were they one and the same, or

two distinct powers in nature ? In a winter's day,"
he mused, " we have the same light from the sun,

and but little heat ; whilst in all cases of artificial
illumination there is great heat and but little light,
compared with that of the solar rays."

    These and many other such puzzling inquiries
passed through Humphry's brain, and left his mind
in sucli a state of perplexity that he could not rest
without a clearer insight into the subject. He soon
saw, too, how silly he had been in setting to work
before he had availed himself of the discoveries of
those who had gone before him ; for, he would say,
how could he think of finding out, by himself, all
that was known of the science of heat and light,

when each of those sciences, as Mr. Tonkin had told
him, had taken thousands of the wisest minds --ay,
and thousands of years of intense study--to build up ;
for in them was contained the accumulated expe
rience of all mankind from all time. Yet, because

the truths were free to the world, he had refused
to avail himself of them, and, like a proud fool, had
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  97

thought he could compass his end without any such
knowledge at all.

  It was not long before Humphry was hard at

work making himself master of the laws of heat.
He had borrowed of Mr. Tonkin the best book then

extant upon the subject, and often when the streets

of the' little town in which he lived were silent as

the tomb --and the distant bell of Madern Church,

as it tolled the morning hours, was heard to boom

upon the still air, almost like a moan --and the sound

of the waves that rippled upon the neighbouring
shore stole on the ear softly as the murmur of a

sea-shell-- the candle might be seen burning in the

boy's chamber, making the little diamond panes of
the casement shine like plates of amber in the dark
ness (for every other window in the street looked
black from the want of light), while the observant
eye could trace on the white wall on one side of the
room, the huge distorted shadow of the lad bending
over his books.

   As Humphry read on, and got to see clearer and
deeper into the nature and properties of the subtle

principle he was studying, he grew more and more
enraptured with the wonders and the knowledge
that were opened up to him at every step ; and often
when some new discovery burst upon his mind he
would, in the fervour of his admiration, fall upon
his knees, there alone in his chamber at night-time,

                                                                 H
98 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

and thank God that he had come to know so much

of His goodness and glory ; then he would rebuke

himself, too, for having remained so long ignorant

of the many beauties that lay concealed in the wis

dom and exquisite fitness with which the phenomena
                                      " What fairy
of the universe are linked together.

tale of enchantment," he would say to himself, "can
display magic like this ? What work of human
invention can fill the mind with such amazement

and delight at the subtlety of the art, as the mind
feels when it first learns the wondrous story of

Creation?"

   When Humphry had read through the books that
he had obtained of Mr. Tonkin and Mr. Borlase,

he proceeded to repeat the most striking of the ex

periments in connexion with the subject, so as to

impress the knowledge more firmly on his mind.

But before doing this he reviewed the whale mat
ter, and arranged it after his own manner--for he

was not the boy to follow in a beaten track, and
found no little delight in the exercise of his own

genius.

   " First," said Humphry, as he pondered over the
science of heat in general, " the sources of it have

to be considered ; that is to say, whence is the heat
of the earth derived ? The universe is a vast re

servoir of caloric, and it is capable of being evolved,

by some means or other, from almost every substance
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  99

that surrounds us ; and though its production artiit,
ficially is now so common that it has lost all wonder
with us, there must have been a time when the
elimination of it from substances on the earth must
have been a matter of such amazement as to have
produced a feeling of awe, on the part of the multi

tude, towards those who first discovered the art.
This, perhaps," the boy went on, " is the origin of
the fable of Prometheus, who was, probably, the
first man who found out the way to kindle a fire,
and so was thought to have stolen the heat from
the sun. Tradition says, the first artificial fire was
produced by lightning striking a decayed tree.
Our minds can, even now, almost conceive the
terrible awe of the people who first witnessed the

liberation of fire on the earth--who beheld, for the

first time, the transparent red flames burst forth
from the combustible and lick the air like burning
tongues, while the smoke rolled upwards from them
in dense leaden clouds. Then the intense pain felt
on touching the fire must have made the populace
almost believe that they had been stung by demon
serpents, while the roar of the wind, as it rushed
towards the blazing mass to supply the place of the
lighter air that had been driven upwards by
must have sounded to the people like spectral
voices, and the ultimate dissipation of the huge
solid substance into invisible gases must have ap
peared like the most marvellous magic to them.
 100 THE WONDEKS OF SCIENCE.

 Thus it came that men at last got to worship the
 fire, for its wonder and its terror, though we kindle
it nowadays almost without a thought or a fear."

    " The sources of heat at present known to man,"
 continued the boy, as he wrote down the divisions
of the subject in his note -book, " are many.
First, there is the heat of the sun, and, perhaps,

that of the moon; philosophers, however, have

concentrated the moonbeams upwards of 300 times,
by means of a burning-glass, nearly 3 feet in dia

meter, and yet the most delicate thermometers have
shown not the least increase of temperature. This
is said to arise from the feebleness of the light of
the moon, as compared with that of the sun ; for the
lunar rays have been calculated to possess 300,000

times less illuminating power than the solar ones,
whilst the light of the sun itself has been shown by
experiment to have 12,000 times the intensity of the
flame of a wax-candle, so that a little fragment of
the great luminary the size of such a flame would

possess the illuminating power of 12,000 wax-
candles ; and, since the diameter of the sun is nearly
four times greater than the distance of the earth
from the moon, this may give us some notion of the
vast flood of light and (if the two are connected) of

heat that are being continually streamed forth from

the sun into the universe. Of the intensity of the
solar heat, the law of the decrease of all radiant
matter enables us to form some conception ; for this
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  101

teaches us that the heat of the sun's rays, after
travelling to the distance, of the earth, must be

diffused over at least 300,000 times a greater space

than it is at the sun itself, and consequently that

the intensity of the heat must be that number of

times more highly concentrated at the aun's surface
than it is on reaching our atmosphere. Now, one
of the largest burning mirrors that have ever been
constructed, and which had the power of concen

trating the sun's rays rather more than 17,000
times, melted a piece of Pompey's pillar in less than
a minute, a piece of cast-iron in a quarter of a
minute, a copper halfpenny in sixteen seconds, and
fragments of slate and tile in three and four seconds.

A lens that increased the intensity of the sun's heat

about 10,000 times fused pieces of platinum, gold,

asbestos, quartz, &c. in three seconds ; so that--

as the solar fire must, at the sun itself, be 30 times

more intense than the calorific power of its rays,
even when thus concentrated, at the surface of the

earth--it is evident that the fury of the sun's heat

must at its source be sufficient to dissipate the most
obstinate metals in vapour, and to make the most
infusible of the earths as liquid as glass.

   " Then, again, there is the heat of the stars;

for if each of these be suns, and they, like our own

sun, give off heat, together with light, while the
heat radiated by them decreases in the same pro
portion as their light, it is clear that the united
102 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

beams of the starry host must give a certain general
temperature to the realms of space. This tempera
ture philosophers have calculated to be as low as
that at which quicksilver freezes, and which degree
of cold appears to be attained in the Arctic regions,
during the long absence of the sun through a polar
·winter. According to the principles which regulate
the radiation of light and heat, it is demonstrable
that the starbeams can only maintain a temperature
in infinite space which, when compared with the
heat we derive from the sun, must be as much in
ferior to it as the light of a moonless midnight is to
the light of midday at the equator ; and it is plain,
that the rate at which the earth cools down or
radiates back into space the heat it receives from
the sun must have its limit in the temperature of

planetary space itself, so that, had this been higher
or lower, the earth's surface must have been hotter
or colder than it is.

   " But, besides the preceding celestial sources of
heat in nature, we must also (if we suppose that
such things as give light to the earth radiate heat
as well to it --though in ever so minute a degree)
enumerate that peculiar cone or pyramid of luminous
mist which is seen an hour or two after sunset, at
certain months of the year, in the line of the ecliptic,
and to which astronomers have given the name of
' the zodiacal light.' Travellers in tropical regions
tell us that this is sometimes so brilliant that it
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  103

Seems a second sunset, lasting almost to midnight,
and that the clouds which are scattered over the

deep azure of the distant horizon appear to flit past

the glowing nebulosity as before a golden curtain,
while above these other clouds are seen reflecting
from time to time brightly variegated colours.

    " Then, again, there are the brilliant corusca
tions of the aurora borealis (or ' northern dawn'
or ' polar light' as it is sometimes called), though
this appears to be rather an emanation from the earth
itself than any celestial phenomenon. According
to the best accounts, the light of the aurora exists
almost within the bounds of our own atmosphere,
and seems to stream from one of the poles of our

globe, as if the earth had suddenly acquired the

power of becoming self-luminous like the stars and
sun.* This brilliant exhalation is rendered more

interesting by the fact, that the great Herschel
himself, from repeated observations of the spots

on the sun, came to the conclusion that such

spots are parts of the dark solid body of the sun
itself, laid bare to our view by fluctuations in the
solar atmosphere, and that from that atmosphere

alone the light and heat proceed --the shining matter

   * Professor Challis, of the Cambridge University, calculated the

 height of the bow of light proceeding from the aurora (seen at
 Cambridge, March 9, 1847) to be 177 miles above the surface of
 the earth. The limits of our own atmosphere are placed, by Sir
 John Herschel, at the 100th part of the diameter of the globe, or,
 in round numbers, 80 miles above the surface.
104 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

of the sun being, not a fluid, but a mass of brilliant
or phosphoric clouds, glowing with the beams of
the luminous strata of the solar atmosphere far

above them -- in the same manner as the aurora

with us is said sometimes to illuminate a stratum

of clouds below it.

   " It is impossible to say what increase of heat

our atmosphere may derive from the beams of the
aurora and the zodiacal light, but as we have no
reason for supposing the rays in these cases to be
destitute of all heat, it is evident that, when enume
rating the several sources of caloric in the universe,
some mention should be made of them ; for who

can tell what would have been the effect upon the
general stock of heat in nature without such phe
nomena, or how low the temperature of the earth's

surface might have been if the heat of the planetary

space in which it moves had been less than it is ?
   " But a far more important source of caloric to

the earth lies in its subterranean heat, or the in
crease of temperature which is found to ensue as we
descend below the surface of our globe. Carefully
conducted experiments have shown that, in our own

climate, the temperature increases about 1° for every

50 feet that we go down. At 354 feet below the

ground the heat is found to be 60°, in those parts
where the surface of the earth itself has a mean

temperature of but 50°. At 792 feet under the

soil the thermometer rises to 70° ; at 1 434 feet it
         THE WONDERS OF HEAT.                           108

marks 80°; at 1872 feet it reaches 90°; whereas

at 2556 feet it is as high as 100°. Now, if this

rate of increase (viz. 1° in every 50 odd feet)
continued uniformly as we descended, it would

follow that, at a depth of rather less than 2 miles,

water would be constantly at the boiling point,

and at 9 miles below the surface everything would

be red-hot, whilst at rather more than 20 miles the

granite rocks themselves would be in a continual

state effusion. In the ' United Mines' of Cornwall

one of the levels is so hot, that though a stream of

         is,
                is
                                 is
                                                   it,
cold water is allowed to flow through in order to

reduce the temperature, the miners are compelled

to work nearly naked, and will bathe in water at
80° to cool themselves. At the Tresavean Mine,

in the same county, which nearly 2000 feet deep,

the temperature  greater than the intensest heat

of summer in the dog-days.
" There
         however, no evidence to prove that

the increase of temperature beneath the surface

proceeds at a uniform rate when we descend to a

greater depth than 1500 feet below the level of the

sea. It will be seen by the rates of increase above

given that the temperature underground rises at

first 1° in every 35 feet, whereas at great depths
                 g

                                                a
                                                                                  ;
the increase amounts only to 1° in every 68 feet

and, as far as our observations have extended, the

subterranean heat appears to bear close relation

to the thermic condition of the climate at the sur
106 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

face ; for it is found, on descending to a depth of
about 60 feet in our own climate, the heat of the
earth no longer fluctuates with the different seasons,
but remains always at the same point during winter
and summer, whilst at the tropics the stratum of
invariable temperature is situate at only 1 foot below

the soil.

   " But whether the subterranean heat be due -to

the absorption of the solar rays, or whether it arises
(as some have supposed) from a vast body of central
fire in the earth, it is certain that we have many
indications of prodigious elevations of temperature
beneath the soil. These appear to be due to great
chemical changes taking place in the substances
forming the crust of the earth. Every schoolboy
knows that a mixture of sulphur and iron-filings
buried under the ground will, in a short time,
become so heated as to burst into flames. Now
these two materials form the mineral called ' iron
pyrites,' which prevails through every coal-field,
and the moisture acting on these is known to gene
rate heat enough to inflame neighbouring combust

ibles -- many coal-mines having been set on fire
spontaneously by such means. In the ' United
Mines,' where the heat is found so oppressive, it is

undoubtedly owing to the decomposition of immense
quantities of pyrites that are known to exist at a
short distance from the works.

   " Of the prodigious subterranean heat existing
THE "WONDERS OF HEAT.  107

in some parts of the earth we have the most un-

mistakeable evidence. In some places boiling hot
springs --as the Geysers of Iceland -- issue from the

ground (in these eggs have been cooked in 4 mi
nutes) ; and even in our own country the wells of
Bath have a temperature of 115°, while at those of

Carlsbad, in Bohemia, the heat of the water is as

high as 167°. In other parts, ' fumaroles,' or

eruptions of steam, burst from the soil; while in
others there are ' solfataras,' or jets of sulphurous

vapour ; and in others, again, -- as in the valleys
of the Eifel, at the lake of Laach in Germany --

' mofettes,' or vast exhalations of carbonic acid gas,

occur. Further, there are Artesian fire-springs --

like those termed ' ho-tsing ' in China, where a pro

vince has been lighted (by the gas issuing from

them) for several thousand years. Moreover, erup

tions of boiling acid mud, called ' salses,' are not

unfrequent. The volcano at Carguaraizo, in Peru,
threw up a torrent of hot mud in the year 1698,
that covered nearly 80,000 acres of ground ; and in
1797, an entire village near Eio Bambo was buried

under a similar mass.

   " All these phenomena are evidences of intense

subterranean heat, many of them being simply the
products of underground combustion : but lofty jets

of flame have likewise been known to blaze up from

the earth, to such a height that they could be seen

at a distance of 24 miles from the eruption ; as, for
108 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

instance, at the village of Baklichli, near Baku, on
the Caspian Sea, During earthquakes, too, the
earth has been known to open and to vomit forth
flames, and gases, and enormous fragments of rocks,
accompanied with a noise of subterranean thunder ;
while in some places the heaving soil has been
inflated by the force of the compressed vapours
beneath, and expanded like a bladder filled with air.
Such was the case among the plains of Malpais in
Mexico, in the month of September, 1759, when a
tract of ground, 3 to 4 miles in extent, rose up like

a huge bubble --flames bursting from the earth the
while over more than half a square league --and the
volcano of Jorullo being formed at the summit.

   " In volcanoes, or burning mountains, again, we

have manifestations of the intense elevation of tem
perature existing at certain places within the crust
of the earth. The explosions from the volcano of
Guacamayo, in South America, are heard almost
daily at a distance of 80 miles ; whilst the noise of
the detonations from one in the Sunda Islands, near

Java, have been distinguished 970 miles from the
spot. But the most remarkable instance on record
of the fury and power of the subterranean fires is
to be found in the eruption of one of the Icelandic
volcanoes, called ' Skaptaa Jokul,' which occurred
on the 8th of June, 1783. During this eruption the
large river Skaptaa entirely disappeared, and the
day after, a torrent of burning lava rushed down the
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  109

sides of the mountain and not only filled, but over
flowed the channel of the stream, though in many
places it was 600 feet deep and 200 feet broad.
Then pursuing the course of the river, the fiery
current poured over a lofty cataract, and filled up
in a few days an enormous cavity that the waters

had been hollowing out for ages. A short while

after this another large river, the Hverfisfliot, dis

appeared from its bed, and this was filled up by
another fiery torrent, which overflowed the country
in one night to the extent of more than 4 miles.

It has been estimated that these two streams of

burning molten rocks were together 90 miles in
length by 20 odd miles in breadth, and, in some
places, between 500 and 600 feet deep, while there
were in the aggregate forty thousand million tons
of red-hot rock poured out of the bowels of the
earth in the short space of ten weeks, during which

the eruption lasted.*

   " Another of the natural sources of heat to the

earth is to be found in the electric discharges
known under the names of forked and sheet light

   * To give a just idea of this fearful event it should be added,

that, at the most moderate calculation, 1300 human beings lost

their lives through the eruption ; it likewise caused the death of
20,000 horses, 7000 horned cattle, and 130,000 sheep. The
fisheries on the southern coast of the island, moreover, were

destroyed by it; and Iceland has not to this day, it is said,

recovered from the disastrous event of the year of the eruption

of Skaptaa Jokul.
110 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

ning. Of lightning there appear to be three kinds :

(1) The zigzag, which is linear and sharply defined
at the edges ; (2) the sheet, which illuminates whole
clouds, that seem to open and reveal the light within

them ; and (3) the globular, which appears in the
form of fire-balls. The two first of these kinds last

but for the thousandth part of a second, while the
globular form moves much more slowly. Of the

amount of heat contained in each of the different

species we have no precise knowledge, though, from
the experiments by which we produce discharges of

electricity artificially, on a small scale, we learn that
Ifit must be considerable.
                            a spark which is drawn

from a small Leyden jar, and which has force enough

to leap only some few inches through the air, has

power to inflame combustibles, and even to fuse the

metals in an attenuated form, what must be the

heat evolved from an electric discharge where the

insulating body consists of whole acres of clouds

rather than a few square inches of tin-foil, and

whence the fluid has power to leap through hun
dreds of feet of the atmosphere towards the nearest

conductor ? That the electric flash possesses great
heating power, we have repeated proofs ; for it

melts all wires that are not sufficiently substantial

to allow it a free passage, inflames decayed trees,

overthrows buildings, and often fuses even the

rocks themselves -- the tubes called 'fulgurites'

which occur in beds of sandstone, and consist of
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  Ill

fused sand (glass), are known to geologists to have
been produced by such means -- while at Funzie,
in Fetlar, the lightning is recorded to have torn up

a rock 105 feet long from its bed, and hurled the

fragments to a considerable distance from the spot.

Moreover, the electric heat is the greatest that we

are enabled to produce artificially, and so much ex
ceeds that of the strongest furnace, that platinum,
which remains stubborn and infusible in a forge at
a white heat, melts in the arc of flame produced by

a powerful voltaic battery --like wax.
   " These are the natural sources of heat," the

youth wrote on ; " the artificial methods of gene
rating heat, however, are much more various. We
can evolve heat by mechanical means -- as, for in
stance, by percussion or pressure. The blacksmith
hammers a nail until it becomes red-hot, and from
it he lights his match ; and in coining, the blank
piece of metal becomes greatly heated by the
sudden and violent action of the press. By the
compression of air in a small tube, by means of a
condensing syringe, a sufficient quantity of heat
may be evolved to light German tinder ; and it has
been well said, ' that, locked in a pint measure of

air, there exists sufficient heat to make several

square inches of metal red-hot.' A piece of Indian-

rubber, suddenly and forcibly drawn out, becomes
warm in consequence of the extension, as may be
easily perceived by applying it to the lip the
112 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

moment it is stretched. Again, by the concussion
of a flint and steel so much heat is produced that
the sparks which fly off consist of small particles of

iron that have been fused by it. Moreover, when
a few grains of fulminating silver are struck by a
hammer, the heat produced is sufficient to ignite

gunpowder and to cause a violent explosion.

Again, friction is a prolific source of heat. The
Indian ignites two pieces of wood by rubbing them
together ; and even two pieces of ice may be made

to melt each other by the same means. It has been

truly observed, too, that an unlimited supply of
heat seems capable of being derived by friction
from certain materials. Water has been made to
boil in two hours and a-half, merely by boring
into a mass of metal that was surrounded by the
fluid.

    " But not only can we produce heat artificially

by mechanical means ; we can do so far more
plentifully and easily by chemical action, for it has
been found, that whenever two or more substances

rapidly combine, heat is invariably produced. In

fermentation (which is nothing more than a de
composition of elements loosely united, and their
re-union in a more perfect state of combination)
considerable increase of temperature takes place.
During the making of vinegar there is much heat

evolved--the temperature rising, in some processes,

 from 60° to 85°. Again, in the process of respira
THE WONDERS OF HEAT.  US

tion (which is merely the combination of the char
coal in the blood, with a certain portion of the air

drawn into the lungs) the heat evolved is sup

posed to be the cause of our bodies remaining

almost at a constant temperature. A little powder

of the metal called antimony thrown into a jar

of chlorine gas spontaneously ignites and burns

with brilliancy, combining with the gas so readily
that it takes fire and produces at first a liquid,
and afterwards a soft solid called the ' butter

of antimony.' Further, there is an oil-like fluid
consisting of two gases (nitrogen and chlorine)
that have been made to unite with each other, and

this compound has such an affinity for combustible

bodies, that even if a long rod, the extremity

of which has been dipped in oil, be made to touch

only a globule of it-- the size of a mustard-seed --
confined under water, it instantly explodes with
a flash of light, and with such violence that it

disperses the water in a shower, and breaks into
atoms the vessel in which it is contained ; so that

experienced chemists always protect the face by a

mask when making the experiment. Again, if oil
of vitriol and spirits of wine, or if aqua fortis and

spirits of turpentine, be suddenly mixed, sufficient

heat is set free to ignite the spirits. When caus

tic potash, too, dissolves in water, a considerable

increase of temperature ensues. So if spirits of

wine and water are mixed together, the mixture

                                            I
114 THE WCNDERS OF SCIENCE.

becomes much hotter and occupies a smaller space ;

whilst if four parts of strong oil of vitriol be mixed

with one part of snow or pounded ice, the heat

developed is sufficient to boil water, whereas if one

part of the acid be added to four parts of snow,

intense cold is produced. More than this, if a piece

of clean platinum be immersed in a vessel con

taining a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases,

such intense heat is evolved that the metal becomes

suddenly red-hot, and the gases are made to com-

bine so rapidly that a violent explosion ensues, and

the two gases become water.

   " But the most ordinary mode of obtaining heat

artificially is combustion, though this is merely

a process of rapid combination after all. It is by

the heat evolved during the process of combustion

that our houses are warmed in winter, our food

cooked, the steam-engines of our factories and
mines set in motion, our metals smelted, cast, and

wrought, our glass made, our dishes hardened, and

an infinity of useful services rendered to us ; in

deed, so much do we owe to combustion, that we

are unable to comprehend the state which man
must have been in before the method of producing

heat artificially by such means was discovered.
   " Lastly, there is the heat generated by nervous

energy; for if the sole source of warmth to the

animal frame lay in the chemical processes that

are continually going on within  it,

                                                               a
                                 why should
THK WONDERS OF HEAT.  115

suddenly excited emotion (as in states of anger and
blushing) have power to produce so considerable
an increase of temperature in the human frame ?

Indeed -we have personal knowledge, that almost

every muscular movement produces sensible warmth,

even as any violent excitement of the mind is at

tended with the same result. We know, too, that
the injury of one little thread-like nerve can reduce
a member of the body to a state of stony coldness ;
and that after death, when the chemical decom
positions are proceeding as actively as during life,

the body possesses no animal heat whatever." Phy

siologists, moreover, have shown that, if the respi
ration b« kept up artificially in an animal after its

 head has been cut off, the blood becomes arterial-

 ized, and the several chemical changes go on as
 during life, -- but without the body being in the least
 warmed by them.
118 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                  CHAPTER VII.

THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.

WHEN Humphry had written thus far concerning
the sources of heat (for the boy was delighted to
note down his thoughts on the various subjects he
was studying*), he began to ponder over the
several modes in which heat was communicated to
bodies removed from the different sources of it ;

for, said he to himself, " if there had been no means

of propagating heat from one part of space to an

other, the fires could not have warmed us, and the

sun would have been only a moon to our globe,
while we should have been deprived of some of our
most agreeable sensations. Hence, in the considera

   * The note-books of  Davy during the        time of his    ap"prtheneticaersdhoiupr
                        and show (says         his brother)
have been preserved,

·with which he entered upon his studios, and the extensive reach

of his mind in the various branches of knowledge which he pro

posed to pursue. One    "ofotnhemma,nybeaacrcinogunttsh,e  a  date of 1795, is,"

(Dr. John Davy adds,)                                          literary curiosity.
It is a small quarto, with parchment covers. Outside one of the

covers is the figure of an ancient lyre drawn with his pen, and on

the other    an"  olive leaf encircling     a  lamp   ; as if,*'  remarks his
biographer,       in anticipation of     Jos   great  discovery   of confining
THE "WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.                                                         117

tion of such a subject, it becomes necessary to attend

to, and distinguish between, the several ways in

which a body at an elevated temperature commu

nicates its heat to others that are either in contact

with it or at a distance from                                      as well as the
                   :

                          J1

                                  Lf
                                              it,

                                                                   it
                                                                             is
several eonditions which determine the reception or

absorption of the heat by different substances.

flame in the safety-lamp. At the commencement of                                          the fol
lowing plan of study --

T. Theology;

Or Religion, Ethics,            Taught by Nature.

or moral virtues,                                                  ,, by Revelation.

2. Geography.

3. My Profession.               5. Language.

1. Botany.                      1. English.

2. Pharmacy.                    2. French.

3. Nosology.                    3. Latin.

4. Anatomy.                     4. Greek.

5. Surgery.                     S. Italian.

6. Chemistry.                   6. Spanish.

4. Logic.1                                                         Hebrew.

                                                               7.
6. Physics.

  . The doctrines and properties of natural bodies.
2. Of the operations of nature.

3. Of the doctrines of fluids.

4. Of the properties of organised matter.
5. Of the organisation of matter.

6. Simple astronomy.

Mechanics.                      9. History and Chronology.
7.

                      I

                                          is
                                                   '

                                                                                       '
8. Rhetoric and Oratory.        10. Mathematics.

To give some   distinct  id"ea  of the bent of his studies at this                        time,"
continues his  brother,         shall briefly notice the principal                         topics

which appear in this MS. volume. It opens with Hints towards

the Investigation of Truth in Religious and Political Opinions,
composed as they occurred, to be placed in a more regular manner

hereafter.' His first essay     On the Immortality and Immate
118 · THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   " Now, heat may be communicated from one body
to another in three different ways, --

   1 . By emission of rays of heat from a distance ;
   2. By conduction along the particles of a solid

       body;                     among the par

3. By convection or circulation
       ticles of a fluid.

riality of the Soul;' the second bears the title of 'Body, orga
nised matter ;' and his third is 'On Governments.' Then there

follow a variety of essays on metaphysical and moral subjects.

These topics occupy more than one-half of the book ; the other
part, which appears to have been written after, commences at the

opposite end, inverted. This  isDadveyvo, t"edthpearretlyarteo  religious essays ;
but besides these," adds Dr.                                    some verses and

the beginning of a romance, called ' An Idyl,' which is in the

form of dialogue, the characters being ' TREVELIS a warrior and

friend of Prince Arthur, and MORROBIN a Druid ;' the scene,
' A cliff at the Land's End in Cornwall.'

   " From the same source of information -- his note-books --

it appears, that in the beginning of the year 1796 he entered
on the study of mathematics. One book is almost entirely

confined to this subject, and he seems to have finished the

elementary course in more than twelve months, when he was

commencing the eleventh book of Euclid, having gone through

most of the other branches. He engaged in these studies with

out a master, and perfectly voluntary on his part, from the con

viction of their usefulness preliminary to the study of chemical

and physical sciences. His passion for poetry at the same time

appears to have kept pace with the expansion of his faculties, and

not to have been damped even by the application to mathematics,

for his early note-books contain many desultory verses. His

early chemical reading was confined to two works of a very diffe
rent description, ' Lavoisier's Elements of Chemistry,' and
' Nicholson's Dictionary of Chemistry.' This new study seems
very soon to have excited in his mind a most lively interest. He
was not satisfied with merely reading and acquiring the ideas of

others. He criticised the theoretical views of the great French
       THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.                    119

   " The propagation of heat by the emission of heat-

rays from a warm or burning body at a distance, is the
one that first demands attention. This mode of com

munication is generally styled 'radiation ofheat,' and

it is evident that the heat-rays emanating from one

body may be communicated to another, either directly,
by the process of transmission through the intervening

substances, or indirectly, by reflexion from the sur

faces of those opposing them ; for the heat-rays,
like those of light, always proceed in a straight line,
and are susceptible, likewise, of being reflected or

driven off at an equal angle from polished surfaces."

philosopher" (Lavoisier, the author of the new Theory of Com

bustion, which was propounded only some few years before);
'' he doubted, rejected, and advanced speculations of his own.

Speculation appears to have led him to experiment, and experiment

to further speculation, with such rapid progress that in a few

months he had formed a new hypothesis (concerning the principle

of heat) , and flattered himself that he had triumphed over an im
portant part of the doctrine of the French school.

  " Humphry Davy himself writes in one of his note-books,
dated 1 799, ' About twenty months ago I began the study of

Chemistry.    The system of  Lavoisier, almost the only    elementary
book in my  possession, was                                  That the
                             the first that I studied.' "

subject of heat was the first chemical principle that engaged the

boy's  attention we have further evidence in the fact, that, a few
years
       afterwards, his " Researches on Heat and Light" were pub

lished in the form of essays, in a miscellaneous volume edited by

Dr. Beddoes. In the preface to this work the editor says, re
Itferring to the views propounded by Davy, '
                                              is not neces

sary, in praise or excuse of his system, to add that at the time
the theory was formed the author was under twenty years of age,
pupil to a surgeon-apothecary in the most remote town of Corn

wphailllo, sowpihthicalilttlme eanc.c'es"s to philosophical books, and none at all to
120 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   Having settled thus much in his own mind, and
arranged the subject with that logical precision
which was a marked feature in the genius of the

youth, he proceeded to test experimentally the
  nissive energies, or, in other words, the radiating

powers of different substances.
   For this purpose he provided himself with a

square tin canister : one of the four sides of this
he brought to as high a polish as he possibly could;
the second side he coated with a mixture of lamp
black and gum-water ; over the third side he
pasted a piece of paper, and the fourth he covered
with glass. Then, having provided himself with a
thermometer from the surgery below, he proceeded
to arrange the canister at some distance from the
thermometer, but on a level with it. After this he
filled the canister with boiling-hot water, and then
proceeded to note how the thermometer was affected
when the canister was turned round, and each of

its sides successively brought before the instrument.
The boy soon ascertained, to his great joy, that the
heat was thrown off most rapidly from the blackened
side of the canister; next to that, he found the
surface covered with paper to radiate heat more
rapidly than the other two; then the glass side
was discovered to possess more emissive power
than the polished surface, while the polished sur
face itself had the least radiating power of all.

   Delighted with the result of the experiment, and
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.  121

pleased with the knowledge it gave him as to the

emissive energies of different substances for heat,

the boy, to assure himself that he was not mis
taken, held his hand at a short distance from the

canister, and caused the differently-coated sides o

pass successively before it. As he did so, he could

feel the heat increase gradually as the polished side
passed from before his hand and the blackened one
came round in front of it ; so that, had he not been
aware of the fact, he would hardly have believed
that the water in the canister was as hot at that

part where the bright tin had been left as it was

where the side had been blackened over.
   Next the lad tried another modification of the

same experiment. Having blackened one caaister
entirely over, and brightly polished the outside of
another which was of the same size, he filled the
two vessels with boiling water, and putting a ther
mometer into each he placed them upon a table at
opposite corners of an empty room, and then found
that the thermometer in the blackened vessel fell
much quicker than that in the polished tin one ; so
he now saw that the reason why the black side of
the canister in the first experiment felt hotter than
the polished surface did to his hand was, that the
water there was parting with its heat at a more
rapid rate, so that in the entirely blackened vessel
it necessarily cooled down sooner than in the
bright tin one.
123 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

    Humphry was so delighted with the truths he
had thus discovered, that he tried a number of
other experiments as to the radiating power of dif
ferent substances, and at last came to the con
clusion that lamp-black, sealing-wax, wool, paper,
glass, and black-lead, were much better radiators
of heat than the metals ; their power of giving
off heat being in the order in which they are

here mentioned, -- a surface of lamp-black cooling

quicker than one of sealing-wax, and sealing-wax
again more rapidly than writing-paper, and so on
down to the metals, which cooled the slowest of

all.
   Then, having dealt with different substances,

the youth set to work to ascertain what effect an
alteration in the arrangement of the surface pro
duced in the radiating power of the same sub
stance. Accordingly he tarnished, by means of acid,
one of the sides of the polished tin canister he had
previously employed, and found, on filling the vessel
again with hot water, that the dulled surface parted
with its heat quicker than the bright one. After
this, he proceeded to roughen another of the sides
with some emery paper, and then, on re-filling the
vessel, he discovered that the scratched surface
cooled at a greater rate than the smooth polished one.

   " So, then," said young Humphry to himself,
" not only have different substances various radiat

ing powers for heat, but also a difference in the
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.  123

arrangement of the surface of the same substance is
attended with a like effect."

   Still the lad had to examine the result produced
by bodies of different densities, and this he did by
means of a vessel of cast-iron and one of wrought-
iron, when he found that the cast metal parted with
its heat quicker than the hammered or wrought
metal ; so that it was evident a lighter material was
a better radiator of caloric than a heavier one -- for

the particles of the iron in being wrought had

been brought closer together, and the metal thus
rendered of greater density.

   This done, Humphry made an entry in his note
book, " that not only did rough or dull surfaces
part with their heat quicker than smooth or bright
surfaces, but that light bodies were better radiators

than heavy ones."
    The young experimentalist was overjoyed with

the progress he had made, and he would have
rambled off into a number of speculations as to the
effect which the principles he had discovered must
produce in nature (for he saw that the different
surfaces of different countries must yield a like
result) ; but he was too intent on pursuing the in
vestigations he had undertaken to allow himself, yet
awhile, to apply them to the explanation of terres
trial phenomena. Moreover, he had still to learn the
different rates of cooling among bodies in the air
and in a vacuum. To do this, however, an air-pump
124 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

·was necessary, and how he was to obtain such an ap
paratus puzzled his ingenuity for a considerable time.

   At length the youth remembered to have seen a

large syringe among Mr. Tonkin's instruments, and
having obtained the loan of this, he applied it to a
stand, and used it as the pump for extracting the
air from the receiver. When the instrument was

complete, Humphry found that bodies which took
between two and three minutes to cool in the air
were as long as five minutes in parting with the
same quantity of heat in a vessel from which all the
air had been exhausted. So he now perceived, that
the same substances gave off their heat twice as
quick in the open air as they did in vacua.

   The next step was to ascertain the different
amounts of radiation among different bodies on the
earth. For this purpose the boy borrowed as many
thermometers as he could procure among his friends
in the town ; and early one evening, after the sun
had declined, and when the soil was parting with
the heat it had received in the course of the day, he
proceeded to test, by means of the instruments, the
several rates at which the various substances upon
the earth were being cooled down. One of the
thermometers he suspended in the air four feet above
the grass -plat in the garden at the back of the
doctor's house ; another he placed on some wool
which he had spread on a raised board ; another he
deposited on the surface of the raised board itself;
THE ·WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.  125

and a fourth he rested on the grass-plat. Shortly

afterwards he proceeded to note the temperatures
indicated by the several thermometers in the differ
ent situations, when he found that the one in the

air stood at rather more than 60°, while that resting
on the wool was at 54° £, and that lying on the

board at 57°, whereas the one on the grass -plat

marked only 51°. In an hour or two after this, the

boy noticed that the blades of grass were suffused
with dew, and that the fibres of the wool also were
beaded over with little drops of moisture, but to a
less extent than the grass, while the surface of the

board remained almost dry.

    " So then," he said to himself, " wool is a better

radiator than wood, and, cooling quicker, condenses
the moisture of the air more rapidly upon it ; but

grass again, as the thermometer showed, cooled
quicker even than the wool, and therefore collects

more dew than either."

    This induced young Humphry to try another ex
periment, in order to ascertain whether those bodies

which cooled most rapidly collected the most dew
on their surfaces. Accordingly he placed a piece
of bright polished metal and a piece of glass (for the
surfaces of these substances were nearly the same)
on the gravel-path, and was delighted to perceive
that in a short time the glass was covered with

moisture while the metal remained perfectly dry. A

strip offlannel was then put beside the other two,
126 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

and, being a good radiator, it soon became spotted
with dew-drops. After this the boy coated the
piece of polished metal with lamp-black, and found
it then, like the others, capable of condensing the
moisture of the air upon its surface.

  I" It is as expected," cried the lad ; " the dew

which the ancients imagined to be shed from the
stars is simply the condensation of the vapour in
the atmosphere upon cold surfaces ; and, conse
quently, those bodies which have the greatest ra

diating power, and so become cold the quickest, are
found to have the largest deposition of dew formed
upon them, while those which, like polished metals,
part with their heat but slowly, and so remain for a
long time at the same temperature, have but little
moisture condensed upon their surface. The depo

sition of dew," he went on musing, " is precisely

similar to the condensation of moisture that occurs
on the outside of a bottle of very cold water when
brought into a warm room. The cold surface of
the'glass abstracts heat from the vapour in the air
of the apartment, and so causes it to be condensed
in the form of little watery globules on the surface.

In the same manner the earth, parting at night

with the heat it has received during the day from
the sun, becomes cooler than the atmosphere above

it: -- for thermometers show, that when the grass

is at 51° in the evening, the air only four feet above

it is more than 60° --and accordingly the cold sur
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.  127

face of the blades acts upon the vapour in the atmo
sphere, precisely the same as the outside of the cold
bottle does upon the air in a warm room."

   So pleased was the lad with the insight that his
investigations had given him into some of the mys
teries of nature, that he continued his experiments

on this subject for many nights ; and in the course
of these he found, that not only had different bodies

different dew-collecting powers, but that different

colours even possessed the same property ; for on
exposing a piece of yellow, of green, of red, and of
black glass to the night air, he perceived that the
moisture appeared first on the yellow glass, then on
the green, but that none at all showed itself on
either the red or black glasses.

   To his astonishment, however, he at length dis

covered, that when the evenings were cloudy, and
there seemed to be a greater quantity of moisture in
the atmosphere, the pieces of flannel and glass, and
little piles of swan's-down with which he had studded
the gravel-walk, remained unmoistened with dew ;
whereas, when the nights were clear and apparently
dry, they, one and all, with the exception of the
polished metals, became rapidly suffused with mois

ture. This for awhile entirely baffled the boy's
comprehension. " How came it that more dew was
deposited on dry clear nights than on dull damp

ones ?" Surely, such being the case, the dew can
not be said to proceed from the vapour in the atmo
123 THE 'WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

sphere ; for if it does, reasoned Humphry, it is evi

dent that when there is more moisture in the air
there should be more dew deposited on the earth.

   At length it struck the boy that, perhaps, the

clouds themselves might interfere in some way or
other with the result ; so the next fine clear night
he strewed the gravel-walk, as before, with frag
ments of such substances as he had already found
to be the best collectors of dew ; and then, at the
other end of the path, he placed pieces of the same
substances under a small awning, which he made out
of his pocket-handkerchief, fastened at each corner
to a short stick. This he did m order to see what
effect would be produced by screening bodies from

the sky--since the clouds, he fancied, might act in

some such manner.

    On returning to the garden after a short interval,
Humphry was rejoiced to find that there was a
copious deposition of dew on the pieces of glass and
wool that he had left exposed to the sky, while the
surfaces of those which were screened by the little

awning above them remained perfectly dry.

  · " Yes," cried the lad, " the clouds do act as
screens. They give back, perhaps, some of the

heat that the earth at night is radiating into space,
and so prevent bodies cooling down as rapidly as
they otherwise would."

    However, to satisfy himself that the clouds really
did interfere with the radiation of bodies on the
           THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 129

earth, Humphry arranged an apparatus for testing
the point. This consisted of a thermometer, the
bulb of which was first incased in wool (for that
substance he knew to part readily with heat) and
afterwards fixed in the focus of a small concave
mirror. Then on the next windy night, when the

clouds were drifting swiftly across the sky--leaving

the heavens occasionally clear, and occasionally hid

ing the light of the stars --the anxious lad turned

the mirror towards the blue vault above, and, on
doing so, he could hardly repress his glee as he
beheld the quicksilver in the tube of the thermo
meter descend and ascend, each time the sky became
clear or clouded. Though, by means of another
thermometer, he knew the temperature of the sur
rounding atmosphere to be 60°, Humphry neverthe
less found that, when the sky was unclouded, the
mercury in the one attached to the mirror indicated
only 45°, whilst immediately that a cloud passed
 over the firmament, and so prevented the bulb from
parting with its heat, the quicksilver rose rapidly
 again to the temperature of the air around. So
 intensely did Humphry exult in the result of this
 experiment, that he remained long, watching the
 thermometer rise and fall, as the clouds swept one
 after another across the sky.

    The next day, Humphry, now that he had made
 himself acquainted with the circumstances that

                                                         K
130 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

regulated the emission or radiation of heat from

bodies, began to turn his attention to the reflexion
of it from such substances as impeded the progress

of the rays ; " for," said he, " if bodies at an ele

vated temperature have the power of sending out
rays of heat in all directions --in the same manner
as luminous bodies emit rays of light -- it follows that
substances opposing the passage of the heat-rays
must either absorb them, and so become heated
themselves -- or they must transmit them and so
allow the rays to proceed in their original direction
--- or else they must reflect them and so bend
them into another course."

   For the study of the reflexion of heat the lad
procured two concave mirrors, made of tin-plate
and about 1 foot in diameter. These he arranged

so as to slide up and down a pillar, to which they
were respectively attached. Thus provided, Hum
phry proceeded to place a small " Florence flask,"
filled with hot water, in the focus of one of the

mirrors, while in the other focus he arranged a

thermometer after this fashion :--
            THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 131

    Now, though the mirrors were some feet apart, the
mercury in the tube, to the boy's great delight, rose
almost to the heat of the boiling water in the flask.

   After a few moments' reflection, the lad fancied

the effect might perhaps be due to the radiation
of the heat from the flask itself, rather than to the
reflexion of it from the mirrors. So, to satisfy him
self whether or not such were the case, he placed
a sheet of pasteboard immediately in front of th6
mirror near the thermometer, and thus prevented

any rays being reflected from the one to the other.

No sooner, however, had he done so than the mer
cury was seen to fall in the tube -- even though
the source of heat was as near to the thermometer

as before ; but directly he removed the pasteboard
from between the mirror and the thermometer, the

quicksilver rose rapidly again, and stood at the same

number of degrees as it previously did.

    Having convinced himself upon this point, he

then drew the thermometer away from the focus

and nearer to the heated flask, so that, if the effect

were due to radiation, the mercury, as it approached
'the source of heat, should rise higher in the tube.
 The contrary result, however, was found to ensue ;
and it will be seen on reference to the preceding
engraving, that by radiation only a few of the heat-
rays (which are indicated by the diverging unbroken
lines) would fall upon the thermometer, whereas by
 reflexion a much larger number of such rays become
138 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

concentrated upon the bulb in the focus of the opposite

mirror--as shown by the dotted lines in the diagram.

    Humphry was now anxious to see whether, by
reflexion of the heat-rays, he could ignite combust
ible bodies at a distance ; but for this purpose he
changed the situation of the mirrors, arranging
them vertically one above the other, instead of
horizontally, or each on a level with the other, as
before. Then he made
a small basket of iron
wire, and having filled
this with burning char
coal, he suspended it
below the upper mir
ror, so that it hung
exactly in its focus,
whilst above the lower
mirror he fixed a small
piece of phosphorus,
and this was exactly

in the focus also. --

Thus, on the comple
tion of the arrange-
in e n t,

the boy
was
astonished as he was delighted to perceive that th(?
phosphorus was immediately inflamed by the re
flected rays of heat. Some fulminating silver was
            THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 133

then exploded in like manner. After this Hum
phry boiled some water in a flask that he substi
tuted for the piece of phosphorus in the focus of the

lower mirror, and finally cooked a chop, by the same
means, at some considerable distance from the fire.

    Next, instead of the two mirrors, he rolled up a
sheet of bright gilt paper, with the metallic side in
wards, into the form of a long cone or funnel, so that
the opening was larger at one end than at the other;
then holding the larger end towards a clear fire,
he found the rays of heat were concentrated into
a focus at a little distance beyond the smaller end,
and there he caused a bit of phosphorus again to
inflame, by means of the reflected heat. The sub
joined diagram exhibits the arrangement.*

    Humphry now began to wonder what eifect
would be produced by a piece of ice placed in the

   * 4 lueifer match may be conveniently employed for the same

purpose, and it will be found that the match, by means of the cone,
may be inflamed at a greater distance from the fire than, it could
possibly be without it.
134  THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.        ·
                              .

focus of one of the mirrors ; and he thought for a
long time whether the rays of cold would be re
flected from the ice, as those of heat had been from the
hot water and the burning charcoal. As the winter
had long set in, he found no difficulty in obtaining
such a piece as he required from one of the
neighbouring ponds, and then arranging the mir
rors as before, he placed it in the focus of one of
them, while in that of the other he fixed the ther

mometer which he had previously employed.
    To the lad's astonishment he discovered that the

mercury immediately began to fall, and at length

stood at 32°, or the freezing point. " So then!"
he cried, " it is possible to reflect rays of cold
as well as those of heat. And yet," said he to
himself, after musing for a while, " is it the ice,

after all, that is radiating cold to the thermometer,
or the thermometer itself, which, being warmer
than the frozen water, is really and truly radiating

heat to the ice ? " If, instead of the thermometer,

he had placed a red-hot body in the one focus, while
the ice remained in the other, Humphry knew well
enough that the warmer body, as it became cool,
would be giving off heat to the colder one. " Why
then," he asked himself, " should he fancy that the

thermometer itself-- because it was only a few
degrees warmer than the ice--lacked the power of

parting with its heat to the colder body, in the same
manner as the red-hot charcoal ? "
        THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 188

The lad was soon convinced of his previous

fallacy ; and when he saw that the apparently

contradictory effect was no anomaly after all, he

could hardly refrain from smiling at the simplicity

which had led him to believe at first that rays
of cold were reflected from the ice to the ther

mometer, instead of the rays of heat being given

off by the thermometer to the ice.

   As yet, however, Humphry had experimented

concerning the reflexion of heat with mirrors only
of polished metal; and one day, when he was re
counting to Mr. Tonkin the curious effects he had

produced, the old gentleman asked the lad what he

imagined would have been the effecta    instead of

                           if,
metal mirrors, he had used glass ones.

   Humphry answered confidently, that, as the re
sults were due only to the reflexion of the rays

from the concave surface, glass mirror, of course,

would have given precisely the same effects as the
metal ones,

   " Try it," was all the old man said, as he smiled

at the positiveness of the boy's reply.
   Nor was the young experimentalist long in doing

so, for he saw by Mr. Tonkin's manner that some
strange difference in the effect would ensue --though

for the life of him he could not divine what was
                                        it

to be.

   Accordingly, at the earliest opportunity, the boy
substituted the glass concave mirror, which Mr.
136 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Tonkin had lent him for the purpose, for one of

the metal ones which he had previously employed ;

then filling the little wire basket with red-hot

charcoal, as before, and hanging it in the focus

of the upper mirror, he once more suspended a

piece of phosphorus in the focus of the lower

mirror, which was now of glass instead of metal.
To his utter amazement, however, the phosphorus

was no longer capable of being inflamed in such a

manner.

   It was but the work of a moment to remove the

combustible from the focus of the glass mirror, and

to place a thermometer there in its stead ; and this

ifsoon showed that there was now little, any, heat

reflected.              "
" How
            wonderful  !   cried  the  startled  boy.

" What can be the cause of it ? I'll arrange the
Imirrors differently," he added, " and see if can

find it out."

But no sooner did Humphry put his finger on

the glass than he drew it suddenly back, as he
exclaimed, " How hot the lower mirror has become !

I Iand remember when used the metal one, that
I was surprised to find, on removing
                           of          though

                              it
                                             is

                                                   is
                                                      it,

                                                                   is
the heat was sufficient to boil water and ignite

bodies in its focus, the metal surface of the mirror

itself was scarcely warmed. But now that glass
used," he went on, " the mirror itself rendered

hot, while in the focus    there scarcely any
IH-.Ml'HKY 8 EXPERIMENTS ON THE D1KH'SIO.N OF HEAT.

                                                                                                                        1'age 137.
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 137

perceptible     "intchreeagslaessofabtseomrbpserathtuereh. eatS-roa,yst,heann,d"
he added,

therefore does not reflect them, while the metal
on the other hand reflects, because it does not

absorb them. Still it's very strange," mused Hum

phry, as he proceeded to blacken a small card,

" for the glass mirror must reflect the light of the
fire, though it absorbs the heat from it. I'll try

whether such is the case or not."

The card was then placed in the focus, and a

bright spot of light was seen shining like silver
in the centre of the blackened surface.

   " Yes," cried the lad, " it reflects the light, but

Inot the heat of the fire. How strange ! wonder

whether the same effect would be produced by the
sun's rays ! "

Accordingly the next day, when the sun was

shining brightly, Humphry arranged the mirror in

the garden, so that the beams might be concen

trated in its focus ; and then, to his greater asto

nishment, he found that he could inflame com

bustibles by the solar heat with the glass mirror,

in the same manner as he had previously done by

art"ifTichieal  heat with  the metal  ones.     then,"  said
                light and   heat of   the sun,

Humphry, as he stood watching the white fumes

of the burning phosphorus rise in the air, " are

capable of being, reflected by glass, whereas the

light only of an artificial fire can be concentrated
138 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

into a focus by it--the heat in the latter case

being absorbed."
    The metal mirror, likewise, was found to possess

the power of reflecting both the solar light and heat,
in the same manner as it had been before made to
reflect both the light and heat of an artificial fire.

    The experiment with the glass mirror, however,
clearly showed that solar heat differed in some way
or other from terrestrial heat ; bat how, was a
source of continual wonder to the lad.

    From the reflexion of heat, Humphry proceeded
to the transmission of it.

   Light passes readily through certain substances,
which are therefore said to be transparent, while
others impede the progress of the beams, and are
consequently called opaque. " Is there, then,"
mused the boy, " such a property as transparence
and opacity for heat, as well as light, among bodies ?
Are some substances pellucid, as it were, to heat
like they are to light ? and are some as imperme

able to the one as they are to the other ?
   The lad knew well that the heat of the sun was

capable of being transmitted through glass as well
as its light, for he had often concentrated the

solar beams by means of a magnifying or " burn
ing" lens, as it is called: glass, therefore, was

transparent to the solar heat as well as light ; but
was it so to the rays of artificial heat ?
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 189

To ascertain this, Humphry borrowed old Dr.

Tonkin's large reading lens, and held it before the

fire so that the focus fell upon the bulb of a ther

mometer. But though the light of the burning

coals was seen concentrated into a bright spot upon

the bulb, still the mercury in the tube gave no in

dications of any increase of temperature. The lens,

however, which was scarcely warmed when the sun's

it
      it

                                  it,
                                           it
rays passed through became greatly heated when

the rays of the artificial fire were made to fall upon

 --thus showing, that while transmitted the solar

heat absorbed the terrestrial.

  It was evident, therefore, that though the heat of

the sun has the power of passing freely through

glass, artificial heat, on the other hand,        it iscom
pletely stopped by it.

Humphry then thought he should like to try the

effect of piece of black glass, for this would be
it a
perfectly opaque to light, and he longed much to see
      a
whether would be equally impermeable to heat.
           it
On holding square piece before the fire, the boy

was surprised to perceive the thermometer he had

arranged behind rise rapidly, thus showing that

though black glass was in-transparent to light, was

by no means opaque to heat. That the quicksilver
was made to mount in the tube solely by the influence

of the heat-rays which traversed the black glass--

and not by any indirect radiation from the fire--

Humphry assured himself, by placing piece of white
                                               a
140 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

glass, of the same size and thickness as the black one,

before the thermometer : the quicksilver, however,

was immediately seen to fall. " How marvellous is
this !" he exclaimed. " Light and heat, then, are

capable of being separated one from the other ;
and there are bodies in nature which, like white

glass, are transparent to light, but opaque to heat ;

while there are others, like black glass, that allow

the heat-rays to pass through them, though they

are incapable of being traversed by the luminous

ones."

The boy was so full of the new truth that had

thus become impressed upon his mind, that he

hurried off to Mr. Tonkin to confer with him on the

result. From him Humphry learnt that there

were other substances, besides glass, that gave

equally curious effects, --the most striking of these,

the old gentleman told the boy, were alum and rock-

salt, for though both were transparent to light, they

had by no means the same power of transmitting heat ;

for it would be found, that while a small plate of

rock-salt allowed the rays of heat to pass almost

                similar plate of alum was nearly
freely through  it,

impermeable to them.a
                                                                        a
The young philosopher was not long in trying

the experiment. Having procured two such plates
as Mr. Tonkin had advised, he used them as small

screens in front of the fire, and found that ther

mometer behind the rock-salt rose rapidly; whereas,
            THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 141

behind the alum, it was scarcely affected, for the
heat was nearly all stopped by it.

   The possibility of separating heat from light
made a powerful impression upon the ardent boy,
and he wondered whether he could arrive at the
same result with the solar beams as he had with
the rays of an artificial fire. For a long time he
pondered over the matter, and conceived and tried
a number of fruitless experiments in connexion
with it.

   At length, however, he remembered to have read

somewhere, that by means of a glass prism the
beam of white light proceeding from the sun might
be separated into all the colours of the rainbow.

   Accordingly he set to work to repeat the experi
ment. Having darkened his room he made a hole
in the window-shutter, and placed behind it a glass
prism, with one of the sharp edges downwards and
one of the flat sides uppermost, as shown in the
annexed illustration : --

Immediately that the arrangement was complete, and
143  ·  THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the beam from without fell on the glass within, the
wall on the opposite side was iridescent with a strip

of variegated light, as if a slice of a bright rain

bow were clinging to it. The lower end of the
luminous band was a rich warm red, and this

passed, by a tint of orange, into a bright yellow,
which again died away, by deepening hues of green,
into a narrow strip of dark blue, while, at the
upper end, the indigo tint became warmed into a
brilliant edging of violet.

   When the rapture of the boy on first beholding

the sight had, in a measure, subsided, he proceeded,
by means of a thermometer, to ascertain the tem

perature of the several rays. First he tried the
upper end of the spectrum, and found that in the
blue ray the mercury marked 56°. Then passing

downwards Humphry was overjoyed to see the

quicksilver mount as he proceeded towards the
middle, where, in the yellow ray, the instrument in
dicated a temperature of 62°, i. e. 6° higher than in

the blue ; while at the lower end --at the extremity
of the red ray --the temperature was found to be as

high as 79°, i. e. 17° higher than it was in the yellow.
   There was then, altogether, as much as 33° dif

ference between the heat at the extreme ends of the
luminous band--the red ray being upwards of half
as hot again as the blue one -- so that light and heat
were capable of being separated even in the solar

beams themselves; for the yellow contained the
           THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 143

most light of all, and yet it was 17° colder than the
extreme verge of the red ray, where there was only
a faint luminous blush to be perceived.

    The next step was to ascertain the circumstances
regulating the reception or absorption of heat.

    Humphry had now investigated the laws which
governed the radiation or emission of the rays of
heat from bodies at an elevated temperature. He
had ascertained that these rays not only emanated
from heated substances at different rates, and so
caused them to cool down more or less rapidly, but

that--though their tendency was to proceed, like the
rays of light, in a straight line --they were capable

of being reflected or bent back by certain bodies
opposing their progress, and that in such cases the
reflecting bodies themselves did not become heated
by them. Other bodies, again, he had found to have
the power of transmitting the rays of heat, that
is to say, of allowing them to pass through their
substance rather than reflecting or driving them back
 from their surface ; and such transmitting bodies,
 moreover, were likewise scarcely warmed by the
heat that traversed them. Now he was about to
 investigate the conditions that determined the ab
 sorption of the heat-rays, by bodies upon which
they fell after being given off by radiation from
 others of a higher temperature.

    The lad's first experiment upon this subject was
it144 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE, i
          it,
to blacken the surface of one of the metal mirrors

that he had previously found to reflect the heat,
without being itself warmed in so doing.

   The result proved to be as Humphry had antici
pated. The mirror no longer had the power of
concentrating the heat in a focus, at a short distance
in front of it: for now, instead of reflecting the rays
and remaining cool as before, it absorbed all the
heat that fell upon and became itself warmed by
the neighbouring radiator.

    The same effect ensued when the surface of the
mirror was whitened with chalk, and the same
again when was roughened, or scratched, with
emery paper: so that rough and dull bodies proved

to be better absorbers of heat -- even as they were
better radiators --than bright or polished ones.

    Hence there appeared to be some connexion
between the radiating and absorbing powers of
different substances --those which cool the quickest
seeming to be capable, also, of being heated in the
 shortest time.

    To test this the lad placed blackened and
bright-polished vessel in front of the fire, and found
 that the thermometer in the black vessel rose much
 more rapidly than did that in the bright one.

    Humphry then availed himself of these two
 vessels as means of testing the relation between
 the absorbing and radiating powers of black and
 bright-polished surfaces. Into the mouths of the
a
                                        a
                                                                    a
           THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 145     L
                                                                   is,
black and the bright tin vessel he inserted a ther
mometer, and then placed between them one of the

square canisters he had previously employed, and

which, it will be remembered, had one of its sides
bright, while the opposite one was coated with

lamp-black.

   Having filled the middle canister with boiling-

hot water, he proceeded first to note the radiating
and absorbing effects when the different surfaces
were opposed to each other. On arranging the
middle canister so that its black side was turned
towards the polished vessel at one end, and its
polished side to the blackened vessel at the other
end, there was no effect produced upon either of the
thermometers; for then the opposite powers of the
different surfaces exactly balanced each other.
When, however, the apparatus was so adjusted that
similar surfaces were opposed -- that is to say, so
that the blackened side of the canister in the

middle was turned towards the black vessel, and
the bright - polished side to the bright - polished

vessel -- the thermometer in the black vessel im

mediately indicated a great excess of heat; for
then not only was there a good radiator opposed
to a good absorber, but, on the other side, the two

bright surfaces were facing each other -- that

the bad radiator was turned towards the bad

absorber -- so that even the little heat which was

given off from the polished side of the canister
146 THE WONDEES OF SCIENCE.

was driven back again to it by the surface of the
neighbouring bright vessel. Hence everything
favoured the radiation and absorption of the heat

on the one side, where black was opposed to black,
and prevented it on the other, where metal was
facing metal ; and thus the great elevation of the
thermometer was accounted for.

    As it was now winter time and the snow lay
thick upon the earth, Humphry availed himself
of the circumstance to test the absorbing powers
of different colours. For this purpose he took a
number of pieces of different coloured cloths, and

placing them at mid-day upon the snow, so that the
sun's rays could fall directly upon them, he found
that the dark colours sank the deepest into the
frozen mass beneath, while the lighter hues pro
 duced scarcely any thawing effect, and the white
 remained utterly inactive.

    The same result was obtained by means of co
 loured glasses; for against a window-pane that was
 covered with hoar-frost the lad placed some pieces
 of black, red, green, and yellow glass, and the con
 sequence was, that the ice opposite to the black and

 red pieces was melted long before any thawing
 effect was visible upon the frozen film screened
 by the other colours.

    When the weather grew warm Humphry ob
 tained another very curious illustration of the
 power of black substances to absorb the heat of
           THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 147

the sun's rays. Having filled a glass tube with
spirits of wine, he placed it in the focus of a lens,
and found that the solar heat traversed the trans
parent liquid without warming it. On immersing
a small piece of charcoal, however, in the alcohol,
so great was the absorptive power of the black
surface that the fluid immediately began to boil.
By the same means, too, he succeeded in raising
the temperature of water to the boiling point.
This showed that water, as well as spirits of wine,
was a good transmitter and bad absorber of heat ;
that is to say, that the rays passed freely through
each without wanning either, unless some sub
stance were immersed in the liquid in order to
detain and absorb their heat.

   Air, on the other hand, the boy knew to have

little or no heat-absorbing power ; for the rays
emitted by a distant hot body traversed the atmo
sphere without sensibly raising its temperature.
He had read, too, that philosophers had calculated
that only one-fifth of the solar heat was absorbed
in passing through 1000 feet of the air, and that
but one-third of the entire heat of the sun was
taken up by the passage of the beams through the
whole atmosphere.

   Humphry, moreover, sought to discover whether
the sun's heat, reflected from a mirror, would pro
duce the same effect as the direct solar beams.

Accordingly, before the winter passed away, he
148 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

placed two pieces of blackened card upon the snow,
at a considerable distance apart. One of these he
left exposed to the direct rays of the sun, while upon
the other he caused the sun-beams to fall indirectly,
by reflecting them from a polished metal surface.
The black card that was submitted to the direct
solar beams sank, after a little time, deep into the

snow, while the frozen mass around -- though the
beams fell full upon it--was but slightly thawed.
With the black card, however, upon which the sun's

rays were reflected, a precisely opposite result ensued.

In that case the surrounding snow itself was the first

to melt, while the blackened surface seemed to have
been deprived of its power of absorbing heat, and
remained high on the unthawed pile beneath it.

    Further, Humphry noticed that the snow which
lay near the trunks of trees, or wooden posts,
melted much sooner than that which was at a

distance from them, and that the thawing always

commenced at the side facing the sun. Hence it

was evident that the solar heat, after being either
reflected or radiated from bodies on the earth, and
so made to fall indirectly upon other bodies, was
rendered capable of being absorbed by substances
which, like snow, had but little or no power of

being warmed by it directly.
   Why this should be, or what alteration the solar

rays underwent in impinging upon terrestrial
bodies, so that substances which before absorbed
         THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 149

the sun's heat with difficulty became afterwards

                          was more than Hum
more easily warmed by     it,
                                                    it
phry's philosophy could explain -- though               cost

him many day's hard thinking in trying to
         a

account for the result.

   Having now investigated the conditions which
governed the diffusion of heat from distant point,
                                   a

Humphry next proceeded to inquire into the cir
cumstances which regulated the communication of
heat to bodies in contact with others at an elevated

temperature.              called the conduction of
                          is
   This constitutes what
                                a
caloric, and occurs between different bodies, or

parts of the same body, immediately adjoining

each other. The communication of heat by con

duction  is      slow process compared with that of

radiation, which is, probably, as rapid as the diffuif a
sion of light itself. Philosophers have calculated,
that even the crust of the earth were made of

cast-iron (which  is      much better conductor than

                       a

rocks and stones), would take myriads of years
                  it

to transfer the heat from depth of 150 miles

below the surface to the surface itself whereas by
                                   ;

radiation the solar heat travels from the sun to us

in 8^ minutes.
   The laws which regulate the communication of

caloric to distant objects are similar to those which

would ensue the heat really consisted of so many
         if
150 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

hot particles darted out from the heated body in all
directions ; and colder bodies placed in the neigh
bourhood of heated ones, either become hot in the

ifsame manner as they would such particles were

positively absorbed by them, and entered into their

substance ; or they reflect the heat to other bodies,

ifwhile they themselves are unwarmed by it-- as

(according to the hypothesis) the caloric particles
were elastic, and had the power of bounding off from
smooth surfaces interfering with their progress ; or

else they transmit the heat rays, as i/"the imaginary
particles of caloric were capable of freely traversing
certain substances, and that, also, without sensibly
raising the temperature of the permeated mass.

   But all bodies, or parts of bodies, which are in
immediate contact with some other at a higher

temperature, become themselves warmed ; not by
rays thrown out from the heated mass, but by con
ducting or diffusing the heat from one point to
another, and so disseminating it ultimately through
out their whole substance.

    Humphry was thus particular in impressing upon
his mind the precise difference between the radi
ation and conduction of caloric before entering upon
the study of the latter process ; for he knew that
without clear and distinct views upon the subject
it was impossible for him to arrive at any absolute

knowledge.

   To illustrate the gradual progress of heat by
THE "WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.        151

conduction, the lad took a square bar of iron, about

20 inches long, and he attached to the under side

of it (by means of a little wax) 10 small wooden

balls, so that they were about 2 inches apart from

each other. Then he heated one end of the bar in

the flame of a lamp, and found that the balls fell

from under it f==========_==_=_====^
Tone after an-
                           ""

other, as the                            ^A
heat found its

way along the metal and melted the wax below.
The arrangement of this simple and instructive

experiment is here shown.

The next step was to learn the different con

ducting powers of different substances.  For

this purpose Humphry had several small metal
cones made, all of the same size ; one of. these

                           was of copper, another
                           of iron, a third of zinc,

                           a fourth of tin, a fifth

                           of lead, a sixth of

                           marble, and a seventh

                           of brick. Then having

                           tipped each of them

                           with a small piece of

                           wax, he stood them, all

                           a short distance apart

                           from each other, on

the metal plate at the top of the iron stove by
158 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

which Mr. Borlase's surgery was heated. The

result was, that the wax at the top of the copper

cone was the first to melt. Some little time after

wards, that at the apex of the iron began to liquefy;

and soon after the iron, that upon the zinc was

rendered fluid ; while, shortly following the zinc,

the wax on the tin commenced trickling down the
Asides.
         short interval elapsed, and then the

cerate at the top of the lead became fluid. Again

a lapse of a few moments occurred, after which the

wax with which the marble cone was tipped began
to flow; and, last of all, that upon the piece of

brick was liquefied.

The different conducting powers for heat among

the several substances employed were thus made

evident. The metals were more capable than either

marble or brick of diffusing the caloric from one

part of them to another ; while among the metallic

substances themselves copper was proved to be a

much better conductor than iron ; iron, again, a little

better conductor than zinc ; and zinc, too, slightly

better than tin. Lead, on the other hand, was the

worst metallic conductor of all.

The limited means of the young experimentalist, .

however (for Humphry was obliged to seek Mr.
Tonkin's assistance for any particular apparatus

he required), did not admit of his testing the con
ducting powers of either gold or silver. But had

he done so, he would have found that the precious
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.                                                          153

metals were much better conductors than any other

--gold being the best of all, and silver only a little

inferior to it. Platinum, however, was a striking

exception, its heat-conducting power being only a

little superior to ftiat of iron.

   Humphry after this sought to discover what

would be the effect if he placed a good conducting

metal in connexion with a bad one. For this

purpose he employed a short curved bar of copper ;

                   he set across the top of
a
                                  it,

                                           it

                                                                                   :
and having heated
small leaden pillar to cool, thus --

when, to his utter astonishment, a

series of musical sounds were given

forth as the copper cooled, the tones now rising
and now falling like those of an JEolian harp.

   By the same means as Humphry had employed

for testing the conducting powers of the metals,

he ascertained that wood was                                                          very bad con
it

                       a
                                    a

                                                                 a
                                                                                       a
ductor of heat, and that the lightest woods were

the worst. Charcoal, too, he found to have but

little power of diffusing the heat from one part of

to another. This explained to the boy the

reason why piece of charcoal, red-hot at one end,
may be held-- at
                   short distance even from the
heated part --without burning the fingers.

Humphry now set to work to raise to con

siderable temperature several pieces of such sub

stances as he had ascertained to be good and bad

conductors, so that he might learn what effect they
164 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

respectively produced upon the touch when highly
heated. As he had anticipated, the bad conductors

--such as the wood and brick --could be handled

without pain, whereas the good conductors --like
the metals --burnt the fingers immediately thej-
were brought into contact with them.

   Pursuing this result, the lad, eager to display
his knowledge to the servant of the house, took
the boiling kettle from the kitchen fire, and, to the
amazement of the maid, allowed the sooty bottom
of it to rest upon his palm ; for the crust of char
coal with which (by long usage) the vessel had

become coated underneath --being a non-conductor
--prevented the heat of the boiling water within

being communicated to the hand.*

   On recounting to Mr. Borlase the experiments
he had performed concerning the conduction of
heat, Humphry was informed by that gentleman
that it was painful to touch good conductors like

the metals when they were heated about 120°.

Air, however, he told the boy, might have its

temperature raised even to 300°, without pro
ducing any sense of burning ; adding, that some
eminent sculptors had large ovens in connexion
with their studios, for drying the moulds they

   * Young gentlemen of an experimental turn are cautioned

against attempting the same feat; for, should there be the least
part of the metal, at the bottom of the kettle, left unprotected by
the soot, they will assuredly experience considerable pain.
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.  155

employed in bronze castings ; and though these
places were often heated far above the boiling
point of water, the workmen entered, and remained

there for some minutes without much incon

venience ; and even persons unused to such high

temperatures might walk in and out of the ovens
with impunity, though to such any attempt to
remain occasioned a difficulty in breathing and

a painful sensation about the eyes. It was found

necessary, however, under such circumstances, to

carefully avoid the contact of any good conductor ;

for while in the heated oven, piece of metal
a

      if,
                      it
                                      is

                                                             a
                                                                                        a
were touched,  would inevitably burn --even the

coins in the pocket were sufficient to produce in

tense pain. " A story told," he continued, " of

    person who once, inadvertently, entered such

place with his spectacles on, and these, being

mounted in silver, soon blistered the parts of his
face with which they were in contact. On the

other hand," proceeded the surgeon, "it has been

found that in high northern latitudes, where the

cold sometimes sufficiently intense to freeze meris

cury -- though this requires the temperature to be 72°
below that required to freeze water --yet even such

excessive cold may be borne without uneasiness,

provided the air be tranquil, and the persons well

clothed in good non-conductors, such as wool and

fur. If, however, metallic substances be touched

at this low temperature,  a  sensation like that of
156 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

burning is experienced, and the part quickly be
comes blistered. " The reason of this," the doctor
concluded, " is, that the heat, being as it were free

to move in all those substances which are, like the

metals, good conductors of       it,
                                     is

                                                          a

                                                            is
                                 readily commu

nicated to us by such substances when at higher

temperature than ourselves, while our heat                      as

readily abstracted by them when they are colder

than we are. Hence good conductors, like metals,

always feel colder to the touch than bad con

ductors, like wood or fur--even though these latter

bodies can be shown by the thermometer to be of

the same temperature as the others."

    Humphry's conversation with the doctor induced

him to try another experiment, illustrative of the

conducting power of wood and metal. He took                     a

small rod of polished brass, about foot in length,
                                 a
and stretching strip of writing-paper tightly over
    a                               it
                a
it  at one end, he tried to burn the paper in the

flame of lamp, but discovered that was impos

sible even to scorcha            for the heat, as soon as

applied, was conducted away so rapidly along theit

metal, that  it  prevented the temperature of the;

paper being raised sufficiently to char it. On sub

stituting, however, smooth piece of wood for the

brass rod, he found that the paper stretched over

the end of soon began to scorch in the flame, and
    it

that the wood itself shortly became ignited in con

sequence of its bad conducting power, which, op
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.                               157

posing the diffusion of the heat along   it,  concen

trated the effects upon the spot to which the flame

was applied.

   After this, the boy began to turn his attention

to the conducting powers of liquids, rather than

solids, with which he had previously dealt.

That liquids are very imperfect conductors of

heat, Humphry made out in the following manner                    ;:

He filled tumbler with water, and in this he
a
      a
placed piece of " fusible alloy," which      is                com

                                                 a

position of metals melting at temperature below
            a
                ;
                        ;

                               a
boiling heat. Then thin copper basin was made

to float on the surface and into this he put some
pieces of red-hot charcoal so that, after time,
                                              a

the stratum of water at the top of the tumbler

began to boil but, even though the upper part of
it
     ;the liquid was at boiling-point,

so slight was the power of the

·water to conduct the heat from

one part of to another, that the

stick of alloy, which reached

within an inch of the top, re

mained wholly unmelted by it.
   The same effect was found to ensue with heated

oil, though this the lad tried in somewhat dif
ferent manner. In thin glass tube small quan
tity of water was frozen by plunging into mix
            a
                                        a

                                      it a

                                                            a

ture of salt and snow. Then, upon the lump of ice

at the bottom small quantity of oil was poured
         a
158 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

and, lastly, upon the oil some spirits of wine was

                             made to float. The tube was

now held over the chimney of

a lamp, and the spirit made
to boil until the whole was

evaporated, when, on plunging

a thermometer into the oil, it

was found to be but slightly

heated, while the ice itself had

undergone no change, but remained still solid at the

lower part of the tube.

Next, in due order, came the conduction of heat

by gases and vapours; and of this Humphry ob
tained a remarkable illustration in a fact which he

learnt of the engineer at the Wherry Mine, who

told the lad that high-pressure steam did not burn,

though its temperature was some hundred degrees
above that of steam at a low pressure. The scald

ing effect of the vapour at a low pressure, the man

informed the youth, arose from the small particles

of hot water that were diffused throughout
it                                          and

         awhich, indeed, renderedvisible in the air

         it

                                         it,

                                                           ;
whereas in high -pressure steam no such watery

particles existed, and the vapour was consequently

not only imperceptible to the sight, but, being"a bad

conductor of heat, had no more power to burn

than so much hot air.

Again, that gases, in state of combustion, are

bad conductors of heat, Humphry was aware, from
THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT.                                              159

having repeatedly passed his finger through the flamea
of a spirit-lamp without burning and yet the tem
perature of such flame might be shown to be manya it,
hundred degrees beyond that of piece of red-hot
a
metal. Air, again, he knew to have little or noa
conducting power; and he had heard from Mr.
Tonkin that in Russia and other cold countries                                ;

double windows, with stratum of air between
them, were used to prevent the heat of the apart
ment being carried off. So, again, in furnaces,
double walls with stratum of confined air in the

middle are employed to stop the egress of heat
even as in ice-houses the same means are adopted
to stay the ingress of it.

    The diffusion of heat by the process of conduc

tion, however, generally occurs among solid bodies,

in which the particles are more or less firmly

united but liquids and gases (where the particles,
owing to the want of cohesion among them, are

free to move) mostly became warmed by very
different process that to say, the heat applied to

them spread from one part to another, -- not by

being propagated, as in solids, from one fixed par

ticle to that which next to --but by the motion

or circulation of the heated particles themselves, so

that each in its turn receives portion of the heat

applied, and then giving place to another particle,

the whole mass ultimately becomes raised to one uni
is ;
                                  :

                     is

                                       is*

                                   a it

                                                                           a
1(50 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

form temperature by the direct agency of the radiant
body, rather than by the indirect process of trans
ference from atom to atom along the entire sub
stance. The one process is termed the conduction
of heat, the other the convection of it ; and while
the former prevails among the cohering particles of
solid bodies, the latter generally obtains among fluids
whose atoms are free to move.

   In order to render visible this same circulation of

the particles of fluids while in a heated state, Hum
phry bruised in a mortar a small piece of amber,

                  and then having filled a glass tube with
                  water, he threw in a few pinches of
                  the powder, which, being nearly of the
                  same specific gravity as the liquid,
                  neither sank nor floated in it. Then
                  applying a gentle heat to the centre of
                  the bottom of the tube, the boy saw, by
                  means of the amber-dust suspended in
                   the fluid, that currents immediately
                 began to ascend in the middle of the
                water, and to descend in it at the sides

               of the vessel -- in the direction of the

                 darts in the annexed engraving.

   If, however, he heated the sides of the tube,

the currents were found to take a contrary direc
tion, going upwards at the sides and downwards
in the centre.

    On continuing the heat, Humphry perceived the
           THE "WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 161

currents to become more and more rapid, till the
water boiled, and when the whole of the liquid

had acquired an uniform temperature, he observed
that they ceased altogether. He then endeavoured

to ascertain if it were possible to produce these

currents in a liquid by heating it at the top, but

the boy discovered, on applying a
spirit-lamp to the upper part of the

tube, thus,--that though the top of

the water was made to boil, and the

amber-dust there thrown into rapid
circulation, the particles at the bottom remained
unmoved, the fluid below being undisturbed and
cold.

    The reason of this was almost self-evident. The

warm water was lighter than the cold, and there

fore rose to the top immediately it became heated,
while the cooler and heavier portions descended to
occupy its place. Hence, in heating the tube at

the bottom the current was observed to go upwards

in the middle and downwards at the sides, these
being kept comparatively cool by the action of the

external air.

    Pursuing this subject, Humphry took a large
and a small Florence flask, and into the mouth of
the large one he fitted two long' bent glass tubes,
by means of a perforated cork and cement. These,
together with the large flask, were filled with water
and then made to dip into the open mouth of

                                                                        M
162 THE WONDERS OP SCIENCE.

the smaller flask, wbich

was likewise filled with

water, but tinged a deep

blue with indigo. One

of the tubes was ar

ranged so as to dip only about half an inch
below the surface of the blue liquid, while

the other descended nearly to the bottom
of and was slightly curved upwards at

its extremity. The arrangement will be
it,
readily understood by reference to the
           a
annexed engraving. On applying the
flame of spirit-lamp to the lower flask,

the blue liquid was seen to ascend by the

tube on the left side then reaching the
               it,
                                 there circu
                             ;

                             it
large flask at the top,

lated through     in the direction of the

darts, and descended by the other tube,

back again to the small flask at the

bottom. Thus perfect circulation was
               a

seen to be kept up, and the heat, by means

of convection, carried from one flask to

the other.

After this Humphry sought for some

means of rendering the currents of heated
air visible in the same manner. For such

purpose he took large glass jar, having
a
                                a

                                                                a
   wide opening at the bottom and narrow
one at the top. Into the upper aperture
            THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 163

he inserted a long lamp-glass, and down this he
placed a diaphragm of card, so as to divide the glass
chimney into two channels. Then the lad procured
a shallow pan, and having poured a little water into
it, he set a piece of lighted candle in it and covered

it over with the jar and chimney, so that when the
whole was duly arranged it appeared as here shown.

Then having lighted
a piece of brown
paper and blown it
out again, he held
the smouldering end
over the chimney,
and saw, by the
curling of the smoke
from the paper, that
the heated air from
within was ascend
ing the lamp - glass
by one side of the
diaphragm, and de
scending by the other,
in the direction of the
arrows in the illustration ; whereas, when the card
board partition was removed from the chimney,
the currents ceased, and the light was soon extin

guished.
    The boy applied the same simple means, likewise,

to learn the direction of the currents of air on open
ing the door of a heated apartment, and found, by
164 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the smoke from a piece of smouldering paper, that
at the upper part of the door the heated air from
within was rushing outwards, and at the lower part
the cold air from without was setting inwards,
whilst at the middle scarcely any draught, one way
or the other, was perceptible.

   This naturally turned the boy's attention to the
subject of the wind, which appeared to him to be
merely a vast current set up in the atmosphere by
the heating power of the sun's rays. He had

noticed, too, that, shortly after sunrise, a breeze fre
quently sprang up at sea and blew towards the land,

increasing as the day advanced, and declining and
ultimately expiring at about sunset ; whilst in the
evening, after sundown, a wind often arose in the

opposite direction --namely, from the land towards
the sea--and lasted the whole of the night, ceasing
only with the reappearance of the sun.

   Humphry was therefore anxious to discover some
experimental means of reproducing these effects on
a small scale.

   Having procured a large shallow milk-pan, he
filled it with cold water, and then took a metal
" hot-water plate," and having poured some boiling
water into this, he set it in the middle of the pan,

saying to himself as he did so, " the cold water

there, in the outer vessel, represents the ocean,
while the heated metal plate in the centre stands for
an island warmed by the rays of the sun ; for the
land, being a better absorber of heat than the sea,
           THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 163
will have its temperature raised some degrees higher
than the water in the course of the day."

   This done, the eager boy proceeded, by means of
the smoke from a piece of smouldering paper as
before, to discover the direction of the currents that
would be set up in the air under such circumstances.
As he held the smoking paper at the edge of the
pan, Humphry was delighted to see the white fumes
drawn towards the hot plate in the middle, or, in
other words, from the miniature ocean towards the
mimic island encompassed by it ; and this he knew

was precisely the current that was found to prevail
throughout the day in tropical countries.

       \ tt

      I tt

   i ft
                                      DURING DAT.

       \ tt

   Then, to impress the phenomena firmly upon his
mind, the boy drew in his note-book the annexed
166 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

diagrams, illustrative of the currents produced in
the atmosphere by the heating of the earth during
the day, and the cooling of it during the night.

" But if the inequality of the temperature between

the land and the sea gives rise to such results, how

much greater," mused the boy to himself, " must be

the effect produced by the difference between the

heat of the earth at the equator--where the average
temperature is said to be 80° -- and at the poles,
where it is calculated to be as low as 56° below

zero, the difference being as much as 136°!

What a vast aerial current must be set up by such
        "
means
       !

Then the lad made another drawing, illustrative

of the effect that would ensue under such con
            THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 167
ditions, and he set above it a series of arrows to
show the direction of the currents that would be

thus induced in the atmosphere. For the air, being

heated by the vertical sun at the tropics, rises
there, as it does up a chimney, while the colder
air from the northern and southern hemispheres
glides in from below, on both sides of the equator,
to supply the place of that which has been made to
ascend by the heat ; precisely in the same manner
as, when the fire burns, fresh air is continually
rushing in under the door and windows. Then the
heated air, after rising to a considerable height

above the earth, at length flows over, as it were,

                                         >

         ^rx^>

and forms in the atmosphere an upper current from
168 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the equator to the poles, where it becomes cooled,

and is then drawn down to supply the place of that

which has been   d"raBftuedt,"frsoamid   the colder   to   the
warmer regions.                         the boy, as  he   sur
veyed the drawing, " according to this the winds

which are found to prevail in the tropics should

blow north and south; whereas they -are found to

come from the north-east and south-east quarters."

Humphry puzzled himself for a long time in en

deavouring to explain the phenomenon, but it was

more than his philosophy could accomplish ; so he

had to consult his old friend Mr. Tonkin again, and

from him he learnt that the change in the direction

of the currents is due to the motion of the globe and

the unequal rates at which different parts of the

earth's surface revolve. Consequently, as the cur

rents of air which set in towards the equator from

the poles come from parts that revolve about the

axis at a much slower rate than the equator itself,

they hang back, or drag, upon the surface, in a con
trary direction to the rotation of the earth itself; so

that, while the globe turns eastward, they acquire

somewhat of a westerly course, and, appearing to

come from the opposite quarter, assume, therefore,

the character of permanent north-easterly and

south-easterly winds.

But to make the matter clearer, Mr. Tonkin

exhibited the following illustration to the boy, in
which the effect of the earth's motion in changing
            THE WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 169

the direction of the atmospheric currents is imme
diately apparent.

The old gentleman, however, informed Humphry,

that there are other terrestrial currents produced

by the process of convection.  In the ocean the

same circulation of hot and cold streams is found to

obtain ; for the sea, warmed by the heated shores

of the tropical regions, is made by convection to

move from the equator like a vast river, while from

the poles an immense current of colder liquid streams
forward to supply its place. For the same reason

as was before explained in connexion with the trade-

winds, the polar current having a slower rate of

rotatory motion assumes, on reaching the equator,
a westerly direction, and so flows in one broad stream

across the globe ; then, striking against the vast
continent of America, it divides into two large

streams. One of these flows southward down the
170 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

eastern coast of Southern America, and finally enters
the Pacific Ocean through the Straits of Magellan.
The other turns northward, enters the Gulf of
Mexico, sweeps round the coast in a powerful cur
rent known as the Gulf Stream, and then proceeds
along the Northern American shores to the coast
of Newfoundland, where it crosses the world again,
and occasionally extends even to the western shores
of the British Isles.

   The direction of these oceanic currents is in

dicated in the subjoined chart :--

" There                    however," continued Mr. Tonkin,
is
                      is,
" another great heat-stream traversing the earth,

though this takes place within the crust itself, and

due more to conduction than convection, as in the

other cases. For philosophers tell us, that the

daily impressions of heat which the earth receives
            THE "WONDERFUL DIFFUSION OF HEAT. 171

from the sun, follow each other into the interior of
the mass, like the waves which start from the edge
of a canal, and, like them, become more and more
faint as they flow on, one after another, till they melt
into the general level of the internal temperature.
The parts of the earth near the equator," added the
old man, " are more heated by the sun than other
parts, and on this account there is a perpetual in
ternal conduction of heat from the equatorial to the

northern and southern regions. Then, as all parts
of the earth's surface throw off heat into space by

radiation, it is plain that at the poles, where the

surface receives but little warmth from the sun, a
constant waste of caloric is produced. There is

thus a perpetual dispersion of heat from the polar
parts into surrounding space, which is supplied by
a perpetual internal flow of heat from the equator
towards the poles. The radiation from the surface
of the earth," Mr. Tonkin concluded, " has its limit
in the temperature of the planetary space in which
it moves (for we may conceive our globe to be like
a heated ball cooling down, in vacua), and this has

been calculated to be not more than 56° below zero,

--which low temperature, indeed, appears to be

attained in the long absence of the sun in a polar
winter."

    The poetic boy was lost in wonder at the mar
vellous results to which his investigations had led
him, and his mind was filled with a sense of sub
172 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

limity at the thought of the enormous heat-tides
that are continually flowing through the atmo
sphere, the ocean, and the solid crust of the earth
itself.

  I" I'll work it all out myself," he cried ; " that
Iwill. I'll not rest until know all that is known

of Nature and her wondrous ways."
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  173

                 CHAPTER VIII.

            THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.

THE effects of heal are manifold.

   In the first place, an increase of temperature

expands or enlarges almost all bodies, while a de
crease causes them to contract or become diminished
in bulk.

   Secondly. Heat changes the form of bodies, con

verting solids into liquids, and liquids into vapours ;
while cold, on the other hand, condenses vapours
into liquids, and causes liquids again to solidify or

congeal.

   Thirdly. Heat causes ignition; that is to say,
it changes dark opaque substances to a bright trans
parent red, rendering them capable of giving out
light, when their temperatures are raised to a high
degree, and, when increased to the highest point,
causing them to become even white in the fire, and
then endowing them with the properties of the
solar beams, so that their rays have the same power
of traversing plates of glass, and of producing che
mical changes, even as the rays of the sun itself.
 174 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

    Fourthly. Combustion, or the burning of bodies,
with the evolution of flame, is another effect of
heat. There is also a species of combustion called
slow (erema-causis is the chemical term for it),

which is unaccompanied with flame --as in the rot

ting of wood and other organic tissues, the rusting
of metals, and even the breathing of animals and

ourselves. In each of these processes there is the

same combination of a combustible body with the

oxygen of the atmosphere --but at a much slower
rate--than in the more rapid and energetic forms
of combustion; and hence but slight increase of
temperature (if any) is discernible, while no flames

or luminous gases that are perceptible to our
senses are evolved under such conditions.

   Fifthly. Phosphorescence is likewise produced by
heat. During combustion and ignition, bodies be
come temporarily luminous ; but in states of what

is called phosphorescence they are permanently so ;

and there are many substances -- such as the compact
phosphate of lime, the dark -blue kind of Derby
shire spar, several varieties of heavy spar, and
powdered quartz --which acquire the property of
shining constantly in the dark after having been

made nearly red hot.

   Sixthly. Electricity is induced by heat; for it

has been discovered that, if a bar of the metal called

antimony be heated at one end, while the other is

kept cool, an electric current ensues.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  175

   Lastly. Heat promotes both vegetable and animal
life. For not only is intense cold destructive of
organic existence, but the increased warmth of the

summer invariably calls into being an infinite num
ber of plants, flowers, insects, and the many forms
of organised nature that give variety and grace to
the earth. Moreover, heat produces in ourselves,

and other sentient animals, a feeling of warmth,

and the absence of it a sensation of cold ; by which

we are enabled to measure -- though hardly with
perfect accuracy--the different changes of tem

perature occurring in the substances around us, and
also, by the agreeable impression which we derive
from warmth, induced to seek that degree of heat
which is best fitted for the promotion of our health
and development of our faculties.

    Humphry began by studying the laws which
regulate the expansion of bodies under the three
different forms in which they exist in nature, viz.
solids, liquids, and gases or vapours. To deter
mine the expansion of different solids, the youth
procured short bars of the several substances upon
which he had decided to experiment. The bars
were all of the same length and thickness, and were
accompanied with a gauge, which measured their
dimensions at ordinary temperatures.

   The following diagram illustrates the apparatus
176 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                           employed. The first step was to
                           test the length and breadth of
                             each bar that was to be used.
                         This was performed first, by
                           placing it in the gap at the upper
                          part of the gauge, and seeing whe
                           ther it exactly fitted between the
notches ; and secondly, ascertaining whether it was
precisely of the same diameter as the hole at the
bottom part of the plate. This done, the bars were
successively plunged into hot water, when, on ap
plying them once more to the gauge, they were
found to be so much enlarged in all their dimen
sions that it was impossible to make them pass
through either of the apertures. After this they
were severally cooled down, by immersion in a mix
ture of snow and salt, to the temperature of the
freezing-point of water, when they were discovered
to have considerably contracted in bulk ; so that
they could be passed through both of the openings
with perfect ease.

   It was by such means Humphry ascertained

that different solids possessed different degrees of
expansibility, and that metals are more suscep
tible of change of bulk than other solid bodies.
Each solid, however, was found to have a rate of

dilatation peculiar to itself. Lead, for instance,
when heated, from the freezing to the boiling-point
of water, was discovered by measurement to have
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  177

expanded one-350th ; iron, onc-800th, and glass,
one- 1000th,

   Platinum, however, was found to be less expan
sible than iron, and copper more so. Silver, on
the other hand, was more expansible than copper,
while tin was more so than silver ; lead, again,
more than tin, and zinc even more than lead : so

that glass was proved to be less capable of being
increased in bulk by heat than the metals ; whilst,

among the metals themselves, platinum was ascer

tained to be the least expansible, and zinc the

most so.

   On talking over these matters with Mr. Borlase,
the doctor told Humphry that the expansion of metals
was a matter of considerable importance in many
arts. " For instance," said the gentleman, " coopers
put the iron hoops upon their casks in a heated state,

so that they may gradually contract on cooling, and

firmly bind the staves together. With the same view
the wheelwright heats the tire of his wheel, in order
that it may, as it cools, press strongly upon the

' felly,' or circumference ; arid, for the same reason,
the plates of large boilers are united with red-hot
rivets, which, during their contraction on cooling,
draw the sheets of metal closely and securely together.

   " In the iron bridge," continued the doctor,

" which was constructed over the Severn in Shrop

Ishire, when was a lad, it has been found that the

                                                                       N
178 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

arches are nearly one inch longer in summer than

they are in winter ; so that, if due allowance had not

been made for the expansion of the metal, the stone
'piers, on which the arches rest, must have given
way to the pressure, long before this. The same
allowance for expansion, Humphry, has to be made
in the clamping together of stones in the con
struction of church steeples ; for the changes of
bulk which occur in metals at different tempera
tures, though comparatively small in amount, take
place with irresistible force."

    The perpendicularity of the walls of the Museum
of Arts and Manufactures, in Paris, it may be
added, were restored by Molard, upon the same

principle. In consequence of the weight of the
roof, the walls were bulging outward, and, in

order to straighten them, iron rods were laid across
the interior of the building, their ends being made
to project through the brickwork outside. These
rods were then heated, and, when in an expanded
state, a strong iron plate was passed over each end
of them, and screwed firmly up against the exterior
of the walls. As the rods cooled, they naturally
contracted, and drew the walls somewhat nearer to

gether. The bars were afterwards again elongated
by heat, and again screwed up previous to their con
traction ; and so, by a repetition of the process, the

walls were gradually brought to a perpendicular
position.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  179

   Humphry was delighted with the ingenious ap
plications of the expansion and contraction of metals
by heat and cold, and Mr. Borlase, observing the
interest he took in the subject, proceeded to explain
to him how, by the same principle, the alterations
in the length of the pendulum of a clock were " com

pensated," and the instrument so made to vibrate

seconds at all seasons. For a pendulum to beat
exactly sixty times a-minute, he told the boy, it
was necessary that it should be a fraction more
than 39 inches long, in the latitude of London.
" If, however, the pendulum be made of metal," he
said, " it will be liable to be longer in summer and
shorter in winter ; so that the clock will be slow

in the warm weather season and fast in the cold : for

when the bob is let down the one-lOOth part of an
inch the clock loses 10 seconds in 24 hours, and a

change of temperature equal to 30° (which is nearly
the difference between summer and winter, in our
climate), will alter the length of the pendulum rod
about one-5000th part, and so occasion an error in
the rate of going of 8 seconds a-day.

    " To counteract the expansions of the metal rod
of the pendulum," continued his preceptor, " there
 are many ingenious contrivances. The simplest of

Athese, perhaps, is as follows : -- compound bar of

 two differently expansive metals, such as steel and
brass, is formed by rivetting or soldering the two

metals together ; for if such a bar, with the brass
180 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.it,

it ituppermost, be placed upon a heated plate, it will be
           itfound to warp or curve downwards, in consequence
of the expansion of the brass being greater than that
of the steel. If, however, on the other hand, the com
pound bar be placed on a plate cooled down by a mix
ture of snow and salt, it will be found to warp or curve
upwards, because the brass will contract the more

with the cold. Now, if two such compound bars, with

the most expansible metal at top, be placed at the
upper part of a pendulum-rod, one on either side of
and firmly fixed at one end, they will, as they warp
upwards or downwards, tend to shorten the pendulum-
rod when becomes lengthened by the heat, and to
lengthen when becomes contracted by the cold.

   To make this more readily intelligible to Hum
phry, the doctor exhibited to him the following en

gravings --
:
          THE WONDERFTJL EFFECTS OF HEAT.           181

   " Let us now," said Mr. Borlase, as he placed his
finger on the centre drawing, " suppose the pendu

lum, with the compensation-bars perfectly horizontal,

to be vibrating seconds at a temperature of 60°,

and that, some few months afterwards, the heat rises

to 80° ; in such a case, of course, the pendulum-rod

would be elongated by the heat, and the longer the

rod the slower the vibrations, so that it would then

vibrate less than sixty times in the minute. The

effect of the increase of temperature, however, on

the compensation-bars (the most expansible metal
being uppermost), would be to warp them down

wards, (as   shown in    the left-hand drawing),"   said
the doctor,   pointing  to the illustration, " and  thus

they would shorten the pendulum-rod as much as

the heat had lengthened it. In cold weather, how

ever, Humphry, the metal rod of the pendulum

would be diminished in length ; but then the com

pensation-bars would warp upwards, and so tend to

             to the same extent as had been con
elongateit

    a

               a it,

                                               it
tracted by the cold (as may be seen on reference to
the picture on the right hand)."

   The next day Humphry was busy making experi
ments concerning the expansion of liquids. He
first took large thermometer tube and poured into

     sufficient quantity of spirits of wine to fill the
bulb at the bottom and make the fluid rise some few

inches in the stem above. Then, having marked
182 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

upon the glass with a file the level at which the spirit

stood at an ordinary temperature, the boy plunged the
instrument into a vessel o'f boiling water, and imme

diately beheld the liquid rise in the tube till it stood
several inches above its former level. After this he
immersed the tube in a mixture of snow and salt, and
found the liquid contract, so that it fell in the stem
almost down to the bulb. On removing the instru
ment, however, the fluid immediately commenced
rising again, and so pleased was the youth with the

motions that he repeated the experiment over and
over again, being not a little delighted to perceive
that each time, as he plunged the instrument into the
hot or cold bath, the spirit invariably rose or fell
to precisely the same place in the tube.

    To measure the different rates of expansion among

different liquids, the young chemist provided himself
with a long and narrow glass tube, which was gra
duated into cubic inches, and into this he poured a
certain quantity of the liquid he wished to experi
ment upon. Then plunging the graduated tube into
 the snow-and-salt mixture, he noted the precise
 volume of the fluid at that temperature; after which

 he immersed it in a vessel of boiling water, and then
 noted again how many cubic inches it occupied in
 the tube at the higher temperature ; so that the dif
 ference told him how much the liquid had been ex

 panded between 32° and 212°, or the freezing and
 boiling point of water.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF BEAT.  183

   It was thus the lad ascertained that 9 measures

of spirits of wine at 32° become expanded into 10
measures at 212°, and 9 measures of strong aqua

fortis also become 10, between the same extremes

of temperature. Again, 12 measures of olive oil
are increased into 13, while 14 of ether and the

same quantity of oil of turpentine swell each into
15, with the like increase of heat. Then 17 mea
sures of oil of vitriol, at the freezing-point of water,

are dilated into 18 at the boiling-point, and 22f

Jmeasures of water are increased to 23 within the

same range of temperature, while 55| of quicksilver
become 56 1 when similarly treated ; consequently
spirits of wine is no less than 6 times more expan
sible than quicksilver, so that in the depth of winter
100 pints of spirits of wine are dilated into 105 in
the height of summer.

    While making his experiments, however, as to
the rate of expansion in liquids, the boy had been
astonished to perceive, when the tube contained
water, that, on placing it in the mixture of snow
and salt, the liquid, as it was cooled down, con
tinued to shrink till it had attained the temperature

of about 40° ; and then, instead of contracting any
farther (as was the case with other liquids till they
froze), it began to expand slowly, and kept rising
in the tube until it congealed. He noticed, too,

that, when the water was at its freezing point, or

32°, it was of the same bulk as it was at 48°; so
184 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

that it expanded just as much for the 8° below 40°
as it had contracted in the 8° above that point.

   Humphry then tried another experiment illus
trative of this remarkable property of water.
Having produced two cylindrical glass vessels, he
surrounded one of them at the bottom with a cir
cular tin tray, that fitted closely to the exterior of
the cylinder, and affixed to the other a similar
tray, but this he placed at the upper, instead of the

lower part of the cylinder as before --in the manner
represented in the subjoined engraving :--

   A thermometer then 'having been placed in each

of the glass vessels, they were respectively filled
with water at 50°, while a freezing mixture of
pounded ice and salt was placed in each of the
trays.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  185

   After the temperature of the whole of the water
in both vessels had been reduced to 40°, it was
found by the thermometer in the vessel, with the
freezing mixture at the top, that the cooling effect

would not proceed downwards, but was limited
to the surface, where the water ultimately froze ;

for the ice-cold water being lighter than the water
below at 40°, necessarily floated like oil upon the

surface. In the other cylinder, however, where

the cold was applied at the lower rather than

the upper part of the water, the effect was very
different ; for there, the liquid becoming lighter,
as its temperature sank below 40°, ascended, whilst

the warmer and heavier water at the top descended,

until it was cooled, and so expanded in its turn ;
and thus the whole of the liquid was ultimately
reduced to the freezing-point ; whereas in the other

cylinder this effect was limited to the surface only.
Humphry now could see the reason why lakes and
ponds froze only on the surface, and why, on break
ing the ice (as he had repeatedly done when out
snipe-shooting with his uncle, Leonard Millett),
the water underneath was always found to be
warmer than the air above.

   The lad had now but to investigate the rate of

expansion among aeriform bodies, or gases, to com
plete this part of the subject.

   Accordingly, he took the thermometer tube he
a186 THE WOXDERS OF SCIENCE.
had before used, and placed with its open end,
                        it,
downwards, in glass of water, thus --
                                                                       :
   The tube was of course filled with air, so he
aapplied his palm to the bulb, and found the heat
of the hand sufficient to expand the air within, and
drive a stream of bubbles up through the water.
On removing the source of heat, however, the
volume of air began to contract, and the liquid
to mount in the tube, so that he could see by the
height the water rose in the stem the amount of
expansion which the air had undergone.

   Humphry then proceeded to ascertain the amount
of expansion produced in given quantity of air,
when heated from the freezing to the boiling point
of water, and discovered that 100 cubic. inches of
THE \VONDEKFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  187

air at 32° become dilated to 137J cubic inches at

212°. Air, therefore, at the freezing-point, ex

pands one-4SOth for every degree of heat that is
added to it ; so that 480 cubic inches at 32° be

come 481 at 33°, and 482 at 34°, and so on, the
volume expanding one cubic inch with each addi

tional degree of heat. A volume of air, therefore,

at 32° would be doubled at 480°, and tripled at
960°, the latter temperature being that of a dull-

red heat.

    Steam, and other vapours, when heated by them
selves, are subject to the same law of expansion

as air.

    But although the expansion produced in aeriform
bodies by heat is great in amount, the actual force
which is thus developed is small when compared
with that of solids and liquids under the same cir
cumstances. This is owing to the extreme elas
ticity of aeriform bodies ; so that, although air be
comes tripled in volume at a red heat, vessels are
easily found capable of sustaining the pressure of

the expanded fluid. It is only when a portion of

 liquid is present, so that volume after volume of
 vapour is added to those already generated -- as in
 the production of steam --that, on resisting the ex

 pansion, the pressure becomes enormous, and mounts

 up to a dangerous point.
188 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                   CHAPTER IX.

*

THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT (continued).

" BUT heat," said Humphry to himself, as he re
viewed his previous experiments, " not only ex
pands the bulk of different bodies, but it changes

their form, rendering certain solids liquid, and con
verting liquids into vapours. Let us see now what

occurs during such changes."

   Accordingly, the youth proceeded to pound some
ice, and to cool it down in a tumbler by means of a
freezing mixture to the temperature of zero. The
tumbler was then inserted in a bath of tepid water,

the temperature of which was maintained, by an
                                constantly at 60°. A ther
it

                           it,
argand-lamp beneath

mometer having been plunged in the ice, the quick

silver was observed to mount rapidly in the tube

until reached 32°, when the ice began to liquefy.
But, though another thermometer in the water-bath

showed that the liquid there was still 60° hot -- the

same temperature, indeed, as when the ice was first
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.            189

immersed in it -- nevertheless the thermometer in

the tumbler remained stationary at 32° ·-- the

freezing-point. Nor did it begin to rise until the

whole of the ice was melted ; after which it mounted

gradually, and ultimately settled at 60°, the tem

perature of the surrounding water.        " Why
   Humphry was astonished at the effect.

did -the thermometer," he asked himself, "remain

fixed at the freezing-point until the whole of the
ice was melted ? The heat from the surrounding

water must have been entering the ice as much

when it began to dissolve, as it did before the

thawing occurred, or even afterwards. How, then,

came it that the thermometer was not affected by

it?"

   The eager boy was so puzzled with the mystery,
that he could not rest till he had tested the result

by another experiment.

Having procured two small glass globes, he filled

them both with the same quantity of water. The
liquid in one he froze, and that in the other he
cooled down to 33°, so that it might be as near as
possible to the temperature of the first, without

being solid. When the ice in the one globe had
just begun to melt, and the thermometer in that

vessel marked 32°, the two globes were plunged
into a water-bath, the temperature of which was

kept at 47° throughout the experiment.
190 THE WONDERS OP SCIENCE.

   The vessels, therefore, were, as near as possible,

under similar conditions of temperature, within and

without, and with similar contents, -- except that

the one contained ice, and the other water.

   The progress of the heating was then noted.

   In the globe which contained the water, Humphry

found the thermometer rose in half an hour to 40°.

In the globe, however, which contained the ice, no

less than 10J hours elapsed before the whole was
melted, and the temperature of the resulting liquid

raised to 40°, like the other ; so that the rate of

heating in the ice-vessel was 21 times slower than

in that which held the water.
   " How                  "
.         can  this  be      mused  the boy - philo
                         ?

sopher. " The actual amount of heat received by

the two must have been uniform during the whole

time, and yet the ice took 10J hours to have its
temperature raised to 40°, while the ice-cold water

needed only \ an hour to acquire the same heat.
                      "
How  extraordinary       he    inwardly  exclaimed ;
                     !

   " what can be the cause of it ? For," said the

   lad, as he jotted the figures down in his note-book,

   " the water in the globe had its temperature raised

   7° in half an hour, consequently that must have been

   the rate at which the warmer liquid in the external

   bath was giving out its heat to the two globes.

   Accordingly, in 10j hours it must have given 10J
   times 7°, or 147° in all, to the one containing the
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  191

ice. Consequently the ice required 140 more de

grees of heat to raise its temperature to 40° than
the water did."

   Humphry still doubted the accuracy of his

conclusions ; for they were so marvellous and un
expected by him, that he sat for a long time con
sidering by what experiment he could bring the

matter to a positive test. "If," he inwardly ex

claimed, " the ice really received 140° more heat

than the water, what became of them ? The two
were each, in the end, of the same temperature ;

Iand the thermometer didn't show, nor could

feel, that the one had imbibed more heat than the

other."

   Presently the boy started to his feet, for a sudden
thought had struck him. He would take 12 oz. of
pounded ice, and upon this he would pour the same
weight of hot water, at a temperature of 172° ; so
that the difference between the heat of the ice and
that of the water would be 172° -- 32°, or exactly
140°, and this was precisely the quantity of heat
that the ice in the previous experiment had received

over and above the water.

   Humphry wondered again and again, as he pre
pared the experiment, what the result would be ;
and when he mixed the warm water with the ice,

he was overjoyed to find that the temperature pro

duced was only 32° -- the same as that of the
pounded ice itself. Hence it was plain the water
192 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

had lost exactly 140° of its heat, and, moreover,
that these had entirely disappeared, since the tem
perature of the colder substance remained the same
as at the outset of the experiment.

   Then came the question, -- What had become of

the lost heat ? Where had it gone ? What effect
had it produced ?

   There was but one answer ! and this Humphry
was not long in divining. The heat which had
disappeared had combined with the ice, and its
effect had been, not to raise its sensible temperature,
but simply to convert the solid body into a liquid
one, so that the caloric had become latent, or im
perceptible to the senses, as well as incapable of
being detected by the most delicate thermometer.

   " So, then," cried the boy, as the new thought
flashed upon him, " a liquid is merely a solid,

whose particles are kept asunder by so much heat,

which is insensible to us. In this piece of wax the

particles are held together by a certain force, which
is called the " attraction of cohesion," so that when

I Ipress upon it am incapable of separating one
Ipart of it from another. If, however, apply but

a little heat to the substance, the cohesion is soon
destroyed, and the particles, instead of then firmly
adhering one to another, become free to move, and
are, consequently, easily separable ; so that a rod
can be plunged into it when liquefied, and moved
about in it with little or no difficulty."
THE \VONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.                                          193

" Yes," he repeated, " a liquid is merely a solid,

whose particles are kept asunder by heat."

   Humphry was so pleased with the result he had
arrived at, that he varied the experiment in a

number of different forms.

   First, he took some spermaceti (a substance
which melts at 112°), and found that a thermometer

plunged in this (as in the ice) remained stationary
at the melting-point until the whole was liquefied,

and that it was not till then that the temperature

could be raised above the point of liquefaction.

Next he tried the same experiment with some

lead, and found that, though he heated a ladle-full

nearly red hot, the temperature of the whole was

immediately cooled down again to the fusing-point

by the addition of a piece of the solid metal.

   Hence the law was manifest, that in all cases of
liquefaction a certain quantity of heat, not indi

cated by the thermometer, is absorbed, or disap
pears -- this heat being withdrawn from surrounding
bodies, and so leaving them comparatively cold.

Accordingly, now that Humphry had ascertained

that liquefaction itself was a source of cold, he pro

ceeded to try what degree of cold he could produce

by causing certain substances to melt rapidly.

For this purpose he took some snow and sprinkled

a little salt over when he observed that the two
a

            it,

                                      a

                                                                      ;

                                             o
solids immediately formed   liquid and then,

plunging thermometer into the mixture, he beheld
194 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the quicksilver sink and sink, until it had nearly
reached zero, so that it fell from 32° to 0°. Then
the boy made a mixture of 5 parts of smelling salts,

5 parts saltpetre, and 16 parts water, and plunging
the thermometer into this, he found that it sank
from 50° (the temperature of the room in which the
experiment was made) to 10° (which is several de

grees below freezing-point). With a mixture, con
sisting of equal parts of saltpetre, ammonia, and

water, the thermometer fell 6° lower than in the pre

vious experiment --or from 50° to 4°. Again, with

5 parts of Glauber's salts and 4 parts of oil of vitriol
and water, the temperature sank 1° lower still --or
from 50° to 3°. Further, having finely powdered
some of the crystals of the last-mentioned salt, he
drenched them with muriatic acid, when the salt
dissolved to a greater extent than it had previously
done in the water, and the consequence was that

the temperature fell even lower than before --or

from 50° to 0°, while the vessel in which the mix

ture was made became covered with hoar frost ;

and when some water in a tube was plunged into

the liquefied salt, it was speedily converted into a

mass of ice.

   Humphry was now anxious to see whether the
heat which is absorbed, and becomes latent or in

sensible during the liquefaction of bodies, really
remains in the liquid, and whether it is given out
again or emitted during their solidification.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.                                             195

   To satisfy himself upon this point he prepared
two vessels, one full of water and the other full of

brine, the temperatures of the liquids in each being,

at first, precisely 52°. On a very cold day, when the

thermometer stood at 22° e. 10° below freezing-
it
   itpoint), the boy exposed the fluids in these two
             it
vessels, with thermometers in each, to the open air,
                it
                    itand found that they both gradually parted with

                                  ?their heat to the surrounding atmosphere, and were

                                (i.soon cooled down to 32°; then the water began to
                                            it
freeze very slowly, and during this the thermometer
                                                                       aa
in the water-vessel remained perfectly stationary.
The brine, however (which does not congeal till its

temperature sinks to 4°), continued to cool on, the

thermometer in         sinking without interruption,

until gradually reached the temperature of the

external air, or 22°.

Now was plain that both liquids, in cooling,

were alike parting with their heat to the colder air.

Why, then, should one and not the other suddenly

cease giving out caloric, and refuse for certain

time to be cooled down to the same level as the

atmosphere around

The only explanation of the problem was, that

the water, during the process of freezing, was part

ing with the 140° of heat which Humphry had

before seen were necessary to retain in liquid
form, and that was the evolution of this amount

of caloric which served to keep the temperature of
if,196 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the water for a considerable time at 32° -- notwitha
standing the cooling effect of the surrounding atmoa

sphere.             it

   Still this experiment hardly satisfied the boy.a
He wanted to have some sensible proof of the evo
lution of heat from water during the act of freezing.

It was true, there was no way of accounting for the

fact of the thermometer remaining stationary in one
vessel while it was continually sinking in the other,
except by supposing that the latent insensible heat
was being given off from the water as it passed
into the solid form. Humphry desired, however, to

see, as it were, the heat so given off,--that is to say,

he wished to behold the thermometer rise instead

of merely remaining fixed at one point.

   Accordingly it struck the lad, that if he was to

keep some water in a vessel perfectly still, and to
prevent even the air from agitating its surface, he
might be able to cool it down some few degrees
below the freezing-point, and then he should be
able to see in the act of freezing afterwards, the
thermometer would really rise as the water solidi
fied. So successfully did Humphry perform this ex
periment, that he was enabled, by great care, to
cool some water in vessel down to 22° without
freezing it. Then he felt thrill dart through his
frame as he agitated the water, and beheld im
mediately shoot into thousand transparent crys

tals, -- whereupon the thermometer in the vessel
THE WONDEHFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  197

instantly began to rise, and soon stood at 32°,
thus showing that the water had acquired 10° of
heat almost in an instant.

    Whence came this heat, then ?

   But one answer was possible. It was manifest

that the water, in the act of solidifying, gave
out heat, even as in the act of liquefying ice
absorbed it.

   " But do all things," said Humphry to himself,
" give off heat as they pass from a liquid to a
solid form ? And is solidification, therefore, a
heating process to surrounding bodies, in the same
manner as liquefaction (from the absorption of heat

at such times) is a cooling one ? "

   The youth had heard that, if a strong solution of

Glauber's salts be poured, while hot, into a flask,
and corked tightly down, it will remain liquid when
cold, and that on removing the cork it will imme
diately shoot into a fibrous mass of crystals. He
wished to see, therefore, whether, in the act of solidi
fication, heat is evolved from such a solution.

   Humphry was not long in preparing the requi
sites for the experiment, and was then delighted to
find, as he watched the crystals, immediately that
he withdrew the cork, dart from the surface down

wards, the temperature of the substance became so
much increased, that the bottle which contained it
grew sensibly warm in his hand, though it was

perfectly cold before.
198 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

    Now the lad knew, that in making the solution
he had added 2 ounces of water to 3 ounces of
the salts, and as the whole of this became solidified
on opening the bottle, it was clear that the eleva
tion of temperature arose principally from the
solidification of the water in the crystalline mass.

    Next Humphry added a saturated solution of
tartaric acid to some strong liquid ammonia, and
found, immediately that the two fluids were poured
together, a solid substance was thrown down, and

considerable heat evolved.

    Again, the lad was aware that, on mixing pow
dered plaster of Paris with water, there is a like
increase of temperature at the moment of the com
position " setting ;" or, in other words, when the
water with which the plaster has been mixed
passes into the solid form.

    Further, he could now perceive that the great in
crease of heat which occurs during the slacking of
lime is due merely to the same cause, viz. the solidi

fication of the water poured upon it. Consequently
it was plain that water, in passing from the liquid

to the solid form, invariably evolves the heat which
is necessary to retain it in a liquid state, and
which as it passes, on the other hand, from the

solid to the liquid state, it as invariably absorbs.

    Not only, however, is there an increase of tem
perature when water becomes solid, but Humphry
found the same result to ensue, even when the same
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  199

liquid is condensed. On mixing 4 parts of strong
oil of vitriol with 1 part of water, cooled down to

the freezing-point, he perceived that the two to

gether occupied considerably less space than they
did alone, and that the mixture rose rapidly from
32° to 212°, or from the freezing to the boiling point.
The same result ensued when 1 part of snow was

substituted for the 1 part cold water ; but, strange to

say, when the proportions were reversed, so that
there were 4 parts of snow to 1 part of oil of vitriol,

intense cold instead of intense heat was produced, --

the increase of temperature in the one case arising
from the condensation of the water from the snow,
and the decrease of temperature, on the other hand,
being due to the liquefaction of the snow itself.

   Moreover, the boy was aware that a piece of soft
iron, when hammered, becomes intensely heated ;
and he had heard that when a bar of red-hot iron

is passed through a rolling-mill, its temperature is
so much raised that it is rendered nearly white-
hot by the extreme pressure, and the consequent
condensation of the particles.

    Sudden expansion, on the other hand, Humphry
found to be a cooling process ; and this is one of
the reasons why high-pressure steam, on issuing from
a small aperture, instead of scalding the hand as
ordinary steam would, scarcely feels warm, even
though its temperature be some hundred degrees
higher than the vapour at a low pressure ; for as
200 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the compressed steam escapes into the atmosphere,

its instantaneous expansion so far cools               a        that  it

    deprived of all power of burning.                      it,
    Moreover, at the fountain of Hiero, in Hun
is

            a
gary, part of the machinery for working the

mines consists of column of water 260 feet
                           ;a
high, which presses upon large volume of air,
                               a
enclosed in                tight reservoir, so that the air
               is                    is
within
                        a
               greatly condensed by the enormous

weight of the water and that when pipe com

municating with this reservoir suddenly opened,

the condensed air rushes out with extreme velocity,

and then instantly expanding, absorbs so much heat

as to precipitate the moisture                         contains in
                           a                                          a

                                               it
shower of snow -- hat held in the blast being

immediately covered with it. So strong, however,

is  the current of condensed air, that the workman

who hplds the hat              obliged to lean his back
                           is

                               it
against the wall to retain in its position.
   Another illustration of the cooling effect pro

duced by the sudden expansion of condensed air

   afforded in the fact, that if the blast from an
is

                                                    a
air-gun be directed upon delicate thermometer,

the temperature will be found to be lowered at

the moment of the discharge.

   As yet Humphry had dealt only with the effects
produced by the conversion of solids into liquids,
or liquids into solids, and there still remained for
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  201

him to learn what results ensued when liquids were
changed into vapours, or vapours into liquids.

   Accordingly he proceeded to heat some water in

an open vessel, and found, as the temperature

gradually rose, that the vapour continued to form
on its surface till the thermometer reached 212°,
when the liquid became violently agitated. But
then, although the fire was kept up beneath the
vessel as strong as at first, and the heat continued
to flow into it as before, the quicksilver in the
thermometer became stationary, and remained so
until the whole of the liquid had been dissipated
in the form of steam.

   Here, then, was another instance of the absorp
tion of heat during a change of form ; and it was
evident, that as water required a certain amount
of temperature in order to convert it from a solid
into a liquid state, so did it need a proportionate
supply of heat to change it from a. liquid into

a vapour.

   " The heat absorbed during the boiling passed

off, perhaps, in the steam," thought Humphry.
   On testing the temperature of the vapour, how

ever, it was found to be no hotter than that of

the water during its ebullition.
   What, then, had become of the heat which had

been added since the boiling commenced ?

   Why, it had been rendered latent or insensible,
being necessary for retaining the liquid in a more
202 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

rarified form; for as a liquid is but a solid whose

particles have been separated, and so made free to
move, by the latent heat existing between them, so

a vapour is merely a liquid, whose atoms have been
driven farther asunder, and made still more easily

separable, by the heat imbibed during the process

of vaporization. It was evident, therefore, that

the production of vapour is attended witli a loss of
sensible heat, and that, as in the case of liquefac
tion, heat disappears in order to constitute the
liquid, so in the case of evaporation a considerable
quantity of heat becomes latent in the vapour.

   To render this part of the subject still more
clear, Humphry filled a flat-bottomed tin vessel
with a definite quantity of water, at the tempera
ture of 50°. Then, having placed the vessel upon
a heated plate, he found that in 4 minutes it had
acquired a temperature of 212°, and began to boil,
whilst in 20 minutes the whole had evaporated,
having been dissipated in the form of steam. The
water, therefore, had received 212°-- 50°, or 162° of
heat in 4 minutes, which is at the rate of 40J° in each
minute. The heat, however, continued to flow into

the water at the same rate during the whole 20
minutes, so that the entire amount of heat received
must have been 40£° x 20°, or 810°, and this had
become latent in the steam. Consequently the total
quantity of heat required to evaporate boiling water

would be sufficient to raise the water -- provided
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  303

it remained all the time in the liquid state, instead

of being converted into steam -- as much as 810°

above the boiling-point, or altogether to 1022°.
   To verify this conclusion, Humphry heated some

water under pressure in a "Papin's digester," so that

the liquid was prevented evaporating, and raised
the temperature of it to 400°. Then the lad

opened the valve, and part of the water suddenly
rushed out in the form of steam, when the tem
perature of that remaining in the digester sank im

mediately to 212°. Consequently 188° (400°-- 212°)
of heat had suddenly disappeared, having been car

ried off by the steam. It was afterwards found that

only .J-th of the water had gone off in vapour, so that
this vapour must have contained not only its own

188°, but the 188° lost by the 4 other parts re
maining in the digester ; that is to say, the steam

must have contained 188° x 5°, or 940° of heat
altogether. This experiment therefore showed, that

steam is water combined with nearly 1000° of
heat ; and in the same manner as the water had
been previously observed to give out its heat of

liquidity, and to make the thermometer rise at
the moment of its conversion into ice, so was it
now seen to absorb a considerable amount of heat,

and to make the thermometer fall at the moment

of its conversion into vapour.
   Evaporation, therefore, should be a means of pro

ducing cold, in the same manner as liquefaction had
204 THE WONDERS Or SCIENCE.

been previously proved to be ; for if it be necessary,

in order to convert liquids into vapours, that a cer

tain amount of heat be absorbed, it is plain that

such heat must be drawn from surrounding sub

stances, and thus the vaporization of one body will

be a cooling process to others near it.

   To test this, Humphry spread out a wet cloth in
a keen wind when the atmosphere was a few de

grees above the freezing-point, and found that the

particles of water, as they passed into the form of
vapour,* carried off so much heat from the liquid in

the cloth (in the same manner as the steam did in
the Papin's digester) that the remainder became

frozen, while the cloth itself was rendered hard

and stiff by the formation of ice in its pores.

Humphry, however, knew that ether was much

more vaporisable than water at ordinary tempera
tures. Accordingly he availed himself of this sub

stance in the production of cold by spontaneous

evaporation.

First, he folded a strip of cambric round the

bulb of a small thermometer, and allowed some

                       while he increased the
*
                         a

                                      it,
                                              a

                                                                         a

                                                                   it
ether to dribble over

evaporation by projecting current of air upon
by means of bellows. The quicksilver was im
mediately seen to fall several degrees below the

freezing-point, and on substituting thin glass

Evaporation goes on more or less rapidly at all temperatures.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  205

tube containing a small quantity of water for the

thermometer previously used, the boy was enabled

to produce ice by the same means.
   Next, the lad made use of the air-pump which he

had previously constructed out of the rudest ma
terials,* in order to facilitate the spontaneous eva
poration of water, by removing the pressure of the
atmosphere from the surface of it.

   Upon the plate of the apparatus he placed a soup-
plate, and this he half filled with oil of vitriol ; above
the soup-plate he stood a tin basin, supported on three
pieces of tobacco-pipe, and three parts filled with

  * Dr. Paris, inhis "Life ofDavy" (p. 37), relates the following

"Aanecdote concerning the construction of this apparatus: --

French vessel having been wrecked off the Land's End, the sur

geon escaped, and found his way to Penzance. Accident brought
him acquainted with Humphry Davy, who showed him many
civilities, and in return received, as a present from the surgeon, a

case of instruments which had been saved from the ship. The

contents were eagerly turned out and examined by the young
chemist ; not, however, with any professional view as to their
utility, but in order to ascertain how far they might be con
vertible to experimental purposes. The old-fashioned and clumsy
glyster apparatus was viewed with exultation, and seized in
triumph. What reverses may not be suddenly effected by a
simple accident! So says the moralist. Reader, behold an
illustration : in the brief space of an hour did this long-neglected
and unobtrusive machine, emerging from its obscurity and insig
nificance, figure away io all the pomp of a complicated piece of
pneumatic apparatus. Nor did its fortunes end here ; it was
destined for greater things ; and we shall hereafter learn that
it actually performed the duties of an air-pump in an original

experiment on the nature and sources of heat." It is but right to
add, that Dr. Davy doubts the truth of the above story.
206 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
water, in which a small thermometer was immersed ;
while over the whole he put the glass receiver.
The arrangement is shown in the annexed illus

tration :--

    The pump was now set to work, and the air
gradually drawn out from the glass receiver, where
upon the thermometer was observed to sink ; for as
the pressure of the atmosphere was removed the
evaporation from the water was increased, while
the oil of vitriol at the bottom served to absorb the
vapour as fast as it was produced : so that, though
the temperature was considerably lowered, the eva
poration from the water ultimately became so rapid
that it had all the appearance of boiling, and in the
course of 5 or 10 minutes the liquid was converted
into ice.

    Before the solidification took place, however, the
thermometer was observed to fall several degrees

below the freezing-point, whilst at the moment of
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  207

its freezing it rose to 32°, in consequence of the
escape of the heat which had previously served to
keep the water liquid.

   The explanation of the process is almost obvious.
As in the case of the steam issuing from the Papin's
digester, that part of the water passing off in the
form of vapour abstracted heat from the remainder
of the fluid portion, which, thus losing the caloric
that served to keep it liquid, became solid, or froze.

    Humphry was now anxious to see what effect the
simultaneous evaporation of ether and water would
produce under the air-pump. Accordingly he pro
cured a thin glass flask, and this he inserted in a
tumbler, so that it fitted almost close. Having
poured a little ether into the flask, and some cold

water into the tumbler, he placed the whole appa
ratus under the receiver of the air-pump, as here

represented: --

On exhausting the receiver the ether was ob-
208 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

served to boil, from the rapidity of its evaporation,

while the water in which it was immersed soon be

came solidified, or converted into ice.

The apparent anomaly of two liquids made to

boil and freeze at one and the same time puzzled

the lad for a while. At length, however, he di

vined the reason. The ether, in passing into the

form of vapour, required a certain amount of heat

to sustain it in that state, and this it absorbed prin

                                         which
acipally from the water that surrounded
            a
                 a
                                    a

                                            aa
                                                                  a

                                                           it it,

                                                                                            ;
soon became congealed owing to the loss of that

portion of heat which was requisite for its main

tenance in fluid form.

Humphry had now discovered that, by removing

the pressure of the atmosphere, the evaporation of

liquids proceeded at much greater rate, and he

was anxious to learn whether they could be made

to boil at lower temperature by the same means.

Accordingly, he fitted stop-cock into the neck

of Florence flask, and then turning the cock on,

so that the vapour might escape, he proceed to heat

the water, over the flame of spirit-lamp, till boiled

whereupon he removed the flask from the flame and
closed the cock. The liquid then soon ceased to boil;

on plunging the flask, however, into vessel of cold

water, he found the ebullition instantly to recom

mence, but to cease again directly the vessel was

held near the^re or over the lamp. Now during the
boiling, in the first instance, all the air above the
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  209

liquid had been driven out of the flask, and re
placed by an atmosphere of steam ; this, upon
plunging the vessel into cold water, had become
condensed into a liquid form, so that a vacuum

being formed above the water, the fluid boiled at a
lower temperature under the diminished pressure.

On removing the flask, however, from the cold
medium, a new atmosphere of steam was generated,
and the pressure of this on the surface of the
liquid prevented its boiling any longer ; and thus
the water was made to boil by being cooled, and

to cease boiling by being heated.

   Humphry afterwards ascertained, that if a glass

of water of the temperature of 90° or 100° be
placed under the receiver of an air-pump, and the
pressure of the atmosphere removed by exhausting
the air, the water boils violently at that tempera
ture, and continues to do so until the whole re
ceiver becomes filled with the vapour; which then,
pressing upon the surface of the liquid, again pre
vents its ebullition. By continuing to pump out
the vapour, however, the boy was enabled to keep
the water boiling at no less than 112° below its
boiling-point in the open air.

   With alcohol and ether, however, it was not even

necessary to warm them, for these fluids boil under
the air-pump at all ordinary temperatures.

  It has likewise been found that water boils, at'

                                                                 p ,-.''''
810 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

less than 212° upon the summits of hills and moun
tains, where the pressure of the atmosphere is con

siderably diminished. At the top of Mont Blanc

water has been made to boil at 187°, and even when
the air is lighter at the surface of the earth the
boiling-point of all liquids is reduced ; so that in
this country, where the density of the atmosphere
fluctuates considerably, water boils sometimes at 2°
lower than 212°, whilst on heavy days it requires
to be raised to 214° in order to produce ebullition.
Even the cleanliness of the vessels in which the

liquid is heated has been ascertained to alter the

boiling-point. In glass vessels, from which all

chemical and mechanical impurities have been re
moved by perfect cleaning, water may have its
temperature raised as high as 220° without being
made to boil ; whereas a few metallic filings, or
other finely-divided or insoluble materials, have the

effect of causing it to boil at a lower temperature

than 212°.

   Humphry would now have sought to learn how
much water becomes expanded in passing into the
form of steam. But, though he made several rude
experiments on the subject, he was unable, from the
want of proper apparatus, to arrive at any definite
result, and so was obliged to rest contented with,
the knowledge which his books afforded him ; viz.
that a cubic inch of water becomes converted, at
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.                   211

212°, into very nearly a cubic foot of steam, the

expansion being about 1700 times the bulk of the

original fluid.

Spirits of wine, on the other hand, expand only

493 times, ether about 212 times, and oil of tur

pentine 192 times ; each at the temperature of

212°. Steam, however, is lighter than air, --

whereas the vapours of spirits of wine, ether, and

                                    it,
                                                           is
turpentine, are much heavier than the last being
nearly times the density of our atmosphere at the
it
same temperature.
    is
Before quitting this part of the subject, there
           a
              5one striking anomaly connected with the produc
tion of vapour that deserves mention here, though
                 a

                  it
   but recent discovery.

If silver, or other metal spoon, be heated to

redness in the flame of lamp, and some water be
dropped into while red hot, will be found that
                       a

                                it

the liquid, instead of passing off at once into steam,

will instantly assume  a  globular, or spheroidal

form, and float about the heated metal, revolving

with rapidity, and evaporating very slowly while;

the temperature of the liquid will remain constantlyis
below the boiling point --so long as the red heat
maintained. If, however, the lamp be withdrawn,
the water, as the spoon cools down, will suddenly

be made to boil with violence, and be dissipated

in vapour with almost explosive energy.

The cause of this singular phenomenon    is,  that
S12 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the water is separated from the red-hot metal by
an atmosphere of highly-elastic steam, which is

generated immediately the liquid is projected on

the heated surface, and which, encircling the water,

serves to keep it in a spheroidal, or globular state ;

whilst the vapour, being a bad conductor of heat,

prevents the temperature of the hot metal being
communicated to the fluid in connexion with it.

   This is the reason why water, when accidentally
dropped upon the heated bars, or hobs of a grate,

is occasionally observed to run along them like
                          If these, however, be
globules of quicksilver.

smartly struck with a hammer, so as to bring them

suddenly into contact with the hot metal, the glo
bules will be instantaneously converted into steam,

and the change of form attended with a slight

explosion.

Another form of the same singular phenomenon

consists in plunging a mass of white-hot metal into

a vessel of cold water, when the incandescence

will be found to continue, rather than to be

quenched, in the liquid, the metal still shining
with a bright white light, while the water may be

seen to circulate around, though at some distance

from, the glowing mass, being separated from it by
an atmosphere of non-conducting vapour, which,

for a time, prevents its heat being communicated

to, and so reduced by, the surrounding fluid. At

length, as the metal cools, the water around it is
       THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.                                           213

     brought into contact with the heated surface, when

     it is made suddenly to boil with energy.

        Moreover, if an iron shell containing water be

     made red hot, and a hole then drilled in
it                                                                              no

                                                                           it,
     water will be found to flow through the orifice

     until the iron has been considerably cooled, when

     will suddenly issue forth with great violence, in

     the form of steam.

       So, again, if water be poured upon an iron sieve,

     the wires of which have been heated to redness,

it it  will not pass through the interstices. As the

    ;sieve cools down, however, will be found to run
                                        it

     through rapidly.

     Further,          red-hot cinder be let fall into
       a                                                                        it a
     pan of water,     will be seen to swim upon the
             if
     surface, and then to sink with hissing sound,
                  it a                      a
                                                      a
                                 a
     accompanied with a sudden irruption of steam.

     But far more striking illustration of this strange

     property consists in heating to redness silver or

     platinum capsule (or small crucible), and filling
     while red hot with freezing mixture, when the

     whole mass will instantly be thrown into the

     spheroidal state, and on introducing thermometer

     therein the temperature of the liquid will be found
                                            a
                                                  a
     to be scarcely increased, so that small tube filled
     with water soon becomes frozen when immersed in

          and thus ice may thus be produced even in ais

     vessel, the heat of which no less than 1000°. In

     deed, by introducing some ether and solid carbonic
214 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

acid into an incandescent crucible, even quicksilver

itself has been made to freeze in                           though this
          a
              a

                       ;

                                                       it,
requires temperature of 82° below the freezing-

point of water and yet this extreme cold (equal

to that of Polar winter) has been produced, and

mercury frozen inside a red-hot vessel.

   Humphry, however, was anxious not to conclude         a       ;a
his investigations concerning the changes of form          a
produced by heat without ascertaining whether all
bodies, in passing from a lower to higher tem

perature --or, on the other hand, from higher to
lower one-- absorbed the same quantities of caloric

that  is  to say, did one body require                        a  greater

amount of heat to raise to given temperatureit

than another, and did some bodies give off more       a
heat than others in cooling
                                           ?
   First, the lad dealt with equal quantities of the
same fluid at different temperatures, in order to

determine whether, on mixing the two together,
the resulting temperature amounted to the mean of
both. He added pint of cold water at 50° to
J

                  +

                   J

                                        a
pint of warm water at 100°, and found that the

two together gave                          mean temperature of 75°

/100 50\ _ go that the hotwaterhad iost 25°, whilst

the cold had gained precisely the same amount.

   Then Humphry proceeded to try whether the
result was the same with equal quantities of dif-
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  215

ferent fluids. Accordingly, he took the same

amount of water at 50° as he had previously em

ployed for one portion, but, instead of the water
at 100° for the other, he substituted a like quantity
of quicksilver at the same temperature, and found

to his astonishment, on pouring the one to the
other, that the heat of both together was no longer
 the mean of the two (or 75° as before), but only

 66f °. In this case, therefore, the quicksilver had
lost as much as 33^° (100-- 66 J), whilst the water
 had gained only 16£° (66J-- 50); so that the quick

 silver had parted with twice as much heat as the
 water had absorbed. Consequently it was evident
 that, in order to raise a certain measure of water to
 a given temperature, it required just double the
 quantity of heat to be added to it that an equal
 measure of quicksilver did ; or, in other words,
 the capacity of water for heat was twice that of

 quicksilver.

    This referred, however, only to equal measures
 of the two fluids ; so Humphry wished to ascertain
 whether the effect would be the same with equal
 weights of them. He mixed, therefore, 1 pound of
 water at 50° with 1 pound of quicksilver at 100°,

 and discovered that the resulting temperature was

 not quite 52°. Here, then, the quicksilver had
 lost rather more than 48° of heat, while this amount
 had served to increase the warmth of the water

 only about 2°. There was but one conclusion to
216 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

be arrived at, therefore ; namely, that the capacity
of a given weight of water for heat is about 30
times greater than an equal weight of quicksilver,
whereas the capacity of a given measure of the

former is only twice that of an equal measure of

the latter.

   After this the boy added 1 pound of water at
50° to an equal weight of spermaceti oil at 100°,
when the temperature of the mixture was found to
be 66J°; so that the oil had parted with twice as

much heat as the water had gained.
   Thus it was evident that different substances

required different quantities of heat to raise them
to the same temperature ; and that in order to
warm a certain weight of water to the same degree
as an equal weight of oil and quicksilver, twice
as much heat must be given to the water as
to the oil, and 30 times as much to the quick
silver.

   Still the cautious boy was anxious to test the
truth of this result by another experiment.

   Accordingly, he took 1 pound weight of each of
the three substances above-mentioned, and having
brought them severally to a temperature of 50°, he
placed the flasks in which they were respectively
contained in a large bath of warm water, the heat
of which he kept constantly at 100°. This done,
he proceeded to note the time and manner in which
each of the fluids was heated, and found that when
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  217

the thermometer in the quicksilver had reached
80°, that in the oil stood at 52°, while the one in
the flask of water marked only 51° ; and, though
the three liquids ultimately attained the same tem
perature as the water-bath in which they were
immersed, the water took 30 times longer to acquire
that heat than the quicksilver, and twice as long as

the oil.

   Now it was manifest that each of the liquids in
this experiment must have been receiving heat

alike, so that the only feasible explanation was that
the water, in order to have its temperature raised

to a given degree, required 30 times the quantity
of heat that the metallic fluid did, and double the
quantity of the oleaginous one.

    Nevertheless, to avoid all possible chance of
error, Humphry repeated the experiment in another
form, so as to see whether, in cooling, the water
would part with more caloric than either the oil
or the quicksilver ; and just as much more, too, as
it had been found to imbibe while being heated.

    With this view Humphry filled three Florence
flasks, -- one with a pound of water, another with a
pound of oil, and the third with an equal weight of
quicksilver, -- all at the temperature of 212°, and
having placed each of the flasks in a large funnel,
that rested on a graduated glass jar, he surrounded
them one after another with pounded ice, as here
shown :--
818 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Water.  Oil. Quicksilver.

   When the fluids had been severally cooled down
to the same temperature as the ice around them,
the lad proceeded to ascertain, by the quantity of
water produced by the thawing of the ice surround
ing each flask, how much heat had been given out by
the three liquids respectively, in sinking from 212°
to 32° ; and he ultimately found that the hot water,
in cooling, had thawed twice as much ice as the

hot oil, and 30 times as much as the equally hot

quicksilver. Hence it was beyond doubt that

water, at a given temperature, contained con

siderably more heat than either of the other fluids,
and hence the reason why it took a longer time

than they to be warmed or cooled to the same
extent.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  219

   These experiments naturally led the boy to
think how great a magazine of heat the sea must
be, and what a beneficial influence its slow rate of

heating and cooling must have in equalizing the
temperature of the atmosphere. Quicksilver, on

the other hand, however, having a small capacity
for heat, and, consequently, being quickly warmed
and cooled, becomes of great value as a liquid for

the thermometer, since it is this property that gives

great sensibility to the instrument.

   It now only remained for Humphry to ascertain

the relative capacities for heat among solids. This
he did by cooling down equal weights of the metals
and other bodies under the exhausted receiver of

his air-pump, and noting how long they took to
pass each from a like higher to a like lower tem

perature.

   By such means the youth ascertained that Lead
had the smallest capacity for heat among the

metals, cooling more rapidly than even quicksilver
itself, and 34 1 times quicker than water. Next in
order came Platinum, which again had less capacity

than quicksilver, and cooled 32J times quicker than
water. After this, Silver was found to cool 1 8 times

quicker than water ; Zinc, lOf times ; Copper,
10| times ; and, lastly, Iron, which was ascer

tained to part with its heat only 9 times quicker

than water. Glass, however, was found to occupy
a longer time in cooling than any of the metals,
220 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

giving off its caloric but 8J times quicker than

water ; while sulphur, on the other hand, retained

its warmth longer even than glass, but still cooled

5^- times quicker than water.
   The capacities for heat, therefore, among the

above-mentioned substances, were inversely as their

rates of cooling : that is to say, lead, which cooled
the quickest, contained the least quantity of heat,

and, therefore, required less caloric to raise it to a

given temperature ; while sulphur, on the other

hand, which took nearly 7 times as long to cool as

lead, contained 7 times more heat, and required to

be warmed for just so much longer a period.

The relative capacity for heat among substances
                             " SPECIFIC         "
is generally  termed  their              HEAT      for
                                               ;

as different bodies are found to possess unequal

quantities of heat at equal temperatures, and as

this exists in them in a latent or insensible state,

the term specific heat has therefore been adopted

to express the relative amount of latent caloric
existing in different substances at the same tem

peratures.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  221

                      CHAPTER X.

  THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT (concluded).

THE young philosopher had now investigated the
effects produced by an elevation of temperature, not
only upon the bulk, but upon the form of different
bodies. He had found, first, that heat increased
the size of certain substances, without destroying
the cohesion among their constituent particles ;
and, secondly, that it loosened the attraction be
tween the atoms of other substances, and ren
dered them free to move: so that solids became
converted by it into liquids, and liquids into va
pours, while the heat which was absorbed and
disappeared during the production of such changes
he had ascertained not only to exist between the
molecules of the resulting liquid or vapour in a
latent or insensible state, but to be again evolved in
a sensible form when the vapours became condensed
or the liquids solidified.

   The next step, therefore, was to study the cir
cumstances regulating the ignition and combustion
of bodies.
222 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   That there is an intimate connexion between the
principles of light and heat, Humphry had little
doubt. Indeed, it was plain to him that the two
are mutually disposed to produce each other. He
had, however, as yet considered only the laws of
heat, divested of luminosity ; but, at present, he
was about to examine the one in connexion with
the other; the laws of ignition and combustion
being those of the production of artificial heat,

accompanied with light for the time being.

   Whether substances, when merely warm, are
capable of emitting rays of light, it is impossible
to determine; " but," said the lad to himself, " the
slightest increase of temperature is perhaps accom
panied with some kind of luminous power that our
sense of vision is incapable of perceiving, since it is
only when the temperature of bodies is raised to a
high point that they acquire the property of be
coming luminous to our eyes."

  It is extremely difficult to ascertain the precise

temperature at which bodies, when heated, acquire
the property of giving out light ; for the result is
greatly modified, not only by the sensitiveness of
the eye of the observer, but also by the clearness
of the atmosphere at the time of making the ex

periment.
   The amount of heat necessary for producing

luminosity, however, certainly exceeds 650°, since
this is the temperature at which quicksilver boils ;
THE WONDEEFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  223

and though Humphry heated the metallic fluid to
ebullition in a dark room, it did not become, so far

as he could detect, in the least degree luminous.

    Subsequent experiments, however, induced him
to place the degree at which heated bodies begin to
emit light in the dark at 810° ; though the investi
gations which have since been made in connexion
with the subject lead to the conclusion that the first
gleam of light which is given out from a heated
platinum wire occurs at a temperature of about
865°. The luminous rays emitted at this heat,
however, are not red, but of a lavender-grey colour
(similar to those which exist in the solar spectrum
beyond the violet band), and seem to be the first

transition from darkness to ordinary light.

   At the temperature of about 1000° the light

emitted by the heated body becomes visible in day
light, and is then of a dull-red hue.

   At 1200° the tint of incandescence brightens into
a vivid crimson, or " cherry-red," as it is termed.

    Then, as the temperature increases, the light

emitted by the glowing body assumes partly a
yellow colour ; so that at 1700° an " orange heat,"
as it is called, is produced.

   At length, however, when the heat rises to the

highest point, the light emitted acquires such bril

liancy as to be painful to the eye ; the incandescent
substances then appearing no longer tinted, but
positively colourless in the fire. This constitutes
224 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

what is denominated a " white heat," and occurs

at no less a temperature than 3000°.*

   At this intense temperature a remarkable change

is found to occur in the character of the heat itself,
for it has been before shown that the heat-rays
emanating from an ordinary fire are stopped by
glass ; so that while the light emitted by the burn
ing coals passes freely through plates of glass, and
is capable of being reflected by glass mirrors, like
the light of the sun itself, the heat radiated by them

-- unlike that of the solar beams--has neither the

power to traverse the transparent substance, nor is

it susceptible of being concentrated into a focus by

reflexion from a glassy surface.

   Artificial heat, however, when at a very high tem
perature, is found to have all the properties of solar
heat. Not only does it then admit of being focussed
by burning-glasses in the same manner as the sun
beams, but the light emitted by it darkens solutions
of silver as effectually as the light of day ; so that

(as more recent experiments have proved) a photo
graphic portrait can be taken as well by the rays

from coke at a white heat, as they can by the rays
of the sun itself.

But only those substances are capable of being

   * The highest temperature  of a good blast-furnace is,  aacc"ordhiinggh
to Daniel, ahout equal to     3300°. This constitutes

white heat."
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  225

rendered incandescent, which have power to sus
tain the high temperatures requisite for ignition,
without being vaporized or decomposed by the
heat. Many bodies, however, are either dissipated
or destroyed long before they attain this intense
temperature ; while, on the other hand, those termed
combustibles, when heated in the air, burst into

flame, and undergo what is termed combustion.

   " Now what is combustion ? " said Humphry to
himself, as he thought over the subject. " What

are the phenomena which occur when substances
burn with the evolution of flame ?"

    The boy knew, that formerly it was supposed
bodies owed their combustibility to the presence of
a certain principle called " phlogiston," which
during combustion, said the philosophers, escaped
from them, producing light and heat ; whereas
when the bodies had lost their phlogiston --and
had become " dephlogisticated," as it was termed

--they ceased to be combustible.

    Phlogiston, however, Humphry was well aware,
was a purely imaginary principle, of whose ex
istence no proof had been given, and which had
been invented merely to explain a process that
 appeared to be otherwise incomprehensible.

    Moreover, Humphry had learnt from the books
he had already read upon the subject, that the
metals were increased in weight after being burnt ;
so that it was impossible to attribute the combus-

                                                                               Q
226 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

tion in such cases to the escape of phlogiston,
since it was inconceivable how a body could be
rendered heavier by losing something which had
previously been combined with it.

   Nevertheless, the belief in this visionary phlo
giston had continued for nearly half a century ;
and it was only in the year 1775 that more correct
views had been propounded concerning the process.

   At the time of young Davy's commencing the

study of this subject, Lavoisier's new theory of
combustion had been in existence but a few years,
and the boy having obtained from Mr. Tonkin the
loan of the treatise in which the more correct

views were originally propounded, had eagerly
perused the volume, being not a little delighted
with the precision of reasoning and the boldness
of speculation contained in it.

   Still Humphry was not satisfied with merely
reading and acquiring the ideas of others. He
criticised the theoretical speculations of the great
French philosopher, doubted, and rejected, and
advanced speculations of his own, while speculation

led him to experiment.*

   * The  above    is   "DrS.ucDhavwya'ss   account of his brother's first
          studies  :--                     the commencement of Humphry
chemical
Davy's career of original research," he adds, " which in a few

years, by a succession of discoveries, accomplished more in re

lation to change of theory and extension of science than, in the

most ardent and ambitious moments of youth, he could either

have hoped to effect or imagined possible."
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  227

   Humphry began the investigation of the phe
nomena of combustion by an experiment, to prove
that the air in which combustibles are suffered to
burn till they are extinguished undergoes a very
remarkable change.

   For this purpose the lad put a little water in a
soup-plate, and on it he placed a small piece of
candle, so that it might swim on the surface.
Having lighted the wick he covered it over with

a large tumbler, and found that the candle then
burnt only for a short time, whilst immediately the
flame was extinguished the water rose in the tum
bler considerably above its level in the soup-plate.

    Hence it was evident, that the portion of the air
which was necessary for combustion had been
removed by the burning candle from the atmo
sphere confined within the tumbler, and that, there
fore, it was no longer capable of sustaining the

flame.

   " But maybe," thought Humphry, " the candle,

in burning, gives off some gas, which is preju
dicial to combustion."

     So, to satisfy himself whether such were the
case or not, the boy burnt some charcoal in an old
iron saucepan, that he had previously drilled full of
holes, in order to admit the air. Then, having

fitted a tin tube into the lid of this, he, by means
of the chimney so formed, conducted the gas evolved
by the burning charcoal into a wide-mouthed bottle,
328 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
that he had previously filled and placed with its
mouth downwards, on a perforated stand in a pail
of cold water ; so that as the combustion went on
the gas produced kept bubbling up in the pail from

the end of the tube, and displacing the water as it

rose into the inverted bottle that stood imme

diately above it. The arrangement, however, will

be more readily comprehended by reference to the

subjoined engraving :--

    As soon as sufficient gas had been collected
 Humphry removed the tube from the pail, and

 corked the bottle under water ; then having set

 the bottle of gas on a table, he attached a piece of
 candle to the crooked end of a long wire, and
 lowering this, while alight, into the gas, found, to
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  2129

his astonishment, that the flame was immediately

extinguished.

  I" So then," cried the delighted boy, "here is a

kind of air that can neither see, nor feel, nor smell,
and yet it extinguishes burning bodies like water."

   But Humphry was too eager to examine the
properties of the gas he had collected to wait to
reflect upon the curious results it afforded him.
Accordingly he procured a tall glass jar, and having
placed a piece of burning candle at the bottom of

this, he proceeded to empty the gas from the bottle

into the jar, when to his surprise he discovered
that he could pour out the heavy air that had
come from the burning charcoal as though it had
been a liquid, while, immediately it fell upon the
lighted candle at the bottom of the jar, the flame

disappeared as suddenly as if so much water had

been showered upon it.
    After this the boy amused himself by decanting

the gas backwards and forwards from one vessel

to the other, and ultimately found that it was

instantaneously fatal to animals, destroying sen

tient life as rapidly as it extinguished burning sub

 stances.

    Humphry's next step was to discover what sub
 stance was capable of readily absorbing this gas,
and after many trials he found that lime-water did

so with great facility.
   Accordingly he added about an ounce of quick
230 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

lime to a quart of water in a glass bottle, and
corking it up closely he shook it several times,
so as to dissolve as much of the lime as possible ;
after which he allowed it to settle, and then de
canted off the transparent and colourless liquid
into a clean bottle with a glass stopper. This
transparent solution of lime in water he then
poured into the glass jar containing the gas from
the burning charcoal, and having corked the vessel
tightly up, he shook it about, and immediately per
ceived that the lime-water was rendered turbid by
the gas, being no longer clear and transparent as be
fore, but changed to an opaque milky white ; then
having filtered the turbid water, and so separated
from it all the white particles that had rendered

the solution opaque, he dried and weighed the sedi
ment, and found that the quantity of lime which had
been dissolved by the water had become nearly

doubled in weight by the gas which it had absorbed.
   The youth had now learned how to remove the

products of combustion, and he was consequently in

a position to determine whether the air, after a
substance had been burned in really had or had
not been deprived of anything during the process.

   Humphry therefore placed a small quantity of
lime-water at the bottom of wide-mouthed bottle,
and through the cork of this he passed one end of
long wire, while to the other end of he attached

   small piece of wax taper. This he lighted, and
a
                                                       a

                                                   it,
                                                        it

                                                                                                  a
        THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.       331

then lowered down into the air that stood above the

lime-water in the vessel. The cork was now forced

tightly into the mouth of the bottle, and in a

minute or two the taper was extinguished. After
this the jar was shaken well up, when the youth

beheld, to his great delight, the lime-water rendered

turbid by the gas evolved during the burning of the

taper.

   The next step was to discover whether the air

which remained in the bottle (and from which the
products of the burning taper had been removed

by the lime-water) was still capable of sustaining
combustion.

Accordingly another lighted taper was lowered

into it, but this was as rapidly extinguished as the

one had been by the gas from the burning charcoal

itself. It was afterwards found, too, that that part

of the air which remained after combustion was as

destructive of animal life as even the charcoal gas

had been discovered to be.                   " that
" How
        wonderful   "  exclaimed  the  boy,

                   !

the atmosphere round about us should be made up

of two different kinds of air, -- one that enables

cembustibles to burn and animals to live in while
        !

                 it

                 I

                                          it it,

                                                                            ?

                                  I
the other immediately extinguishes flame and de
stroys sentient life How can collect that portion

of the air which supports combustion and maintains

life, apart from that which puts an end to

should like to see what would do by itself, and
233 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

whether substances would burn brighter in it alone ;
for surely such must be the case, since in the atmo
sphere it is mixed with another kind of air that
extinguishes flame and destroys living creatures, so

that the one must constantly be counteracting the
effects of the other."

    Humphry racked his brains for a long time for
the means whereby to separate the two kinds of air

from each other. At last lie remembered one of

Lavoisier's experiments in connexion with the
subject, and immediately set to work to repeat it.

    With this view the lad obtained some " calcined

mercury," for this substance he knew to have been
produced merely by burning metallic mercury for a
long time in a tube exposed to the air, so that the
portion of the atmosphere which supported com
bustion (instead of being evolved in a gaseous form,
as in the case of the burning charcoal) had become

Jixed, or rendered solid, in the "calx" which resulted
from the process. The boy was therefore anxious
to see whether it were not possible, by burning the

calcined product once more, to drive off that portion

of air which had been taken up by it during the

previous burning, and so to discover what are the
peculiar and distinctive properties of the air which
had been absorbed. Consequently, he submitted

some of this calcined mercury to a red heat in a

retort, and collected the gas that was given off from

it in a wide-mouthed bottle from which he had cut
   THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.     233

off the bottom. This, having corked, he filled

with water, and stood on a perforated ledge in a

pail -- the gas being collected as before described.

When the water had all been displaced from the

bottle, and it was consequently full of gas, Hum

phry slida        while under the water, off the ledge

             it,
into soup-plate, and then, removing to table,
                                      it

                                                a

                                                                                  '
proceeded to investigate its properties.a
                         a
   Here, then, he had jar-ful of the gas (named

oxygen by chemists) that maintained the com
bustion of bodies in the open air, and separate, too,

from the other gas, which tended rather to retard

their burning in the atmosphere.

   Humphry's first experiment was to introduce into

the gas thus obtained lighted taper, placed at

the end of the wire as before, and the boy was

enraptured as he beheld the flame immediately en

large (instead of diminishing, as when confined ina
jar of mere atmospheric air), and become intensely

bright, while the combustion proceeded at so rapid

a  rate that the piece of taper itself was soon con

sumed. Then another piece of taper was used, but

this was blown out immediately after being lighted,

so that the wick was merely glowing on its intro

duction into the gas. On being plunged into the

jar, however, was instantly re-kindled, and burst
                  it

into the same vivid flame as before.

   Next, the combustion of sulphur was tried in

the gas. This substance burns in the open air,
234 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

as is well known, with a small blue flame. On

placing a small piece of lighted sulphur, however,
in a copper capsule attached to the end of a long
wire, it was no sooner lowered into the jar than it

began to burn with a beautiful purple or lilac-

coloured light, the flame becoming suddenly en

larged, and the sulphur itself appearing to dissolve

in the gas. At the conclusion of the experiment

the water in the soup-plate, in which the jar

stood, was set carefully on one side, for after-exa

mination.

After this the lad tried the combustion of

phosphorus in another jar of gas, in the same
manner. Humphry knew the combustion of this to

be very vivid, even when inflamed in the atmo

sphere ; so, to prevent accidents, he used in the jar

a piece not larger than a pea : but even this, when

lowered alight into the gas, produced so intensely
white a flame that he could scarcely bear to look at

    while clouds of white flaky matter were evolved
it,
       it  like smoke the heat, too, was so great,
from             ;

that he was afraid the jar would crack and soit
                              :

                                          a it
would have done, had he not, luckily, employed

very large one.

   The young experimentalist was overjoyed at the
splendour of the combustion of these substances,

and longed to see whether were possible to burn

the metals by such means. So, having made ano

ther jar-ful of the same gas, and placed over
                              it
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  235

some water in a soup-plate, he took a piece of watch-
spring, and when he had affixed the sulphur tip of
a match to the end of this, he lighted the match
and plunged the whole into the gas. He was soon
well repaid for his pains ; for in a short while the
metal burst into vivid combustion, throwing off a
shower of the most brilliant sparks, which played
around it like a fountain of fire, whilst goutes of the
white-hot metal fell hissing through the water, and
lay beneath it for some time, red hot upon the
plate, the glaze of which was afterwards found to
have been even fused at the points where the
molten iron had fallen upon it.

   But the boy's rapture on beholding the wonder of
combustible iron was not altogether unmingled with
fear ; for the heat produced by the burning of the

metal was so intense, that he grew nervous lest the

glass jar should break during the experiment. He
was wise enough, however, to hold it in his hand,
so as to allow a little of the gas to escape, as well as
to prevent the jarring of the glass on the plate

beneath.

    Humphry was now nearly exhausted with his
labours, and it was time to reflect upon all that had

occurred.

   In the first place, then, it was certain that a consi

derable quantity of the gas used in these experiments
had disappeared during the combustion, for the
water had each time risen in the jar above the level
236 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

of that in the soup-plate. " What, then, had become

of the lost gas ? " he asked himself. There was but

one answer, --It had combined with the burning

body, and formed a new substance with it. In the

case of the burning sulphur, the water that had

been in the soup-plate below the jar was found,

on examination, to be sour to the taste, and to

redden vegetable-blue colours ; so that here the gas
had combined with the combustible and produced
an acid that was soluble in water. Again, with
the burning phosphorus, the white flakes that had
been evolved during the combustion had been
ultimately dissolved by the water, which likewise

tasted sour, while it stained vegetable colours in the

same manner as the sulphur product did ; whereas,

in the case of the burning iron, the metal appeared

to have been rusted, for the particles remaining at
the bottom of the soup-plate were found, after the
experiment, to have lost their metallic nature, and

to have assumed all the character of a " calx," or

rust.

   " Well, then," said the lad, " it seems that

during combustion one part of the air combines

with the burning bodies, and so either rusts or

raeccidoilfleiecstedthe"mth."at  In   confirmation of this view, he
                                      gas evolved from the burning
                                 the

charcoal also gave a slightly sour taste to the
water it passed through."

   " Still," mused Humphry, " if a part of the air
            THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.      237

really does combine with the combustible burning

in the result, of course, should be, that the com
a
bustible, after being burnt, should be heavier than
    it it,
before -- even as the lime with which absorbed
                             it
the gas from the burning charcoal became greatly
                                it I
increased in weight by it."                  a

The youth was not long in putting this part of

the matter to practical test. Having accurately
            a
                   a
weighed     small quantity of calcined mercury

(which, as we said before, he knew to be rust of

the metal), he set to work again to make red hot,

and to drive off the air with which had previously

been made to combine while burning. This gas he
collected in small glass jar, open at the bottom,
            a
                 aa
and having stop-cock at the top of it. Then the

boy took thin hollow ball of glass, which had also

stop-cock fitted to it. Having screwed this on to

the metal plate of his air-pump, he exhausted the

glass ball as entirely of air as he could, and then

closing the cock he detached from the pump, and
                             ;
proceeded to ascertain the weight of the ball now
that was divested of air. This done, Humphryit

                                                             it,
screwed the stop-cock of the glass ball on to that

of the glass jar in which he had collected the gas

from the calcined mercury then, turning on both
the cocks, the gas rose from the jar into the ball,

and when the jar itself was full of liquid, and all

the gas had consequently been removed from he

closed the stop-cock once more, and, unscrewing
if it ;238 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

                                                   it,the glass ball from the jar, proceeded to ascertain
how much the ball had gained in weight, now that
                                                        it it,it contained the whole of the gas evolved from the
calcined mercury.

   The next step was to weigh the mercury itself.
This, however, was no longer the red powder that
it was before the gas had been driven off from

but had now become " reduced" into so much bright

liquid metal and on being put into the scales
was found to have lost just as many grains in weight
as the gas, which had been collected from required
to balance in the scales.

   But this was not enough to satisfy the cautious
young experimentalist, for he still desired to see
whether, the same quantity of metallic mercury
were burned in the same quantity of gas, the re
sulting compound of the metal and the air would
weigh exactly as much as the air and the metal did

separately.
    Accordingly, Humphry proceeded now to burn

the metallic mercury in the gas, and so to cause
them to combine once more. By keeping the metal
at red heat with the gas above the combination
was at length effected, and then, on weighing the

red " calx," or rust, that resulted from the process,

    was ascertained to be precisely as heavy as the
metal and the gas had weighed when separate.

    Here, then, was manifest that substances by
burning were increased in weight, and that they
it

     a

                     it

                                                       it,
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  239

were just as much heavier after combustion as the
weight of the quantity of air which had been ab
sorbed by them during the process.

   " Is it true, therefore," mused the boy, " that the

candle and the coals, which appear to us to be de

stroyed by combustion, become positively increased
in weight by it ? "

   The experiment which Humphry had already
performed in collecting the gas from burning char

coal assured him that such was positively the case,

for he knew that this gas, though invisible, had an

absolute weight, being so much heavier than the

atmosphere that it admitted of being poured, like
water, from one vessel to another. The experiment
with the calcined mercury, moreover, told him, that

if he had weighed the charcoal before it was burnt,

as well as the quantity of air which it had con
sumed while burning, he would have found the

whole of the gas which resulted from the com

bustion would have been precisely as heavy as the
air and the charcoal added together.

   For the same reason, if the gases evolved from a

burning candle were to be collected, they, likewise,
would be found to be heavier than the candle itself;
and just as much heavier, too, as the quantity of

air which had disappeared during the combustion.
    Combustion, therefore, was merely the rapid

combination of a portion of the air with a com
240 THE -WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

bustible body, accompanied with the evolution of

heat and light.

    Still Humphry could not quit the subject without
examining the conditions which were necessary to
produce such a combination. The principal re
quisite was manifestly elevation of temperature,

    Some substances, however, inflame at ordinary

temperatures --immediately on entering the atmo
sphere --as, for instance, the gas called " phos-
phuretted hydrogen." This was a new discovery
in young Humphry's time, and the boy delighted to

produce the gas by heating a small quantity of
phosphorus in a retort completely filled with a

moderately strong solution of caustic potash -- the

heat being carefully applied until the solution boiled,
while the beak of the retort was kept under the
shelf of a water-bath. Upon coming into contact
with the air, Humphry saw the bubbles of gas, as
they left the surface of the water, suddenly inflame,
with a slight explosion ; and as the atmosphere was
 still, each bubble, on bursting, produced a beautiful
 expanding ring of white smoke.

   It is this gas which gives rise to the production

 of those lights in the air which are known by the

 names of " ignes fatui," (" will-o'-the-wisps," or
 " Jach-o '-lanterns") and "corpse-candles" -- the

 former appearing over marshes, and the latter being
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  241

seen to rise from recent graves--but both alike pro

ceeding from the decomposition of organic matter.*

   Again, phosphorus dissolved in sulphuret of

carbon produces a spontaneously inflammable so

lution ; so that if a small quantity of the liquid be

poured on a piece of paper it evaporates rapidly,

and leaves the phosphorus behind, which imme

diately bursts into flame.

   The same phenomenon of spontaneous combus
tion also occurs with the substance called " pyro-
phorus." This is generally formed of powdered
alum heated, with an equal weight of brown sugar
or honey. After the materials have been melted
and well mixed in an iron ladle, they are made
red hot in a phial coated with clay, and placed in
a crucible of sand -- the heating process being con
tinued until a blue flame appears at the mouth of

the bottle ; this is allowed to burn for about five

minutes, when the phial is well stopped and re

moved from the fire.

    The compound, on being cooled and exposed to

the air, is spontaneously combustible.

    Sulphate of potassa, likewise, when heated to

redness with half its weight of lamp-black, also
forms a compound, which takes fire immediately on

exposure to air.

   * A chemical philosopher in America ignited a piece of paper

 by one of these lights on a still night. The breath, however, had
 to be held during the operation, for the least agitation of the air
 wafted them from the spot.

                                                                   R
242 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   Again, tartrate of lead, heated to a dull red in a

glass tube, forms, when cool, a very perfect pyro-
phorus, which immediately inflames on being shaken
out into the atmosphere. Further, when iron is in

a state of extreme mechanical division -- such as
very fine powder --its affinity for the oxygen of the
atmosphere is such that it heats, and even ignites,
on exposure to the air. This is the case with the
finely-divided metal as obtained by the action of

hydrogen gas upon red-hot iron-rust, so that, when
suffered to cool in this gas, the iron is as spon

taneously oxidizable as even potassium itself.

   Moreover, if a small piece of spongy platinum be

held in a jet of hydrogen, issuing from a small tube
into the atmosphere, the platinum immediately be
comes red hot, while the gas itself bursts into

flame.

  Platinum wire, or foil, if the surface be per

fectly clean, acts so rapidly at common tempera
tures on a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases
(mixed in the proportion of 1 to 2), that it often
becomes red hot on being introduced into a vessel
containing them, and kindles the mixture. Hand
ling the platinum, however, wiping it with a towel,
or exposing it to the atmosphere for a few days,
suffices to soil the surface of the metal, and so to

prevent its action.
   Finally, a piece of the metal called potassium

(procured from potash) has so strong an affinity for
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  243

oxygen, that when thrown upon water, at ordinary

temperatures, the metal decomposes it the instant
it touches the liquid, and so much heat is dis

engaged that the potassium is inflamed, and burns

vividly while swimming on the surface. The same

spontaneous combustion ensues, indeed, with ice --

so that the cold body appears to heat the metal
even to inflammation.

   But a still more curious instance of spontaneous
inflammation is to be found in the sudden explosion
of a mixture of Chlorine and Hydrogen gases when

exposed to sunshine; for though the two gases,
when mixed together in equal volumes, may be
preserved without change in a dark place for any

length of time, nevertheless, immediately they are
submitted to the direct solar rays, the whole mix

ture becomes suddenly inflamed, and a violent ex

plosion ensues.

   Next to those substances which are spontane
ously combustible comes phosphorus, which in

flames, when perfectly dry, at the low tempera

ture of 60°. Indeed, such is its tendency to combine

with the air, that, if free from all moisture, it takes

fire by the heat of the hand alone. Slight friction,
as when rubbed upon a piece of coarse paper, also

produces the same result. It is very difficult, how

ever, to light a piece of paper by the flame of
phosphorus, for the paper becomes coated with
a crust of the solid phospho ous acid, which is pro
244 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

duced by the combustion, and serves to protect it

from the flame.

There      is,likewise, gas (for the knowledge of
             it,
which we are indebted to the after-discoveries of
                     it it
Davy himself), called protoxide of chlorine, which
                            is a
requires so slight an elevation of temperature to

                 that even the heat of the hand
decompose                                      it
                                                    it
sufficient to cause to explode with the evolution             is

of heat and light. This gas produced by the
                                  it
action of hydrochloric acid on chlorate of potash
                                         is
and water, and                    so explosive that  fre
                                           it
quently detonates violently in being transferred

from one vessel to another, It should, therefore,

be dealt with by none but experienced chemists.

A small piece of phosphorus let up into instantly

takes fire, and burns with much brilliancy. Sul

phur likewise decomposes          with violent detona

tion, and even piece of blotting-paper introduced
           is a
into the gas sufficient to cause to be suddenly

resolved into its elements.

   The gas termed Binoxide of Chlorine (called

also the Peroxide) even more explosive than the

Protoxide. It detonates violently when heated to
           a

                      is
212°, emits strong light, and undergoes greater
                                               a

expansion than the simple oxide above described.

   Again, the Binoxide of Hydrogen (or Peroxide,

as sometimes denominated), when heated to
it

    is

212°, gives off oxygen so rapidly as to cause an

explosion, while the rusts (oxides) of some of the
   THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.                    245

metals act upon it with such energy, that, when

dropped into  it,     violent detonation immediately

ensues, and the glass tube on which the experimentaa

is conducted becomes red hot.

   Further, the gas called Binoxide of Nitrogen,

when combined with sulphurous acid gas, pro

duced compound called Nitro-sulphuric Acid,
   is a
which so prone to decomposition that cannot
                                              it
be collected in separate state, and the salts of is

which are held together with such slight affinity

that even little charcoal powder, or spongy plati
   is

           a
num, sufficient to cause violent evolution of gas,
                       it
while at temperature only few degrees above
   a                       is     a
                               a
that of boiling water, an explosion ensues.is
                                           a
   Moreover, the Bisulphuret (called, also, the Per-

sulphurei) of Hydrogen, which                 yellow oil-like

liquid, has its elements so feebly united, that at

a  heat short of 212°           instantaneously resolved

into sulphur, and the simple Sulphuretted Hydro

gen which     evolved, in the form of gas, with
              is
almost explosive violence. The same effect pro
                  it
duced by the mere contact of most substances --

especially the metals, flint, and even the earths in

powder -- while the oxides of gold and silver are

"reduced" by with such energy that they are

rendered instantaneously red hot.

   These binary compounds of oxygen or sulphur

have most of them been discovered since Davy's

time. They are, however, remarkable in possessing
246 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

kindred affinities, and being severally decompo-
sible at a temperature of 212°.

   After these, in the order of ready decomposi-
bility, come the compounds of Nitrogen.

    The peculiar black powder, called by chemists

iodide of nitrogen, which is produced by pouring

some strong ammonia upon a very small quantity
of iodine, is so explosive, that it detonates violently
as soon as it is dried ; and the slightest pressure,

Ifeven when moist, produces a similar effect.

put into pure ammonia, it explodes when lightly
pressed in that liquid. Heat and light are emitted
during the detonation, which is merely a species of
instantaneous combustion. So dangerous is this
compound, that the most experienced chemists
seldom operate on more than a few grains of iodine

at once.

   The yellow oil-like liquid, called chloride of ni

trogen, which results from the action of chlorine gas
upon sal ammoniac, also enters into instantaneous
combustion at very low temperatures ; so that,
when it is heated to a little above 200°, it detonates
with tremendous violence, a vivid flash of light
being produced at the same time, while the vessel

--which, to prevent accidents, is covered with a
wire cage --is broken to atoms. This compound is

so dangerous, being one of the most explosive sub
stances yet known, that in dealing with it the face
is always protected by a mask, and only a small
         THE WONDEBFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.           247

globule of  it,
                    it,
                                        it a

                                                                ;

                                                            it

                                                                                       a
            no larger than mustard seed, ex

perimented upon. Dulong, the French chemist

who discovered     lost an eye and the use of

finger whilst operating with                      and Davy him

self, in after-life, was wounded in the face by the

effects of its detonation. The mere contact of this

substance with certain combustibles causes        to

explode violently, even under water, at ordinary
Iftemperatures.
                   touched with phosphorus, India

rubber, common oil, turpentine, caustic potash, or

even soap,  detonates so violently as to break to
            it
                    it        it,

                          is                 a
pieces the vessel containing                      and to scatter the

water in which                immersed in shower all

around.

Bromide of nitrogen, again,   is                  said to be even

more easily decomposed than the chloride. It      is
                                                     a

dark-red oily liquid, having foetid odour, and
            a

                                    is
                                               a
giving off vapour that very irritating to the
eyes. This compound, when touched with phosa
phorus, or even small piece of arsenic, detonates
with tremendous violence.

   Next to the above remarkable compounds of;

Nitrogen, the fulminates of the precious metals

(into the composition of which, however, Nitrogen
also enters) must be ranked in the order of ready
combustibility for these likewise explode at very

low temperatures, with the production of heat and

light.

   First come the Nitrurets of Mercury and Silver
248 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

-- that is to say, compounds of those metals with
Nitrogen. These are formed by the action of Am

monia on the oxide of Mercury or Silver. The
Nitruret of Silver explodes with tremendous vio

lence when gently rubbed or heated, and the Ni-

truret of Mercury when struck with a hammer, or
acted upon by strong oil of vitriol.

   Fulminating Gold, when suddenly heated to
about 290°, detonates with great force and a

vivid flash ; and if exploded upon platinum foil,
the metal is torn at the point of contact. Friction

with hard bodies, or an electric shock, also ex

plodes it. The more it is washed and dried, the

more explosive this compound becomes ; and if

long retained at the temperature of boiling water,
so as to become perfectly dry, the slightest friction
causes it to detonate immediately and violently.

If it be moist, however, it does not explode on

the application of heat till dried, and those portions

which first become dry explode the soonest ; so
that, in such a case, a succession of detonations is

produced.

   Fulminating Mercury requires a temperature
of 300° to cause it to explode, which it then does

with a bright flame. It also detonates by friction,

so that the greatest caution is required in pre
paring and dealing with it. This compound has
even been known to explode in a moist state, and
in the most careful and skilful hands it cannot
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  249

be touched without considerable danger.* This
is the substance used in percussion caps ; it is
introduced into the caps moistened with a little
tincture of benzoin, so as to be dropped into them,
and then carefully dried. Howard, the discoverer
of the compound, endeavoured to substitute it for

gunpowder, but the explosion was found to be so

sudden that it burst the gun without expelling the

shot.

   Fulminating Silver likewise explodes, with the
evolution of light and heat, at nearly the same low

temperature. A grain, or merely half a grain of

this substance, detonates with great violence, when
heated or when touched with any hard body. On
being placed upon a piece of rock crystal, and
rubbed in the slightest manner by another crys

tal, it explodes with great force. It has some

times exploded upon the contact of a glass rod,

even under water ; so that merely the feather of.

a common quill is generally used to collect it. It

is dangerous to keep it in a cork-stoppered phial,

   * A melancholy proof of this was furnished by the death of
Mr. Hennell (the chemist at Apothecaries' Hall) on the 4th June,

1842. He was in the act of mixing two separate portions of

the powder in a moist state with an ivory knife, when the whole
quantity, amounting to above 61bs. exploded, and shattered his
head, breast, and right arm to atoms. A man, however, who
was standing within four yards of him, was not injured, but the
windows of the surrounding buildings were broken ; while a

large wooden block, upon which one of the basins was placed,
was shivered, as was also the pavement on which it stood.
2SO THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

for serious accidents have arisen from its unex

pected explosion in a confined state. In short,

persons cannot be too careful in meddling with                      a it,

and its use for detonating balls and other purposes

of amusement highly perilous and reprehensible.is

Fulminating Platinum, on the other hand, ex

plodes at a temperature of 420° with loud re
                                                           a
port.
                                                                 1
There likewise fulminating powder, com
          a is        3a
posed of mixture of parts nitre with of sul
               2
phur, and         of dry carbonate of potash. This

substance explodes with much violence at the low

temperature of 330° so that if little of the com
                      ;
                                             a

pound be heated up to that point upon metallic
                                                           of a
plate, blackens, fuses, and detonates with great
       1
force.
        it

               a
Again, mixture of parts chlorate potash
                      a
                              3

                                        2
                                                     3
and of sulphur detonates loudly when struck

upon an anvil with hammer, and even sometimes
Ifexplodes spontaneously.
                             or grains of chlo

rate of potash be reduced to powder in mortar,
                                                           a

and some very fine flour of brimstone be then

added to  it,     the two substances, when rubbed to
               a
gether, will detonate with smart noise, like the
                          a

cracking of       whip. A mixture of chlorate of

potash and sulphuret of antimony takes fire by

gentle trituration, and deflagrates with bright puff"
                                                        a

of flame and smoke. Chlorate of potash was pro

posed by Berthollet (the French chemist) as
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  251

substitute for nitre in gunpowder. The attempt
was made at Essone, in 1778 ; but no sooner was

the mixture of the chlorate with the sulphur and

charcoal submitted to trituration than it exploded
with violence, and proved fatal to several persons.

   With phosphorus and chlorate of potash the

explosion is dangerously violent : 1 grain of phos

phorus with two of the chlorate, if placed in a

small piece of paper and struck with a hammer
upon an anvil, will immediately explode, and the
phosphorus be thrown about in an inflamed state.

Gunpowder, again, if mixed with powdered glass

and struck with a heavy hammer upon an anvil,

almost always explodes.
    Moreover, a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen

gases, suddenly submitted to violent mechanical

compression, unite with a vivid flash of light and

produce water.

   Next to Phosphorus and the Fulminates, Sul
phur is the most easily kindled. This body enters

into combustion at about 500°. It is the compara

tively low temperature at which sulphur bursts into

flame, that makes it so important an ingredient

in gunpowder, matches, &c. The easy combus

tibility of sulphur may be well illustrated by pro
pelling a small quantity of it in powder into the
current of hot air issuing from the glass chimney
of a gas lamp, when it will be seen to take fire at a

considerable height above the flame.
252 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

    Wood, cotton, paper, &c. require, on the other

hand, their temperatures to be raised much higher

than that required for the inflaming of sulphur,

in order to be made to enter into combustion.*

Paper merely becomes brown or scorched at the
heat of 440°, nor can it be lighted at a red heat,

though the temperature of this is 1000°. Cotton

or tow, however, when greased with oil, occasionally

absorbs air so rapidly, and produces so much heat

during the process, that spontaneous combustion

  * In the ordinary lucifer- match (an invention since Davy's

time) we have a striking illustration of the different temperatures
required for various substances to enter into combustion. The
phosphorus with which these lucifers are tipped becomes in
flamed at a very low heat (60°) , so that mere friction is sufficient
to ignite it. This substance, in burning, produces heat sufficient
to kindle the sulphur next to it ; for this, as we have seen»
enters into combustion at about 500° ; and the sulphur again,
in burning, raises the temperature sufficient to ignite the wood,
which requires a heat of at least 1000° before it can be made to
burn. Had the match been tipped with phosphorus alone, the
phosphorous acid produced by the combustion would have in-
crusted the wood and prevented it inflaming. Before the use of
phosphorus matches had become general, others were introduced,
the tips of which were coated with a mixture of chlorate of potash
and sulphur, and these had to be drawn forcibly through a piece
of folded sand-paper, for this mixture requires a much higher
heat in order to inflame it. Previous to the introduction of
these, again, the common brimstone match was in general use.
This, as is well known, was kindled by means of a spark in
tinder--the tinder consisting of charred rag, and the spark, there
fore, being merely a particle of charcoal at a red heat, while
the ignition of the tinder itself was originally produced by the
percussion of a piece of flint and steel, which evolved so much
heat that small splinters of the metal were fused by it and fell
upon the tinder in a red-hot state.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  253

frequently occurs from this cause. The same effect
sometimes arises from hay being stacked before
being perfectly dry; the moisture sets up a kind of
fermentation in the interior of the stack, and this

evolves so much heat that the temperature becomes

raised to the point required for the material to
enter into rapid combination with the atmosphere,
so that spontaneous combustion is the result.

    Again, there are certain mixtures of gases which
are explosible at a red heat, while others cannot

be made to enter into combustion at that tem
perature, but require the presence of flame in order
to fire them.

    Carburetted hydrogen (coal gas), sulphuretted
hydrogen, and carbonic oxide, can be made to in
flame in air by red-hot iron or charcoal ; and a
mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases can be ex
ploded by a red heat visible in daylight, whereas a
dull red heat only causes the two gases to combine
silently without detonation. Fire-damp, however,
(which is light carburetted-hydrogen gas, and the
same as that which rises from stagnant pools on

disturbing the mud at the bottom), cannot be
inflamed by the strongest red heat; so that a fire

made of charcoal, that will burn without flame,
may be blown up to whiteness without exploding

a mixture of this gas with air. A piece of iron

also, at the highest degree of red heat, and even at
an ordinary white heat, does not inflame an ex
S54 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

plosive mixture of fire-damp, but when brought

to its highest point of white heat, iron immediately

causes the fire-damp to combine with the air with

a violent detonation.

   The knowledge of this fact, which we owe to
the researches of Davy himself, was of immense
importance in the construction of the safety-lamp,
and, once discovered, it was treasured in the brain
for after use, for the preservation of life and the
mitigation of suffering.

   Again, there are some substances which are so

readily inflammable that they take light even at
the approach of flame. These bodies consist of

highly vaporizable liquids, such as alcohol, ether,

naphtha, sulphuret of carbon, oil of turpentine, &c.

From the tendency of these combustible liquids to

pass into vapour, the surrounding atmosphere (im
mediately on opening any vessels containing them)
becomes charged with their fumes, so that an almost
explosive mixture is formed with the air; and as

this extends to some distance from the liquid itself,
the approach of a lighted body instantaneously
causes the whole volume of vapour to pass into one

sheet of flame -- an eflect which is occasionally at

tended with the most disastrous results.

   On the other hand, some combustible liquids re
quire their temperatures to be highly raised before
they can be inflamed ; such is the case with the

common fixed oils,-- as lamp-oil, and others. For
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  255

this purpose a cotton wick is usually employed in
burning them, so that, by the capillary attraction
of the fibres, a small portion of the liquid may be
raised above the level of the rest, and the oil thus

be brought into connexion with the flame by
minute quantities at a time ; the consequence
being that, as each small portion of the liquid is

heated, it is converted into vapour, or gas, -- and

this, by the high temperature maintained by the
burning wick, is made to enter into combustion
with the surrounding air, and so to be continually

inflamed above it. Any porous substance which is
a bad conductor of heat (such as Bath -brick or
sandstone), will, if cut to a fine edge, answer

all the purposes of the ordinary cotton lamp-wick ;

for if a light be applied to this, so as to raise its

temperature sufficient to convert into gas the film

of oil at the summit, the fluid will be readily in
flamed, and continue burning until such an in
crustation of charcoal ensues at the tip, as to pre
vent the oil being heated any longer by the flame.

   Further, some substances cannot be made to
burn at ordinary temperatures in the open air,
though, on being confined in a vessel of oxygen
gas, they readily enter into combustion when their
temperature is raised. This is the case, as we have
seen, with iron, and some of the other metals.

The next problem to be resolved was, Whence
258 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

come the light and heat that are emitted during

the process of combustion ?

   " All cases of combination with oxygen," mused

the youth, " such as the rotting of wood, and the

gradual rusting of metals in the open air, are, pro

bably, attended with the evolution of heat ; but

in such instances the process is so slow, that the

heat evolved is unobserved, and dissipated without

accumulation. When the combination, however,

takes place in a shorter time, as in the production

of vinegar, the heat becomes proportionately sen

sible ; and when the combination with the oxygen

is so rapid that the whole of the heat is evolved in

a much more limited period, as during combustion,

the increase of temperature is rendered consider
                    A pound of charcoal, for
ably more intense.

instance, combining with oxygen in the process of

respiration, gives off the same amount of heat as it

does when in a state of ignition, and takes up pre

cisely the same quantity of the gas. In the one

case, however, the combination is spread over 30

hours, whereas in the other it occupies but as

many minutes."

Humphry reflected for a long time as to the

origin of the light and heat evolved during the

burning of substances.

   "Are the light and heat," said he to himself,

" originally imprisoned, as it were, in the com

bustible, and set free during the burning of it ?
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  257

or are they merely the result of the rapid and
energetic combination of the oxygen of the air with
the burning substance ?"

   The former assumption the boy knew to be La
voisier's theory of the subject, but such an expla
nation appeared to him to be inconsistent with the

facts.

   The products of combustion are not always the
same. In some cases they consist of gases, as in

the burning of Charcoal and Sulphur, 8cc. ; in
others, liquids are produced, as by the combustion
of oxygen and hydrogen gases, the product in that
case being merely water ; while in others, again, a

solid product is the result, -- as when phosphorus is

burnt a white solid, called "phosphorous acid," being
then formed : and so with zinc, the combustion of
which produces a solid white rust, or oxide.

   " Now, if the heat evolved during combustion,"

thought Humphry, "proceeds from the liberation
of the latent caloric, or that which previously
existed in the substances in an insensible state, it

would follow that such heat should be given off
only when the combustibles pass from a rarer to a
denser form ; as, for instance, when water is pro
duced by the burning of its two constituent gases,
or when the oxygen of the atmosphere becomes
fixed in some solid product, as in the oxides of zinc

or mercury.

    " But by combustion," the boy went on, " many

                                                                                 s
258 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

solid bodies are converted into gases ; and in such

cases, according to Lavoisier's theory, instead of

heat being evolved, it should be absorbed, and posi
tive cold produced by the process of burning.

   " This, however, is not the case," added Humphry.
" The explosion of Gunpowder, for example, is

attended by immense heat, and yet the ingredients

                 in passing from the solid to the
composing        it,

                                it

                                       is
gaseous state, expand some hundred-fold, having

their volume increased,                    said, no less than 250

times. So, again, the gas called Protoxide       it of

Chlorine, at the instant of decomposition evolves

light and heat with explosive violence, and yet
    known to become one - fifth greater in volume
is
             is
afterwards. The oily substance, too, called Chloride

of Nitrogen, on being made to enter into com

bustion, resolved into its elements with tremen

dous force of inflammation, expanding into more

than 600 times its bulk so that, according to
                     a

                                 :
Lavoisier's theory,      prodigious degree of cold

ought to be produced by such an expansion, whereas

light and heat are evolved by it."

That the heat of combustion                is  due rather to

intense chemical action going on at such times,

Humphry made many experiments to prove.

First, he generated some Chlorine, or green gas.*

  * Chlorine gas was called " oxy -muriatic acid" when Davy

was a boy, from being supposed to be compound of oxygen and
muriatic acid gas. Davy, however, afterwards proved that this
                         i
                                        a
        THE WONDEBFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.          259

This he did by mixing in a retort some common salt

with a little black oxide manganese, and some sul

phuric acid and water. The gas which came over

was of a greenish-yellow colour, and had a pun

gent, disagreeable smell, exciting cough and great
irritation in the lungs when inhaled. Having col

lected some of this gas over warm water in a

receiver, with a stop-cock at the top, the boy took

a retort which had another stop-cock fitted to the

end of  it,and having introduced into this some
                             it,
copper-leaf, he screwed the retort on to the plate

of his air-pump, and proceeded to exhaust of air
                                  ;

                                            it
as perfectly as he could. This done, he screwed

the stop-cock of the retort on to that of the receiver

in which he had collected the gas then, turning

on both cocks, the chlorine rushed up into the

retort, and the metal immediately became spon
taneously ignited by and burnt in the gas with

considerable energy.

The experiment was then repeated with little
                                  a
powdered antimony, and the same vivid combusa

tion ensued.

Now these Humphry knew to be cases of mere

chemical affinity. The chlorine gas had strong

tendency to combine with the metals employed,

and as these were used in the best form for pro-

same oxy-muriatic acid contained no oxygen whatever, and was
rather an elementary substance, being incapable of being resolved

into any two other bodies.
860 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

moting the combination, the union of the gas with
the copper and antimony was so rapid and ener

getic, that combustion was the consequence.*
   Next, the lad took some Sulphur, and in this he

heated some shavings of iron in a close vessel,

when the metal, in a short time, was seen to be

come intensely ignited, and to burn, as it were, in

the vapour of the sulphur. This was most curious,

for sulphur he had never thought to be a supporter

of combustion.

Further, Humphry heated some platinum and

tin -foil, and at the moment when the two metals

fused into one mass they became, to his astonish

ment, vividly ignited.

Nor was this all : the boy slacked some recently-

burnt lime in a dark place, and found that, when

the water was thrown uponis                       the heat rose to

                    a
                                 a

                                           a it,
upwards of 500°, while faint light was emitted.

Another substance, discovered since the date of

the above experiments, affords striking illustra

tion of the heat produced by energetic chemical

action. This    peculiar liquid called Peroxide

of Hydrogen, (see p. 244,) consisting merely of water

combined with an extra quantity of oxygen. So

readily decomposible this fluid, that at the heat of
A

                      a

                              is
                                                          of
boiling water evolutions of gas are produced with

* piece of blotting-paper dipped in oil                       turpentine, and

introduced into jar of chlorine gas, immediately becomes in

flamed.
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.                   261

such violence as to cause an explosion ; and almost

all the metals, when in a state of minute division,

resolve it rapidly into its elements. The per

oxides of lead, mercury, gold, platinum, &c., act on

the liquid with surprising energy, the decomposi

tion of it being complete and instantaneous upon

dropping those substances into the liquid ; for

oxygen gas is then given off with such force as to

produce a detonation, while the temperature be

comes so intense that the glass tube in which the

experiment is conducted grows suddenly red hot.

Subsequently, Humphry amused himself by mix

ing a little Chlorate of Potash, about the size of a
pea, with the same quantity of loaf sugar, having

previously reduced each to powder. Then he

placed the mixture on a piece of tile, and, dipping

a glass rod into a bottle of strong Oil of Vitriol,

let the acid drop from the rod upon the powdered

Chlorate and sugar, when they were instantly kin
dled, and burnt with a red and blue flame. For

the Vitriel immediately decomposed the Chlorate

of Potash, and so produced heat enough to ignite

the materials ; while the oxygen given out from

the Chlorate maintained the sugar in a state of

vivid combustion. A little Camphor, mixed with

Chlorate of Potash, and touched with a drop of
Oil of Vitriol, may be made to inflame in the same
Amanner.  like effect is also produced when the

Chlorate is mixed with Spirits of Wine.
262 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

After this, the lad placed a small piece of

Phosphorus, and a few grains of Chlorate of

Potash, at the bottom of a thin glass vessel, and

then poured gently upon them some hot water.

The heat of the water was sufficient to inflame

the Phosphorus, while the oxygen evolved from
the Chlorate of Potash in connexion with it tended

to keep up the combustion ; so that the two burnt

with a vivid and pleasing light under the water.

Now Humphry knew that the reason of these

effects was, that the Chlorate of Potash contains

a large quantity of oxygen, which, having a strong

tendency to combine with the combustibles, enters

rapidly and energetically into union with them im

mediately their temperatures are elevated, and so

gives rise to the phenomena of heat and light,

which are evolved during the combustion.
   The same result is produced by Nitre in ordi

nary gunpowder, for this also contains a large

quantity of oxygen gas, which serves to inflame

the small particles of charcoal that are mixed with
while the sulphur --which forms the other ingre
a it,

                                                             a
dient, --being inflammable at                                   low temperature,

renders the gunpowder capable of being united by

mere spark.

    Oxygen thus appeared to Humphry to be the
main "supporter of combustion," while the body
burnt seemed to be the " combustible."

But Humphry had seen that bodies burnt in
THE WONDERFUL EFFECTS OF HEAT.  263

Chlorine gas as well as in oxygen : this, therefore,
was another " supporter of combustion." The same
effect, again, he had found to be produced in the
vapour of sulphur. Sulphur, however, was a " com
bustible body ;" so that, in this instance, the same

substance was both a combustible and a supporter

of combustion.

    The division of all bodies, therefore, into these
two classes, as propounded by the French chemists,
appeared to have no foundation in nature.

   Nevertheless, Humphry was determined to put
the matter to the test of experiment, and to see

whether the light and heat evolved during com

bustion proceeded from the combustible itself, or

from the combination of it with the air during the

burning.
   Accordingly, the lad inflamed a jet of hydrogen

gas in a vessel of oxygen, when the light and heat
certainly appeared to proceed from the jet of hy
drogen, while the oxygen seemed to act merely as
the supporter of the combustion.

    On reversing the experiment, however, and
causing the oxygen gas to issue from the jet, Hum
phry found that he could inflame it in a vessel of
hydrogen, and that then the light and heat seemed

to be evolved from the burning oxygen, while the

hydrogen appeared only to keep it inflamed.

  It was evident, therefore, from the last experi

ment, that even oxygen itself min;ht be ranked
264 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

among the combustibles, and hydrogen be con

sidered as a supporter of combustion; but Hum

phry now saw that the real truth of the matter was,
that the heat and light evolved during combustion
came from neither one substance nor the other, but
arose simply from the rapid and energetic chemical
union of the two : for even two metals, at the
moment of their union, evolve heat and light, as
shown in the experiment of the fusion of platinum
with tin-foil.

    Combustion, therefore, is simply the consequence
of the rapid chemical action of one body upon an

other ; and the reason why it is necessary to ele
vate the temperatures of certain bodies before they

can be inflamed, is merely because heat promotes
the chemical action of substances upon each other.
      HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 805

                   CHAPTER XI.

      HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP."

HUMPHRY found it impossible to quit the subject of
Combustion without some inquiry as to the nature
of flame.

   " What," said he to himself, " are those brilliant

sheets of light that dart from burning substances ?
And why is it that certain bodies burn with the
evolution of flame, and that others are merely
capable of being rendered incandescent at the
highest heat ?"

   Now the boy had before reflected upon the pro
duction of heat by the slow combination of oxygen
with certain combustible substances, so he imme
diately passed to the consideration of the production
of light by the same means.

    He knew well that a stick of phosphorus always
appears luminous in the dark, and that lines of fire
can be written with it on a wall : the reason of this
being simply that the air combines with it slowly
266 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

at ordinary temperatures. Again, the lad was
aware that decayed wood emits a faint light, which
is visible by night, the light being due to the same
cause, viz. the slow combustion which is continu
ally going on in it ; for chemists have discovered
that the rotting vegetable substance is constantly
absorbing oxygen from the atmosphere, and evolv

ing carbonic acid gas--the same as if it were really

burning --though at a less rapid rate. Moreover,

the decay of many animal substances, Humphry
had read, is attended with like phenomena, -- the
flesh of many fresh and saltwater fish becoming
luminous previous to putrefaction.

    But, in all such cases, the light emitted is more
like a halo, or feeble glow, than the character of

flame; or, rather, it seems as if the substance had

become incandescent in the cold, and acquired the
property of ignition at ordinary temperatures, so
that it was capable of giving out light without

being sensibly heated.*
    Humphry had noticed, too, that a green wax

taper, -- the colour of which he knew to be pro

    * A few flowers have also the property of emitting light at
 ordinary temperatures. Among these may be cited the tube
 rose, nasturtium, and mangold, which occasionally give out
 flashes of light on a warm summer's evening. This, probably,
 arises from the combination of the oxygen of the atmosphere
 with the vapour of the volatile oils upon which the perfumes of
 flowers are known to depend. Again, other substances emit light
 during the act of crystallization. This phenomenon is most dis
       HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 267

duced by "verdigris" (acetate of copper), -- on
being lighted and blown out shortly afterwards, will
continue glowing in the wick, or burning without
flame, until the whole of the taper be consumed.

   Now this, the boy was well aware, was another
case of combustion, going on at a temperature
below that of flame, though it was a state of con
tinuous incandescence, requiring a higher heat for
its production than the phosphorescence of decay
ing vegetable and animal matter.

   Having thought the matter well over for some
little time, the boy -Chemist eventually con
ceived that it might be possible, by some such
means, to produce a lamp which would burn con
tinuously, and. give light, without flame ; and this
he imagined might be found of great service in the
coal-mines, since the fire-damp was not explosible
at the highest red heat, and required positive flame
to cause it to enter into combustion.

   In the case of the glowing wick of a green

taper, the youth saw that it was necessary for the
wick itself to be made red hot before the ignition

tinctly observed during the gradual deposit of arsenious acid,

when dissolved in hot hydrochloric acid (spirits of salts). In a

dark place each crystal, as it is formed, may be seen to emit a
spark of light ; and on shaking the flask, so many crystals are
sometimes suddenly produced, that vivid flashes become percep
tible. The cause of this phenomenon is probably dependent on
the fixation of oxygen by the arsenic at the moment of preci
pitation.
268 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

could be maintained ; and he concluded that it
was merely the incandescence of the wick which

caused the gases given off from the taper to com

bine with the air, and so to keep it continually

red hot. It struck him, therefore, that if he were

to use some combustible liquid that was highly
vaporisable, like ether, and to suspend above this a
spiral coil of fine platinum wire, which had been
previously heated to redness, the same continuous
state of ignition might be made to go on, and that
in a much simpler manner.

   Accordingly, Humphry procured a tall ale-glass,
and having poured into it a tea-spoonful of ether

                  he suspended within it a coil of plati
                   num-wire, which had been made red
                   hot in the flame of a spirit-lamp.

                       The arrangement of the little appa
                   ratus is represented in the annexed

                     engraving.
                         Immediately the red-hot coil was

placed in the vapour from the liquid, the excited
boy was overjoyed to see it glow with a bright red
heat. He stood watching it for a long time, and
was rejoiced to find that there was not the least
diminution of the incandescence till the whole of

the liquid had disappeared, and the vapour been
made by the heat of the wire to combine with the
surrounding air.

    Still it struck Humphry that a more convenien
S FIRST ATTEMl'l AT Tilt SA1-1iTY LAMP.

                                                                           PaiJC I
HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 269

mode of attaining the same end might be devised ;
so he took an ordinary spirit-lamp (for spirits of
wine he was aware had the same tendency to give

off vapour as the liquid he had   previously  em
ployed), and wound a coil of
fine platinum wire round the

wick -- thus. Then, having
lighted the lamp, he suffered it

to burn for a few seconds, after

which he put an extinguisher

over the flame, and instantane

ously removed it. The conse

quence was, that the coil retained heat enough to

carry on the slow combustion of the vapour from

the spirit, so that the ignition was kept up, and
the wire continued glowing, till the whole of the

spirit had evaporated from the lamp.

   Overjoyed at the discovery he had made, Hum
phry hastened to exhibit his lamp without a flame
to Mr. Borlase and Mrs. Foxell, and his old friend

Mr. Tonkin : and as he did so, the boy descanted

fervently upon the superiority of such a means of
obtaining light in coal-mines over the " steel-mills "

which were then used for the purpose.
    Mrs. Foxell was as pleased as the boy himself at

what she considered the successful termination of

his labours ; and when Humphry ran over to her

the long train of investigation he had pursued in

order to arrive at the object, she was warm in her
270 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

praises of his perseverance and genius, and assured
him that, by such patient inquiry, he must ulti
mately gain the honours and the universal esteem
which he so much desired.

   Mr. Borlase was surprised at the talent of his
young pupil, and went with him to Mr. Tonkin to
talk over the matter ; and when Humphry's foster-
father saw what he had achieved, and was in
formed of the benevolent spirit which had stirred

him to the discovery, the old gentleman hugged the
lad to him, and told him he was well repaid for all
the care and affection he had bestowed upon him.

    When, however, the first impressions had sub
sided, and Humphry's exultation at the discovery
he had made had been toned down by continually
reflecting upon the subject, he began to think his

little safety-lamp might be much improved if he

could only increase the light from it. In its pre
sent form he thought it would be available merely
in such cases as the steel-mill was used, viz. to ex
plore those mines which were known to be charged
with fire-damp. The miners, nevertheless, needed

some light at their work, and if candles or lanterns

were employed, the flame would be sure to ignite
any fire-damp that might accidentally become
mixed with the atmosphere, and so to cause the
whole to explode.

    What was required, therefore, was a light which
       HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDEEFUL LAMP." 271

would be as bright as those the miners employed
at their work, but which would, at the same time,
be incapable of inflaming the explosive gases evolved

from the coals.

    Such a light Humphry knew could be obtained
only from flame itself, for he was now satisfied that
it was impossible for any one to see to work by the
rays from a red-hot wire. Still the difficulty was,
that the presence of flame would be sure to cause
the fire-damp to explode whenever it became mixed
with the air in the mines, and it was impossible to
make a lamp burn without air.

    For a time the difficulties involved in the con
struction of such a lamp appeared to the lad to
be insurmountable. At length, however, nothing
daunted, he set to work to discover the nature 01

flame itself, and so to find out what conditions

were necessary for the production and maintenance
of it.

    " Flame" said Humphry, while reflecting upon
 the subject, "maybe regarded merely as a sheet,
or film, of gas, in a high state of ignition. The
temperature of flame is always very intense, since
 it will ignite substances that cannot be lighted,
 even with the highest heat of incandescence. The
 light, however, emitted by different flames is by no
 means equally vivid, since there are gases which
 burn with the production of a flame so feeble as to
 be scarcely visible in broad daylight."
872 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Accordingly it struck the boy, that the best way

to proceed would be to produce a feeble light first,
and then to ascertain by what means he could in

crease the brilliance of it. So Humphry made a
large bladder full of hydrogen gas, and then an

other bladder of oxygen, and proceeded to burn the
gases together by means of two blow-pipes.

   The flame produced was of a very faint blue

colour, and though the boy closed the shutters, he

could barely see to read by the light, and yet the

heat of it was almost as intense as any that could
be artificially generated ; * for, on holding a pla

tinum wire in the flame, it immediately became

white hot, and the light was considerably aug

mented.

   " So, then," cried Humphry, " the light emitted

by a flame seems to be increased by solid sub

                         and ignited by it."
stances introduced intoif

           it
                                      it,

                                                               a
                                                                              is
This set the boy wondering what would be the

effect  he were to cause some fine dust to pass

continually through the flame, and whether the

brightness of the light would be as much increased

then as was when the platinum wire was intro

duced into it.

The idea had no sooner struck him than he ran

down to the shop, and procuring little magnesia

   * The blue colour of the oxy-hydrogen flame due, probably,
to the particles of water formed by the combustion of the two

gases.
HUMPHRY AND HIS u WONDERFUL LAMP." 273

in fine powder, proceeded to sift this into the flame

produced by the oxygen and hydrogen gases.
    The result was almost magical.

No sooner did the fine white particles fall into

the flame, than the light was changed from a faint
blue into a brilliant white; while the little solid

specks shone like so many gem-points in the sun

shine, producing a glare that it pained the eyes to

look at, and that instantly lighted up the little dark

Ichamber almost with the vividness of daylight.
" It is as    expected   "  shouted                       Humphry, as  he

                        !

gazed with admiration at the beautiful white light ;

" the luminosity of a flame depends chiefly upon

the particles of solid matter diffused through and
                                                              ; it,
rendered incandescent by the burning gases. The

flame of candle or oil-lamp," the boy continued,
           a

"owes its brightness merely to the same cause for

there the oil, or grease, converted into gas by the
                        is
                                 is

                                                       :
heat of the wick, and this gas consists chiefly of

carburetted hydrogen, -- that to say, of charcoal

and hydrogen combined together so that in burn

ing, the hydrogen unites with the oxygen of the

air and forms water, while the charcoal set free,
                                                          is

and passes up through the flame in the form of

very minute particles, which being burnt there, and
so rendered nearly white hot, cause the light to

shine with great vividness."

To prove that the light of an ordinary candle, or

oil-lamp,     due merely to the brilliancy of the in-'
           is
                                                           T
274 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

candescent particles of charcoal continually passing
through the flame, the lad was not satisfied merely
with holding a burning candle against the ceiling,
and so causing the unburnt charcoal to be deposited
upon it in the form of " lamp-black," as it is called ;
but he passed some hydrogen gas through a small
reservoir of naphtha, and found that the brilliancy
of the light was greatly increased by it : for, the
naphtha being merely a liquid form of charcoal and
hydrogen in combination, the gas, on traversing
the fluid, took up a certain portion of the naphtha
in vapour, and this being very rich in charcoal,
was the cause of the increased illuminating power

given to the flame.
    The same principle has been applied since Hum

phry's time to the production of some of the most

vivid of our artificial lights. The " Drummond
light," for instance --which consists merely of a

jet of oxygen and hydrogen gases projected against

a cylinder of lime -- owes its intense brilliancy

solely to the particles of lime that are rendered
white hot by the flame of the burning gases ; and
that the lime passes off in vapour is proved by the
fact, that, during the combustion, the roof of the
lantern becomes covered with the sublimed par
ticles.

   Again, the brilliancy of the electric light itself
is known to arise from the particles of white-hot
charcoal that pass over in vapour from one pole
      HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 275

of the battery to the other ; for it is found that
the charcoal point in connexion with the positive

pole becomes decreased and burnt into a cavity,
while that in connexion with the negative pole is
proportionately increased, having a small knob

or protuberance of charcoal deposited upon it :
so that, strange as it may appear, the brilliancy
of the flame of a common tallow-candle depends
upon the same cause as that of the electric light
itself. In the one case, however, the combustion
being imperfect, the points of charcoal are less
vividly ignited ; whereas in the other, the heat

being the most intense that can be produced by
artificial means, the incandescence is proportion
ately higher, and the brilliancy of the light, there

fore, increased to the greatest point. In a word,
the particles of charcoal in the flame of a candle
are only at an orange heat, whereas those in the

voltaic flame are at the highest white heat that art

 can generate.

    Accordingly, artificial light would appear to be
 due solely to artificial heat, and the illuminating
 power of even flame itself to depend upon the in
 candescence of the particles of solid matter diffused

 through the burning gases.

     Humphry's next object was to discover whether
 flame really consisted, as he before said, of a sheet
 or film of gas in a state of combustion.
276 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   " The flame of a common candle," he mused,
" appears to be a solid cone of luminous matter.

/s however, really alight in the middle ?" the
it,
boy mentally inquired; "or         burning at the out
         a                  is
                               it

                                                  ?

                                             it,I
side only, so that the thin film of white-hot vapour

incloses portion of combustible matter within

which cannot burn for want of air How can

ascertain this ?"

   Humphry thought for while, and then struck

him, that if he were to place piece of thin glass
                   a               it
                               a          it it

                                                    it
upon the flame itself, so as to press down as

were, he could then see whether or not were

alight in the middle for           were alight round
                   ;

                          if

                               it

the edge only, ho would behold through the glass a
bright ring of flame, with dark spot in the centre,
                   a

indicating the portion where the combustion was

not going on.
   Tho experiment was soon tried, and the result

proved as Humphry had anticipated. A luminous

circle was seen through the glass, at the point
where the flame touched the surface, and in the

                           centre of this there was dark
                            a

                                                     is a
                   spot, like black wafer, show

                   ing where the decomposed char
                   coal gas existed in the interior
                   of the flame in an unburnt state.

                   The appearance, however, re

                            presented in the subjoined illus
tration. Indeed Humphry perceived, that as air was
it,    HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 277a
     it
necessary for combustion, and it was impossible;
for the atmosphere to get to the interior of the
flame, the outside only of the cone of combustible
gases, evolved from the decomposed tallow, could
be alight ; while the vapour in the centre could
be burnt merely as it passed off into the air at
the upper part of the flame.

    The next step was to see whether the interior
dark part of the flame really consisted of the same
inflammable gases as were in a state of combustion
at the exterior, or surface of it.

    Accordingly, Humphry placed a small glass tube
within the centre of the flame

from an ordinary candle, and found
that the unburnt gas from the in
terior readily made its way up
the tube, and escaped at the top

of and that on applying light

to this was immediately ignited
so that two flames were thus pro
duced from one candle, as here

shown.
   Another proof that the gases in the interior of

the flame were not in state of combustion was
afforded by lighting some spirits of wine in large
spoon for Humphry then found that he could
introduce some grains of gunpowder, and even
some pieces of phosphorus, by means of tube,
;        a
                                              aa
273 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

into the middle of the flame, without igniting

them.

   Humphry, moreover, could now see that the

reason why the blow-pipe so much increased the

heat of an ordinary flame is simply because a cur

rent of air is made by such means to traverse the

interior part of  it,

                                          a
                                                                ;

                                                                  is
                  so that the combustion being

rendered more perfect, the temperature, of course,

becomes proportionately higher.

   Again, the wick of the " Argand Lamp "
constructed circular, so that current of air may

be supplied to the interior of the flame and hence
the superior brilliancy of this kind of burner.

Table-lamps are now generally made upon the same

principle, and so, indeed, are the gas-burners in

sheps. Sometimes, however, jet  used, with
                  a

                             is

                                                       a
the holes so arranged as to spread the gas into
athin wide sheet, and thus allow the air to act upon

   large surface of combustible matter at each side.
These are called " bat's wing " and " fish-tail "
burners, &c., according to the shape of the flat

broad flames produced by them.
   The next point in the inquiry was to discover

what would be the effect of cooling down a flame,

since was evident that required very high

temperature for its existence.

    Humphry was well aware that, by projecting
current of cold air upon substances in state of
       it
                                   it

                                                                       a
                                                                            a

                                                                                            a
it,   HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 279

combustion, the flames were generally extinguished.

Still he wished to see whether it was not possible

to lower the temperature of a flame by some other

means.

    Accordingly he procured a piece of wax-candle,
and proceeded to pull out all the wick, except one
thread, so that when it was lighted the flame from

it should be as small as possible. Then the boy

made a little ring of iron wire, about the eighth of
an inch in diameter, and this he affixed to a wooden

handle. Passing the wire ring over the lighted
wick he found, that on bringing it a little below
the flame the light was immediately extinguished,
for the metal, being a good conductor of caloric,
served to carry off the heat which was necessary
for the maintenance of the flame.

   It then struck Humphry that the pins which

housewives stuck in rushlights that they wished to
be extinguished at a certain time, acted merely upon

the same principle -- the metal carrying off the

heat, and so lowering the temperature requisite for
the existence of the light.

    The youth thought for a long time as to whether
he could avail himself of this principle in any way
for the construction of his safety-lamp, for, as he
had now discovered that it was possible to extin
guish flame merely by reducing its temperature --
and that a piece of wire, placed in connexion with,

    did this most effectually --he fancied he might
it,280 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

take advantage of some such means for preventing
the passage of flame to fire-damp. But though
he racked his brain long he could hit upon no plan
for accomplishing his object. So he contented
himself with merely making a memorandum of the
fact in his note-book, saying to himself, that he

knew it would prove serviceable some day-- and

then passed on to another part of his inquiry.
    Fire-damp, he was well aware, is explosible

only when mixed with the atmosphere ; for the air
is necessary for the combustion of all substances,
and explosion, as before observed, is merely the
result of instantaneous combustion. Still, certain

liquids, Humphry knew, are attracted by the sides
of fine tubes, so that the fluid in which they are
immersed is maintained within them above th«
level of that without. He knew, too, that by the
same principle a certain quantity of water might
be retained in a fine sieve without running through
the holes ; and that a vessel full of small holes
might, for the like reason, be immersed to a cer
tain depth in water without sinking, or any of
the liquid entering it.

    So the lad was anxious to see what would be the
effect of fine tubes upon gases, and whether, upon

passing an explosive mixture of carburetted hy
drogen and air along a narrow glass pipe, the flame
would pass down or be arrested in its progress.

   Accordingly, having prepared some carburetted
       HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 281        it

hydrogen gas, and mixed it with eight parts of                    a
air--for these proportions he had found to be the                    a
most explosive --he passed the mixture along a
glass tube, the bore of which was only -J of an inch                           it,
in diameter, and discovered, on lighting the gas                                       ; it,
that issued from the end of that the flame, in
stead of travelling down the narrow channel, and                                                           a
being instantly communicated to the whole of the                                                                        aa

explosive mixture, remained stationary at the orifice
of the tube, where the gases burnt as slowly and
quietly as with an ordinary candle.

   Humphry was half-bewildered with joy at the
discovery he had made. Fire-damp he had now
ascertained was not explosible within narrow tubes,

and instantly hundred and one plans flashed across
his mind for rendering the fact serviceable to those
engaged in the coal-mines.

   Still there was much to work out. It was ne

cessary to know through how large tube flame was
capable of being transmitted so he procured an
other glass pipe, the bore of which was quarter
of an inch in diameter, or double that of the one

he had first employed, and passing the same ex
plosive mixture along he found that, on lighting
the gases at the end of this, the flame no longer
remained stationary at the orifice, but travelled
slowly down the channel, taking more than second
before reached the other end, though the tube

itself was only foot long.
282 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Then pursuing the same course of experiments,

Humphry subsequently discovered that by dimi
nishing the diameter of the tube he could shorten
the length of it without any danger of the flame
travelling along and so causing the gases without
it,
to explode. Moreover, the lad ascertained that when
                             ;
fine metal tubes were substituted for glass ones, the
                              a
security was even more perfect.

   To insure greater safety, however, by making
the channel through which the explosive gases

passed as fine as possible, he ultimately inserted
some short pieces of metal tubing, one within the

other so that the bores being

of different diameters, they

formed                           series of broad

concentric rings, each en

closing another, and having

&Jine channel between them

-- thus.

   These Humphry proved

to be perfectly secure against all explosion, anda
then proceeded to fix one set at the bottom of

lamp, and another at the top of a glass chimney

that was made to fit air-tight round the flame.

;The concentric tubes at the bottom were for the

supply of air to the light, and those at the top for

the issue of the smoke so that thus, if any fire

damp were present in the mine, and entered with

the atmosphere through the air-tubes at the bottom,
       HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 283

the flame would not be communicated to the ex

plosive gases outside the lamp, --and thus the safety

of the miner would be thoroughly ensured.
   For rendering the arrangement adopted more

intelligible, a design of Davy's first Safety-Lamp
is here given.

   The principle upon which this

lamp depended for its security
had been so carefully worked out
that it scarcely required testing.

To assure himself, however, of

its efficacy, the boy immersed the
lamp in the most explosive mix
ture of carburetted hydrogen and
air that he could possibly form,
and was well repaid for all his

labours by seeing that the flame
was incapable of being trans
mitted to the combustible gases
without ; so that, upon their entering the lamp,

the light itself was extinguished. In a word, he
found that his lamp was " absolutely safe," and
that the fire-damp had been disarmed by him of

its terrors.

    Humphry's friends were as delighted as the boy
himself at the successful termination of his labours.
Mrs. Foxell, who had, in the first instance, en
couraged hini to proceed, was, perhaps, the most
gratified of all ; nor did she refrain from lecturing
284 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

her brother, Mr. Borlase, upon his previous want

of faith in the accomplishment of the result, telling

him that it was cruel, where so many lives were at

stake, to damp the ardour of any one who could

believe in the possibility of rendering them secure

for the future.

Mr. Borlase was sufficiently generous to confess

his error, and frankly acknowledged that he never

thought Humphry would be able to accomplish half

as much as he had.

The boy's old friend, Mr. Tonkin, too, felt prouder

than ever of his foster-son, when he saw the lad

test the powers of the lamp in his presence ; and

the old gentleman made Humphry's heart swell

again with the praises he heaped upon him, and
the tears start to his eyes with the confession of

the long love he had borne the boy.

  At length, however, Mr. Tonkin said that he

thought one improvement still was required, though

how it was to be effected he must leave Humphry to

find out, for it was more than he could manage.
On the admission of the fire-damp into the lamp
the light was extinguished. " This," the old gentle
man observed, " appeared to be a great defect, for

the extinction of the flame was a sure indication

that danger surrounded those who carried the lamp ;
and to leave the miner in darkness at a time when

immediate flight was necessary, struck him as being
Ifa serious drawback to its utility.
                                      Humphry,
    HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 285

therefore," he said, " could, by some means or other,

arrange it so that the light should continue burning,

even in the presence of the fire-damp itself, the in

genuity of the apparatus would not only be much

greater, but its value be considerably enhanced."

    Humphry saw the force of Mr. Tonkin's objec

tion, and it struck him that the defect was almost

irremediable. He was, therefore, not a little vexed

to find that an instrument which he had fancied

perfect, was not altogether faultless.

    The lad pondered over the matter for many days,

and tried a number of experiments to overcome the

difficulty which had been raised. It proved, how

ever, beyond his powers ; so, exhausted by his long

study, and vexed at the idea of his comparative

failure, Humphry, at length, dismissed the subject

from his mind, and locked the safety-lamp in his
cupboard, determined that it never should be made

public until it was perfect in all its arrangements.

  It was in vain that Mrs. Foxell urged him to

make known the invention, even in an unfinished

state : but the boy was firm in his resolve.
" Some day," said he, " it shall be completed, and

    it

     I I is
                    it
                          is

                       I
                                             it,
                              I

                                                                                   ;;

                                                  :I
then the world may have  and welcome but

as  now,  hardly worth either the giving

or accepting, and no honours can come of it.
When know more," he added, " can do better

nor do intend, because have been baffled in

this my first 'project, to give over studying for
286 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Ifind such delight in the perception of the new

truths which are daily unfolded to me, that would
rather forego any source of pleasure than that
which comes from scientific discovery."

   It was many years before the Safety-Lamp was

perfected; and when it was, the alteration was

so slight, that it has been well observed, -- " The

history of this elaborate inquiry affords a striking
proof of the inability of the human mind to appre
hend simplicities without a long process of pre
vious complication."*

    Humphry Davy, as we have narrated, had
already discovered, while experimenting upon the
inflaming of explosive gases in narrow tubes, that,
provided he diminished the bore, he could shorten
the length of them in a corresponding ratio. Now
a sheet of wire-gauze, it is obvious, consists merely

of a series of fine tubes, of very short lengths. It

appears strange, therefore, that our hero was some
time before he conceived the happy idea of con

structing his lamp entirely of wire-gauze, instead
 of feeding it with air through narrow channels, or
 "safety canals," as he called them; for, as flame
 cannot be transmitted along small tubes, it is mani
 fest that, on surrounding a lamp with a wire-gauze
 cylinder, or cage, the fire-damp, as it enters with
 the air, will burn within the cage itself, and the

         * Dr. Paris's " Life of Sir Humphry Davy," p. 352.
       HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 287

flame be incapable of passing through the small
apertures in the gauze, and thus exploding the gas
outside of it.

    To render the action of wire-gauze in this re
spect more intelligible, a few of Humphry Davy's
after-experiments may be cited in connexion with
this part of the subject.

   If a small piece of wire-gauze (say about 9

inches square, and having about 30 meshes to the
square inch) be gradually brought down upon the

flame of a candle, the flame itself will be cut off
where it touches the gauze, and merely a dark spot
be there observed, encircled by a ring of light,
while the combustible matter of the flame will issue
through the small apertures in the form of smoke ;
for during the passage of the burning gases through
the metallic meshes they will be so far cooled down
that the flame will be extinguished, and thus ren
dered incapable of traversing the gauze itself.

   If, however, a lighted taper be held above the

wire-gauze, the inflammable gas or smoke from the

candle will be immediately rekindled, and the flame

continue to burn then, both on the upper and under
side of the tissue.

   But the impermeability of metallic gauze to
flame may be rendered still more evident, by placing
a piece of fine wire web above a jet of gas pre
vious to lighting when will be found that,

  burning taper be held over the wire web, the gas
a

                            it,
                                      it

                                                            if
288 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

will be kindled above and continue to burn upon
      a
                        the gauze itself, while the com
                         isbustible matter beneath will re
                                   it,
                        main unignited for the metallic
                                     a it, a a it
                                                                            ;threads, being good conductors of
                        heat, will so cool the flame as

                        to prevent passing through to

                             the gas on the lower side.

                        Again, if small piece of cam

phor be laid in the centre of sheet of wire-gauze,

and light held beneath             the vapour from the

camphor, which very inflammable,                                               side of

will be made to burn with bright
flame downwards -- instead of up
wards, as flames usually do -- while
the camphor itself will lie upon the upper

the tissue in an uninflamed state.

The power of metallic webbing thus to inter

cept or extinguish flame, depends simply upon the

cooling effect produces so that as flame requires
a                       if ;

       it                       ;

                 a

                    it
high temperature for its existence,                                            it        plain
                                                                                  it is
that
                                                                                       is
       no sooner becomes cooled, by being passed

through good conductor of heat, than                                                       exr

tinguished.

  If, however, the meshes of the wire-gauze be

not sufficiently small, or the wire of the gauze
itself becomes intensely heated, the flame will tra

verse  is it  in either instance because the cooling
power         reduced, in the one case, by the largeness
HUMPHRY AND HIS " WONDERFUL LAMP." 289

of the apertures, and in the other by the high

temperature of the wire.

For the knowledge of these facts, we repeat, we

are indebted to the after-investigations of Davy

himself.

    Now it is evident from the above experiments,

that if a lamp be covered with a cylindrical cage
of wire-gauze, no flame will be able to pass from

the interior of the lamp to the exterior of in
                          it
                                                   it,
consequence of the cooling power of the metallic web

encompassing  is it      so that, if the surrounding air be
                      ;
charged with an .explosive gas, will enter the lamp

through the meshes of the web and burn within the

cage, while that without will remain unkindled.
    Such, then, the principle of the " Safe-Lamp "

as perfected by Davy, and which here shown --
                          is

                                                                       :
290 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   The safety of this lamp may be exhibited by
immersing it in a large jar, at the bottom of which
is a little Ether ; for the vapour from this liquid,
on mingling with the air, forms a highly inflam
mable atmosphere. On introducing the lamp into
this, the flame first becomes enlarged and is then
extinguished, while the whole of the cage remains
filled with a lambent blue light. On withdrawing
the lamp, however, and bringing it into the open
air, the wick is suddenly rekindled, and the flame
returns to its natural size and colour.

   For perfect safety, it is necessary that the wire-
gauze of these lamps should contain about 30
wires, or 900 apertures in every square inch, and
that the heat of the wire itself should never rise
above redness ; for " if," as Davy said, " the iron
wire become white hot, the lamp will be no longer
safe. This, however," he adds, " need never hap

pen in a colliery ; for if a workman finds the tem

perature of the wire increasing rapidly in an ex
plosive atmosphere, he can easily diminish the heat
by turning his back upon the current, and keeping
it from playing upon the gauze by means of his
clothes."

   Of this wonderful lamp it has been well said,
" that it is a present from Philosophy to the Arts,
and to the class of men farthest removed from the
interests of science. We know of no discovery in
which the admirer of Science and the lover of
        HUMPHRY AND HIS "WONDERFUL LAMP." 291

mankind have greater reason to congratulate one
another. The discovery," adds the late Professor

Playfair, " is in no degree the effect of accident ;
and chance, which comes in for so large a share in
the credit of human inventions, has no claims on
this, which is altogether the result of patient and
enlightened research. The great use of an imme

diate and constant appeal to experiment cannot be
better evinced than in this example. The result is

as wonderful as it is important. An invisible and

impalpable barrier, made effectual against a force
the most violent and irresistible in its operations,
and a power that, in its tremendous effects, seemed
to emulate the lightning and the earthquake, con
fined within a narrow space, and shut up in a net

of the most slender texture ; these are facts which

must excite a degree of wonder and astonishment,
from which neither ignorance nor wisdom can de
fend the beholder. When to this we add the bene
ficial consequences, and the saving of the lives of
men, and consider that the effects are to remain
as long as coal continues to be dug from the bowels
of the earth, it may fairly be said {hat there is
hardly, in the whole compass of art or science, a
single invention of which one would rather wish
to be the author."*

   It should be borne in mind, moreover, that Davy

               * " Edinburgh Review," January 1816.
292 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

in the accomplishment of his noble task, not only
did not seek, but positively rejected all pecuniary
reward ; so that it becomes difficult which to ad

mire the most, -- the benevolence which prompted

him to undertake the long train of laborious inves
tigations, the genius which carried him to so

successful an issue, or the noble disinterestedness

which bade him refuse to traffic in an invention

that was destined to mitigate the sufferings of some
of the poorest and least-educated of his fellow-

creatures.*

  * " It will hereafter be scarcely credited," says Dr. Paris,

' ' that an invention so eminently philosophic, and which could
never have been derived but from the sterling treasury of science,

should have been claimed in behalf of an enginewright of Kil-

lingworth colliery, of the name of Stephenson ; a person not
even professing a knowledge of the elements of chemistry. The
"enginewright" here sneered at for his ignorance, ultimately rose
to he the great George Stephenson, the inventor of the locomo
tive. How would the fashionable physician speak of the quondam
enginewright of Killingworth colliery now ! Stephenson's lamp
was formed on the principle of admitting the fire-damp by narrow

tubes, and "in such small detached portions, that it would be

consumed by combustion." The two lamps were, doubtlessly,
distinct inventions, though Davy, in all justice, appears to be
entitled to precedence, --not only in point of date, but as regards
the long chain of inductive reasoning concerning the nature of
flame by which his result was arrived at.
HUMPHRY PRACTISES ON HIMSELF.                                293

CHAPTER XII.

HUMPHRY PRACTISES AS A SURGEON ON HIMSELF.

HUMPHRY by this time desired some little recrea
tion. He had been at work for many weeks un

interruptedly --his days given to his profession,

and his leisure, in the evenings, devoted to the
prosecution of his scientific discoveries ; and what
with the exhaustion of continuous thought, and

the vexation at his inability to perfect the lamp,
from which he had such high hopes of honour, the
lad felt incompetent to resume his labours until
his mind, by diversion, had recovered somewhat
of its ordinary elasticity.

   Accordingly, he determined upon enjoying a day

or two's fishing with his uncle Millett --for this was

Humphry's favourite pastime throughout life ; and

the sport, his biographer tells us, " was alike his

relief in toil and his solace in sorrow." *

  * " Davy's passion    for  angling betrayed   itself upon  all occa
                                               the honour    of dining-
sions," says Dr. Paris    "  whenever I had

                        ;

at his table, the conversation, however it might have commenced,
294 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

  It was now spring, moreover, when the small

streams, the youth knew, were in the best state for
angling -- turbid, in a slight degree, from the mild
rains common in April and May ; so Humphry,

having arranged his tackle on the over-night, sal

lied forth the next morning to join his uncle at

Marazion.

   The lad's fishing costume was singular enough

to claim some notice. It consisted of an entire suit
of green --that colour being considered by him the

most likely to elude the observation of the fish.
The coat was half covered with lappets of the

many pockets for holding the necessary tackle ;
and his hat (which was a round felt one, with a
broad brim like a wagoner's), had been dyed of
the same colour as his clothes by a pigment of his
own composition ; while round the hemispherical
crown were coiled a series of fine lines, each ter-

invariably ended OB fishing ; and when a brother of the angle

happened to he present, you had the pleasure of hearing all
his encounters with the finny tribe -- how he had lured them

by his treachery, and vanquished them by his perseverance.

He would occasionally strike into a most eloquent and im

passioned strain upon some subject which warmed his fancy ;

such, for example, as the beauties of mountain scenery : but

before you could fully enjoy the prospect which his imagination

had pictured, down he carried you into some sparkling stream,

or rapid current, to flounder for the next half-hour with a hooked

salmon. . . . Nothing irritated him so much as to find

that his companions had caught more fish than himself, and
                      a
                                                                                           if,
during conversation,  brother fisherman surpassed him in the

relation of his success, he betrayed similar impatience."
HUMPHRY EQUIPPED FOR A F1SHINO EXCURSION.
                                                                                          Vugc
HUMPHRY PRACTISES ON HIMSELF.  29S

minating in some peculiarly-coloured artificial fly :
so that the hat appeared somewhat like a clod of
turf upon which so many bees and moths had set
tled. His legs, again, were encased in a huge pair
of jack-boots, which, for the convenience of wading
through the water, reached above his knees ; in

deed, as Macbeth says of the witches, " He looked

not like an inhabitant o'the earth, and yet was
on't."*

    Thus equipped, Humphry, as we said, sallied
forth, with the joints of his rod strapped toge

ther --like a small bundle of fagots --and resting

on his shoulder, while at his back projected

the wicker fish-basket, as if it were a huge car

touche-box. Over the other shoulder were slung

the heavy jack-boots, and at his side ambled his

favourite water-spaniel " Chloe," her long tail

wagging as she stopped now and then to look up
in her master's face, for she seemed to be as de
lighted as the boy himself at the anticipation of the
sport that she knew was about to ensue.

    The youth paused occasionally to fondle the

knowing creature, for he had had her since a pup--

having begged the gift of her when she was taken
from her mother, and about to be drowned with the
rest of the litter as soon as born, and it was only by
great care that he had been able to rear her, so

    * See Dr. Paris's description of Davy's ordinary fishing cos

 tume, p. 189.
296 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

that the two were as attached to each other as any
human friends could be ; nor did Humphry treat
her as a dumb animal, but spoke to her as though
she understood every word he said : and, perhaps,
in his heart, the boy (with his half-poetic and half-
metaphysic theories) believed she did. *

  It was late that evening before the couple re

turned from the day's sport, and then Chloe carried

in her mouth a small basket containing a portion of
the spoil, for Humphry's wicker knapsack was not

capacious enough for the whole, as he and his

uncle Millett --so runs the record --had caught no
less than " seven dozen trout in the rivulet and mill-

pond near the residence of the Rev. Mr. Giddy, in
the parish of St. Earth."

    Humphry's success at his sport had made him
too light-hearted to feel the fatigues of the day, and
although he was somewhat foot-sore from the long
use of the heavy boots he now carried over his
shoulder, the boy and Chloe jogged merrily past the
tanneries at the extreme west of the town ; for the

dog knew as well as her master, by the leathery

  * " This favourite  d"oMg yis    well   remembered    in   Penzance,"
                                 sister  writes," he  adds,
says Davy's brother.                                          " that ' on

his first return from Bristol, after an absence of about twelve

months, Chloe did not remember kim, till he called her by name,

and then she was in a transport of joy.' Her descendants are

now numerous in the Mount's Bay, and prized for good qua
lities." Vol. i. p. 54.
HUMPHRY PRACTISES ON HIMSELF.  297

smell that filled the air at that quarter, that they
were not far from home then; and Humphry, as
he patted the fond animal, promised her a good
supper of fish for all that she had done that day.

   As they passed down Market -Jew Street the

oil-lamps and candles were being lighted in some
of the little shops, and Humphry saw, as he looked
towards the Town-Hall at the end of the street,

that the sun had long since set, for the sky was
grey with the thickening dusk, and the stars were
beginning to peep out of the haze, one after another,
through the darkening firmament.

   At length the Town-Hall itself was reached, and

the youth was telling Chloe that she should soon
have her supper now, when suddenly a loud cry

was heard. As the lad turned round towards the
street that led to Madern Church to ascertain the

cause of the noise, he beheld to his horror a
huge dog, at full speed, hurrying in that direction,
white with foam at the mouth, and followed by a
mob of affrighted people, hooting and hallooing at
its heels. Some of the men were armed with

pikes, and others carried muskets, intent on the
destruction of the rabid animal.

   Humphry, with Chloe still by his side, was within
a few paces of the furious creature. The boy saw
in an instant that flight was impossible, and dreading

lest his favourite dog should be attacked, he shouted
298 THE WONDEES OF SCIENCE.

" Back ! back ! " to her in his most commanding
tone. The order, however, was too late, for Chloe,
being a little in advance of her master, had already
attracted the notice of the infuriated brute, and
Humphry saw her danger at a glance. In another
moment his own dog would be seized by the rabid
one, and the slightest graze from its teeth he knew

would be sufficient to render Chloe's immediate de

struction a matter of duty. It was no time for

reflection, so the excited boy, eager to save the life
of his favourite spaniel, rushed past her with his
heavy fishing-rod raised high in the air, and ready
to fell the dangerous brute to the earth.

   Ere he could aim a blow, however, the hunted

dog had fastened on Humphry's leg, and fixing his
fangs in the flesh, inflicted a wound that made the
lad shriek again with the suddenness of the pain.

   The cry of her master brought Chloe instantly
to the rescue, and dropping her basket of fish she
sprang, yelping, towards the savage brute. Hum
phry knew the peril of the encounter, and finding
the animal about to relax its hold of his flesh, he
seized it by the neck and held its head firmly to
the ground, while the townsfolk rushed immediately
to the spot, and with their weapons soon put an
end to all the danger.

   " Tha bee'st bitten, Master Humphry," shouted
Malachy Carteret, as he drew his adze from the
HUMPHRY PRACTISES ON HIMSELF.  299

head of the animal ; " run tha to Dr. Borlase di

rectly, and ha' the bite looked to, or tha life, poor

boy, a'n't worth a dried pilchard."

   Then came Jan Penberthy the miller--as white
as plaster-cast in his working dress --and he, with

a cluster of others behind, were anxious in their

inquiries as to what was the nature of the wound,
while each had some novel and different remedy to

recommend.

   Humphry, however, knew sufficient of his pro
fession to be aware that it was no time for hesi

tation ; so, while the eager throng crowded around
him, he raised the leg of his trousers, and observing
the marks of the animal's teeth in his flesh, he

deliberately drew his knife from his pocket, and
there, upon the spot, cut out the lacerated part
without a wince.

   This striking instance of the boy's intrepidity
was hailed with wonder by the people about him,
and one and all were loud in their praises of his
courage and decision. Many who had known him
from a child rushed up and shook him warmly by
the hand, while others, who had been the com

panions of his father, declared he was Robert

Davy's own son every inch of him -- indeed all

there had some encouraging word to say or some
kindness to proffer.

   Humphry, however, was too sick and faint from
loss of blood to be able to listen to the remarks of
300 THE WONDERS OP SCIENCE.

those about him ; se, having tied his handkerchief
round the wound, he begged Malachy Carteret to
help him home to Dr. Borlase's. And as the little
carpenter curled the boy's arm about his neck
Humphry limped along with Chloe at his side, who

kept looking up sadly in his face, as if she was

Iaware of all that had happened, while the boy ex

claimed as he went, " Thank God have saved
your life, poor Chloe, even though it be at the ex
pense of my own."

    Following in the wake of Humphry and Ma

lachy walked many of the crowd --one carrying

the boy's fishing-rod, another his jack-boots, and
another the basket of trout that Chloe had dropped
in the road; and as they went along, they won
dered among themselves whether Master Humphry
would get the better of the bite ; and some told
curious country tales as to how the poison had
remained in the blood for years afterwards, so that
a person's life was never safe from it.

   On reaching the surgery, Humphry found that
Mr. Borlase had been called to visit a patient in
the country that evening ; so, being left to his own
resources, he proceeded forthwith to apply some
lunar caustic to the wound himself, and having
done this, he begged Mrs. Foxell (who was fright
ened to tears at the dangerous accident he had

met with) to make his excuses to her brother, the
doctor, when he returned, for the poor boy told her
HUMPHRY PRACTISES ON HIMSELF.  301

he was anxious to reach his mother's house before
the news of his having been bitten by a mad dog
was carried home, so that he might lighten her
alarms on his account.

   Humphry, however, had barely taken leave of
Mrs. Foxell before Mrs. Davy herself rushed into
the surgery, half frantic with fear at what she
had heard ; and she no sooner caught sight of him

than she fell upon his neck, and wept and laughed
by turns, hysteric with the intensity of her emotion.

    The boy endeavoured to assuage her, assuring
her that from the promptness and vigour of the
remedies he had applied there was little cause for
alarm. But to no avail : the poor woman was

satisfied her darling boy was doomed to the most

frightful of all deaths sooner or later, saying, " that

if she was deprived of him her cup of bitterness

would be full indeed." Then the heavy privations
she had already suffered in life rose again to her
mind, and in the agony of her despair at the
calamity which now threatened her she wrung
her hands, and cried aloud to God to have mercy

upon her.

   Nor could she in any way be soothed until the
lad told her it was necessary for him at such a
time to remain in perfect quietude, and that the

least excitement might develope the very symp
toms which she dreaded.

    This had the desired effect. Such was her love
302 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

and care of the boy, that not another tear did she
afterwards shed in his presence ; but, dismissing her
own trials, she talked to him only of the subjects
she knew he delighted in ; and, when she had him
removed to her own house, she sat by his bed, day
after day and night after night, reading to him from
works on the different sciences till his eyes were
closed in sleep, and then the poor widow would
fall upon her knees, and with her pent-up tears
streaming in secret from her eyes, and her voice

choked with her sobs, pray the Great Ruler of All

to spare the only protector left her.
HUMPHRY R MOTHER READING TO HIM DURING HIS ILLNESS.
                                                                                                                Page 302.
THE FIRST SUN-PICTDEES.  303

                CHAPTER XIII.

                     THE FIRST SUN-PICTURES.

HUMPHRY remained confined to his bed for many
weeks, and every day bis mother dreaded seeing
s6me development of the symptoms which gene
rally ensue from the bite of so rabid an animal ;
but the boy assured her, again and again, that,
owing to the promptitude of the remedies he had
applied, there was no cause for alarm.

   While the youth was still a prisoner in his room,
a gentleman came to lodge at the house, and Hum
phry, to his great delight, learnt, in a few days
afterwards, that the new lodger was no less a person
than Mr. Gregory Watt, son of the celebrated
James Watt, the inventor of the present steam-
engine.

  It did not take long before the two became ac

quainted, and then Humphry ascertained that the
young Mr. Watt had but recently quitted the Uni
versity of Glasgow, and had been recommended by
804 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

his physicians, owing to his declining state of
health, to reside for some time in the West of
England ; hence the cause of his visit to Pen-

zance.

   Nor was Humphry long in discovering that the
mind of his new friend was enriched beyond his
age with science and literature, and that lie pos
sessed, like himself, a spirit devoted to the acqui
sition of knowledge, and soaring far above the
little vanities and distinctions of the world. The
two kindred spirits, therefore, soon contracted an
intimacy of the warmest nature ; and this ultimately
ripened into a friendship which continued to the
period of Mr. Watt's premature dissolution.

    Mr. Gregory Watt felt not a little astonished,
on being introduced to the son of his landlady,
to find him shortly afterwards speaking upon sub
jects of metaphysics and poetry ; for when Mr.
Watt spoke to him of the courage he had dis
played at the time of the accident in excising the
wounded parts of his leg, Humphry confessed " that
he had no belief in the existence of pain, whenever
the energies of the mind were directed to counter
act it."* " For," went on the boy, " in states of
profound attention, all perception of external things
fades from the mind ; the clock in the room ticks,
and we hear it not ; persons enter the apartment,

               * See Dr. Paris's " Life of Davy," p. 12.
THE FIRST SUN-PICTURES.  305

and their presence is unheeded by us. And if by

the intensity of the intellectual operations the senses
can cease performing their functions in the one
case, why not in the other ? Martyrs at the stake
have, while in deep prayer, held their hand un
moved in the flames, and who can say that the
very fervour of their heavenly aspirations did not
deprive them of all sense of pain for the time
being ?"

   Mr. Gregory Watt, however, had but little taste
for metaphysical discussions ; and, smiling at Hum

phry's stoicism, sought to divert the conversation

into a more congenial and practical channel.
   The steam-engine that had been recently set up

at the Wherry Mine by Mr. Watt's father became
the theme of their converse ; this soon led to com

ments on the theory upon which its powers de
pended, and then Humphry's companion was sur

prised to find that a youth, who had been brought
up in an obscure town in Cornwall, was as well

acquainted with the doctrine of " latent heat" -- and,
indeed, the whole science of caloric -- as he him
self, who had been reared, as it were, in a factory,
where the workings of it were every day visible.

    The new laws of combustion naturally followed
as the next subject of discussion, when Humphry
observed, " that he would undertake to demolish

the French theory in half-an-hour ;" and so saying,
he rapidly ran over the experiments he had per

                                                    x
306 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

formed, to prove the falsity of Lavoisier's notions
respecting the origin of heat during the burning of

substances.*

   The lad had now touched the true chord, and
the interest of Mr. Watt becoming more excited,
he conversed with young Davy upon his chemical
pursuits, and was at once astonished and delighted
at his sagacity ; so that the couple -- congenial in

taste -- already began to feel a growing friendship

for each other.

   Humphry had quitted his chamber, but was still
confined to the house, from his inability to walk,

when Mr. Watt -- who had now known the youth
long enough to be proud of his acquaintance -- re

turned from his morning's stroll along the sea
shore, in company with two friends whom he had
met in the town.

   The gentlemen proved to be Mr. Josiah Wedg
wood, the eminent potter of Staffordshire, and his
brother Thomas, who was alike distinguished for

his scientific abilities.
   The learned potter was not long in Humphry's

company before he discovered the high merits of
the lad ; nor was he a little pleased when he found
that the young Cornish apothecary knew all about
the pyrometer he had invented for measuring high

     * See Dr. Paris's account of Davy's first interview with
Gregory Watt, p. 35.
THE FIRST SUN-P1CTURES.  307

degrees of heat by the contraction of a ball of

clay ; and the old gentleman found considerable
delight in explaining to the boy the various pro
cesses concerned in the manufacture of earthen

ware and porcelain, telling him anecdotes as to

how Bernard Palissy -- who was the first to dis

cover the means of giving a glaze to the baked clay

-- had been reduced to such poverty by his experi

ments, that he was forced to burn the doors, and
even the boards, of the house in which he lived, in
order to get a supply of fuel for his furnaces ; and
how he afterwards amassed an immense fortune by
the invention, and ultimately died in the French
Bastille, a martyr to the Protestant creed, which
he had espoused. Mr. Wedgwood added that,
"When we eat our food we little think of the
labour and privations that have been endured in
order to give a glassy surface to the plates and
dishes upon which it is served ; for but few are
aware that, previous to this invention, the ordi
nary earthenware articles were more like tiles than
our present crockery."

   Then Mr. Wedgwood talked with the youth
about the rocks, inquiring whether he had ever
noticed any of the finer species of clay in those

parts, and was surprised to find how closely the
boy had marked the changes in the soil ; for

Humphry told him "he had observed that the
308 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

felspar in the granite decomposed long before either
the mica or the quartz, and that it was chiefly by
the action of the atmosphere upon this same fel
spar that the huge granite rocks became disin
tegrated, or broken up ; and that, as the felspar
consisted principally of clay in the purest form, he
fancied that some advantage might be taken of
this in producing a finer species of porcelain than
had yet been manufactured in this country."

    The old gentleman thanked Humphry for his
suggestion, and warmly praised him for his obser
vation and sagacity ; whereupon the youth pro
mised, immediately that his leg would permit of his
accompanying him, to point out to Mr. Wedgwood
the places where he had noticed the finest deposits
of felspar to occur.

    The conversation then changed to a subject that
Mr. Josiah Wedgwood said "he had no doubt
would be highly interesting to one of Humphry's
turn of mind." The old gentleman told the boy
how his brother Thomas had discovered a means
of copying pictures upon glass, and even of fixing
the images of the camera obscura, by the action of
light ; " so that," he said, " the sun itself could be
made to turn artist, and to produce a represent
ation of an object that no human hand could pos
sibly rival."

   Humphry was enraptured with the new wonder,
THE FIRST SUN-PICTURES.  809

 and more eager than ever to learn all about it ; so
 he begged Mr. Thomas Wedgwood to explain to

"Ihim the whole process.
            should tell you, then," said the potter's

 brother, " that it has been long known to chemists
 that a solution of nitrate of silver (called lunar
 caustic in the shops), when washed over a sheet of
paper -- although it does not undergo any change
while kept in a dark place -- will speedily change

 colour on being exposed to daylight, and that then

it passes through different shades of grey and

brown, and ultimately becomes nearly black. These

alterations in colour," continued Mr. Thomas Wedg
wood, "take place more rapidly according as the
light is more intense. In the direct beams of the

sun, two or three minutes are sufficient to cause

it to darken ; whereas in the shade, several hours

are required to produce the full effect. The light,

too, when transmitted through different-coloured

glasses, acts upon the nitrate of silver with dif

ferent degrees of intensity. It is found, for in

stance, that the sunbeams, when passed through

red or yellow glass (so that only red or yellow
light shall fall upon the paper), have very little
action upon the lunar caustic ; green glass, how
ever, is more efficacious, while blue and violet

produce the most decided and rapid changes.

   " Now to make you clearly comprehend," went

Ion the gentleman, " the reason of these changes,
310 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

should tell you that nitrate of silver consists of

nitric acid (aquafortis) and silver,* and that if a

vessel of pure and colourless nitric acid be exposed
to the sun's rays, it will become decomposed, so
that red fumes of nitrous acid will be evolved, and

these mixing partly with the liquid itself, will
shortly turn it to a reddish-brown tint. Well, the

same change takes place when the nitric acid is

combined with the silver, and so made to form

nitrate of silver. The consequence
                         is                           that as the
                                      is,
nitrous acid which evolved unable to combine
                     is

directly with the silver, the decomposed aquafortisis
   dissipated in the form of vapour, while the silver

itself remains behind in the paper and in such an
                         ;

extreme state of minute division, that the particles,
instead of being white, like ordinary silver, appear

black to our eyes."

    Humphry expressed himself delighted with the

explanation, and said he could now see how was
                                                      it

possible to produce sun-pictures by such means.

Still he begged Mr. Wedgwood to proceed.
   That gentleman then told Humphry that his

first attempt concerning the production of sun-
pictures, was to fix the evanescent images formed

by the camera obscura, but though he was able to

    For the sake of simplicity, the nitric acid here made to
*                                           O

       6                                         6

              g                                   is
consist (according to the new theory) of N          + H (instead  of
N O5+ H O), and so to combine directly with the metal
N O + A (instead of with the oxide as N O5 +                      as

                                                    O

                                                      A

                                                            .g)
THE FIRST SUN-PICTURES.  311

impress these upon paper in a bright sunlight, he

found that he could not produce them in any mode

rate time in ordinary daylight ; so that, from the

length of time required before the impression was

taken, the effects of light and shade had materially

Ialtered. " With paintings on glass, however," he

added, " have been more successful ; in order to

Icopy these apply the solution of nitrate of silver
Ito leather, for this find to be more readily acted

upon than paper -- probably owing to the tanning

in the material. When the surface of leather is
Ithus prepared,
                 place it behind a painting upon

glass, and expose it to the solar light, when the

rays, being transmitted through the different parts

of the picture, produce distinct gradations of black

and white, according to the lights and shades in

the original; for where the light passes freely

through the glass, the colour of the nitrate of

silver, of course, becomes the deepest. By this

means, then, you will perceive that the lights and

shades of my picture are entirely reversed : all the

black parts in the original being left white in the

copy, since the light, being unable to pass through

these, cannot act upon the solution; while all the

white parts of the original, on the other hand,

become the blackest in the copy, owing to the rays

passing freely through the glass there, and so pro

Iducing the strongest effect. Accordingly, am
312 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

obliged to have the original pictures painted, in the

first instance, with their lights and shades reversed,

Ior else cover another glass with a thin coating of

isinglass, and apply the solution of nitrate of

Isilver to this ; so that, when have transferred the

original picture by this means to a second plate

of glass, in which the lights and shades are the

Idirect opposite to what they are in nature,
Iproceed to take a second copy of it--but this do

upon leather, as before explained --and so obtain a

perfect reproduction of the original, with all the

lights and shades in their proper places.
   " But the same method of copying," proceeded

Mr. Wedgwood, "may be applied to other pur

poses. It may be rendered subservient, for in

stance, for making delineations of all such objects

as are partly opaque and partly transparent, such

as leaves and the wings of insects. For this pur

pose it is only necessary to put the objects to be

copied between a plate of glass and the prepared

leather itself, when the sunlight, being more or less

intercepted by their forms, will leave the figures

accurately impressed upon the leather, so that they

will appear as beautiful white pictures upon a

                     however," added Mr.
black ground. There  is,

                                           I
Thomas Wedgwood, "one great defect connected

with the production of sun-pictures by the means

have described, and this consists in the impossi
           THE FIRST SUN-PICTURES.  313

bility of fixing them so that they shall be no longer

susceptible of being darkened when exposed to the
Ilight.
           have already tried several methods of
Iobviating this difficulty.
                             have covered the sun-

pictures with a thin coating of varnish, but to no

purpose, for they darken almost as rapidly with
the varnish over them as others do without it.

IAgain, have submitted the pictures to frequent

washings, in the hopes of dissolving out of the
paper or leather all the undecomposed nitrate of
silver ; yet, even after this, a certain portion of the
active matter still adheres to the white parts of the

sun-picture, and so causes them to blacken all over
on being exposed to the light. The consequence
is, that the pictures produced by the action of the
sun must, in order to be preserved, be examined
always in the dark, and be kept continually in some

place where no light can penetrate."
   Humphry no sooner heard this than he suggested

a number of expedients by which he fancied the

difficulty might be overcome ; and as the lad ex

plained his reasons for the various methods he pro

posed, both Mr. Wedgwood and his brother were
as astonished at the extent of the boy's knowledge,
as they were delighted with the acuteness of his

sagacity.  .

The evening was passed in examining a portfolio

of the sun-pictures that Mr. Thomas Wedgwood

had brought with him, and Humphry grew so
314 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

charmed with the then entirely novel process of
"photography" that he declared he would not rest
until he had investigated the matter himself, and

ascertained experimentally whether any means
could be found of rendering the pictures perma
nent.
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 315

                  CHAPTER XIV.

    THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT.

OUR young hero was still too weak to leave the
house, for the wound in his leg was of so dan
gerous a description that Mr. Borlase had strictly
enjoined him to take as little exercise as possible ;
consequently, while Humphry's evenings were
passed in conversation with young Mr. Watt, and
occasionally the Wedgwoods, his mornings were
spent in his chamber alone, so that he was glad to
resort to study as a means of enlivening his soli

tude.

   Still the lad wanted some incentive to stir him
to enter upon a fresh branch of science. This,
however, he had now found in the wonderful pho
tographic impressions Mr. Wedgwood had shown

him, and he was eager to make himself acquainted
with the laws of the mysterious principle by which
they had been obtained.
316 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

    The contemplation of the sun-pictures naturally
led Humphry to think of the more transient pic
tures formed in the camera obscura by the light ;
'and he passed from the fixing of the images to the
consideration of the conditions by which the images

themselves are produced.

   " How comes it," he mentally inquired, " that a

piece of glass, merely because it is rounded on
one or both sides, is able to copy the forms and
colours of external objects ? And why do several
of such glasses, in combination, bring the images of
even the most distant things so close to us, that we
are enabled to make out their minutest parts ?"

    Humphry knew that the effect could arise only
from some alteration in the direction of the rays of
light as they passed through the glass itself ; and,
accordingly, he determined to set to work and dis
cover the precise change that a luminous ray under
goes on traversing different substances.

    In the first place, however, it was necessary to
determine what was the natural direction of a
ray of light emitted by a luminous body.

   For this purpose Humphry -- who was still un

able to undergo the exertion of arranging his own
experiments --had to avail himself of the assistance

of his sister Kitty ; and so pleased was the girl with

the office, that she readily gave up to her brother
every moment she could spare from her household

duties.
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 317

Kitty Davy was some two years younger than

Humphry himself, so that they had been infant

playmates together, sharing the same toys and

taking parts in the same childish gambols. It was

to Kitty, too, that the boy had first recounted the

fairy stories he loved to invent : and when, in his

after-youth, Humphry compounded his celebrated

"thunder-powder," Kitty invariably aided him in

the manufacture of the composition : so that each

year had served to increase the love which, from

the remembrance of the pleasures they had enjoyed

together, had been begotten almost with the dawn

of memory itself.                         She

   Kitty was now budding into womanhood.

had grown so tall within the last year, that her

figure was spare, and not particularly comely ;
while the curls, which once fell, with childish

beauty, in tortuous profusion about her neck, had
now been displaced, and the hair twisted into the

more womanly, but less gainly, protuberance at the

back. This style of head-dress had long been a

point of ambition with the young lady, and now

that she had risen to the dignity of wearing her

hair like her mother, Miss Kitty had grown to

fancy that she was no longer a child.

   Nor was she. The increasing strength of her

affection for her brother showed that her woman's

nature was developing, and she seemed to cling
to Humphry and her mother with a new ten
318 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

derness, as if she needed some one to heap her

strengthened love upon. The doll upon which she
had, until the last year or so, bestowed her caresses,
had been given to one of her younger sisters ; and
now she appeared to take almost a mother's pride
in tending little Johnny, her brother, instead.

   Humphry during his illness had been constantly
"nursed" by her, and now that she was allowed to
officiate in the kitchen, the girl loved to surprise
him each day with some new posset or jelly which
she had prepared for his gratification. She had read
to him, too, so long by his bedside from the scientific
books which her brother loved to listen to, that,
aided by his explanations of the more difficult parts
of the subject, she herself had acquired a slight
knowledge of the phenomena of the universe : so
that, while assisting him in his experiments, she felt
almost the same taste for the work as Humphry
did, and was not a little delighted when the hour
came for her to take her accustomed post in her
brother's sick chamber.

    Humphry, as we said, was intent upon disco
vering the natural direction of a ray of light pro
ceeding from a luminous body. With this view

he got Kitty to close the shutters so as to com

pletely darken the room, and then to pierce a fine

hole through them. This being done, Humphry
pointed out to the girl that the beam was in a
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 319

perfectly straight line -- for the course of it was

rendered plain by the little particles of dust that
floated in the atmosphere, flashing, as they danced
in the ray, like so many tiny fire-flies. Then as

Kitty wheeled her brother's chair so that the light

fell directly upon his eye, the boy could see the sun
itself shining through the hole ; thus proving that
the beam proceeded in a direct straight line from
the orb of light to him.

   The next step was to procure a flexible tube,
and with this held straight before the eye, Hum
phry could still distinguish the sun through the
hole in the shutter, though when the tube was

curved the effect was totally different, for then no
light at all could be perceived.

   Kitty was not a little delighted with the demon

stration that a ray of light proceeds in a straight
line ; and Humphry, to make her understand, as
well as to prove to himself experimentally, that all

luminous bodies projected an infinity of such

straight rays in every possible direction, bade the
willing girl fetch him the rushlight and shade

from below.

   While the shutters were still closed the candle

was lighted, and then Humphry pointed out to his
sister how the little luminous circles that were

spattered over the wall all round the room, as the
light passed through the holes in the shade, showed
that the rays proceeded from it in every direc
320 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
tion ; and that they travelled in a straight course
was easily proved, by covering with the finger
any one of the holes in the shade, when the lumi
nous circle on the wall, which was in a direct line
with the hole, and the flame became immediately
obscured.

  It was plain, then, that a ray of light travelled

naturally in a straight line. Still, as a further
proof of this phenomenon, Humphry threw the
shadow of an opaque body, of a certain size, upon
a white screen, and there measured its dimensions.
Having cut a piece 'of millboard, exactly a foot
square, he placed it 1 foot distant from the flame
of a candle, and then arranging the screen at
double the distance, or 2 feet from the light, he
found upon measuring the shadow of the mill

board that it was exactly (2x2) 4 times larger

than the millboard. When the screen was 3
feet distant from the candle, or 3 times as far
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 321
from the light as the millboard, the shadow was

ascertained to be (3x3) 9 times larger than the

surface from which it was projected ; while at the

distance of 4 feet, the dark space upon the screen

was discovered to be (4x4) 16 times greater than

the millboard itself.

   This effect could arise solely from the rays of
the candle proceeding in a straight direction, as
will be rendered evident by the preceding dia
grams ; where it will be seen that the opaque
body, interposed between the light and the screen,
322 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

prevents the rays which fall upon it reaching the
screen itself, so that a dark space appears upon the
latter, as many times larger than the opaque body,
as the distance of the screen from the candle is
greater than the body projecting the shadow ; for

it is manifest, that if a series of right lines be

drawn from the luminous point to the edges of
the opaque body, and thence to the screen itself,
they will exactly circumscribe a space whose di
mensions will be proportional to the distance of
the one to the other.

   "Well," said Humphry to his sister, "we now
see that luminous bodies emit rays of light in all

directions, and that each ray from them proceeds
in a straight line, while those substances which
are called opaque prevent, when placed before the
light, the rays from reaching other substances be

hind them -- the rays, in such cases, being stopped

or intercepted. Some bodies, however," added

the boy, " are capable of transmitting the rays of

light ; that is to say, they allow the beams to pass
through them, and these are, therefore, termed
transparent ; since, unlike opaque bodies, they pro
ject no shadows when placed between the light and
other bodies. Let us now see 'what occurs when a
ray of light passes through a transparent body."

    Accordingly, Humphry procured a small open
vessel, in one of the sides of which there was a hole
near the top, large enough to admit the light from
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 323

a candle. The lad then proceeded to ascertain the
exact place where the ray of light from the flame
fell at the bottom of the vessel ; and found that,
when the vessel was empty and the candle placed
at a short distance from

the hole, there was a

small circle of light
formed at the bottom,
which was, of course, in
a direct line with the hole and the flame, as here

shown.

   Having then set a mark at A, where the circle
of light appeared, he directed Kitty to pour water

into the vessel until it was half full ; and when
she had done so, he noticed that the ray of light
from the candle no longer fell upon the same spot as
it did when the vessel was empty, but at a little dis
tance nearer the candle, so that it was plain that

                                           the ray, instead of pro
                                           ceeding in a straight
                                           line as before, had, in

                                              passing through the
                                              water, been bent down

         B '' out of its usual course,
in the manner indicated at B.

   " You see, then," remarked Humphry, " that a
ray of light, when it falls in a slanting direction

upon a transparent body, no longer travels on in
a straight line, but is refracted," as it is called,
324 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

" or bent out of its previous course, at a certain

angle. Consequently, if the spot B was a fish lying

at the bottom of a river, it would be seen by a
person on the shore in the direction of the point

A ; and thus it would appear out of its true place,

and, in order to strike it with a spear, we should

have to direct the weapon at a spot nearer to us
than where the fish seemed to be lying."

   Then her brother told her that it was for the

same reason that a straight stick appeared to be
crooked when half immersed in a pool of water, and
a crooked stick a straight one under the same cir

cumstances ; " for," said he, " if instead of the

straight ray of light we imagine a straight stick to
be passed through the hole, so that the point of it

may be at the spot A, it is plain that in the water
the end of the stick will appear at B, since the part
of it which is immersed will seem to be bent in that

direction ; whereas if the stick itself be bent, so

that the end of it is at B, it will, for the same
reason, appear when in the water at A, and, con

sequently, seem to be perfectly straight.
   The next step was to try and measure the degree

of refraction, or, in other words, to find out how
much a ray of light was bent out of its usual
course on passing through different transparent

substances.

   Accordingly, Humphry procured his old school-
slate, and having managed, with Kitty's assistance,
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 325

to mount this on a heavy pedestal, he described
upon the slate a circle with two diameters, each

perpendicular to the other ; then having bored a

hole in the centre, he fitted into it a large cork ; this

had a straight tube afterwards let into
        it                                           so that
                                               it,
the tube, by means of the cork in the middle, could

be moved freely round the

circle, turning, as did, upon

the centre of it. The whole

apparatus was then inserted

in a vessel of water, so that

the fluid reached exactly to

the level of the horizontal

diameter,-- thus, without touching the end of the

tube.

   The youth then found, that when the tube A was

directly perpendicular to the surface of the water,
        it
            ;
                      a
                            it,
                                                     a
                                                                a
ray of light, on passing down suffered no change

at all in its direction and that on placing sixpence
in the water, exactly in line with the perpendi
cular diameter, B, could be seen distinctly through

the tube, so that the rays from the coin, on quitting
the water, proceeded in the same straight course
as they had pursued while passing through the

fluid.

Hence   was evident that ray of light, on
        it
                      is

                                                  a
entering or quitting a refracting surface in a PER
PENDICULAR LINE, not refracted or lent out of

its course.
326 THE 'WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

It was, different, however, when the tube was

                           slanted, instead of being

placed straight above the
surface of the water, for

when a ray of light passed
down it in that direction,

      the ray was found to be re
     fracted, or bent out of a
as shown in the above dia

gram.
   Now the precise direction of the refracted ray

having been marked upon the slate, the apparatus
was removed from the water, and the distance of

the tube A from B, the vertical diameter, measured,

as well as the distance of the refracted ray, a,
from the same perpendicular line, b, and it was

then found that the refracted ray, a, was as near as
possible 3 inches from the diameter, b, while the

ray A, which passed down the tube, was as much as

4 inches distant from B, the same line.

   The tube A was then set at about 1£ inches

from the diameter B, and the apparatus replaced
in the water, when it was discovered that a ray of

b,

                      it

                                  it,
                                        it,

                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                    .:

                                                            B
light a, on passing down  fell exactly at inch

from the perpendicular line.

Several other positions of the tube were after

wards tried, and invariably with the same result let

Athe tube be slanted as might, the distance . .

of the ray which passed down  when compared
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 327

...with the distance a                        b of the refracted ray from

the perpendicular line, was always ascertained to

be in the same proportion, --viz. very nearly as 1J

to 1 ; or, more correctly speaking, when A . . . B,

the sine of the angle at which the ray entered the

water, was 1 then a ... the sine of the angle
|-,
                          b,
                                                             1.
formed by the refracted ray, was exactly

On referring to his books, Humphry found that

the number 1T3D306(T constituted what was termed

the index of refraction for water.

On performing the same experiment with oil of

turpentine the lad discovered, that when the ray
which passed down the tube was almost as much

as inch distant from the perpendicular, the re
; 1\
                                           1  inch distant from the same
fracted ray was

line whereas with sulphuret of carbon (though

with this the experiment was performed on a

smaller scale), when the ray passing down the

tube was 1-f inch removed from the perpendicular
-- the refracted ray was still only
                 is                                   inch away
                      is is
from the same line.
                                           aa

                                                it 1
Humphry then consulted table of the refrac

tive power of different bodies, and learned that

hydrogen gas the least refractive of all known

substances, (that                             to say, ray of light passing
through this gas                               bent down by out of its

previous course, less than by any other known
body,) and that the diamond has very nearly the

greatest refractive power of all, while the refrac
323 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

tion of the air in its ordinary state is only 294

millionths greater than that of a vacuum.

This, however, is the refractive power of the

atmosphere at its average density near the earth's

surface. But we learn from the barometer that

the density of the air diminishes as we mount
above the earth, and it has been found by experi

ment that the refractive power of the atmosphere
decreases in proportion as it becomes more and

more rarified ; so that the atmospheric refraction

is greatest at the earth's surface, and gradually

diminishes upwards, till the air becomes so rare

as to be able to produce scarcely any effect at all
upon the rays of light.

                               " In order to understand

this," said Humphry to his
sister, "we must consider the

earth to be encased in a series

of shells, as it were, of atmo

sphere, each of a less density

aathan the one below                                            and,
                    ;a

                                                          it,
                                                              it
consequently, of less refractive power, --thus.
   " Let us suppose," the lad continued, " the round

ball in the centre here to represent the earth, and

the ring of atmosphere immediately next to to

have refractive power nearly 300 millionths greater

than vacuum and the refractive power of the

ring, or shell of atmosphere immediately above this,

to be equal to only 200 millionths compared with
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 329

the same standard, while the power of the third
ring decreases to 100 millionths, and that of the

outer one to 50 millionths, whereas beyond this

no refraction whatever exists, so that the rays

moving through free space will continue in the
same line as that in which they are emitted from
the sun. What, then, will be the effect of such
a series of atmospheric shells upon a ray of light
passing through them ?"

   To illustrate this Humphry drew the lines here

shown through the following diagram.

   "The orb S, outside the earth," continued

Humphry, "represents the sun below the horizon,

emitting, let us     ,,

suppose, his rays
in all directions.

These, passing

through free space,

proceed onwards

in a perfectly

straight line; and       "

one of them is here made to fall upon the outer

ring of the earth's atmosphere, where it is slightly

refracted, or bent down out of its former course, so

that, instead of continuing in the direction of the

dotted line a, it proceeds through the upper portion

of our atmosphere in the direction of the unbroken

line, until it reaches a part of the atmosphere of
greater density--as in the second ring; when, instead
330 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

of going on in the direction of the second dotted line

b, it is again refracted, or bent down, in a greater

degree than before. Then travelling onwards, it

reaches the third ring, where the atmosphere, being
of a still greater density, and, consequently, having

a greater refractive power, it is once more bent out

of its course c, and that to a still greater extent than
before. In this manner it ultimately arrives at a

stratum of atmosphere which immediately envelopes

the surface of the earth, and which, having the

greatest density of all, has the greatest refractive
power ; so that the ray, instead of continuing in

the direction d, is here bent down more than ever,

and finally reaches the eye in the direction e,

which is in a direct line with the orb s. The

                                           seen in the
isconsequence   that as every object
      a

                  it is,

                           is
                                                            it, is
                                                                         S

                                                                                                     ;
direction that the ray has at the instant of arriving

at the eye, the sun itself appears to be above the

horizon when    positively below           as at                                                        so

that, by the refraction of the atmosphere, the sun

    seen by us before he rises in the morning, and
for short time after he sets in the evening.

   Kitty was so astonished at the above conclusion,

that, though she understood the explanation, she

told her brother that she could hardly help doubting

the fact saying, " was almost the same as
;

                  it

                                        a
asserting that we could see thing that was out

out of sight."

Humphry undertook to prove to his sister, by
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGUT. 331

experiment, that such a result was quite possible

by refraction.

   Accordingly, he bade Kitty place the wash-hand

basin upon the table, and then having deposited a

shilling at the bottom of he told the girl herself
                        it,

                                                      ;
to recede from the table until the edge of the basin

obscured the shilling from her sight and when

Kitty assured him that she could no longer see the

coin, he poured some water into the vessel, and

immediately the girl exclaimed, -- " Dear, dear,

how odd   can see the shilling quite plainly
          is !I

            it

                          is

                                it
                                                                      ;
now."

   " You perceive, then, Miss Kitty," cried the boy,

triumphantly, "it quite possible by refraction

to see things that are out of sight for the ray

from the shilling, A, on passing out of the water into

the air,  bent out of its

course, and you behold

in the direction of the line

in which  enters your

eye, -- thus, at a.
   " But far more wonderful things than this have

been brought to pass by the same means, Kitty,"

said her brother, delighted to impart the know

ledge he had obtained from his books on this

subject, "and these are what are called mirages,

or optical illusions, produced by extraordinary re

fractions in the atmosphere.  For instance, the

cliffs on the French coast are 50 miles distant
332 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

from Hastings, on the coast of Sussex, and they

are actually hidden from the eye by the convexity

of the earth ; that is to say, a straight line drawn

from Hastings to Calais or Boulogne would pass

through the sea. A year or two ago, however,

Mr. Latham, a Fellow of the Royal Society, who

·was residing at Hastings, was surprised to see a
crowd of people running to the sea-side. Upon
inquiry into the cause of this, he was informed that
the coast of France could be seen by the naked
eye. He immediately went down to the shore to
witness so singular a sight, and there discovered
distinctly the French cliffs extending for some
leagues along the horizon, and so vividly that they
appeared to be only a few miles off. The sailors and

fishermen, with whom Mr. Latham walked along the

water's edge, could hardly, at first, be persuaded
of the reality of the appearance ; but as the cliffs
gradually became more elevated, they were so con

vinced that they pointed out to Mr. Latham the
different places they had been accustomed to visit :
such as the bay and the windmill at Boulogne, St.
Vallery, and other places on the coast of Picardy,
even as far as Dieppe, all the French shores ap

pearing to the English sailors as if they were

sailing at a short distance from them towards the

harbours. With the aid of a telescope the French

fishing-boats were plainly seen at anchor, and the
different colours of the land upon the heights,
    THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 833

 together with the buildings, were perfectly dis
 cernible. The day when this occurred is said to
 have been extremely hot, without a breath of wind

 stirring, and the phenomenon continued visible in the
highest splendour until past 8 o'clock in the evening,
having been seen for three hours continuously."

     Some few years after the date of the above, a no-
less-marvellous optical illusion was seen by Pro
fessor Vince of Cambridge, in company with another

gentleman, at Ramsgate. Between this town and
Dover there is a hill, on the farther side of which
stands Dover Castle, the summits of whose four
turrets can, in ordinary states of the atmosphere, be

just seen projecting above the brow, while the body
of the castle itself is usually hidden from view by
the rising earth between it and Ramsgate. On the
evening of the 6th of August, 1806, however, when
the air was very still, and a little hazy, not only
were the tops of the four towers of the castle
visible above the brow of the hill in the distance,
but the whole of the castle itself appeared trans

ferred to the side of the hill next Ramsgate, as if

it had been really built there, instead of on the
other side of the eminence. This phenomenon was
so singular and unexpected that Dr. Vince, at
first sight, thought it an illusion. On continuing

his observations, however, he became satisfied that

what he saw was a real image of the castle. To
assure himself that it was no deception, he gave the
334 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
telescope to a gentleman who was with him at the
time, and who also saw the same clear image of the
entire castle, situate on the near side of the hill, as
the Doctor himself had witnessed. The view of the
castle was very strong, and well defined ; and

though the rays from the farther side of the hill

must, undoubtedly, have reached the eye at the
same time, still the strength of the image of the

castle itself so far obscured the background that it

made no sensible impression on the spectators.
Dr. Vince continued to observe the image for
about 20 minutes, during which time the ap
pearance remained precisely the same, but rain
then came on, and he was prevented making any
further observations.

   Humphry now began to study how, by means of
extraordinary refraction, inverted images of objects
might be seen in the atmosphere.

   With this view he drew the subjoined diagram.

" There, Kitty," said the lad, as he laid down
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 335

his pencil and compasses, " the drawing represents

a ship below the horizon, and concealed from
the eye -of an observer by the convexity of the

earth. Well, if we suppose the refractive power

of the air at a little above the earth's surface to be
less than it is at the surface itself, then the rays
which proceed upward from the ship, and which
never could, in the ordinary state of the atmosphere,
reach the eye in the position here shown, will be
refracted into curved lines, so that they will cross
one another ; while the ray which came from the
masthead, instead of being uppermost, will change
places with that coming from the hull, and becoming
the undermost of the two, will enter the eye in that

Iposition : consequently, as every object is seen, as
   said before, in the direction of the rays at the
moment of their arriving at the eye, without refer

ence to their previous course, an inverted image of
the ship will be perceived in the air, in the direction
of the dotted lines, and thus appear elevated above

the horizon."

   Kitty said she could hardly follow the explana

tion, and wished to know whether her brother

could not devise some experiment in proof of it.
   After a few moments' consideration, Humphry

requested his sister to fetch him a square phial,
and to make him a little, clear syrup with some
lump-sugar and water. When this was prepared,
the boy poured a small quantity of the syrup into
336 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the phial, and upon this again he poured very
carefully an equal quantity of pure water, so that it
might float upon the syrup. Now the syrup, being
a fluid of greater density than the water, had a
proportionately greater refractive power, and as the
two combined with each other they formed strata,
having different refractive powers, the same as those
which had been supposed to exist in the atmosphere
at certain times, at a little distance above the surface
of the earth. Then having printed the word SYRUP
upon a card, Humphry held this behind the bottle,
and the letters were seen erect through the stratum
of syrup at the bottom, but upside down at the part
where the syrup was mixing with the water,
and erect again through the layer of water itself

at the top.

   After this the lad poured the same quantity of
spirits of wine carefully over the water itself, so
that the spirit being lighter than this might float
above this again ; and then having printed the word
SPIRIT on the upper part of the same card, the
letters of this were seen erect through the layer of
water, but topsy-turvy at the part where the spirit
and water were mingling, and in their proper form
through the uppermost stratum of spirit itself.

   Humphry afterwards produced the same effect
by holding a heated iron above a tumbler of water,
so that the upper surface of it became warmed
while the lower remained cold, and the portion in
    THE WONDERS OF THE EEFRACTION OF LIGHT. 337

 the middle became tepid. The heat, therefore, ex
panded, and so rendered rarer the upper portions of
the liquid ; and as it forced its way downwards,
produced strata of different densities, and, conse
quently, of different refractive powers. The result
was, that on looking through the glass vessel three
images were seen as before ; the upper and the

lower ones -- which arose from the rays passing

through the colder and the warmer strata, being

erect -- and the middle one, or that which pro

ceeded from the rays passing through the portion

in the middle, being inverted, -- as previously ob
served. The same effect may be produced by

looking along the side of a red-hot poker, at an
object 10 or 12 feet off, when an inverted image

will be seen at the distance of about -Jtlis of an
inch from the line of the poker, and an erect image
within and without this.

    The youth, having now demonstrated to his
sister how it was possible to produce three distinct
images, and one of these inverted, from the same
object, when seen through strata of different den
sities, proceeded to recount to Kitty stories of
similar phenomena observed at sea. He told her
how Dr. Vince had seen at Eamsgate a ship whose
topmasts only were visible above the horizon, while
over this, in the air, two images of the complete
ship were observed, the uppermost being erect, and
the under one inverted, with the pennant from the

                                                            z
it,8S8 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
masthead of the inverted image nearly touching that
from the real ship, seen peeping above the horizon.
This was distinctly visible through the telescope ;
the sea appearing between the two ships in the

air, as here represented :--

    " As the ship rose to the horizon," said Hum
phry, " the upper image gradually disappeared, and

while this was going, on the lower and inverted
image as gradually descended ; but the mastheads

of the real and the spectral inverted ship never

exactly touched. On the real ship becoming en
tirely visible, the aerial images were found to have
been perfect representations of even though the
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 339

whole of the vessel at the time must have been

concealed below the horizon."

is,
   There however, may here be added, still
more marvellous story in connexion with this part
of the subject, though occurred at more recent
                                  it it

                                                               a
                                                                               a

                                                                                        a
date than that recounted by Humphry. During
voyage to the coast of Greenland in the year 1822,
Captain Scoresby, having seen an image of an in
verted ship in the air, directed his telescope to
                                    it

                                                                it,
and was able to discover that was his father's
vessel, which was at the time below the horizon, and
cruising in a neighbouring inlet. " The image,"
says the captain, " was so well defined, that could
                                    it it
distinguish by telescope every sail, the general
                                        I
 rig of the ship,' and its particular character, inso
'

          I
                               a
much that confidently pronounced     to be my
                                    afterwards
father's ship the TAME,' which

proved to be though, on comparing notes with my
is I
father, found that our relative position at the;

time gave our distance from one another 30 miles,
which about 17 miles beyond the horizon, and
some leagues beyond the limit of direct vision.
was so much struck by the peculiarity of the cir

cumstance," adds the captain, " that mentioned

to the officer of the watch, stating my full con
viction that the Fame was then cruising in the
                                    I
                                               it I

                   '
                                 '

neighbouring inlet."
   The same officer, while navigating the Green

land sea in 1820, saw the images of several ships
340 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

in the air. Some of these were double, and in
verted, while along with them there appeared aerial
images of the ice, in two strata; the highest of
which had an altitude of a quarter of a degree.

   The representation of ships in the air by un
equal refraction has, no doubt, given rise in early
time to the superstitions of phantom-ships, which
are always said to sail in the eye of the wind, and
to plough their way through the sea when there is
not a breath of wind to ruffle its surface. The

story of the "Flying Dutchman" had, probably,

a similar origin ; and the legend of the wizard
beacon-keeper of the Isle of France, who saw in
the air the vessels bound to the island long before
they were visible in the horizon, doubtlessly arose
from the man's observation of some such phe

nomena.
   THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 341

                    CHAPTER XV.

     THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT
                                (continued).

YOUNG Humphry now sought to discover the cir
cumstances upon which the formation of images,
or pictorial representations of objects, depends.

   " In the first place," said he to his sister, " you

must bear in mind that all objects throw off
from them, in all directions, rays of light, which
are of the same colour as the ebjects them
selves. The soldier's coat appears red to us, be
cause it sends red rays to the eye ; the fields are
green, because they emit rays of green light ; and
the summer clouds are white, because the light
they reflect to us is of that colour. Indeed every
flower, whatever may be its tint, is seen by us
coloured as it is merely because the rays of light
proceeding from it are of the same hue as the
flower itself appears in our eyes."
342 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   Kitty told Humphry that she could hardly com
prehend this ; saying, " that the pattern of the
paper on the wall was green and yellow, and yet,
let her look at it in whatever way she might,

she could see no green and yellow rays coming
from it."

  Her brother, however, assured her that, if no

rays from the paper entered her pupil, she would
not be able to see it at all ; that is to say. the
wall would appear absolutely black in her eyes

whereas, if the rays it reflected were colourless, it

would seem perfectly white to her.

   " In ancient times," continued Humphry, " it

was believed that the eye itself had some peculiar
power of emitting light, and thus of distinguishing
objects by its own agency ; but now we know that
no such power resides in the organ of sight, the

eye being almost passive during vision, and see
ing only those objects which emit or reflect rays

of light to it: for it is merely by such rays of

light entering the pupil, and forming a picture of
the object at the back of the eye, that we are
enabled to distinguish the forms, as well as the
colours, of the things around us. So you must
bear in mind, Kitty," he added, " that the figures
and tints which you see come to your eye, instead

of your eye sending out anything to them ; for,
were it otherwise, you would be able to see with

out any light at all."
THR WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT.
                                                                                     Page 343.
a  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 343
                                                                 a
    Humphry then applied himself to prove, experi
                                                                           it,mentally, that all objects send off rays of light of
the same colour as themselves.
a
                        ;Accordingly, he took an empty cigar-box, and
having drilled a fine pin-hole at one end of he
              Ibored another small hole in the lid -- the latter being
for the purpose of looking through. Then, inside
the box, at the end opposite the pin-hole, he pasted

   piece of white paper, and placed rose-tree at
some short distance in front of the box itself, so
that the rays of light from the plant might pass

through the pin-hole, and be projected upon the
white paper at the farther end of the dark box.

   The arrangement being complete, he bade Kitty
apply her eye to the hole in the lid, and tell him
what she saw.

  "I"Dear, dear!" cried the astonished girl,

declare if there isn't little tiny picture of the
rose-tree painted on the paper inside the box. It

isn't very plain though, Humphry but can just
see patches of red for the roses, and patches of
green for the leaves."

   " Yes," said her brother, " and how could the
colours come there, unless the plant itself was
giving off different tinted rays from its leaves
and flowers ?"

   " But, Humphry," the girl exclaimed, as she con
tinued gazing through the hole, " do believe it's
I
344 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Iupside down ; for the patches of red that see are

below the green, and in the rose-tree itself the
flowers are up above, and the leaves underneath.
How very strange !"

   The lad having had a peep himself at the image,
proceeded to explain to Kitty the reason of the pic
ture appearing inverted.

   With this view he drew the annexed dia
gram :--

   " The rose-bush," said he, " is sending off rays
of light in all directions. Well, let us suppose two
of these rays to pass through the pin-hole in front
of the dark box, one coming from the top, and
another from the bottom of the plant. Now the

consequence would be, that the two rays, on
passing through the pin-hole, would cross each
other ; so that the one which was uppermost would
be transferred to the lower part, and that which
was originally the bottom ray take the place of
; THE WONDEES OT THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 345

  Ithe top one. Hence it is plain that the image, or
                               it,picture, of the object must appear upside down."

;  Kitty was perfectly satisfied with the explana
                             ation, but, wishing to see the picture of the rose
more plainly upon the paper, she asked Humphry
whether he could not admit more light into the

box.
    The brother smiled at the simplicity of the re

quest ; but, to let the' girl see the result of en
larging the light-hole, he set to work to make a
greater aperture in the front of the box. This
done, he told Kitty once more to peep through the
hole in the lid.

   "Why, what's the matter with Humphry?"
cried the sister " don't see anything at all

now."

    Humphry smiled at his sister's wonder, and pro
ceeded to recount to her the reason why the pic
ture had become obliterated. He told her that
when the hole was very small one, no two rays
from different parts of the object fell upon the same
place but that, now the hole was enlarged, the
rays that were being sent off in all directions from
every part of the rose-tree became confused with
one another, so that those from the green leaves
fell upon the same part of the paper as those from
the red flowers, and the consequence was that the
one colour obliterated the other.

    For the easier comprehension of this part of the
346 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
subject, Humphry drew the subjoined representa
tion of the rays proceeding from one of the flowers

and one of the leaves ; where it will be seen that,
owing to the enlargement of the aperture at the
front of the box, the red ray from the flower,
and the green ray from the leaf, fall upon the
same part of the paper at the back ; for as the
leaf and the blossom each send off rays in all direc
tions, it is evident that -- supposing only two of

these, for simplification sake, to pass through the
aperture -- one of the green leaf-rays would fall
upon the same spot with one of the red blossom-
rays, and one of the blossom-rays, on the other
hand, become blended with one of the leaf-rays.

   Kitty was not a little disappointed at the result
which had followed the enlargement of the light-
hole ; but Humphry, to console her, said that it
was possible, by means of a lens, to increase the
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 347

light, and yet to prevent the rays from different

points of the object falling upon the same part of

the paper at the end of the box.
   For this purpose the lad placed a double con

vex lens, which he had previously made out of two

watch-glasses cemented together, into the aperture

at the front of the cigar-box, and then told his

sister to look once more through the hole in the

lid.

   Kitty no sooner applied her eye to the sight-

Ihole than she cried aloud, " O how beautiful !

Ideclare it is much brighter than the first, and

can now see every leaf and blossom perfectly made

out. It's the picture of a little fairy rose, --that it
is. But tell me, Humphry," said the girl, " how

could a little bit of rounded glass like that which

you put into the box produce so wonderful a

change ?"

  I" Well," returned the brother, " you recollect

told you that every object which we see is sending

off rays of light from every part of it in all direc
tions. In the first case, when there was a mere

pin-hole in front of the box, the aperture was so

small that only one ray from each point of the

      is
                                 it,

                                                       it
rose-tree passed through  and, therefore, the

image was so dim you could scarcely make out.

With the convex lens, however, as many more rays

enter the box from every part of the plant, as the

lens itself bigger than the small hole which
348 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
we had in the box at first ; and the reason, again,
why these rays are prevented from becoming con
fused one with the other, and so obliterating the

picture -- as was the case when we enlarged the

light-hole in front of the box, without inserting

any lens in it -- is because they are all duly re

fracted by the lens, so that they severally fall in
their proper places. But you will understand
this better by a drawing." And, so saying, Hum

phry prepared the illustration below given: --

   " Here you see there are three rays," continued
the lad, " drawn from the top, bottom, and centre
of the object ; three only are given for the sake
of simplicity, though every point of the plant is
sending light from it in the same manner as here
indicated. Well, Kitty, the rays from the flower
at the top of the tree fall upon every part of the
glass, and, by the laws of refraction, are made to
come together at a point on the other side of it.
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 349

Again, the rays from the leaves at the bottom of

the tree fall upon every part of the lens, and are so

refracted that they all meet at another point on the

other side of the glass ; while those from the rose

bud in the centre are likewise blended into a focus

at the same distance behind the lens. But you
will perceive, that the rays which come from the

upper part of the object fall at the lower part of

the image ; and those, on the other hand, which

proceed from the top, fall at the bottom. This is

because the rays from these parts cross one another

in the centre of the lens, while those which are sent

off from the rosebud in the middle suffer no change

of position, because they proceed -- as you observe
by the dotted lines in the drawing -- directly
through the glass, rather than traversing it ob

liquely as the others do."

  I" Oh, thank you, Humphry," said Kitty ; " can

make it out well now. The image from the lens is

so much brighter because it not only allows more

light to pass through the aperture, but prevents

the rays from the different parts of the object

mingling one with the other. But, Humphry,"

ejaculated the girl, as a new thought struck her,
" the image, as you call
I                         much smaller than
                               :
                          is it,
                               is
                                                          ?
the rose-tree itself why that "
" To make you understand this, Kitty," answered
the boy, " will place the tree farther from the

lens, and you shall tell me the effect."
350 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
    Humphry had no sooner removed the plant to a

greater distance, than the girl cried, "Oh, it's
much smaller than ever now!"

  I" And now that bring it nearer the box what

do you see ?" inquired the youth.

   " Why it seems to grow and grow, Humphry,"

Ireplied Kitty, as she continued peeping through

the hole in the lid, " so that fancy it would get

as big as the tree itself. The picture, though, is
not nearly so bright."

   " No," returned her brother ; "that is because it

Igets out of focus. Now look you here, Kitty ;

will do another drawing, to enable you to compre
hend how the size of the image depends upon the
distance of the object from the lens.

   " You must bear in mind," proceeded Humphry,
on the completion of the diagram, " that the rays

Iwhich pass through the centre of a lens never

change their direction. Well, have drawn here,
you see, one ray from the tip of the arrow, and one
from the bottom ; and as these rays necessarily
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 351

form the extremes of the image, and so regulate its

size, you will readily comprehend that, when the
                                      yards, or feet, -- or,
object   4 is,  as here represented,4,
                measures of any kind -- in front of the4
indeed,
                                                4
lens, and the image falls, also, at such measures

behind as at the arrow the image itself mustit,
be exactly of the same size as the object. If, how

ever, the image fell at half the distance behind the

lens which the object was from the front of then
                                      8,
                                               2

                                               it ;
                                                          it,
the picture would be only half the size of the body

producing -- as here, at the arrowit,              whereas if

the image was at twice the distance of the object

from the lens, as at the arrow then would be

exactly twice the size of it. Consequently, the

dimensions of the image produced by a lens bear

always the same proportion to the object as the

                the object from the lens does to that
distance  3                                        3

           of                                              of
                             to say, if the object be times
                         is
the image: that

as far from the lens as the image3                 then the image

                                       is,
will be times smaller than the object itself, and

vice versa, if the object be times nearer the lens

than the image, then the image will be times
                                                   3

larger than the object."

   Kitty having informed her brother that she

thoroughly understood the matter now, Humphry

went on to tell her that, in order to produce an

image, was necessary that the picture should be
         it

received upon some opaque or intransparent sub
stance, otherwise the rays of light would pass
3B8 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

through the substance itself without being reflected
from it or sent back to the eye.

    " The opaque body," continued the youth, " upon
which the image is thrown, should be of a white
colour, for this reflects the greatest amount of
light."

    To elucidate this part of the subject, Humphry
removed the wooden end of the cigar-box that he

had previously employed, and substituted a piece

of ground glass in its stead ; when Kitty, on
placing her eye behind the box, saw the picture of

Ithe rose-tree once more portrayed upon it.

   "Now," added her brother, "if smear the

ground glass over with any grease, or even water,
so as to increase its transparency, you will see that

the image immediately disappears."

   This done, Humphry explained to Kitty that

the image might be received upon smoke, or, indeed,
any vapour that consisted of a number of opaque
white particles, and then he recounted to her the
story of the " spectre of the Brocken."

   " The Brocken," said he, " is the name given to
the loftiest of the Hartz mountains, which is a pic
turesque chain of hills situate in the kingdom of
Hanover. The highest of these is elevated 3300
feet above the sea, and commands the view of a plain
upwards of 200 miles in extent. This spot has been
the seat of the marvellous from the earliest periods.
One of the accounts given of the ' Spectre of the
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 353

Brocken' is that of M, Haue. After having been
on the summit of the mountain no. less than thirty
times, he had, at last, the good fortune of witness
ing the object of his curiosity. The sun rose at
about 4 o'clock in the morning, through a serene
atmosphere. In the south-west, towards Achter-
mannshohe, a brisk wind carried before it the

transparent vapours which had not yet been con
densed into thick, heavy clouds. About a quarter
past 4 M. Haue looked round to see whether the
atmosphere would afford him a free prospect to
wards the south-west, when he observed, at a very
great distance towards Achtermannshohe, a human

figure, of a monstrous size. At this moment a
violent gust of wind ensued, and M. Haue sud

denly raised his hand to his head, to prevent his
hat being carried away, when, to his great asto
nishment, he beheld the colossal figure in the dis
tance do the same. He immediately made another
movement by bending his body, and this action,

too, was instantly repeated by the spectral figure.
There was now no doubt that what was termed the
' Spectre of the Brocken ' was an enormous image

of the spectator himself seen in the distance. M.

Haue was desirous of making other experiments,
but the figure disappeared. He remained, how
ever, in the same position, expecting its return ;
and in a few minutes it again made its appearance
on the Achtermannshohe, when it once more

                                                                  AA
354 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

mimicked his gestures as before. M. Haue then

called another person to him, and having both
taken the same position which he himself had pre
viously occupied, they looked towards the Achter-

mannshohe, but saw nothing. In a very short
space of time, however, two colossal figures were

formed above the eminence, and, after bending
their bodies, and imitating the gestures of the spec
tators, they disappeared. M. Haue and his com
panion, nevertheless, retained their position, ana.
kept their eyes still fixed upon the same spot, when
the two gigantic spectres were again beheld by
them, but this time they were joined by a third,

and, strange to say, every movement they made

was imitated by all the three figures. The effect,

however, varied in its intensity, being sometimes
weak and faint, and sometimes strong and well-

defined.
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 356

" These figures were merely shadows of the ob

servers, projected on dense vapour, or thin fleecy

clouds, which have the power of reflecting much

light. They are seen most frequently at sunrise,

because at that time the vapours and clouds neces

sary for their production are usually generated ;

and they can be perceived only when the sun is

throwing his beams horizontally, because the shadow

of the observer would be otherwise projected up in

the air, or down upon the ground. It is very pro

bable that the third figure observed by M. Haue

was formed by a duplication of one of the others,

produced by unequal refraction ; though M. Haue

himself does not state which of the two figures was

doubled."

  It may here be added, that another story of the

"Asame kind is told by Sir David Brewster.

young lady had ascended to the top of the Mynydd,

a steep hill, about 500 feet above the valley of

New Kadnor, in South Wales. The sun was

bright and hot  being about o'clock in the
a               a
                          2
          (it
                                  it

                                               a
day). Having picked some flowers on the top of
the hill, the girl descended little way, to spot

from which she could see the road and the carriage

with her companions whom she had left in below.
After waving the scarf which she held in her hand

to her friends, she suddenly perceived, upon turn

ing round, figure standing few yards from her
                a
  356 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

  upon a wet spot, from which a little thin mist was
  rising. The figure stood exactly facing her, and
  wavered a little ; but she did not discover it to
  be her own image, till she observed that, like her
  self, it held a scarf and a bunch of flowers in one
  hand. The dress and flowers were precisely simi
  lar to her own, and the colours so vivid that she
 could even trace her own features in the image.

 The effect was the same as if she had been before a
 looking-glass -- when she moved her hand, the

 figure did the same. The two friends in the car
 riage saw the image of the young lady, and asked
 her, when she joined them, what companion she
 had had on the hill. There can be no doubt," adds
 Sir David Brewster, "that the figure was a re
 flexion of the young lady, produced by the thin
 mist rising from the damp ground ; for it may be
 proved, by experiment, that when the particles of
 vapour are sufficiently small, they reflect light as
 distinctly as a surface of glass."

    From the production of images, Humphry passed
to the consideration of the circumstances by which

lenses appear to increase the size of objects, and so
to make them seem as if brought nearer to us.

   " When a shilling," said Humphry, " is at the

distance of 6 or 8 inches from the eye, we can
read the inscription round it with perfect distinct
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 357

ness. At the distance of 3 yards, however, we

can no longer make out the inscription, but see

only the king's head upon it. Again, at the dis

tance of only 20 or 30 yards, we lose sight of the

head, and can then just distinguish that it is a

round body ; whilst, when placed at about 100

yards from us, the coin is scarcely visible. The

reason of this that the shilling decreases in size
             it
the farther              removed from us, for we then see
                 is is,

it  under a smaller angle, as               it         termed and
                                                         ;
found that the smallest angle under which an    is
                                                                is
                                                      a
                                                                 it

                                                                       is
object can be seen,it                       upon an average for dif
                     ;
                          is,
ferent sights, the 60th part of degree, or one

minute in space so that when an object                             re

moved from the eye about 3000 times its own

diameter, will only just be distinguishable. Con

sequently, the greatest distance at which we can

behold an object like shilling, of an inch in dia
    is

                                a
meter, 3000 inches, or 250 feet.

  "Another drawing," added Humphry, "will

enable you, Kitty, readily to comprehend how an
object appears to diminish in size, according as

    becomes more and more distant from us, and so
gets to be seen under smaller angle."
it

                                         a
S58 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   " There," continued the boy, " the first arrow is

seen under an angle of 120°,* whereas the angle
under which the second arrow is regarded is only

60°. Consequently, though the objects are the

same in size, the one will appear only J the length

of the other. The third arrow, again, being seen

under an angle 4 times smaller, will seem to be

only Jth the size of the first ; whilst the fourth

arrow, for the same reason, will look as if it were
only J th the height of the one next the eye ; and

the farthest arrow of all but -^jth as large as the

nearest. Moreover, if we suppose another arrow

still to be so far removed that the angle under

which it is seen dwindles down to the 60th part of

a degree, or as                    called, this will then appear
         it               it it
so reduced in size as to be only just distinguish
             is               is is
able to us.
                     1',
   " Well, Kitty," the youth went on, " you now

understand that an object appears to diminish in

size the farther                     removed from us, merely

because  seen under lesser angle and, conse
                                     a  is ;

quently, an object must seem to us, on the other     it

hand, to increase in size when the image of                 is is

brought nearer to the eye, and so gets to be

   * The range of the eye, or diameter of the field of vision,;is
110° consequently, this the largest angle under which an ob
ject can be seen. The largest angle, however, here made 120°,
for the simplification of the numbers. The range of vision is from

110° to 1'.
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 359

viewed under a greater angle. This, then, is all
that lenses really do when they appear to magnify
objects : that is to say, they do not absolutely
increase the dimensions of the bodies under view,
but merely bring their images nearer to the eye,

Iand so enable us to see them under a larger angle.

You remember told you that, with a shilling, we
can just see the king's head upon it at the distance
of about 10 feet from the eye. New, when the

coin is at that distance, if a convex lens, having a

focus 2| feet long, be placed midway between the
shilling and the eye, the lens will, of course, be 5

Ifeet from the eye and 5 feet from the shilling ; so

that, in this case, it is plain, from what before
explained to you about the size of images,* that
the image of the shilling seen behind the lens will
be exactly of the same dimensions as the shilling
itself in front of it. The object, therefore, will
not have been directly magnified by the lens. The
image, however, will be thus brought so near to

the eye, that the coin may be seen by us at the
distance of 6 inches, instead of 10 feet ; and, con

sequently, being viewed under a proportionately

larger angle, the shilling will seem to be magnified

as many times as 10 feet is greater than 6 inches ;

or, in other words, it will be made to appear 20
times larger in our eyes. Hence the shilling will

have been, apparently, magnified 20 times, merely
                         * See illustration at p. 350.
360 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

by bringing the image of it 20 times nearer the
eye,--thus. Whereupon the boy proceeded to de
lineate the following diagram ; in which the dotted

lines from the object A represent the angle that the

shilling itself would be viewed under without the
lens, C, by the eye at B, while the dotted lines from
the image D show the much larger angle that such
image would be seen under with the lens.

   Humphry then prepared an experiment illustra
tive of the apparent magnifying of objects by lenses,
when their images are brought nearer to the eye.
For this purpose he got Kitty to bore a hole in the
shutter large enough to allow a lens to be inserted
in it. Then fixing the glass in the aperture, he
bade his sister close the shutters, and place her
eye at about 2£ feet from the lens, for such he
knew to be the length of its focus.

   " How beautiful !" cried the girl, as she gazed

Ithrough the transparent circle. " see a tiny
Iimage of Madern Church ; and so close, too, that

could fancy it was in the room here."
   " Well," said Humphry, " the church itself, you

Jknow, is about 1 mile distant, or, let us say, 7500

feet, and the focus of the lens is 2J feet ; conse
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 361

Iquently it follows, from what have before told

you, that the image of the church you see is 3000

times smaller than the church itself, for 7^° =
3000. Nevertheless, if we could copy the image
of the church upon a piece of paper, --or, what

would be better still, fix it upon a sheet of glass,

we should find that, on holding it just as far from

the eye as it is now from the lens, the tiny image
that you now see would exactly cover every part of
the distant object, and so appear precisely of the
same size as the church itself, -- in this manner.'

" Let us suppose the large dart, marked A here,"

the lad continued, as he drew the plan upon paper,

"to be the height of the church, and the smaller

dart, a, on the other side of the lens, C, to be the size

of the image that we see. Well, if you were to place

your eye where the lens now is, and the image just

as far in front of the glass as it now stands behind

         plain, by the dotted eye and arrow at a, that
it,

  it

       is

               it

                      is
                                                                    is
the one would exactly cover the other.
" Hence  evident," added Humphry, " that

the image whieh you see behind the lens                                 really
362 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

of the same size as the distant object appears to
be, even though, as in the case of Madern Church,
the image is no less than 3000 times smaller than the
object itself really is. But when you look through a
glass, Kitty, the image of the distant object is only
about 6 inches from your eye ; so that, though it is
of the same size as the object itself appears to be,
you are viewing it at a shorter distance than the
length of the focus of the lens ; and, therefore,

Iowing to your regarding it under a greater angle,

it seems to be magnified. Now, as told you, the

focus of the lens we employed was 2J feet, or 30

inches long ; and, supposing your eye to have been
where the lens was, and the image transferred to
the other side of the lens (as indicated by the dotted
eye and arrow marked a'), the image would have

seemed exactly the same size as the object itself,
provided it had been placed at a distance of 30 inches

in front of you. If, however, the image had been
placed only 6 inches away from your eye, it is
plain that you would have been viewing it o
times closer than 2j feet, and this would be the

same as if the dotted arrow had been shifted from

a' to x ; consequently, it would then have looked
to you 5 times larger than it really was, because
you were regarding it under an angle 5 times
greater than its own.

   " The result which we come to is, therefore,"
concluded the youth, " that the magnifying power
   THE WONDERS OP THE EEFRACTION OF LIGHT. 363

 of a lens is always equal to its focal length, divided

 by the distance at which the eye regards the image.

 The latter, in your case, Kitty, was about 6 inches ;

 so that the lens, having its focus 30 inches off, the
magnifying power of it is arrived at in this manner :

y«s.

    Kitty asked whether it was possible to magnify
an object any more than that ; when Humphry
told her that, had the focus of the lens he em

ployed been longer, its magnifying power would

have been greater ; " as for instance," said he,

" if the length of the focus had been 5 feet, instead
of 2j, it would have magnified 10 times instead of
only 5, for ?i^=10. So, again, had the focus

of the lens been 10 feet, its magnifying power

would have been doubled again, for -1^2^=20.
But," continued the boy, "the magnifying power

might be increased in another way, -- namely, by
bringing the eye nearer to the image. As yet we

have estimated the distance at which the eye views

the image produced by the lens at 6 inches, be
cause that is the length at which we see near
objects distinctly. Hold your finger before your

eye, Kitty, and you will see that when you bring it
very close you can scarcely distinguish it. With

a lens, however, having a short focus, you would
be able to see the finger much nearer than natu

Irally ; and then, for the reason have before given

you, it would appear to be as much magnified as
364 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the distance at which you beheld it distinctly

with the lens was less than 6 inches, which is

the distance at which you beheld it distinctly
without the lens. In my cupboard you will find

a burning-glass, and that has a focus of only 2

inches. Do you get         ! it,  Kitty, and look at your

finger through it."

The girl did as she was bidden, and immediately
cried, " Oh, Humphry what
                                  it           horribly ugly,

coarse, thick-looking thing           is       Why, declare
                                                      a is I
                                           !a

my skin looks like an elephant's hide through                 a ;it

and can see every line in53 I     it,  like the veins on
leaf!"

"Yes," returned her brother, "that because

you are now looking at your finger times nearer
                                  °

                                       it it

                                                   3
than you could see distinctly without the lens,
                     ; it
and, consequently, you behold          under propor

tionately larger angle so that appears to you to

be times magnified--for '^^l =3. Let us then

apply the same principle to the image of Madern
Church as seen through the lens in the shutter,

and which, you remember, appeared to be magni

fied times, because you saw at inches fromit

your eye instead of 30 inches, which was the focal6
length of the lens. But now, by means of this

burning-glass held near your eye, do you look at

the image once more, and tell me, Kitty, what

you see."
   The shutters were accordingly closed again,
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 365

and the girl proceeded to take another peep at the

distant church through the two lenses.

  I" Oh, Humphry ! " she cried, " see it much

plainer than ever ; and it is, as you say, a great

deal bigger, too."

   " Of course it is," returned the brother, " for the

Ilength of the focus of the burning-glass is, as

said, 2 inches ; so that you now see the image of

the church at that distance from your eye, instead

of 6 inches, as before. The image, therefore, ap

pears to be magnified 5 times by the first lens, and

3 times by the second, or 5x3 = 15 times in all ;

and the reason of its appearing to be that number

of times larger to you, is simply because you are

looking at it at 15 times a shorter distance than the

focal length of the lens in the shutter, which is

called the 'object-glass,' and so seeing it by means
of the other lens, which is called the ' eye-glass,'

under 15 times a greater angle than you behold the

Iobject  itself with your naked eye."  Humphry,  thank
         understand it now perfectly,
   "

you," said the sister, pleased with the explanation.
" And are the telescopes that the sailors use made

upon the same principle ?"

    "Precisely so, Kitty," responded the brother.
" And in order to find out the magnifying power of
any of these, we have merely to divide the length

of the focus of the object-glass by that of the eye

glass, and the quotient will tell us how many
366 THE WONDERS OF SCIEKCE.

times the objects are enlarged by them ; whilst in
order to make a telescope for ourselves, we have
merely to procure a lens of a long focus -- say 12

inches, and one of a short focus -- say 2 inches,

and then to set these in a tube at the length of the
two foci, or 12 + 2=14 inches apart. This tube,
however, should be a sliding one, so as to admit of
the distance between the two lenses being in

Icreased according as the objects viewed are nearer

at hand ; for told you before, you remember,

that the nearer the object the farther is the image

from the lens, and vice versa, the more distant
the object, the shorter the focus of the glass be

comes."*

  * The    aorfrwanhgaet misenttermoef dlenthsees",  above described, constitutes    the
                                                                                    this
principle                                            astronomical telescope ;" for

makes the objects appear upside down. But, though the inver

sion of a star or planet is a matter of no moment in astronomical

observation, such an effect is most disagreeable when applied to

terrestrial objects.  "   The ordinary               telescope for land purposes,
therefore, --or the      day telescope,"             as it is usually styled, --has

two other lenses behind the eye-lens. These lenses have both

the same focus as the eye-lens itself, and are placed at a fixed

distance from each other, such distance being equal to the sum of

their focal lengths : that is to say, if the eye-lens have a focus

of 2 inches, then each of the two other glasses should have the

same length of focus, and be placed at 4 (2 + 2) inches apart from
one another. The magnifying power of the day telescope may be

calculated in the same manner as that of the astronomical one

above explained ; for the two additional lenses in the day instru

ments, having the same focal length as the eye-lens itself, pro

duce no further enlargement of the objects, but serve only to

cross the rays a second time, and so to render the image erect
instead of inverted.
it,THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 307

    Now that Kitty understood the principle upon
which telescopes were constructed, she begged her

brother to promise to construct one as soon as he
was well ; and Humphry having consented, the
two then passed on to the consideration of the prin
ciple of the microscope.

  I" have already told you," said Humphry, on en

tering upon the subject, " that the nearer an object
comes te us, the larger it appears. But, as you

saw, when you held your finger close before your
eye, it grew so indistinct and confused, that the

form of it was almost as obscure as if it had been

at a great distance from you. Now this effect is
produced by the greater divergence of the rays of
light, whenever an object is brought nearer to
us ; and when the divergence is very great, the
crystalline lens within the eye has not power to
collect the rays into a focus on the retina at the
back of the eyeball. You will understand how the
rays come to diverge more and more the nearer

an object approaches to
us, by the following illus
tration.

   " There, we will suppose

the eye to be looking at
some very minute object,
like a speck of the dust from a butterfly's wing, at
the distance of 6 inches, 4 inches, and 2 inches.
Well, at 6 inches, the rays of light given off by
368 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

you perceive, diverge but slightly in comparison
with the angle at which they enter the eye at 2
inches. Consequently, the image produced within
the eye itself would, in the latter case, be so dim

that we should be almost unable to distinguish it.

In order, however, to look at a very small object,
we must bring it as close as possible to the eye ;
so that, to enable us to see it distinctly at a short
distance, we must find out some means of de

creasing the divergence of the rays of light from
near objects, -- or, what would be better still,
of making the rays enter the pupil in parallel

lines.

  INow showed you, a short while back, that a

convex lens causes the rays of light from objects
placed in its focus to pass out on the other side of

the glass parallel to each other. Consequently you
perceive that, by means of a double convex glass, we

Jcan see objects distinctly when held at an inch --

or even the -j'^th of an inch -- from our eye, pro

vided such be the focal length of the lens em

ployed ; and thus we shall, for the reasons before

explained, obtain a magnifying power which will be

equal to the distance at which the naked eye can

see minute objects distinctly divided by the focal
length of the lens employed. For example, the
distance of distinct vision for very minute objects

may be taken at 5 inches, so that if we make use

of a lens having a focus of 1 inch, the magnifying
THE "WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 369

power will be equal to 5 inches divided by 1 ;

that is to say, an object viewed with such a glass
will appear to have its length and breadth in

creased five-fold ; so that its length being magni

fied 5 times, and its breadth 5 times also, its

entire surface will be increased as much as 25
times, or 5x5. If, however, we employ a lens

having a focus of only ^th of an inch, the linear
magnifying power will be equal to 5 inches divided

by -jJjth (or «-°), that is to say, to 50-fold ; while

the superficial magnifying power will amount to

       is

                  5

                                       a if,
50 x 50, or 2500-fold ; and again," went on the

lad, " the lens employed have focus of only yj-^th
of an inch, then the linear magnifying power will

be equal to inches divided by i^th (or ^^-),

--that to say, to 500, and the superficial magni

fying power to 500 x 500, or 250,000.

  " A lens of very short focus," added Humphry,
       a
constitutes what
             is
                         is
                  termed the single microscope.

For this purpose the lens usually made spherical,
-- as sphere, or round ball of glass, has its focus
a
    a
at distance from its centre equal to              a       its own

radius; so that if we had -small glass ball, of       1|
                  a                                       1

inch in diameter, the focus of such lens would

fall at of an inch from the centre of the ball

itself; whereas if the ball was ^th of an inch in

diameter, would have the focus at ^ths of an
inch from its centre so that you will readily com
       -J

          it

                                               :

                                              a
prehend, Kitty, how tiny sphere must be used

                                                  BB
370 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

in order to give great magnifying power with a
single microscope. To have a lens of T\yth of an
inch focus that will, consequently, be able to mag
nify an object 50 times in length and breadth,
it would require the glass sphere to be only about
-j'^jjths of an inch in diameter. The perfect execu
tion of such lenses requires considerable skill in

the grinding and polishing, therefore other means of

constructing them have been desired. One simple
method of forming a microscopic lens consists in
drawing out (by means of a spirit-lamp) a thin strip
of window-glass into threads, and holding the end
of one of such threads in the flame until it runs
into a globule. The globule is then cut off and
set in a small aperture, in such a manner that none
of the rays may pass through that part of the tiny
ball where it was originally united to the thread.

Another process," continued the youth, " consists in

taking up some fine-pounded glass on the wetted

point of a needle, and then melting it by a spirit-

lamp into a globule, after which the globule is re
moved, and once more taken up, by the wetted point
of the needle, on its -round side, when it is again
inserted in the flame, until it becomes a perfect
sphere. Moreover, drops of water, as well as
drops of oil or varnish, have been used for micro
scopic lenses. These are placed on a small piece
of plate glass, and have considerable magnifying

powers. Further, the lenses from the eyes of fish
   THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 371

have been used for the same purpose ; but, in this
case, it is necessary to look through the lens in

the direction of its axis --or, in other words, in the

same manner as the fish did.*

  "A good extempore microscope may be formed

out of two test-tubes filled with water, and placed
one across the other, like the algebraic sign +."

    To please his sister, Humphry had his spirit-
lamp lighted, and proceeded to form some little
globules of glass in the flame, in the manner be
fore explained ; and then, having set these upon
a plate of brass, he showed the delighted girl how
wonderfully objects were magnified by them ; and
afterwards he went on to explain to her how it was

* Within the last 30 years the diamond has been used for

the purpose of microscopic lenses ; for, owing to the refractive

power of this precious stone being greater than almost any other

known substance, and nearly double that of glass, lenses can be

produced from it of a great degree of magnifying power, and that

with   a  comparatively small    curvature,    so that increased distinct
ness  is  obtained ; while the  lens itself,
                                              being nearly " achromatic,"

the image produced by it is untinged by prismatic colours. Mr.

Pritchard constructed the first diamond microscope in 1826. The

diamond lens of this was double convex, and had a focus of g'jth

Iof an inch,                                             "timecso. nceDivre.

Goring, an
           so that   its magnifying   power was 150
          eminent   authority on the
                                      subject, says, --

diamond lenses to constitute the ultimatum of perfection in the

single microscope." The sapphire has also been used for the

construction of microscopic lenses with considerable advantage,

its magnifying power being much greater than that of glass.

Mr. Pritchard says, that the sapphire, next to the diamond,

possesses all qualities requisite for the formation of a perfect

magnifier, and presents less difficulties in the construction.
372 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

possible to increase the microscopic power of lenses,
even without diminishing their size.

   " Suppose," said he, " that we have a lens of

J an inch focus, and which would, therefore, mag-

mify the diameter of objects 10 times; and then
suppose that, instead of looking directly at the

image, we place another lens of a short focus -- say
1 inch -- between it and our eye, and so view the

image through the second lens. Well, this second
lens would, for the reasons before given, magnify
the object 5 times more ; so that it would thus be
made to appear 50 times bigger in all; the image
being rendered 10 times greater by the first lens,
and that image, again, 5 times greater by the
second. This constitutes what is termed the com
pound microscope ; and, by means of this instrument,
objects may be magnified almost to any extent."

    Humphry having now thoroughly made out to
himself, as well as his sister, the principle upon
which the powers of the microscope and telescope
depends, concluded the subject by drawing the
following diagrams, illustrative of the opposite action

of the two instruments : --

                                    Telescopic arrangement.
THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 373

                              Microscopic arrangement.

" There," said the boy, " in the one case, as in the

preceding diagram, the object is at a considerable

distance from the lens, and the image near it ;

while in the other, as in the above diagram, the

object is near the lens, and the image at a con

siderable distance from it. Now if we suppose,

Kitty, the object to be 10,000 feet in front of the

first lens, and the image 10 feet behind      fol
it,
                  ;
                    it,
                  TJ if it
lows that the image, in this case, would be 1000

times smaller than the object itself and      we

suppose, on the other hand, the object to be  Oth

of an inch in front of the second lens, and the

image to be 10 inches behind then the image, in

that case, would be 1000 times larger than the

object itself. Let us now imagine another lens to

Astronomical Telescope.

be placed before each of the images -- as herea
shown -- so that the eye may view them at
374 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

shorter distance than it could see them distinctly

without any such aid ; and let us say, again, that
the focal length of this second lens in both cases,
                        is
                            it

                                  a
                                         is,

                                               it it
                                                                                       1
    inch. Well, then, we should be regarding the
image in the upper diagram at distance of inch
instead of 10 feet, which the focal length of the
1
object-glass, and so bringing 100 times nearer to
 I
                ;our eye the consequence would be, that would

appear to us to be 100 times larger than would

at the distance of 10,000 feet, so that this would

be the magnifying power of the instrument, which,

as said before,    always equal to the focal
                   is

                                                  of
length of the object-glass, divided by that                                               the

eye-glass. Such, then, constitutes the arrange

ment of the astronomical telescope. In the com

pound microscope, however," added Humphry,
" the magnifying power
                        estimated by multiply
                        is

                                ;
ing instead of dividing the power of the object-

glass by that of the eye-glass so that, as we sup
posed the first lens in the lower diagram to mag

nify the object 1000 times, and the second lens

now enables us to view the image distinctly
at times nearer the eye than we could with
5

  it,

                                                                        5,
out the gross magnifying power, therefore,

must amount to no less than 1000 x or 5000

times."

The youth then went on to explain to his sister

that the same relation which exists between the

telescope and the microscope, also holds good be
  THE WONDERS OF THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT. 375
tween the camera-obscura and the magic-lantern.

In the camera-obscura, for instance, the object, as

in the telescope, is at a considerable distance in
front of the object-glass, and the image at a short
distance behind it ; whereas in the magic-lantern,
the object, as in the microscope, is at a short dis
tance in front of the object-glass, and the image at

a considerable distance behind it. In the camera,

therefore, the image is as much diminished as

it is nearer the lens than the object ; whilst
in the magic-lantern the image is as much mag
nified as it is farther from the lens than the

object.

   The annexed drawing will illustrate the action
of these two instruments clearer than words can
describe them : --

    The reader has only to suppose the image pro
376 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

duced by the camera -- a portrait, let us say -- to be
fixed upon glass (by the "collodion process" of

photography, an invention since Davy's time), and
this image to be made to serve as the object (or,
in plainer language, the slide) of the magic-lan
tern, in order to comprehend how the object in the
one instrument may be made the image in the other,

and vice versa, the image of the first the object of

the second.
    THE WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF LIGHT. 377

                  CHAPTER XVI.

     THE WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF LIGHT.

HITHERTO Humphry had considered only the laws
which regulate the transmission of light through
transparent bodies. This constitutes the branch
of the subject called dioptrics (from S<«, through,
and tiTTifutt, to see). The other branch, termed
catoptrics (from X«T«, from, or against, and tTs-nftxi,
to see), deals with the laws of light when it is
reflected or thrown back from the surface of any
body against which it falls. Accordingly the lad
passed, in due order, from the transmission to the
reflexion of the luminous rays.

   To explain this part of the subject the youth
first procured a piece of an old looking-glass, and
having got Kitty to close the shutters once more,

he placed the looking-glass upon the ground, s,o
378 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

that the ray might fall just in the middle of it ;
when, as the room was thoroughly darkened, it was

easy to observe the inclination, or angle, at which

the light fell on the reflector, as well as to perceive

the course it took afterwards.

  I" Why, declare," cried Kitty, as she looked at
Ithe bright streak, " it goes down and then up

again ; and can see the beam slanting away from

the glass on each side, for all the world like a big

letter V!"

   " Yes," returned Humphry, " you see the course

of the beam is stopped by the looking-glass, and

instead of going through  it,
                                   it
                                          is
                          the thread of light

that streams down from the hole in the shutter no

sooner falls on the mirror than               driven up

from  it,  precisely in the same manner as if the

luminous particles were series of hard balls pro
                    a

jected against the glass, and so made to bound off

from its surface."

The youth then called for his arc, and proceeded

                    to measure the angle at

                    which the light fell upon

                    the glass, and also the

                          angle at which      it,    was
                                                 it
                          reflected from -- thus:

                          "Do you see, Kitty,"

                                         he cried, as the eager

girl stooped down beside her brother, " the ray
THE WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF LIGHT. 379

that slants down from the shutter falls upon the

glass at an angle of 45°, and this is what is called

the angle of incidence ; while the ray which slants
upwards from it is reflected from the glass at 45°

also, and this is what is called the angle of re

flexion : so that, you perceive, the one is exactly
equal to the other, and this constitutes what is

termed the law of reflexion. For, no matter what

the form of the mirror itself, or in what direction a

         it

              a

                               it,
                                 it
                                          is
ray of light falls upon                       always reflected or

driven back from the surface at precisely the same

angle as strikes upon it. As you say, the two

rays form   kind of letter V, and one prong

of the letter always slants just as much as the

other."

"But suppose the surface of the glass, Hum

phry, was to be hollowed out like bowl, would
           ?

             it
                                                                              ;
                                                         a
                                            if
                                                                 it
do so then " inquired the girl.
" Certainly," was the reply " and
                                              the rays

falling upon then were parallel one to the other,

you would find, upon drawing the figure on paper,

that they would all meet together at one point in

front of the glass, which would, consequently, be
the focus, -- the distance of such focus being equal

to half the radius, or semi-diameter, of the curva
ture of the mirror itself. Give me the compasses
and open the shutters, Kitty, and you shall soon

see what mean."
         I
380 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   In a few minutes the following diagram was

described : --

                                                            Convex Mirror.

        Concave Mirror.

" There   "  cried  Humphry,  as  he  put  the  last

         !

touch to the drawing, "the two curved lines repre

sent the surfaces of a convex and a concave mirror,

the curvatures of which form portions of a circle,

having its centre at the point where the unbroken

lines meet. Now, these unbroken lines, being

drawn in each case from the centre to the surface

of the mirror itself, are exactly perpendicular to

the points where the rays of light fall; and if you

measure with the arc the angle which the dotted

parallel lines form on one side of the unbroken
ones, you will find that they are, in every case,
here equal to that which the dotted slanting lines

form on the other side of the same perpendicular.

Consequently, you perceive that, by a concave
THE WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF LIGHT. 381

mirror, the rays are made to converge to a focus in

front of the mirror itself ; whereas by a convex

mirror the rays are made to diverge, as if they

came from a focus behind the mirror itself. Now

this, you remember, is precisely the same as what

takes place with concave and convex lenses ; for a

concave lens has its focus in front of            like
                                                  a it,
concave mirror, but, owing to the rays passing
                                                                 a
through the lens in the one case, and being driven

back from the mirror in the other, they are made
by the lens to diverge and by the mirror to con

verge. So that, while the concave lens diminishes
the apparent size of objects, the concave mirror
magnifies them. The same thing holds good," con

tinued the boy, " with convex lens and convex
a
       ;

                          ;

                                       a
mirror they both have their focus behind them,

but the rays, in passing through the lens, converge

to point, whereas, being driven back from the

mirror, they diverge and so, while the convex lens

magnifies, the mirror diminishes the apparent size
of objects."

Next, Humphry directed his sister to place her

self alongside the looking-glass over the mantel

piece, while he did the same facing her, and in

such manner that neither could see their owna

figure reflected in the mirror. It would then be

found, he said, that they would each behold the

other, and at exactly the same distance behind the:

glass as they were in front of it. In this manner --
382 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

  I" Now the reason why see you," said the lad,

" and you see me in another place than we really oc

is,cupy, because the rays reflected by the glass enter
       is
our eyes in that direction; and, as told you before,
                             by

                                I
an object  always seen       us in the direction

which the ray has at the moment of reaching the

eye, without regard to what may have been its

course previously. Your image, of course, Kitty,

on the surface of the glass itself, and not behind
it, is

       it

                        is
as appears to you to be; and what, dare say,
                             is,
will sound stranger to you,
                                      I

                                                 it
                             that the image itself

upon the glass exactly half the size that seems

to be behind it: for since, when you look at your

self in the glass, your image appears to be just as

far at the back as you are standing in front of the
   THE WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF LIGHT. 383

mirror, it is evident that the mirror itself must be
half-way between you and your apparent image;
so that it will cut in half the cone of rays which
enter your eye from the surface of the looking-

glass."

   " There is a picture," continued Humphry, as he
put the drawing before his sister, " of a person
looking at himself in. the glass; and you will see,
by the rays from his chin and forehead, which are
reflected in a point to the eye, that a vertical line

A ... B, at the surface of the glass, must be exactly

equal to half the length of the image, since the image
and the eye of the spectator are always at equal dis
tances from the glass itself. But the image, which
appears to be behind the glass, is seen under the
same angle as the image, which is really on the

Isurface of it; and so, for the reasons before gave

you, when speaking of the apparent size of objects
in general, the one behind the glass appearing to
be at twice the distance of the other, naturally
seems to be twice as large as the image on the
surface really is."
    884 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

      I" have already shown you, Kitty," went on the

    youth, after a pause, " that if two persons stand in

    front of a mirror, and each at opposite sides to
'

                 is

                         a

                                                                                                  {

                                                              \ I I is
                                                                                                                                                          j
                                                                                 it,
    they will see one another, but not themselves; and

    this constitutes the principle of what           termed the
    magician's mirror.' "                                    "\,
      " Here                                ^*t               -^
              plan," said
                                          ·*·

    Humphry, " of the ordi-

    nary arrangement. The

    black lines we will suppose to represent the walls
    of two adjoining apartments. At the end of each

    of the rooms there an aperture, made large enough
                     it
    to place behind         looking-glass that capable of
                        a is                     is

    reflecting the whole figure. In each of these aper

    tures there inserted sheet of plate-glass, which
              is

                            a
                                   a
a is  surrounded with gilt frame, so as to have the

    appearance of an ordinary mirror; and behind this

      real looking-glass placed, slanting at an angle
                     is

                                a
    of 45°, and so large, that person looking into the

    sheet of plate-glass cannot see the edges of the

slanting mirror behind it. With such an arrange

ment,         plain that person looking into either
       it

           is

                                       a

of the mirrors will not see himself, but any one

who may chance to be looking at the same time

into the mirror in the adjoining room. Conse

    quently, on looking into the mirror and believing

    that he should see his own figure reflected in    it

as in an ordinary looking-glass, his astonishment
will be great in beholding himself transformed into
   THE WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF LIGHT. 385

another person, or, indeed, into some living animal that
may be placed in front of the neighbouring glass."

   Kitty observed to her brother, that she remem
bered having seen the same kind of an apparatus in
a booth in a fair ; and by it persons were said to

be shown their future lovers.
    Humphry told her that it was by the same

means that people were made to see, apparently,
through paving-stones.

  I" For if," said the boy, " by the arrangement

have explained to you, it is possible to see a figure

in another apartment --a brick wall intervening --
it is obvious that, by the same device, an object

placed on one side of a paving-stone could be
readily seen on the other."

   " But the concave mirror," continued Humphry,
" is capable of producing far more wonderful effects,
for the image from this appears suspended in the

air; so that if the mirror and the object are hidden

from view, the effect is almost supernatural. This
illustration represents the arrangement usually em

ployed in such cases, --

                                                                   cc
JWJ THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

" Here you perceive, Kitty," added the lad, " the

two sides of a room, at the end of which there is a

square opening, with a picture-frame surrounding

it. Outside the room, in an adjoining apartment,

is placed a large concave mirror; and so arranged,

that when an object is set a little above the floor in

front of  distinct image of may be formed in
          it,

              a
                      a

                                           it
                                                     is
the centre of the aperture at the end of the room,

where the spectators are assembled. Now, if the

opening be filled with smoke, that made to rise

in clouds from chafing-dish concealed outside, the

image of any object placed in the one focus of the
mirror in the adjoining apartment will appear in

the other focus at the centre of the frame, and seem

to be depicted on the clouds of smoke there as
                                          it
back-ground. It                                             is isfavourite experiment to place
a
                                                                     is a
                             is

                                       a
skull, strongly illuminated, in the outer apart

ment, and to reflect an image of amid the smoke,

so as to be visible to the spectators in the inner room.

The trick of the mysterious dagger, too,                 very

popular. The ordinary way of performing this

by placing basket of fruit in the one focus of the
it

                a
                       a
mirror, so that distinct aerial image may be formed

of in the frame. One of the spectators then

desired to take some fruit from the basket; and as

he approaches for that purpose, a person, pro
perly concealed, withdraws the real basket of fruit

with one hand, and with the other substitutes            a

dagger, the image of which seems to strike at the
   THE WONDERS OF THE EEFLEXION OF LIGHT. 387

body of the spectator, and the thrust of the bright
polished steel at his breast never fails to produce
a powerful impression. Now, it can scarcely be
doubted that a concave mirror was the principal
instrument by which the heathen gods were made
to appear in the ancient temples. Jamblichus
informs us, that the ancient magicians made the
gods visible to the people among clouds of incense.
And in the middle ages the Pontiff, Theodore San-
tabaren, who was celebrated for his power in work
ing miracles, exhibited to the Emperor Basil of
Macedonia the image of his lost son, magnificently
dressed, and mounted on a superb charger. The
apparition of the youth seemed to rush towards his
father; and, throwing himself into his arms, va
nished. This effect was doubtlessly produced by
reflecting the image of a picture of the emperor's
son on horseback; and the picture being brought
nearer to the mirror, the image, of course, ap
peared to advance until it reached the emperor's
arms, where it naturally eluded his grasp. The
celebrated Benvenuto Cellini has left us an ac
count of a more modern necromancy, in which he
himself took a part, in the middle of the sixteenth

century.

   " ' It happens,' says Cellini," proceeded Humphry,

Ias he read the account to his sister, ' through a

variety of odd accidents, that made acquaintance
888 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

with a Sicilian priest, who was a man of genius,

and well versed in the Latin and Greek authors.

Chancing one day to have some conversation with

him, when the subject turned upon the art of ne

cromancy, I, who had a great desire to know some

Ithing of the matter, told him that had all my

life felt a curiosity to be acquainted with the mys

teries of the art. The priest made answer, that the

man must be of a resolute and steady temper who
I Ienters upon that study.
replied, that had for
Ititude and resolution enough, if could but find an
Ifopportunity. The priest subjoined, ' you think

Iyou have the heart to venture, will give you all the

satisfaction you can desire.' Thus we agreed to enter

upon a plan of necromancy. The priest, one even

Iing, prepared to satisfy me, and desired me to look
out for a companion or two.  invited one "Vin-

cenzio Romoli, who was my intimate acquaintance ;

and he brought another with him. We repaired to

the Colisseum ; and the priest, according to the

custom of necromancers, began to draw circles upon

the ground, with the most impressive ceremonies

imaginable. He likewise brought hither assafoetida,

several precious perfumes and fire, with some com

positions also, which diffused noisome vapours.

As soon as he was in reailiness, he made an open

ing to the circle ; and having taken us by the hand,

ordered the other necromancer, his partner, to throw
THE -WONDERS OF THE REFLEXION OF LIGHT. 389

the perfumes into the fire at a proper time, entrust

ing the care of the fire and the perfumes to the
rest; and thus he began his incantations. This

ceremony lasted above an hour and a half, when

there appeared several legions of devils, insomuch

that the amphitheatre was quite filled with them.'

Cellini afterwards tells us, ' that the necromancer

called by their names a multitude of demons, who

were the leaders of the several legions, and ques

tioned them by the power of the eternal, uncreated
God, who lives for ever, in the Hebrew language,

and likewise in Latin and Greek, and then the amphi

theatre was almost in an instant filled with demons,

more numerous than at the former conjuration.

The necromancer requested me to stand resolutely

by him, because the legions were now above a
thousand more in number than he had designed;

and, besides, these were the most dangerous. The

boy who had accompanied us was in a terrible

fright, saying that there were in that place a million
of fierce men, who threatened to destroy us; and

that, moreover, four armed giants of enormous

stature were endeavouring to break into our circle.

Vincenzio Eomoli quivered like an aspen leaf.

I IThough was as much terrified as any, did my
I Iutmost to conceal the terror felt ; so that greatly

contributed to inspire the rest with resolution.

But the truth  is,I

                                                                                  a
               inwardly gave myself over as
390 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

Idead man. The boy placed his head between his

kneea, and said, ' In this posture will die, for we
shall all surely perish.' In this condition, con
cludes Benvenuto, we stayed till the bell rang for

morning prayers.' "
  THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 391

                 CHAPTER XVII.

    THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY.

THE young philosopher had now completed his in
vestigations concerning the refraction and reflexion

of light. He had ascertained, --

   1. That all substances in nature are divisible
into two classes, viz. luminous and non-luminous

bodies.

   2. That luminous bodies send off rays of light
from them in all directions, and that such rays
proceed in straight lines while traversing the same

medium.

   3. That non-luminous bodies are transparent,
or opaque; that is to say, they either allow the
rays of light emitted by luminous bodies to pass
through them, or else they arrest their progress;
sometimes, in the latter case, driving them off from
their surfaces, and sometimes absorbing them.

   4. That when a ray of light falls obliquely on a
transparent body it on entering refracted or
is,
                        it,
it,392 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

bent, in a greater or less degree, out of its previous

straight course.
   5. That when a ray of light is driven off or re

flected from opaque (or even transparent) bodies,
the angle of reflexion is invariably equal to the
angle at which the ray falls upon their surfaces.

   As yet, however, Humphry had dealt only with

white or ordinary uncoloured light, and he was
now about to study the phenomena of colour itself

-- to investigate the laws which regulate the pro

duction of the varied tints on the earth, and to

ascertain, if possible, the means by which the soil

is painted with a thousand hues, and how the
colourless sunbeam becomes broken up into count
less dyes as it falls upon the flowers and the rocks,
and is driven back by them to the eye, arrayed in
all the charm of variegated lustre.

   " How comes it," said Humphry to himself, as
he thought over the subject, " that the earth by
night is black and sombre, as if a pall were spread
over the dead globe --that the trees have then a
dim, spectral look --that the sky is dusky as a

canopy of smoke, and that the buildings seem like
masses of dense shadow darkening the air, go that
the world about us is as colourless as a cavern, and
the beauty of surrounding nature blotted out with
the universal gloom ? And how is too," mused
the poetic boy, " that the beams of the returning
sun have power to dye the fields and sky with the
THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 393

richest hues -- to crimson the clouds with the glow

ing tints of dawn, and to revive, as it were, in an

instant, the infinite colours of the flowers, so that

the ground grows suddenly iridescent with their

various dyes ? How comes               it,

                                                                  a
                                       again, that at the

tropics, where the sun steeps the earth in flood

of light, the plumage of the birds and the blossoms

of the plants are unrivalled for the gorgeousness of

their colours and that as we proceed thence to
          ;

colder climates we find regularly declining chro
             a

                                    is
matic scale, the tints becoming less and less vivid
till we reach the Poles, where Nature arrayed in
one unvarying robe of white ?"

   But Humphry was too anxious to experiment

to continue dreaming over the matter, and, accord

ingly, he got his sister to darken the room once
more, and then attaching prism in front of the
                                    a

hole in the shutter, he proceeded to throw the
spectrum on the wall in the manner before de

scribed.

   Kitty was as delighted as the boy with the
beauty of the image, nor could she help wondering

how happened that simple stick of white glass
it

                                 a

could resolve the sunbeam into such exquisite

tints.

   Humphry told her that the image she saw on
the wall was merely an oblong picture of tho sun

itself, the orb being drawn out to that figure by

the refraction of the glass. The vividness of the
394 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

colours depends upon the smallness of the aperture
through which the light is admitted, and the dis
tance of the screen upon which the spectrum is

made to fall; so that if the hole in the shutter were

smaller, and the wall farther off, the spectrum
would be much brighter. The colours, he added,
came from the decomposition of the sunbeam into

its elementary tints.

   " You, doubtless, Kitty, think the light of the

sun to be simple and uncompounded, and little
dream that every ray of white light which meets
your eye is made up of seven other beams, and
each coloured with some one of the tints you see in
the spectrum here ; and it is solely because the
sunbeam is a compound rather than a simple thing,
and that each of the seven rays of which it is com
posed have different properties and refrangibilities,
that this glass prism has the power of separating
them one from the other, and so of resolving the
compound beam into its seven elementary rays.
Look here," he continued ; " were it not for this
prism the beam which comes through the hole in
the shutter would proceed in its previous course,
and strike upon the floor; but by means of this
instrument it is refracted, or bent out of its path,
and as the coloured beams of which it is composed

Iare, as said, all differently refrangible, the red

ray here, being the least refrangible of all, is the
least bent out of its course, and so made to appear
THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 395

at the bottom of the spectrum ; whereas the violet

ray, which is the most refrangible, undergoes the

most deviation, and thus is found at the upper part

of the coloured image."

Kitty acknowledged that it was beyond her

power to comprehend how a beam of white light,

which appeared to her to be devoid of all colour

whatever, could be really composed of every kind
of colour. " How was it possible," she said, " for

violet, and blue, and green, and yellow, and red,
                                           "
when mixed together,     to  form  white
                                          ?

Humphry smiled at his sister's incredulity, and

said he would show her that it was quite possible
to put the parts of the sunbeam together again, --

for by the same means as he had decomposed the

white beam into its seven coloured rays, so would

he compound those seven coloured rays again into

one colourless beam."

The girl was all eagerness to see the composite

nature of light thus practically demonstrated, and

in obedience to her brother's instructions she pro

ceeded to place a sheet of white pasteboard against

it

                  ;

                                                  it,
the wall, so that the spectrum might fall upon

and then to bring gradually nearer the prism.

As Kitty did this, she noticed that the spectrum

grew smaller and dimmer but though the colours

began to mix and encroach upon one another as

she advanced towards the prism, she found that,

even when the pasteboard screen was brought close
396 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

to the face of the glass she could still recognise the
separation of the light into its elementary coloured

beams.

   This done, Humphry proceeded to annex to the
prism already employed another, which was exactly

similar in all respects --being made of the like kind
of glass, and having a like refracting angle -- to the

previous one. The second prism, however, was
placed in the opposite direction to the first, so that
while the base of the one was uppermost, that of

the other was underneath --as here shown :--

    The reason of this arrangement was, as Hum
phry explained, that the second prism might ex
actly undo what the first had previously done, so
that the rays being now refracted by the one in an
opposite direction to the other, they would be all
brought together again, and made to strike upon
the same spot as they would have fallen upon had
no such instruments been interposed.

   The apparatus being fixed, the ray from the hole
  THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 397

in the window-shutter no sooner passed through
the two prisms than the coloured spectrum which
the beam had been previously resolved into
vanished from the wall, and a round white spot
of light appeared upon the floor.

   Kitty was so wonder-stricken at what she saw,
that she looked at Humphry with the same fixed

stare as a child gazes at some parlour magician.

   " You see, then, sister," said the lad, " that

seven coloured rays may be compounded again into
one white one, even as one white beam can be de

compounded into seven coloured ones. So that,

incredulous as it may seem to you, it is impossible
to avoid the conclusion that white light is a com
posite thing, and made up of a number of other
kinds of light that are widely different from it.
But," continued Humphry, " there is another and
simpler means of proving this point to you."

   For this purpose the girl had to procure from

the colour-shop seven different colours in powder,
each of the same tint as one of the rays in the
spectrum. These were afterwards mixed in the

same proportion as the rays themselves bore to one
another, and, to Kitty's astonishment, the result
was a kind of greyish white, produced by the
mingling of the whole ; and Humphry told her

that, were it possible to obtain colours of precisely

the same tint as those in the spectrum, a perfect
white would be the consequence.
398 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

   " Again," the youth continued, " if we take a

circle, and paint round it the several prismatic
tints in the same proportion as they exist in the

spectrum itself, and cause these to revolve so

rapidly that the eye is unable to see any one of

them, but rather perceives the whole at once, the

paper will no longer appear coloured like the rain
bow to us, but seem really white as it flashes past

the eye."

   It was necessary, however, before doing this, to

measure the several lengths of the coloured spaces
in the spectrum itself, when it was found that the
various prismatic tints were in the proportions

hereunder given :--

Proportionate Width of the  .... Greatest Chemical Action.
       Bands of Colours.
     Violet 80

     Indigo 48

Blue  60

Green 60

Yellow 40                   .... Greatest Light.
Orange 27                   .... Greatest Heat.

Bed   45

      860

   The next step was to colour a circular piece of
paper, as nearly as possible in the same manner as
the spectrum, and this was done after the following
 THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 399

fashion--where it will be seen that the outer coloured

circle is nothing more than the prismatic spectrum

bent round till its two ends meet at the point be
tween the violet and red -- the entire circle itself

being supposed to be divided into 360 parts.

    The circular spectrum, when finished, was placed
upon a humming-top, and the top being made to
spin as rapidly as possible, the prismatic disc, as

it whirled past the eye, appeared to be absolutely
colourless ; for each tint as it revolved left its im

pression upon the retina but for an instant, and this
being immediately afterwards covered by the tint
which was next to the result naturally was, that
the whole of the seven colours fell upon precisely
the same part of the retina itself, and so produced

   composite impression -- the seven coloured rays

being perceived all at once, rather than one after
a

                               it,
400 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

another. Hence the circle seemed to be devoid

of any one of the colours painted upon
   is                                   and to

partake of that white tint which naturally resultsit is

from the blending of the whole.              is it,
                                                              is
   Humphry himself was almost as delighted as his

sister with the result of his experiments. It was

demonstrable that the light of the sun which fills the

air by day, and seems absolutely colourless to us,
not of that simple homogeneous nature which we

are naturally led to believe, but really made up of

seven coloured rays, which the eye itself unable

to separate, and from which proceed all the several

hues with which the earth        painted, for the

composite white beam falling upon the different

objects around broken up by them into its ele

mentary tints, and some one of these reflected by

them to us, so that the object itself naturally appears

of the same colour as the beam sends to the eye.

   Humphry had now to investigate the several proa

perties of the spectrum itself.

   It will be remembered that he before found the

point of greatest heat to exist at the very extremity

of the red ray, and he now ascertained by means

of photometer (or an instrument for measuring the
relative intensity of different lights) that the point of
greatest light existed at the boundary of the orange

and the yellow rays. Consequently, as the red (or
calorific) rays were less refrangible than the yellow
   THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 401

 (or luminous) rays, there was but one conclusion to

come to, -- light was itself more refrangible than

heat; that is to say, the light in passing through
the prism, and being there separated fiom the heat
with which it was previously associated, was bent
farther out of its course than the heat was, so that

the two principles were differently acted upon by
the glass, and consequently possess different powers

and susceptibilities.

    " But if," said Humphry, " the red rays are the

calorific ones, and the yellow rays the luminous
ones, what peculiar properties belong to the rays at
the upper end of the spectrum, where the sunbeam

is bent the farthest of all out of its previous course ?

What special power appertains to the violet and blue
portion of the coloured image ?"

    The youth knew, from the books he had studied
upon the subject, that these constituted the che

mical beams -- that is to say, the violet extremity
of the spectrum had been found to possess the power
of separating silver from some of its compounds, and

Humphry was now anxious to observe the effect
for himself.

    Having brushed a paper over with a solution of

·nitrate of silver (lunar caustic), he placed a strip
of it a little way beyond the violet extremity of the

spectrum ; another strip he deposited in the violet
ray itself; a third was left in the blue ray; while

in each of the other coloured portions a piece of the
402 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

same paper was exposed, and the light admitted to
them all at the same time.

   It was then found that the nitrate of silver

darkened the most rapidly at that part of the spec

trum a little beyond the violet extremity -- that the

chemical effect was the greatest after this in the
violent ray itself. Next, the blue ray possessed a
greater decomposing power than the green ; whilst
in the yellow and red rays no such power was per
ceptible, for the solution of silver remained un-
darkened there.

   " So, then," cried Humphry, " the wonderful

sunbeams that stream every day upon the earth
contain not only all the .colours of the rainbow, but
three distinct, subtle principles, locked up in them

-- heat, light, and chemical influence ; each of

these being differently refrangible and existing in
a ray of a different colour ; the heat inhering in
the red or lower portion of the spectrum, and the
chemical power in the violet or opposite extremity,
whilst the light occupies, as it were, a middle place,
residing principally in the yellow portion.

    Humphry then delighted his sister by preparing

different chemical solutions, to be acted upon by the
violet rays of the sun.

    First, he made some chloride of silver (by steep

 ing a paper in salt and water), and then brushing
it over with a solution of lunar caustic. This he
 found to darken even more rapidly than the nitrate
THE ·WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 403

of silver itself, and he then set to work to ascertain

the cause.

   Now chloride of silver he knew to consist of

chlorine (a green coloured gas) and silver, and
he was anxious to see whether light would act

upon chlorine more powerfully than it did upon
nitric acid, as Mr. Wedgwood had told him.

   Accordingly he filled ajar with equal portions of

hydrogen and chlorine gases, and submitted this to
the action of the sun's rays, when, to the astonish

ment of himself and terror of Kitty, the jar was no

sooner placed in the sunshine than the two gases
detonated with the noise of the report of a pistol,
and the jar itself was almost shivered to pieces in

the explosion.

   Delighted with the result, and anxious to re
peat the experiment in a less dangerous form,
he filled a tube, about half an inch in diameter
and twelve inches long, with the same gases, and
while the end of the tube was inserted in a vessel
of water, the upper part of it was shaded with an

opaque cover, so that by removing this for an
instant he could allow the gases within the tube
to be acted upon by the light for as short a time

as he pleased.

   In this manner the ingenious youth found, that

the moment the opaque cover was removed and the

tube exposed, even to the diffused light of day, a

cloudiness appeared within  it,  owing to the in
404 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

stantaneous, though silent, combination of the two

gases, while the water rose more or less rapidly

within it according to the intensity of the light.

The effect even of a passing cloud was thus dis

tinctly seen to retard the rapidity of the combina

tion, while, when exposed to the full solar light,

the union of the two was so instantaneous that the

gases suddenly disappeared from the tube, and

the water rushed violently up into it to fill the

vacuum.

Next Humphry found that the two gases, when

exposed to the sun's rays in a tube of violet-coloured

glass, combine rapidly, but, strange to say, without

explosion ; whereas when they are submitted to

the action of sun-light in a tube of red glass, the

gases scarcely act upon one another.  It was,

moreover, ascertained, that when standing in a

perfectly dark place, the two gases do not enter

into combination in any length of time.
   The lad could now understand why the chloride

of silver darkened so rapidly in the sun's rays.

The chlorine with which the metal was combined

was attacked by the moisture in the atmosphere,

and as this moisture consisted of oxygen and hy
drogen in the form of water, the hydrogen of it

was made by the chemical influence of the sunbeam

to enter into rapid combination with the chlorine,

and thus the silver was left behind, but in such

minute particles that the metal, instead of appealing
  THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 405

white as it usually does, assumed the form of a
black powder, which, being fixed in the paper,
naturally caused it to darken in those parts where
the light had fallen upon it.

    Filled with the knowledge he had thus obtained,
Humphry set to work to produce some sun-pictures
for his sister. Patterns of pieces of lace were thus
made to impress their forms in a few seconds upon
paper that had been prepared over-night with a
coating of chloride of silver. Where the light fell,
the silver was separated from the chlorine, and
precipitated in minute black particles, so that the
paper was darkened in those parts ; while in the
places where the threads of the lace prevented the
rays from reaching the paper, the solution was un-
decomposed, so that a white line exactly corre
sponding to the pattern of the lace itself became
impressed upon the black ground.

   Kitty was overjoyed at the first picture she

beheld her brother produce by the light, and
Humphry smiled as he saw her take it to the
window to examine it more minutely, for he knew
that as she looked at it the light would begin to
act upon the parts that had been previously screened
by the lace itself, and where the solution still re
mained undecomposed in the paper ; and sure
enough, in a few minutes, she gradually saw the
pattern vanish, and the whole ultimately become of
one uniform dark -brown tint.
406 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

" What a pity," cried the girl, " that so beautiful
Ifa thing should be so perishable !
                                     you could only

find out, Humphry, how to fix the pictures, what a
great thing it would be for you to do ! "

The brother told her, that in order to accomplish

this it was necessary to discover some substance that

would remove the undecomposed chloride of silver,

forming the white parts of the picture, and which

would not attack the decomposed silver itself,

forming the dark parts of it.

To attain this end, the young chemist made

an infinity of experiments, but without avail ;

for though he tried a number of acids and alkaline

solutions, he could find no liquid that would remove

the undecomposed chloride from the paper, and after
weeks of toil and disappointment he was obliged

to confess, unwillingly, that the difficulty was one

he lacked the power to master.

   Many years after Davy's time, however, it was

discovered that the chemical substance termed hypo

sulphite of soda readily dissolves chloride of silver,

and has little or no action upon the precipitated
silver itself ; and from this period may be dated the
perfection of the wonderful art of photography (or
sun-painting) that Thomas Wedgwood was the first
to attempt, and at which Davy himself was one of

the early but unsuccessful experimenters.

   Of this art there are now two distinct branches,
viz. one in which the pictures are produced upon
THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGEAPHY. 407

jmetal, the other upon paper or glass. In the me
tallic process, iodide of silver is the chemical agent
rather than the chloride; this is formed by sub

mitting a perfectly clean plate of polished silver to

the action of the vapour of iodine, and sometimes

to bromine afterwards, in order to quicken the

action. The plate thus prepared is placed in the

camera, so that an image of the object to be copied

may fall upon it ; the consequence  that in the
is" lights" of the picture the iodide of silver becomes

       ;decomposed, the iodine itself going off in the form of

             it ishydriodic acid gas, by combining with hydrogen in

                                                    is,the moisture of the air, and the pure silver being
                                                          is
left behind whereas in the shades of the picture
                                                                                           ;
where no light reaches, the iodide of silver remains

undecomposed. The action usually takes place in

some few seconds, according to the intensity of

the light and the nature of the "quick" used.

When the plate  removed from the camera no

picture visible upon its surface, so that the deve

loping part of the process has then to be performed.
This consists in submitting the plate to the fumes

of mercury, which attach themselves to the parts

where the pure silver has been separated from the

iodine with which was combined. These parts

constitute, as we said before, the "lights" of the

picture, and there the mercurial vapour  con

densed, and clings in the form of minute globules

whilst to the parts which have been undecomposed
408 THK WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

the mercury does not attach itself, having no affinity

whatever with the iodide of silver that remains there.

The consequence  is,the globules of mercury which
                       a
cling to the portions where the rays have fallen,
                                           is
reflect so much light to the eye that they form the

"whites" of the picture; whereas the undecom-

posed iodide of silver, sending no light to the re

tina, constitutes the "blacks:" and thus the image,

which was latent on the plate,                 developed, or

brought out, with such marvellous fidelity, that

when examined with microscope, characters that

were several miles distant in the original may be

clearly read in the minute sun-copy.

     After this comes the fixing process, and that con

sists merely in submitting the plate to the action of

hyposulphite of soda, which dissolves, and so re

moves all the undecomposed iodide of silver from

it,  and thus renders incapable of being further
                 it
acted upon by the light.
                               is
   The above constitutes what now usually known
as the " Daguerreotype process."

     The production of photographic pictures upon

paper, on the other hand, forms what termed theis

" Talbotype process " -- the names of the two types
being derived from those of their inventors. In

the latter method of producing sun-pictures there

are almost the same different stages to be gone
through. The paper itself has first to be iodised,

or rendered sensitive to the action of light, by
THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY, 409

means of coating it with a surface of iedide of

silver. This is done by washing it over first with

a solution of nitrate of silver, and when this is

dry, with a solution of iodide of potassium; the

isconsequencethe one solution decomposes the

               aother, so that nitrate of potash and iodide of silver
                   a
                        is,

                                                   a is
are formed. The nitrate of potash, being soluble,

      then washed out of the paper, while the in

soluble iodide of silver remains fixed in it. Then

follows the "quickening" part of the process.

This consists in washing the sheet of iodised paper

over with solution of what termed gallo-nitrate

of silver, which consists of small proportion of

gallic acid (the acid from gall-nuts) dissolved in
water, and added to a solution of lunar caustic,

having little acetic acid, or pure vinegar, in it.

The gallic and acetic acids are used because             is

found that the presence of any vegetable or organic         it
matter hastens the decomposition of nitrate of
                                                                 is
silver when exposed to light. The paper now

ready for the camera, and so sensitive to the
                      it
action of light that
                           is
                                is
                      said to transeend the

ordinary iodised paper in this respect more than

    hundredfold, so that even second or two of time
is a                  a
                               a
      sufficient to impress latent image upon it.

      Then, as in the daguerreotype method, the de

veloping process has to be resorted to in order to

bring out the picture, which imperceptible on reis

moving the paper from the camera, and the exist
410 THK WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

ence of which would not be suspected by anj one who
had not been forewarned of it by previous experi
ments. To render the picture visible, the paper
is washed over once more with the gallo-nitrate of

silver before described, and then warmed gently
before the fire ; whereupon that part of the paper
upon which the light has acted begins to darken,
while the other part of the paper retains its white

ness. After this, as in the "Daguerreotype"
method, the fixing process has to be resorted to.
This, for " Talbotypes," consists in washing the
paper in bromide of potassium, which dissolves out

all the undecomposed chemicals, and so leaves an
indelible impression behind.

    The picture thus produced, however, is what is

termed a "negative" one, -- that is to say, the

lights in the original are represented by shades in
the photographic copy, and vice versa, the shades
in nature are rendered as lights in the picture.
The Talbotype, therefore, has to be again copied,
in order that the lights and shades may be accu
rately represented. For this purpose, however,
the paper need not be so highly sensitive ; so that
the ordinary quickening part of the process by
means of the gallo-nitrate may be dispensed with,
or the paper may be coated with chloride of silver
instead of the iodide before described. Again, the
developing process is no longer necessary, the pic
ture being produced directly by the action of light,
  THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGEAPHY. 411

rather than indirectly by means of some developing
agent. The fixing process in this stage is usually
performed by means of hyposulphite of soda, and

by these means the negative picture before pro

duced is rendered positive, and the lights and
shades thus made an accurate representation of
those in nature.

   It will now be seen that the art of producing

sun-pictures, whether by the Daguerreotype or the
Talbotype, comprises usually four distinct pro

cesses, viz. : --

    1. The preparatory process, which consists in

preparing the plate or paper, -- that is to say, in

coating it with some solution of silver that is
capable of being decomposed by the action of
light.

   2. The quickening process, which consists, again,
in rendering the plate or paper more highly sensi
tive to light by the addition of some other chemical,
which facilitates the decomposition of the com
pound of silver, with which tlie surface has been

previously coated.
    3. The developing process, which consists in

rendering visible the latent picture which has been
impressed upon the plate or paper while exposed
to the action of the light in the camera.

   4. The fixing process, or the dissolving out of
all the undecomposed silver compound, and so pre
413 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

venting the light from having any further action
upon it.

   Now it must not be supposed that the com
pounds of silver are those only which are capable
of being decomposed by the sun's rays, for photo

graphic pictures have been produced by compounds

of all the precious metals -- such as gold, platinum,

mercury, &c., these substances having but slight
affinities, and so being easily separable from the
elements with which they are united. Again, iron

has been used successfully for the same purpose, --

for this body, also, is readily decomposed when
combined with certain substances. Further, the
gum -resins and bitumens admit of being em
ployed in the same manner, and many vegetable
juices have been used by Sir John Herschel for
a like purpose. Indeed it has been truly said,
that almost every substance in nature is affected,
in some way or other, by the solar rays, for we
now know that no substance can be exposed to the
sun's rays without undergoing chemical action.

    The changes, therefore, that are continually oc
curring in the external world are quickened by the
rays, which at one time, it was believed, gave only
light and heat to the globe that we inhabit ; and
even the very changes of the seasons, the growth
of vegetation, the blossoming of the flowers, and
the ripening of the fruits, are all due, in a measure,
THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 413

to the chemical influence of those elementary rays
which lie concealed in the compound sunbeam :
for it has been proved that the sunshine itself is

necessary, even to the breathing of plants through

their leaves, and that in the shade they cease ab

sorbing the carbon from the atmosphere which is

ultimately destined to form part of their woody
structure. Thus light becomes not only the source

of beauty to the world, and the agent upon which

one of our most wondrous senses depends, namely,
that by which we are enabled to recognise the

form and nature of objects at a distance from us,

but it is also the source of health and vigour to

our frames, by maturing the products of the earth

upon _ which we live, as well as by promoting in
our own frames those subtle, chemical changes, by

which our bodies are nourished and our faculties

developed, since in darkness men can no more

thrive than plants.

Had Davy lived to see the development of the

chemical influence of light that has been opened up

to us since his time, he would have been the loudest

in his praises of the marvels wrought by  it,  and,

doubtless, among the foremost to have extended

our knowledge of its action. But these are dis

coveries made since his time, and discoveries which

he, with his deep insight into Nature, was unable

to foresee, or even to assist. To such perfection,

however, has the photographic art been carried
414 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

since the days when Davy vainly essayed to fix the
images which took him some quarter of an hour to
produce, that not only can stationary objects have
their forms indelibly impressed upon paper by the
very light itself which renders those forms visible to
us, but the passing shadows that give beauty to the
landscape can be made permanent, the very undu
lation of the corn can be seized, the rustling of the
leaves detained, and even the rippling of the waters,
the playing of the fountains, and the curling of the
smoke, whose particles never for two moments to
gether remain in the same place, can be arrested, and
their evanescent forms painted by themselves, as it
were, upon the tablets ; so that the effect of a mere
instant can, by its marvellous agency, be prolonged
for years. Thus time, which is known to us only
by the changes which are continually occurring with
out and within us, has all the fixity of space ; and
those historical events which our forefathers were
unable to convey to us, from the want of some such
art, can now be handed down, rendered with all the
truth of light itself, so that future generations
gazing at them may behold the same scenes that
were impressed at the back of our eyes years
before. Indeed, the photographic art itself is but
the process of individual and transient vision made
universal and permanent; for the eye itself is but
the camera through which we gaze at the world
without, and the retina at the back of the organ of
  THE WONDERS OF COLOUR AND PHOTOGRAPHY. 415

sight no more than a photographic plate, as it were,
impressing the images that flit before our vision

more or less permanently upon our memories.

   As an instance, however, of the perfection, we
repeat, to which this process of fixing the most

transient images has been carried, we need only-

mention the experiment performed by Mr. Talbot,
in which a moving body, that was made to revolve

at an enormous speed, and that was illuminated but

for an instant by the electric spark, was photo

graphed as a stationary object.

  It is well known that a wheel revolving at a

rapid rate is barely visible to us, the spokes
passing with such velocity before the eye that we

are unable to distinguish one from the other, so

that the whole appears to us almost as one entire

disc ; such a wheel, however, if made to rotate

in the dark, and then suddenly illuminated for that
inappreciable portion of time which the electric

spark --the miniature lightning of the laboratory --
endures, then appears to us as if absolutely standing
still; for as we see it under such circumstances

only in that place which it occupies so long as

the light lasts, and this being but for the least

conceivable term of duration, it has no time --
however rapidly it may be turning on its axis --

to pass from one point of space to another, so that

it can but appear to us as if utterly stationary.
   In the experiment we allude to, a wheel was
416 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

thus made to revolve so rapidly, that its revolu
tions were counted by the musical note produced

by the vibrations of a spring, that moved back
wards and forwards once at each turn. The revo
lutions were performed in the dark ; and during

this the chamber and wheel were suddenly lighted
by one spark drawn from a powerful electric

machine. At this moment a photographic ap

paratus was presented to the wheel itself, and on
developing the image thus produced upon the
paper whieh had been previously inserted in the

camera, it was found to be impressed with a per
fect copy of the wheel itself, with all its spokes

distinctly visible, and precisely the same as if the

image had been taken from the wheel while in a

state of rest. It was the same stationary image,

too, as the spectators themselves had beheld during
the instantaneous illumination of the object ; and
thus, by the aid of the same fluid as the light
ning itself, and with the assistance of music to
register the rate of revolution, that mysterious
principle of motion which has puzzled philosophers
since philosophy began, was made to appear like
rest, and even the sensibility of the eye itself
rivalled by photographic agency, so that the dead
paper was made to be impressed with the very
same figure as the living retina itself perceived.
CONCLUSION.  417

                CHAPTER XVIII.

                                  CONCLUSION.

DUEING the prosecution of his later experiments
Humphry had formed the acquaintance of Mr.
Davies Giddy, a gentleman of high scientific attain
ments, better known under the name of Davies
Gilbert, and who was then resident at Tredrea,
near Penzance.

   This gentleman, who ultimately became Pre
sident of the Royal Society, proved of great ser
vice to young Davy, for not only did he lend the
boy such apparatus as he required for the carrying
out of his experiments, but he delighted to con
verse with Humphry ; and though he could not
help smiling occasionally at the strangeness of his
theories, he grew to have a lively sense of the
ardour of the youth's imagination, and the ori
ginality of his mind.

    Now it so happened that Davies Giddy was

                                                                   EE
418 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

acquainted with Dr. Beddoes, who had formerly
been one of the Oxford Professors, but who had
recently opened a Pneumatic Institution at Bristol
for the cure of diseases by the inhalation of gases ;
and it was during one of Dr. Beddoes' visits to

Davies Giddy that Humphry made the acquaint
ance of the Doctor, and so favourable an im

pression did he make upon the gentleman, that
not long afterwards a letter was sent, offering
Humphry the post of Assistant to the Bristol
Institution.

    The lad was delighted at the prospect of re

moving from so remote a place as his native town,
and lost no time in talking the matter over with

his friends. Mr. Giddy told him of the Doctor's
influence, and how his Institution was already the
resort of some of the most eminent persons in the
country, and warmly advised him to avail himself
of the offer.

    Mr. Borlase, to whom Humphry repeated all that
 Mr. Giddy had said, counselled the boy to take the

 same step, and added, that he had been so pleased
 with his conduct while under his roof that he
 would in no way impede his advancement, but
 would rather cancel his indentures, even though
 he was just beginning to be of service to him.

    Mrs. Davy, too, was anxious that her boy --

 whom she felt more and more convinced was

 destined to take a high rank in the world -- should
CONCLUSION.  419

be transferred to a wider sphere, where his abilities
would have greater chance of being called into play,
and she gladly accompanied Humphry to their old

friend, Mr. Tonkin, to break the matter to him, and
hear what he thought of the proposal.

    The old gentleman, however, could not be made
to listen to the project, and did not hesitate to

denounce Humphry's desire for worldly honour as
the "wild-goose chase" which led many an am

bitious simpleton astray, saying, that if the boy

would make up his mind to settle in his native
place, he might be assured of a comfortable inde

pendence, for he would find but few able to com
pete with him there. Nevertheless, in a large town

-- however striking his talents might appear in a
small one -- the circle of his competitors would be

so much increased, that he would sink into a mere
nobody, and end his days as one of the many fools
who had struggled after the world's prizes, and
found, when too late, that there was no chance of

obtaining them.
   Mrs. Davy, however, mother-like, felt satisfied

that Mr. Tonkin took an erroneous view of her

son's powers, and she strove to assure her old
friend that he did not know what Humphry was

capable of doing so well as she did, and that if he

did, he would have as little fear as herself of his
failure.

   Mr. Tonkin, however, was not to be argued out
420 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.

of the notion he had taken up, and ultimately grew

so annoyed with what he fancied to be merely a
mother's silly prejudice on Mrs. Davy's part, that

he ended the interview by vowing that the boy

should never quit Penzance with his consent.

   This, for a time, put a stop to the correspondence

on the subject. At length, however, Dr. Beddoes

became so urgent that Humphry should join him,

that, despite the objections of Mr. Tonkin, who

still would not listen to the plan, his friends ad

vised him to accept the offer ; and it was accord

ingly arranged that young Davy should leave Pen

zance as soon as he conveniently could.

   Accordingly, on the 2d of October, in the year
1798, Humphry, not then twenty years of age,
quitted his native town for the first time in his life,

and that to commence fighting his way in the world.

His mother parted from him as full of high hope

as the boy himself; and as the boy hugged the widow

to his heart alone in her chamber, before he left

her, he said, with the sobs in his throat, " Mr.

ITonkin does not know me, mother, yet : but be

you of good cheer, will live to be an honour and

a glory to you still ; and it shall be my proud lot to

Isay some day, that was the means ofj raising you

and all that belong to me to a position of comfort
Iand eminence. Years ago now, mother, told you
I would do
            it,                                 still deep in my
                                            is
            and the resolve

heart."
CONCLUSION.                               421

Mrs. Davy assured him she had every confidence

In his attaining the noble object he had in view,

and she parted from him, though with tears in

her eyes, with a smile of high hope upon her lip.
   Mr. Tonkin, however, was resolute to the last,

and at his leave-taking denounced Humphry's

plans as visionary schemes ; and when the boy had

left, and the old gentleman found his favourite

plan of settling Humphry in his native town as

a surgeon had been thwarted, he altered his will,

and revoked the legacy of the house that he had

previously bequeathed to his foster-son.

   On young Humphry's journey to Bath he met
his friend Mr. Davies Giddy at Oakhampton, and

while breakfasting there, the mail-coach from

London drew up at the door of the inn, covered

with laurels and ribbons, and bringing the first

news of Nelson's victory of the Nile.
I" have a greater fight than that to fight," said
IHumphry to himself; " and, please God,
                                          will

gain the victory, too."

   It was Mrs. Davy's happy lot to witness the

realisation of all the hopes she had formed of her
boy in his youth ; for, during her life, he rose to
be elected President of the Royal Society, and to
be created a Baronet, for the many additions he
had made to the stock of knowledge; to be re
422 THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
warded with the first prize instituted by the
Emperor Napoleon for the greatest scientific dis
covery of the time ; and to be allowed a free passage
through France at a time when all other English
men, no matter how high their rank or character,
were denied admission into that country.

                                  THE END.
                          INDEX.

AIR, currents of, how caused, 166         ^ire-damp not inflammable by red
Air-pump, experiments with, 216           heat, 253 ; rapidly explodes at white
Animal mechanism, wonders of, 70          heat, 254 ; explosible only when
Argand-burners, why superior in bril      mixed with atmospheric air, 281
liancy, 278                               jTame, subterranean, 107
Artificial light dependent on heat, 275   -, nature of, 265, 271; ofacandle
                                            hollow, 276 ; experiments with, 279
Bath wells, temperature of the, 107       Fluids, expansive power of, 182
Blow-pipe, cause of the increased         Fulminates of the precious metals,

   heat produced by the, 278                247 ; gold, 248 ; mercury, 248 ;
Brocken, spectre of the, in the Hartz       silver, 249 ; platinum, 250
mountains, 352 ; philosophy of, 355
                                                     Gas, its first application to illumina
Camera, images produced in, 316 ;         tion, 91
why reversed, 344 ; how the lens Glass absorbs artificial, but transmits
intensifies images in the, 349 ; cause    solar heat, 139
of variation in the size of objects
in, 350 ; pictures must be projected Hastings, the French coast sometimes
on an opaque body, 352                    visible from, by refraction, 332
Cellini, Beuvenuto, and the necro Heat, natural sources of, 98 ; celestial,
                                          100; subterraneous, 102-106; me
mancer, 389
Chlorine, experiments with, 259           chanical production of, 111 ; che
Coal, power concentrated in, 92           mical, 112; combustion, 114; respi
Coal-mine, destructive explosion in,      ration, 113; communication of, 116;
                                          radiation, 119 ; reflexion, 130 ; dif
    76
Colours, curious result from mixing
   in certain proportions, 397            -ference between soiar&ndterrestrial,
Combustion, laws of, 95; phenomena
                                          138 ; transmission of, 138 141 ;
                                          absorption of, 143 ; degrees of, in.
of, 225 ; nature of, 239 ; experi         the spectrum, 142 ; relative absorb
ments in, 227 ; philosophy of, 264        ing and radiating powers of sur
· , spontaneous, 242, 252                 faces, 145; radiation by different
Corpse candles, philosophy of, 241        colours, 146 ; solar more powerful
Creation, the wondrous story of, 98       reflected than direct, 148 ; conduc
                                          tion, 149 ; wonderful effects of, 173;
Daguerreotype process of photo            expansive power of, 176 ; latent,
   graphy, 408                            192 ; white, 224 ; artificial, curious
l)ew, deposition of, 126; less plentiful  changes iu its character at high
                                          rates of temperature, 224 ; then
   in cloudy weather, 128 ; its laws,     assumes all the properties of solar,

    129
Drummond light, the, 274
                                          224
                                          Hot-springs and wells, 107
Earthquakes, 108
Electric light, 274                       Ignesfatui, how produced, 240
Ether, its powers of vaporization, 204
Explosive substances, 241, 244, 246       Jack-o'-lanteiiis, causes of, 240

Eye, the, wonderful construction of,      Land's End described, 25
434 INDEX.

Lous, magnifying power of the, how         Prism, the spectrum produced by,
   determined, 868                           merely an oblong figure of the sun,
Light, electric, 274 ; artificial, depend  393 ; its colours the decomposition
ent on heat, 275 ; rays of, travel in      of the sunbeam into its elementary
straight lines, 318, 391 ; refraction         tints, 394
of, 824, 831 ; experiments, 325 ; rays     Pyramids of Egypt, size of the, 92
of, assume the colour of objects Pyrophorus, how produced, 241
from which they are reflected, 341 ;
reflexion of, 379 ; compound nature Radiation, power of, in different sub
of a ray of, 394 ; composed of seven       stances, 124
                                           Ramsgate, Dover Castle rendered
   colours, 395                               visible from, by refraction, 334
Lightning, varieties of, 110
Liquids imperfect conductors of heat, Refraction of light, curious property
157 ; merely solids whose particles        of, 831 ; illusions caused by extra
are kept apart by heat, 192                ordinary instances of, 332, 334
Lucifer-matches, why BO readily in Respiration, philosophy of, 68
   flammable, 252
Luminosity, temperature at which           Safety-lamp, first glimmer of the, V5;
                                              experiments with, 265 ; completion
   bodies assume, 223                      ofthe first, 283; its perfected form,
                                           289 ; value and importance of the
Magician's mirror, the, explained, 384     invention, 281
Mail-coaches, the first, 91
Metals, their relative power of con St. Michael's Mount, Cornwall, 57
ducting heat, 152 ; expansion and Science, true, its nature, 69
contraction of, 177 ; practical appli Scoresby's, Captain, observation of »
cation of this power, 178 ; cooling distant ship by refraction, 339
                                           Secretion, marvels of, 67
of, 219
Microscope, principle of the, 367-373 ; Spectrum, proportions of prismatic
the single, 369 ; the compound, 372        tints in the, 398 ; circular, 399
Mirage, an optical illusion caused by      Spontaneous combustion, 242-252 1
   refraction, 331                         Steam, difference of       heat  in  high
                                              low pressure, 158                       and|
Mirrors, concave, experiments with,
   130 ; wonders produced by, 385 ;        Steam-boat, the first, 89
different effects produced by me Sun-pictures, the earliest, 309
tallic and glass, 136
Mont Blanc, ascent of, 92 ; ebullition Talbot, Mr. Fox, his curious experi-
on summit of, 210                          'ment of photographing a rapidlj
                                           revolving wheel, 415
Objects, why they diminish in size in Talbotype process of photograph},
proportion to distance, 358; mag
                                           408
nifying of, by lenses, 360                 Telescope, principle of the, 865, 372
Oceanic currents, direction of the, 170 Temperature, rate of increase belov
Oils, lamp, philosophy of the com          the surface of the earth, 104
bustion of, 255, 273
                                           Vuporizable liquids readily cxplosible,
Palissy, Bernard, his discoveries
                                               254
   pottery, 307                                Vision, range of, 358
Pendulum, compensation,       principle Volcanoes, 108

   of the, 180
Phlogiston, an imaginary principle, Will-o'-the-wisp, philosophy of, 240
225 Wire-gauze, its power of resisting
Photography, first experiments in,         flame, 288.
309-405 ; practice of, 407

         London :--Printed by G. BARCLAY, Castle St. Leicester Sq.
PRESENT BOOKS FOR YOUTH.

               BOOKS

                                      OF

      ADYENTUKE,

           AMUSEMENT,

       INSTRUCTION

                          ·Batumi JSistnrit,

                     SCIENCI,

                                                 AND

                      HISTORY,

  FOR YOUTH OF BOTH SEXES
    DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET

               AND ALL BOOKSELLEE.S.
           CAPTAIN MAYNE REID'S

NEW JUVENILE BOOK OF ADVENTTTBE.

                                Now ready, price 7«., cloth,

                            The Forest Exiles;

                                                               ou,

jjtfirrils                                           Iranian fmilq amfo      is                          Wi&s ttjr.'at
                                                              Smam                    it
                     a
                            BY CAPTAIN MAYNE REID,                                             ' it tyt
                 nf
Author of the " Boy Hunters," " The Young Voyageurs," &c.
                              H
                                                     WITH TWELVE ILLUSTRATIONS.
                                                    !
--TWRIOALDPVICEACBLUUNLALF--OHRTUEHNSETTS----"CVTAAHPQTEUUERRPINOOGIS"O--NA     TREES  -- COCA IHE PUMA--'>.!!T
                                                                             LLAMAS,
                                                                                         ALPACAS, AND GUANACOS      A
                                                                              CONDOR
                                                                                       -- ENCOUNTER ON A CLEFT
--THE LONE CROSS IN THE FOREST -- THE GUACO AND THE 8OKAL
SNAKE --TRACKING THE TAPIR -- THE MILK TREE -- THE CANNIBAL
FISH --THE PUMA AND THE ANT BEAR--AN ARMADILLO HUNT --
FAMILY OF JAGUARS -- THE VAMPIRE -- THE CROCODILE AND THE CA-
PIVAROS -- ADVENTURE WITH AN ANACONDA -- VULTURES -- MONKEY's

BIIIDGE-- THE MANATI, ETC.

t{ As a writer .of books for Boys, commend us above all men living
to CAPT. MAYNE REID Wherever his new book goes this new year
there will be abundant delight for hours of reading, and plenty to talk
of by the evening fire.                                 Toils
sufferings, are narrated                               in the  and           avdivveidntumreasn, nedra--ngtehros,roduagrhinlygsf,asacnid
                                                               most
nating the mind of the reader, and retaining in fixed and eager
aBtotyenftriioenndtsi,llif                                                                                    it,
                            crisis of some kind                    reached. Take our word                 for
                            you become CAPT.                   MAYNE REID'S Boy readers'                 on our
                             you will thank us for
recommendation,                                                                        with all          your hearts, and
praise the book             more enthusiastically than                                                   done." -- Nonctm-
                                                                                       we have
forniKt.

                            DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
THE MONKEY'S BEJDGE.

                                   THK FOBIST EXILES, pOfff 43G.
                    CAPTAIN MAYNE REID'S
          BOOKS OF ADVENTURE FOR BOYS.

                                           t

                             The Boy Hunters;

                                                        OB,

          §faratas IK imrlj nf K SStjite -Buffaiir.

   WITH ILLUSTBATIOHS BY HAHVEY. FOUBTH EDITION, 7s., CLOTH.

   " Just such a book as we would make a Christmas present of to I
                              friend." -- Observer.
favo"urAitechyaorumtihnfgul  boys' book." -- Watchman.

            The Young Yoyageurs ;

                               on,

                   ftlu 58m; Iraters in iljt Inrttj.

   WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY HARVEY. SECOND EDITION, 7*., CLOTH.

"A.       real boys' delight.  Full of adventure and                                                                natural         history.
           Emphatically to be  recommended." -- Critic.
.  .
   "There can be little doubt that 'The Young Voyageurs' will
command as wide and lasting a popularity as its predecessors -- those

predecessors prized, we question not, by many a noble-hearteij boy as
among his   chief  book-favourites -- ranged by him
shelf with  'The   Boy's Ovm Book' and 'Robinson                                                                    onCrtuhseoesa.'m"e--dSeuanr .old

                   The Desert Home;

                               OR,

   Btttntes nf H /arailij lust in tin

   WUH ILLUSTRATIONS BY HASVKY. FOOSTH EDITION, 7*., CLOTH.

     " This is a volume in which young gentlemen between the ages of
twelve and twenty will greatly rejoice. . . An interesting story.
aecxqpur"aeiTsnhstaleyncaefruatmhwoeidrthistnoaptieunrrtsarool ndhauilsclyteorftyah.me" --ilyiaoCrurtiwhtifciut.hl              an  extensive
                                                                                                                    reader to   he  describes,
                                                                                                                    the scenes
and is thus able to give them an               trraurtehsftulgneensisusw."h--ichC,hainmboetrhser.1
eireamstaneee, can only be attained  air  of
Journal.                              by  the

            DAVID BOGU£, FLEET STREET.
BASIL'S ESCAPE PROM THE GRIZZLY BEAR.

                                                                     BOY HUNTERS, page 369.
                  MR. HENRY MAYHEW'S
      NEW BOOK OF SCIENCE FOR YOUTH.

                       In Foolscap 8vo, price 6s., cleth,

                                THE STOBT

                                                  0v

       The Peasant-Boy Philosopher ;

                                                      OB,

      "1 Cljilfe flattering ^rihlu nn tte gra-Hljnif."

                                                                   FOUNDED ON

THE EARLY LIFE OP FERGUSON, THE SHEPHERD-BOY ASTRONOMER,

                                                                  *M»

INTENDED TO SHOW HOW A POOR LAD BECAME ACQUAINTED WITH
                      THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURAL SCIENCE.

                          BY HENRY MAYHEW,
            Author of " London Labour and the London Poor."

WITH EIBHT ILLVSTBATIONS BY JOHN GII.BKUT, AND NUMEROUS EKORATTNGS
                                                 IN THE TEST.

it  " Its great  charm is, that the thoughtful young will lovvee                                         itw\ biellcafuinsed
                 encourages thought ; witile the unthinking
    gracefully                                                         it,

                                                                                     it

                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                           is
                                                                                                                if a
themselves speedily brought to love because intelligibly opens
to them the new sensation of                          tbhoooukgsh."t.--   The book,           in
                                                                         Athenaeum.               fact,    worth
wild"erTnheessinocfidmeenrtes  Christmas                                                                 They are
                               of are                 simple, but very interesting.
                             '

                                  it
told  with the grace ar;d feeling of Goldsmith, and by                                            one    who has
that  knowledge of science which Goldsmith lacked.
                                                                                                   It           as

Brewster and poor lioldy,' had combined to produce this instructive
aud "bOeanuetiofuflltyh-etolmdosttacleh.a" r--mEinrga. and useful little works we have seeu
for long time. The principles of natural science are explained so
    a
               '
                             '
                                                   '
simply, so thoroughly, and withal in so interesting manner, that the
                                                                                              a

book really bridges over                              tbhoeokuss.u" --allyLeafdoermr. idable  gulf between  'in-
btruciive aud amusing

                 DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
CAPTAIN JONES DEMONSTRATES THE ROTUNDITY OF THE EARTH.

                                                                PEASANT-BOY PHILOSOPHER, page 257.
              MR. JOHN G. EDGAR'S
WORKS ON BIOGRAPHY AND HISTORY.

                     In Foolscap 8vo, 3s. 6d., cloth,

        The Boyhood of Great Men ;

              INTENDED AS AN EXAMPLE FOR YOUTH.

                        BY JOHN G. EDGAR.

        WITH JLLVSTIIATIOXS BY BlRKET FOITKR.

        Third Edition.

" It would have been a matter of regret to Bee such a book badly
executed. That regret we are spared, for this little volume is simply
and well done. The biographies are numerous and brief, but not too
short to be amusing ; and as thousands of boys thirst for greatness,
which   bisooakcqluikireedthb»y."o--neEsxaanmdinteern.s,         will be  thousands
read a                                                    there                      glad to

                                                     n.

                                           Same size and price,

        Footprints of Famous Men.

    DESIGNED AS INCITEMENTS TO INTELLECTUAL INDUSTRY.

                            WITH ILMWTRATIONS BY BIRKKT FOSTKB,

                                           Second Edition.

    " A very useful and agreeable volume. It is useful, as biography

is always an important ally to history ; and it is useful, because it
gives another blow to the waning idea, that any eminence has erer
been attained without severe labour." -- Standard.

                                           m.

          In Foolscap 8vo, price 5s., handsomely bound,

             History for Boys;

r, Iiraals nf flit ^riuripi Satinns nf Mt&m

              WITH Eienr ILLUSTRATION BY GEOBOK TMOIUA.

             DATID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
                               '· ·

*',wr

   S

       »COTT'S FIRST TISIT TO THE BORDERS.
                                                  BOYHOOD OF GEKAT MIX, page 4.
        MRS. NEWTON CROSLAND'S

BIOGRAPHIES FOR YOUNG LADIES.

                   In Foolscap 8vo, price 6«.,

          Memorable Women :

                 Inf tlmr

          BY MRS. NEWTON CROSLAND.

                                        AUTHOtt OF

                 " Lydia, a Woman's Book."

        WITH EIOHT ILLUSTBATIONS BY BIKKET FOSTRR.

                                       Cnnirnfs :

              RACHKL WRIOTHESLEY LADY KCSSELL ;
                  MADAME D'AEBLAY AND MRS. PIOZZI;

MAUY L. 'WAKE, MRS. HTJTCHINSON AND LADY FANSHAWE J
                MAROARET FULLER MARCHESA OSSOLI ;
                                     LADY SALE.

" Most pleasant and profitable reading." -- Literary Gazette.
" One of those works about women which a woman only can

write. We cannot imagine a more delightful, strengthening, and ele

vating  exercise for a youthful female,  "t--haMnortnhiengpeArduvsearl tisoefr.such  a
volume  as this of ' Memorable Women.'

        DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
                                                                                                                                      ·

LADY FAX6HAWE VISITING HER HUSBAND IN PRISON.

                                                                  MEMORABLE WOKEN, pdffC 286.
             BOOKS OF AMUSEMENT.

           The Boy's Own Book;

A COMPLETE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF ALL THE DIVERSIONS --ATHLETIC,
      SCIENTIFIC, AND RECREATIVE --OF BOYHOOD AND TOOTH.

                        anfr grarthj ralsrgtfr iBMtian,

  WITH JUTMEEOO ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS, Price 8*'. 6d., cloth.

                                      n.

  The Little Boy's Own Book;

             £ IdBrtiait lima ilj* atone.                    Price 3*.

  nine THK GAMES AND SPORTS SIITEB- poa LITTLE BOYS.

                   in.

  I Round Games for All Parties.
                   ttjj grtattst Sarbtn; JPantilii
  dMlrrtimt  iif

                   %

                        f
                                                    nf

                                                          *
                 far /ircsih' ur it-nir.

      GAMES OF MF.MORT, GAMES OF ACTION, CATCH GAMES, GAMES
BEOUIEING THE EXEHC18S Of FANCY, 1NTEI.LISENCE, IMAGINATION,

                       DIKECTION* FOR CKYINO FORFEITS, ETC.

  WITH ILLTJSTEATKWS. NEW EDITION, ENLARGED. Cloth, gilt, 5*.

AI                                                rr.In ;

  Acting Charades or, Deeds, Dot Words.a

           (Cttrisimas ©am? JBakf Iniig frtrning ?(jnrt.
                     BY THE BROTHEUS MAYHEW.

              Niw EDITIOK. PBC^US»I.T ILLCSTEATED. Price 5*., clnth.

                                             v.

  Cracker Bon-bon for Christmas Parties.

  fir, Cl/rislmas  iirss far rinstB fepmutatian, til.
                   BY E. B. BROUGH.
                 f
                       f

             PHOFUSKLY IKLUSTRATBD. Price 3s. 6d.

             DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STEEET.
                  BOOKS FOR BOYS.

                                      L

           The Life of Nelson.

                      BY ROBERT SOUTHEY.::--'

WITH KVHERors TINTKD PLATBS, AND WOODCUTS PRINTED IN THB TBXT,
                  FROM DESIGNS BY BinKitT FOSTHK, DUNCAN, arc.
                                         Post 8vo, 6*.

                  Parlour Magic ;

A MANUAL OF AMUSING EXPERIMENTS, TRANSMUTATIONS, SLEIGHTS

                        AND SUBTLETIES, LEGERDEMAIN, ETC.

    Including the tricks of Houdin, Robin, &c., as recently exhibited
                         in London and Paris, 4s. 6d., cloth.

                              m.

The Comic Latin Grammar.

                               Isiiz Kmtgtit
t33. .tertians SntaDitrtiDit tn
                                                       HJB
                                                                                 ;
                                                                                       ;
WITH »t!»KEovs ILLUSTRATIONS ON STEM. AND WOOD, BY JOHN' LKWCH.

Price 5s.

IV.

The Playmate.
|p«pirasant Cnmpaninn fur
                               inurs

CONSISTING OF HISTORICAL TALES, NATURAL HISTOBT,

AMUSEMENTS, ETC.

Price os.

                                             T.

      The Pictorial Bible History.

                                                       CONTAINING

TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTY-EIGHT PICTURES OP THE
       SCENES IN THE SACRED NAHBATIVE, T^ITH DESOlirTIQiJS.

                                    Price 3». 6^., eloth.

                DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
BOOKS FOR YOUNG PERSONS.

The Young Islanders ;
       § fall far lop.

     BY JEFFERTS TAYLOR.

  NEW EDITION, WITH TINTED PLVTIW, 6*.

                n.

The Boat and the Caravan                :

tor1 jfantili[  in fgtjpt anil jijria.

WITH Pi.vn.-s FIFTH EDITION, 7s.

                                            III.

       Harry's Ladder to Learning ;

WITH Two HUNDRED AND THIETY ENGRAVINGS. -- FOR VERY YOUNG CHILDREN.
                                 3s. 6d. plain -- 6s. coloured.

                                                      rv.

          Harry's Book of Poetry :

          flljnrt fncms fnr thi urstri;.

                             BY ELIZA GROVE.

      WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS BY BIRKBT FOSTKK, HARRISON WEIR,

                                       K. HASWKLL, ETC.
                            3«. &d. plain --6s. coloured.

                                                      V.

                 Robinson Crusoe.

      I. -- AN EDITION is LARGE TYPE, WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY S'»OTHAUB,
                                         Cloth, Is. 6d.

II. -- IN FOOLSCAP SYO, WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY GEORQE CKUIKSHANK & OTHEUS.

                                                               3«. 6d.

                  DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET.
BOOKS FOR YOUNG PERSONS.

Comic Story Books.

Price Is. each, with Coloured Plates.

ALDERMAN GOBBLE.             THE WEASELS or HOLMWOOD.
THE QUARRELSOME NEIGHBOURS.
THE WONDERFUL HAKE HUNT.     LADY CHAFFINCH'S BALL.
                             REYNARD THE Fox.

Comical Creatures from Wurtemberg-

IfiM/mm tire   atIniraals in         feat feltibitinn.
                       tjre

                               tjji
Square cloth, 3s. 6«?. -- coloured, 6s.

Comical People
                             tet fitjihitinn.
Mti mitlj

FROM DHAWINGS BY J. J. GRANDVILLK.
Small quarto, 3s. 6d. -- coloured, 6s.

   Picture Book for Young People.

Fifty quarto Plates, ·with Descriptions, cloth, 6s. coloured, 1(U. £W
1.
              o'
                                                                  2.

                                                                                                                           ;
George Cruikshank's Fairy Library.

Edited and Illustrated by GEORGE CEUIKSHANK.

HOP MY THUMB.                JACK AND THE BEAN-STALK.

               Price Is. each.

History of England,

   By ANNE LYDIA BOND. Eighty Illustrations, 3*. 6A

Original Poems for my Children.

By THOMAS MILLER. Profusely Illustrated, 2s. 6rf., eloth.

          DAVID BOGTTE, FLEET STREET.
            CHILDREN'S BOOKS.

Little Mary's Books for Children.

            Price 6d. each, profusely Illustrated :

LITTLE MARY'S I'KIMER.         FIRST BOOK OF POETRY.

SPELLING BOOK.                 SECOND BOOK OF POBTST.
llmiiiNi; BOOK.                BABES IN THE WOOD.
HISTORY OF ENGLAND.            PICTURE RIDDLES.
SCRIPTURE LESSONS.             LITTLE MAIIY AMD HER DOLL.

      Little Mary's Treasury,

Being Eight of the above bound in One Volume, cloth, 5*.

       Little Mary's Lesson Book ;

Containing "PRIMER," "SPELLING," and "READING," in One Volume.
                                        Cloth, gilt, 2». Sd.

Bertie's Indestructible Books.

                Printed on Calico, &d. each.

1. HORN BOOK.                  4. WOODSIDE.

2. WORD HOOK.                  5. WILD BEASTS.
3. FAUSI YARD.                 6. BIRD BOOK.

Little Harry's Picture Books.
HARRY'S HORN BOOK.
    ,, PICTURE BOOK.           HAKRY'S NURSERY TALES.
    ,, COUNTRY WALKS.                          SIMPLE STORIES.

                                               NURSERY TALES.

            Price 6d. each, plain ; 1*. coloured.

            Home Lesson Books.                          .10
                                                        .10. 1 0
THE HOME PRIMER, nearly 200 cuts, cloth .            .

THE HOME BOOK OF NATURAL HISTORY, cuts, cloth
THE HOME GRAMMAR, cuts, cloth
                               ..                    .

Each may be had with Coloured Plates, 2s. &d.

            Home Story Books.                           ..1100
THE WELL-BRED DOLL, cuts, cloth .
THE DISCONTENTED CHICKENS, cloth .           .       .
            LITTLE JANE &                    .
            THE NDRSERY,                             .

HISTORY OF                  HER NEW STORY    thBeOO"KB, ocolkotohf  1  0
LIGHT FOR                  by the Author of
10One Syllable," cloth

            Or with Coloured Plates, It. 6d.

     LONDON: DAVID BOGUE, FLEET STREET;

AND SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS IN TOWN AND COUNTET.
ildren

POBTBT.

OD.

folwa
01 067208569

