Memoir of George Wilson ... By his sister, Jessie Aitken Wilson.

Wilson, Jessie A. (Jessie Aitken)
Edinburgh, Edmonston and Douglas; [etc., etc.] 1860.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044094418084

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
          The gift of

               THE GRAT FUND

C HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY?
MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.
c
                  i M '» !
            MEMOIR

GEORGE WILSON//
                                   M.D. F.R.S.E.
          REOll'S PROFESSOR Of TECHNOLOGY IN THK UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH.
                       AND DIRECTOR OF THE [NDl/STRIAL MUSEHH OF SCOTLAND.

                                  BY HIS SISTEK.

           JESSIE AITKEN WILSON.

EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, 88, PRINCES STREET.
                  AND MACMILLAN AND CO.,

                             ILonDon ant fitamfcrt'&gf.

                                                  MDCCCLX.

                 81
A       >',,

/s<s/,
                    %a mo Utofjur,

                     THE8E MEMORIAL8 OF THE TABT

                                                                        a lit:

                                 AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED.
" BLK3SED ARE THKY WHO ARE CALLED TO THE MARRIAGE SUPPER Or TnE LAMB."

                                                                        b
                    PREFACE.

   The following Memoir has been undertaken at the urgent

solicitation of friends. Dreading the temptations to partial --
and therefore untruthful --representation, to which relatives are

exposed in attempting to portray the character of the objects

of their love, I at first resolutely declined to be the Biographer

of my brother. It was only when one to whom the public

instinctively looked with hope, the Rev. Dr. Cairns, expressed

reluctantly, but decisively, his inability to undertake the sacred

task, that my scruples were overcome ; and the result is now

before the reader.

   While an honest and earnest attempt has been made through
out after truthful simplicity of narration, all expression of
personal opinion has been as far as possible avoided. In fact,

the mass of letters at my disposal has made the Life in great

part an autobiography.    with much gratitude,  assistance re

  I have to acknowledge,

ceived from the scientific friends whose names appear as contri

butors to the volume, and also the great kindness with which

they and others have placed letters and private papers freely at

my service.

  ITo my brother, Dr. Daniel Wilson, am indebted for hearty

co-operation and assistance. The proof-sheets have been sub
Vlll PREFACE.

mitted to him, and to others fully competent to judge of the
representation given, and now go forth with their sanction and

approval.

   May He who has given strength to complete a record, written

under the shadow of heavy grief, be pleased to add His abun

dant blessing, and to illustrate afresh one of the laws of His
kingdom : " That which thou sowest is not quickened except it

die."

                           J. A. W.

         Elm Cottage,
Edinburgh, December 1860.
                       CONTENTS.

                       CHAPTER L                                              PACK
                                                                               1-31
Home and Family Influences -- Death of Brothers and Sisters-- Early Love
for Books and Animals -- Reminiscences by his brother Daniel -- Holiday
Excursions -- Orphan Cousins join the Family Circle -- Juvenile Society --
Recollections by School Companions -- No Coward -- A General Favourite
-- Impressions on Friends --Leaves the High School,
                                                     . ..

                       CHAPTER H.

Chooses Medicine as a Profession -- Enters on Apprenticeship in Laboratory
of Royal Infirmary-- Impressions of Hospital Life -- First Surgical Opera
tion -- Kindness to Patients -- Attends Medical Classes -- Member of Zeta-
lethic Society -- Dr. Hope, Professor of Chemistry --British Association
holds its first meeting in Edinburgh -- Letters to Mr. Nelson -- Death of
Twin-Brother -- Begins to keep a Diary -- Sacredness of the Body -- Power
of Coaxing -- Bulwer's ' Last Days of Pompeii '-- Thoughts on the Resurrec
tion-- Professor Graham-- Hopes of a Gold Medal disappointed -- Autumn
Excursion -- Last year of Medical Study -- Diagnostic Society -- Paper on
Iodine --Obtains Degree as Surgeon -- Feelings of the Dying -- Deficiencies

in Ladies' Education,                                                         32 91

                       CHAPTER III.

His brother Daniel goes to London --Holiday -- Walks twenty-eight miles --
   Enters Professor Christison's Laboratory as Assistant -- Laboratory Tales
   --Medical Pun -- Illness of a Sister and a Friend -- Private Lectures on
Chemistry -- Story of a Hat-- Advantage of being able to speak Scotch --
Snow-ball Riot of 1838-- Contributions to the ' Maga' -- Enthusiasm for
Chemistry --Correspondence with absent Brother-- Devout Aspirations --
Contributions to Ladies' Albums -- Disinclination to Medical Practice --

Little Encouragement to Prosecute Chemistry-- Passes First Examination
for Degree of M.D. -- Lines to a Soap-Bubble -- Dispensary Practice --

Private Laboratory-- A Troubled Night--Goes to London by Sea, .               92160
X CONTENTS.

CHAPTER IV.

                                                                               FADE

becomes Laboratory Assistant to Professor Graham, London -- David Living
stone a Class-mate -- Want of Locality -- Home Correspondence -- Shak-
spere -- Steam Balloon -- Chemical Pun --Ladies' Dress-- Origin of the

Snowdrop -- Bottle Imp -- Mermaids' Tears -- Thesis -- Temporary Loss of
Soul -- Death of his cousin Catherine -- Return Home -- Harvey's ' Cast
away,' Scott's ' Alchemist,' and Allan's ' Slave Market' -- Supplement to
Thesis -- Lines to a Polyanthus -- Adventures of a Hat -- A Shirtless Doctor
-- Fancies of a Monomaniac -- Obtains Degree of M.D. -- Congratulatory
Letter from his cousin James -- Capping -- Thesis commended,
                                                              . 161-211

CHAPTER V.

Tries to get something to do -- Dream of Rowland Hill's -- Attends Meet
ing of British Association in Birmingham -- thence to London -- Pleasant
Journey Home -- A Week at Penicuik --About to abandon the Rhyming
Business -- Becomes a Member of the Brotherhood of Truth -- John M'Lnre
-- Sketch of the Oineromathic Brotherhood --its Distinguished Members --
Makes New Friends --Presidentship of the Physical Society -- Thinks of
commencing as Teacher of Chemistry in Edinburgh -- Whence came the
...Ball?-- Edward Forbes-- Rhymes for Mrs. Lillie -- Prefers Edinburgh to
London -- Pedestrian Tour in Prospect, . . .                  . 212-247

CHAPTER VI.

Stirling Head-Quarters --Twenty Miles' Walk-- Attends Meeting of British
   Association in Glasgow -- Returns Home seriously ill -- First Course of
Lectures begun while scarcely Convalescent-- At once a Favourite Lec
turer-- Opinion of Edward Forbes --Dr. Guthrie and the Slide -- Transmi
gration of Souls -- Permission to select a Wife-- Visits London in 1840 --
Severe Inflammation in One Eye -- Returns Home -- Second Attack of
Inflamed Eye -- Session of 1840-41 -- Opens in weakened Health -- Delights
of a Concert -- Suffers from Rheumatism -- Illness of his sister Mary --
Lectures on Animal Chemistry-- Unable to Walk -- Sir Charles Bell's
Death-- Compelled to relinquish Classes from Bad Health-- Unable to
relish Poetry-- A Disembodied Soul -- Ordered to the Seaside --Finds
Affliction beneficial, though terrible in its nature -- Letters from Seafield
-- Health not improved -- A foolish Tale,
                                                                          248-292

                                    CHAPTER VII.

Amputation of Foot --Religious Experience -- The Peace that passeth under
   standing -- Suspense -- Recovery -- Gaiety of Heart -- Sitniliu siiniUbut
   curanlur-- His Father's Sudden Death -- Removal to Brown Square --Pul
  monary Disease begins -- Resumes Professional Duties -- School of Arts'
                                                CONTENTS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           xi

....mJCalemansetsss----RAFuisrsSseptlrlaV--iinsHeitdistoLKanCsehteuD--rcahDys--aialAyndblLeDifeetao--thwR--aelkpPeeaattlsoTneerT--rireaIrnll--nsmeBsusatpaottifisomhni--s EcxUopnuesiorinin
with Independent Church--' Sleepy Hollow,'                                                                                                                                                 293-322

                               CHAPTER VIII.

Systematic and Occasional Lectures --The Philosophical Institution -- Single
Lectures of little use -- Helps Ragged Schools, etc., willingly -- Chemistry
of a Candle -- Contributions to Science -- Colour-Blindness -- Text-Book of
Chemistry -- Lives                               Reid -- Lines to Dr.  John    Reid --
Electricity and the  of Cavendish and           ; and the Chemistry    of the  Stars --
                     Electric Telegraph

The Grievance of the University Tests,                                                                                                                                                     323-319

                                                CHAPTER IX.

Love of    Pupils-- Presentation of Balance     -- Lines     to the Stethoscope -- Sleep
   of the  Hyacinth -- Wings of the Dove        and the      Eagle -- One of the Advan

tages of   not being able to   Write your Name -- Friendship of Lord Jeffrey
-- Death   of his sister Mary  -- Lines to a deceased Terrier -- Desire to serve
Christ more fully --Letters to Invalids --Lecture to Medical Students --
cA--hdeWvmahynat--tagmTeraakvoeesf llaePadtCrrileoitettdsle------H' oAPltirhdoaasnytraaTstiiimuosnesCi--nonCStrrpyarsitnaMgl --uPna'dlauGcmeeo,'r--g1e8'Ss5p1i--rNitouDnaesleanthsAelo' f
his cousin John Russell-- Illness --Broken arm -- Letters written with left
Hand -- Camera Obscnra -- Juvenile Wives -- Bearing in general Society --
Thoughts in Sickness --Life between Seventeen and Thirty-two -- Curtain
Lectures -- A Troublesome Tenant -- Letters to Invalids -- Hymn for Sick
room-- Removes to Elm Cottage -- How to help Absent Ones, . . 350-399

                                                CHAITER X.

Health Feeble --    Death of Edward Forbes -- Lines to his           Memory -- Jacobite
   Stories -- Hugh   Miller -- Alarming Illness -- An Epitaph        -- Appointed Direc
   tor of Scottish   Industrial Museum -- More Sure Hope             in Christ --Visit to

WMAC--rueagWlsrnyhotolsieeored'knss----aSPhaMInratoiorasfdfneuaeskgcrsetuoiyorrtanh--laonNLfweeiceTathtverueecrrtrheh--nte,ooL'lNCeoWecghhwtyruai--srtCtehiDs!s--aeaiTfrnPien--drcaihtciAPnotdeoinsldteoirstgeioyosfsnseaT?sfye'o--icrnthogSanyvoNGlallooaroig--bowyuun--sCs--hoBaDAfonuCdgkieoFeeusasrisr--aooytf
aBAsriiPdnrgfieveraroteefdAalfnlraodnmC--oHnGfuiedmneaenrtnaiallAKnLnaeototwtmeleryd--' g--eTTo--hbeLeeFcHitvauenregGea'dtOenwinatyRhseedCohTfaarKpanecto--ewr BleeodgfggeGino--dg
CDaupb--linVairniou1s857Le--ctAurtetas ckanodf  Addresses -- Visits  London, Manchester, and
                                                Splenitis-- Lecture  to Merchant Company --

The "Graphic Industrial Arts"-- Finds himself Forty, . . . 400-451
x i i CONTENTS.

                                                  CHAPTER XI.

Proposed as Candidate for the Chemistry Chair in the University of Edin                           PAGE
   burgh --Withdraws from the Arena --Increase of Salary -- Visits St.
   Andrews --Holidays at Innerleithen --Introductory Lecture ' On the
Progress of the Telegraph' --Threatened Attack of Erysipelas-- Profit from
hearing detached Lectures --Four Days at Bridge of Allan --Tubal -Cain
-- A Sabbatic Letter -- Presides at Burns' Centenary Meeting -- Beginning

and ending in Christ -- Eighth Course of Lectures to the Philosophical
Institution -- Pleasant to do the most Humble Service for God -- Visits
London professionally -- A Fortnight in the Country -- Holidays at Burnt
island --British Association Meeting at Aberdeen -- Removes to Laboratory
and Lecture Room within the University Walls --Crowded Audiences at
ODpaeynsi'ngIllnLeescst,ufraelsls--"Seavsleereep  Cold -- Pleurisy        Inflammation --
                                                  in Jesus" -- A     and  of the Night,    After  Four
                                                                    Song
                                                                                                  . 452-491

                                                  CHAPTER XII.

Universal Mourning -- Love of Dependants -- ' Paper, Pen, and Ink' -- Biogra
   phical Notices -- Public Funeral -- Monumental Cross -- Funeral Sermon --

Farewell                                                                                          492-506

    ....APPENDICES.                                                                               509-522

Appendix A. --Estimate of Literary Character, by Dr. Gladstone,                                   523,524
Appendix B. -- The Old Calton Burial Ground, by Professor Daniel                                  525-529

       Wilson,
Appendix C.-- List of Published Works,

      INDEX.
                      CHAPTER [.

                            HOME AND FAMILY INFLUENCES.

                          " Household treasures ! household treasure s!
                                   Are they jewels rich and rare ;

                                Or gems of rarest workmanship ;
                                        Or gold and silver ware /

                                Ask the mother as she gazes
                                   On her little ones at play :

                                     Household treasures ! household treasures !
                                   Happy children -- ye are they."

                       " They grew in beauty side by side ;

                                   They filled one home with glee."

   In the year 1812, on the 2d of June, a new household was
formed in the city of Edinburgh. The small group of friends
assembled at the wedding little thought that any beyond them
selves would look back on that day with interest. So it ever is :

we take part in what seems an every-day occurrence, and find
afterwards, that, like the prophets of old, we have been by
word and act heralding wondrous things, sowing seed that
shall never cease to grow and propagate itself; uttering words
whose echoes shall resound throughout the eternal ages.

    The bride, Janet Aitken, the youngest of a large family, was
a native of Greenock, where her father lived and carried on
business as land- surveyor. So fragile was Janet as a child,
that it was not expected she could reach maturity, and her
mother tried to prepare her for early death. But the race is
not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong ; and the tender
mother was the first to go, leaving her desolate little girl to

                                                        A
o  MEMOIIt OK GEOKUE WILSON.  CHAP. I.

the chill of an unsympathizing world, and disposed to envy
every one who had a mother. Janet, at the time of her mar
riage, of which we now speak, had passed through years of grief
 and change, and only a sister and a brother remained of her
family circle. Both were married, and home had long been to
her a word of little meaning.

    The bridegroom, Archibald Wilson, had, a few years before,
come from Argyleshire to settle in business in Edinburgh, and
 thus, to each, " our own romantic town " had few personal
associations. Yet at this, their wedding-time, how fresh and
beautiful it looked ! In the clear mornings and long evenings
to watch the Firth and the distant hills peeping in and out in

the varying lights ; to feast the eye on the crags and battle
ments of the dear old castle in its nest of green, with pictures
of living beauty to refresh the eye at every turn ! Did it not
say to their young hearts, " Forget also thine own people, and
thy father's house," and in me thou shalt have a home dearer

than those of the past ?
    The first pledge of this unspoken promise was given in the

birth of a daughter in the spring of the following year. When
Mary was a year old, there came a fair little brother again to
open the fountains of love; and, when John was nearly two
years of age, the group received a fresh addition in the arrival of
a second boy, who was named Daniel, and is the only son who
has survived till now.1

    The year 1817 opened in sorrow, for it found the heavy hand
of sickness on this little band ; and before its first month closed,

Johnny had ceased his sweet prattle, and had gone to learn the
angels' songs. The first deposit of the family treasures was thus

placed beyond reach of the spoiler, and since then, from time
to time, the store has been added to. Like the dreamer's ladder,

a pathway was formed, by which the yearning hearts left behind
have paid many a visit to the happy circle above, and been re

Ifreshed by the assurance from the Saviour's lips, " will come

again and receive you unto myself."
   About a year after this, on the 21st of February 1818, twin

   i Dr. Daniel Wilson, Professor of History aml English Literature, University Col
lege, Toronto, Canada.
1817-32.  BIRTH OF TWIN' IiOYS.

boys were born. It seemed to the mother, that God, having

seen the desolation of her heart in the dreary months gone by,
had, in His compassionate love, sent not only a son to increase
the little flock, but also one to take the place of his brother in

heaven. So while a new name, George, was given to the elder

of the two, the other received the name of John.
   From the first the boys were unlike each other, --John dark,

with black eyes ; George fair. George was so small a baby,

that tiny garments had to be made expressly for him, and for

many years after they were kept as curiosities, from their

miniature dimensions.

   A proof of this may be worth noting. When he was five

months old, a lady, walking with her husband on the street,
stopped him to look at this baby in his nurse's arms. "Did
you ever," she asked, " see a child of two months with so intel
ligent a face ? " His energy and vivacity surpassed his brother's,

who manifested a delicacy of constitution. George's Highland
nurse declared he showed more " spirit " than any of the chil
dren, and she was very proud and fond of him in consequence.
His paternal grandmother was one of the Auchinellan Camp
bells, of Argyleshire, and to the Highland blood Jean attributed

her nursling's liveliness.
    When the twins were two years old, a little brother joined

them, but only to secure his heavenly inheritance. Two days
were all he spent on earth. Over the next five years the sha
dows gathered. Two sisters and a brother were born. Of these,
Jeanie died when four years old, Margaret lived three months,

and Peter, the second of the name, one year.

          " ' My Lord hath need of these flowerets gay,'
                 The Reaper said and smiled ;

            'Dear tokens of the earth are they,
                 Where He was once a child.'

          " And the mother gave, in tears and pain,
                 The flowers she most did love !

             She knew she should find them all again
                In the fields of light above."

What influence these sad events had on George we cannot
4             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                          CHAP. L

tell, but, undoubtedly, impressions for life were made during

those years. At five he perhaps learned the first lesson of death

and immortality when his baby sister slept her last sleep ; and
as he had attained the age of seven when the sister of four
years, and the brother of one, were taken away within two

months of each other, he was capable of realizing much that our

Heavenly Father only teaches in those hours of darkness. In

manhood and later years, he occasionally alluded to them in
such a thrilling way, as made one feel that through all his life

Ithey had been present with him ; but, evidently, the topic was

one not to be dwelt upon. " saw," he wrote in the last year
of his life, "in early childhood or boyhood, so many little

brothers and sisters die, that the darkness of those scenes, and

the anguish of father and mother, made an indelible impression

upon me." It was his belief that the human mind loses no

                                                it,
                                                     aa

                                                                                             a
impression ever made on                         and that the events of infancy,

though they cannot be recalled, are not effaced, and will pro

bably, like wonders revealed in palimpsest, come up for review
in the future life. His friends will remember many pleasant

wish for the autobiography of baby, expressed both in public

and private.1 It may be that the distress he ever felt, on hear

ing of or witnessing suffering in young children, originated in

those early experiences.

   But though so soon reaping the benefits of yoke borne in
                                                    a
                                                           a
youth, let not be supposed that his was gloomy childhood.
   it

           ;
Far otherwise his keen susceptibilities were open to joy as fully

as to sorrow. His active, healthy frame, in boyish pursuits and

games with his brothers, made life itself pleasure warm affec
                                                    a

                                                                               ;
                                                                                              ;
tions bound him closely to each one in the home circle his

mother's face was in his eyes the most sweet and beautiful the

   "I have always thought and even declared in my lectures, that the most won
   i

      I

                                             ;
derful of all books would be the Autobiography of Baby but since, fear, that
                                                is
                                                         is

                                                              a
                                                                            ;

                                                                               I
you will not be able to coax either Freddy or Malcolm to make your fortune by writ
ing it, go on to suggest that in the life that to come, our memory of the past will
go back over all our earthly reminiscences, not merely over all that ice grown folks
recall, but over all that we have forgotten, which
                                                    at present most vivid to your
dear bairns. We shall mount to the origin of our individual lives, and trace to their

dim beginnings our first conceptions of space and time, of our own individuality,
and of other existences of an inner consciousness and an outer universe."
1S17 32.  MATERNAL INFLUENCE.                                                                                                    r,

earth contained ; and the peculiar love of twins for each other
was felt by him in all its force. To this has been attributed
" something of that wonderful power of attaching himself, and
being personally loved, which was one of his strongest, as it was
one of his most winning powers." 1

    His mother is " regarded by all who knew her as a woman of
rare natural gifts, who zealously fostered in her children the
love of knowledge which they inherited." 2 " Any one who has

had the privilege to know him, and to enjoy his bright and

rich and beautiful mind, will not need to go far to learn where
it was that her son George got all of that genius and worth and

delightfulness which is transmissible. She verifies what is so

often and so truly said of the mothers of remarkable men.

She was his first and best alma mater, and in many senses his

last, for her influence over him continued through life." 3

  It was a custom of his mother's to pay each night a visit to

the little cot of her twin boys, and repeat over them Jacob's
blessing, " The God which fed me all my life long, unto this
day, the Angel that redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads ! "
So fascinating was this to George, that in mature years he

has told a friend how he used to lie awake watching for
                                                                                     it
pretending to be asleep that he might enjoy
                                                                                                     it,
                                                                                     to the

full. In the family, this blessing seemed in consequence set

apart, as were, to the twins, and inseparably associated with
          it
them.                                    is

                                                                               ;
   Kealizing that education the developing and training of

every faculty of mind and body, the children were encouraged
in all pursuits likely to further this. A healthy moral and reli

gious atmosphere surrounded them their individual tastes and

powers were carefully watched and elicited, and kindly confi                      a
dence encouraged. About the age of four, each one was sent to

an elementary school, and the boys afterwards to that of Mr.

Knight, teacher well known for his care in laying the solid
substratum so often neglected in schools of greater pretension.
*11
   '''                                                                            "ADrtri.clGee, or"geCoWloiulsroBnl.i"ndness."

            a

                                                  '
Hor«? Subseciva;,' Second Scries. Aiticlc,
North British Review for February 1856.
Hone Subsecivae,' p. 104.
6                   MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.               CHAP. I.

On his first appearance at the annual public school examination,

George recited  the ' Newcastle Apothecary,' receiving at  its close
the encomium,   " Well                 "                   we find
                        done,  Bolus      Hence the name
                                      !

him appropriating in the following letter, believed to be the

first he penned ; and in which it will be seen he already parodies
an early and lasting favourite, " John Gilpin." It was written

while from home, during the vacation immediately following his

recitation, when he was not above seven, and is addressed,
" My mother, Edinburgh."
   I" My dear Mother, -- We left Edinburgh on a very disagree
able day ; we arrived safe and well.             take a bowl of whey

porridge every morning. Bolus takes a drink of milk every
morning and evening. You will receive six peas-bannocks on

Saturday with the box. Janet Brown is going to make you a

sweet-milk cheese.

                    " Now let us sing, long

                      Live the King, and
                       Bolus, long live he ;
                       And when he next

                       Does say this piece, may

                      I be there to see.

-- " Your affectionate son,                      George Wilson."

   As a specimen of progress, a letter may be given of a later
year, while at a farmhouse in Peeblesshire, where he saw much
that excited wonder in a town-bred boy. The wide kitchen-
chimney, where, sitting on the seats in its sides, he could look

up and see the stars, was one of the novelties never forgotten.

The letter is partly to his sister Mary, and partly to his mother.

Mary, it will be remembered, was five years his senior, and was,
like himself, a child of unusual promise.

                                                       " Romanno Mains, September 15th.

   " Cara Maria,-- Tua epistola venit mihi sex-dies. Vides

scripsi te secundum oras. Scribam te major epistola post. Epis

tola abs Matre venit ad Nancy. Spero ut Mater et mea parva
Soror sunt melior. --Ab tuo Frater,              Georgius Wilson."

   " Send me two or three old pill-boxes to put the insects in.
1817-32.          EARLY LOVE FOR BOOKS.

I have got a grasshopper with a red head, but it had the mis

fortune to lose one of its legs, which are red also.
                                                              " George Wilson."

   " Dear Mother, -- Little Robert is now well again, and enjoys

the country very much. Grandfather is very grateful for what
you sent him ; tell Mary to address the letters Romanno Mains,

Noblehouse, and not Peebles, as the last one was addressed. --
From your little Dosy,1 1828."

   The sister alluded to in the Latin epistle had been born two
months previously. Coming as she did after the death of four,
her welcome was a warm one, and children and parents looked

on her as a precious gift. She and a sister two years younger

still survive, and reference will occasionally be made to them.
The elder one received her mother's name, Janet or Jessie, and

the younger that of the dearly loved Jeanie, who had " fallen

asleep" three years before.

Even at this early age, George's love for books was manifest.

Jessie's nurse, in speaking of the family at that time, has often
summed up his pursuits in the following words :-- " Oh, as for

George, he was aye to be seen in a corner, wi' a book as big's
himsel' ;" probably a volume of the first edition of the ' Encyclo

paedia Britannica,' a great favourite in those days. She does

acknowledge, however, that he took a daily walk with her and

the baby, when telling stories and listening to them was the

favourite occupation. He has often told with glee how his

mother, remarking his diligent study of Brown's ' Dictionary of

the Bible,'   at  last, after  silent rejoicings,  expressed to him her
satisfaction  at  his choice.     " Oh, mother,"   was the reply, looking
up with a bright face, " I am making a list of the precious

stones !"

   His first attempt at rhyme gave her pleasure from the feel

ings that prompted it. A friend sharing a love for natural

history in common with him and his brothers, had instructed
                                                                              It
them in the art of impaling live insects as specimens.

much grieved her that boys should learn cruelty so early, and

          1 A pet name, used through life in writing to his yonnger sisters.
8  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. I.

she spoke earnestly to them of the sacredness of life, how easy
it was to take it away, but how far beyond the power of any
created being to restore it. George showed the fruit of this
lesson, by coming joyously one day to tell of a butterfly he had
saved from drowning in a pool of water. One life saved seemed
in the child's estimation to atone in part for those taken away.
On going to bed his mother found a scrap of paper under her
pillow, containing in verse the butterfly's thanks to its preserver.
" The tender heart which was afterwards to plead so earnestly
with medical students against the cruelty of reckless vivisection,

was here revealed I"1

    More pleasantly was humanity cultivated by the encourage
ment of pets of all kinds. Hedgehogs reposed in undiscover-
able corners in the daytime, and appeared at twilight to be fed.

Tortoises made the recesses of the old-fashioned grates their

bed-chambers, coming out to be regaled with grapes and dande

lion leaves. In short, it was an understood fact, that no pet

could come amiss to the household, so strongly did a love for
animals pervade the family. One favourite, at the time we now

speak of, was a large rough bull-terrier, of no great beauty.
Duff had been intended to act as watch-dog, but he soon came

to the conclusion that watching his master's children was the

duty nearest his heart, if not his conscience, and he was skilful

in evading all other demands on his talents. Jessie, when able
to walk alone, liked nothing better than to go to sleep with her
little arms round his soft fat neck. One day an alarm was
raised that baby was missing. In vain every room was searched,
till by chance some one looked underneath a table, where she
lay sleeping in the favourite fashion, Duff waiting in motionless
patience till it should please his little mistress to release him.

By the death of a maternal aunt, four cousins were about this
time left orphans, and became domesticated with the Wilsons.

    i 'Macmillan's Magazine,' January 1860.

   In a letter, dated Feb. 22, 1855, the following sentence occurs:-- "1 had the

happiness, when a boy, to have a mother who sedulously encouraged her children
to be naturalists, and made me when at school the passionate lover of God's

"works, which in maturer years I have learned still more to be."

   And to Mrs. Day, St. Andrews, he says, in 1850 :-- Much of my delight as a child

arose out of natural history. It gives food to the imagination, and tempers the fairy

books, of which too many cannot be given to children."
1517 32    SYMPATHY WITH SCHOOLMATE.       9

Their ages varied from four to twelve. Duff could not be re

conciled to these strangers, and considered his responsibilities
largely increased. When a game at tig or blindman's buff was
in prospect, the first step necessary was to turn Duff out of the
room, so strongly did he resent any of the cousins touching his

children.

    Before leaving those early days, an instance of George's good
feeling may be alluded to, in which is seen the germ of the

unselfish consideration for others, so manifest throughout his
life. While at Mr. Knight's he was enjoined to return home
immediately after school hours. As this injunction was un

heeded day after day, an explanation of his conduct was at last
insisted on. With great reluctance he told that a little boy,
blind of one eye, was much persecuted by his school-fellows on
account of his infirmity, and not permitted to join in any of

their games. Sympathy with him overmastered the fear of

parental displeasure, and George had remained each day to play
with him, thus hoping to dispel the painful impressions made

by the tyranny of the other boys.

   Memoranda by his brother Daniel help to complete the picture

of the juvenile life, which left its strong impress on later years.
He says, " George was my junior by fully two years, an in

terval sufficient to constitute an important difference in boy

Ihood, though it becomes insignificant enough in later life.

Nevertheless, he and were, from my earliest recollections,

conjoined alike in our sports and boyish studies, notwithstand
ing that his twin-brother John survived till his eighteenth year.
In truth, no two brothers were perhaps ever less alike than

these twins. Those who only knew George in later life, when

disease, sore suffering, and the mutilation of surgeons, had
done their work on his wasted frame, could little conceive of

the joyous, healthful, and vigorous boy. Throughout his whole

boyhood and youth he enjoyed uninterrupted health, while

John early betrayed symptoms of physical weakness, and a

tendency to the pulmonary disease, which at length terminated

his life. My recollections, wandering back into old boyish

I Imemories, call up dim visions of little sisters and brothers, whose
cradles    rocked, and by whose sick beds  watched, as they
10  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. I.

faded away in their early years, and the dark shadow was again

and again thrown across our diminished circle. Hence, birth
days, those fond anniversaries of the home-fireside in many a

happy family, were never named amongst us ; but we learned

to note certain seasons that brought their sad memories and

silent tears to our dear mother ; and mingled grave and earnest

thoughts with our light-hearted mirthfulness. In later days,
when the return of the 21st of February reminded George of the
completion of another year, it used to bring with it strange, sad

fancies, on which he would sometimes dwell, awakened by the
thoughts, that the brother to whom, as to himself, it was the

anniversary of life's gift, slumbered in his last long sleep among
the kindred dust, where both are now laid at rest. But while

such incidents as these, which marked life's early experience,

helped to develop thoughtful earnestness, and to awaken tender
sympathies, which bore fruit in riper years, our boyhood was a
very happy one, in spite of some stern but healthful lessons of

self-denial.
    " Edinburgh, our native city, was the scene of all our youth

ful years ; and that itself was no unimportant element in life's

training. Among my earliest recollections are our rambles and

scramblings among the rocks and declivities of the Calton Hill ;

which, as we grew from childhood to youth, were exchanged for

the wider scope that Arthur's Seat afforded. There we knew
every accessible cleft and gully of the rocks, delighted in climb
ing the famous Cat-nick on Salisbury Crags, and preferred find
ing our way down from the top of the hill, as a goat might

scramble down the cliffs, to taking the more leisurely and safer
slope of the grass. Then the sea, with its inexhaustible charms,
lay within easy distance. Leith sands, and the pools of the
Black-rocks at low water, with their crabs and whelks, and

marine life of all sorts ; and the delights of the shipping and
building-yards, awoke all the Robinson Crusoe longings and
dreams of boyhood ; or a Saturday's ramble carried us to Granton,
and away beyond it to old Roman Cramond, where the sculp
tured eagle of the legionaries of the second century, still visible
on the rocks, was a source of never-failing wonder to us.

    " Edinburgh boys are generally great walkers, and George
1817-32.  HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS.  1I

 was a match for any pedestrian of his years. Many a long
 Saturday's excursion has accordingly left pleasant memories be

hind, when, added to the mere physical enjoyment of a holiday
walk among novel scenes, there were the fresh sources of pleasure
of botanizing or geological gatherings, and the tin botanical-box

became the unfailing companion of our walks. A certain amount

of pleasurable sympathy in the associations with ancient scenes
and picturesque ruins is also a common feeling with boys ; and
frequently a Saturday's ramble had for its special goal, Old
Woodhouselee, Roslin Chapel, Niddry Castle, Preston Tower,

or some other of the storied ruins around Edinburgh, associated
with the names of Wallace, Bothwell, Queen Mary, etc. One
of our boyish wonders was to watch, from Arthur's Seat,

the slow progress of the railway tunnel, which at length
forced its way through the solid trap rock, and admitted

of Edinburgh's first railway entering the town. It is only the

juniors among Edinburgh citizens who need to be told of the
marvels of the Dalkeith railway. The triumphs of the steam-

horse had nothing to do with it. A good, honest quadruped,
fed on oats and hay--not on coke and coal, -- drew the rude

railway carriage at an exceedingly safe and moderate pace ; and

it was no uncommon occurrence, after the train had started, for

a Musselburgh fishwife to hail the driver, who would put down
his brakes, and pull up in response to her sturdy shouts, and

wait till she leisurely disposed of her baskets, before the cars
were once more in motion. Not only men, however, but even
boys were less impatient in those old times than in these days
of flashing telegraphs and express trains ; and if the rate of
progress on the old Dalkeith railway was moderate, its charges
corresponded thereto. Hence it helped to extend greatly the
range of our Saturday's wanderings. A few pence secured our
transport, by its means, away beyond the North Esk, and so
brought within our reach the old ruins of Bothwell and Crichton

Castles, of Seton and Temple Churches, besides Roman camps

and historical scenes, already possessing an interest for us : such
as Lasswade, Prestonpans, Carberry hill, and Pinkey cleuch, all

readily accessible to the healthy young pedestrians. One such

holiday ramble, for instance, I vividly recall to mind, when
12  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WII.SON.  CHAP. I.

George was probably not more than eleven years of age. By
help of the railway we had got a fair and early start, and made
our way to the grand old ruin of Crichton, where

                                   ' That castle rises on the steep
                                        Of the green vale of Tyne ;

                                    And, far beneath, where slow they creep
                                    From pool to eddy, dark and deep,
                                    Where alders moist, and willows weep,

                                        You hear her streams repine.'

Our purpose was to catch the railway car on our return, and so
diminish the journey homeward by some seven miles ; but the
day was bright and the attractions manifold, and when we
reached Dalkeith on our homeward way, laden with a large

sigillaria which we had secured as a coveted prize, the cars were

Igone, and we had to make our way home as best we could.

well remember still the debate as to whether our prized sigil
laria --which the alternate carrying for some miles had already
proved to be no light weight --could possibly be transported
home. The result was the determination not to abandon it ;

but many a time was the coveted burden passed from one to the
other, as the lively chat and merry sallies with which George
ever beguiled such a ramble grew less and less frequent, until
at length after trudging over the last miles, with only a rare

monosyllable, we reached home, wearied and footsore, to be re
freshed with our ever- welcome cup of tea, and then to

                                                             ' Lay our head
                                         Upon our own delightful bed.'

But when it is considered that we had probably walked not less
than fifteen or sixteen miles, and that such were common holi
 day and Saturday rambles, it suffices to show the vigorous energy
and robust health that characterized the happy little fellow in
those early years. No pleasanter companion could have been.
 The lively fancy which sparkles in his writings, and the genial
humour so familiar to all who knew him in later years, already

 marked the boy, and there grew up between us then a common

 bond of sympathy and lasting friendship, such as by no means
 invariably knits brothers together, and which years only served
to strengthen and mature. As for the dear-bought and far-
brought sigillaria, it was safely housed, and prized accordingly ;
1817-32.  BOOKS AT COMMAND.  13

and occupied a prominent place in the little museum which we

were already forming. The gathering of fossils, minerals, shells,
insects, gall-nuts, skeleton-leaves, and miscellaneous relics of

all sorts, for our collection, as well as the commencement of a

herbarium, gave new interest to our holiday rambles ; and a
folio copy of the Journal of George Fox, the founder of Quaker
ism, which was converted to our use as blotter and press for

the botanical specimens, suffered wofully in the service of our

hortus siccus.
   " The library at our command was, for the most part, little

Jsuited to juvenile students. The death of an uncle, the Rev.
  ohn Russell, of Muthil, and soon after of his widow, led to the
addition to our family circle, in 1827, of four cousins, John,
Catharine, James, and Alexander, who grew up with us thence
forth as brothers and sister. But time has wrought with them,
as with our earlier fireside companions, and only one now sur

vives, the Rev. Alexander Russell, of Adelaide, South Australia.
We have both thought in later years of Mrs. Hemans' ' Graves
of a Household,' as the old playmates have scattered to England,
Canada, and Australia ; never, alas ! to gather together again.

The addition of our orphan cousins to our number was accom

panied by that of their father's library, an imposing collection
of ponderous old folios, and little dumpy vellum-bound quartos

of sound divinity, the very outsides of which had a learned,
orthodox look about them. They were little likely to furnish

the favourite reading of boys. Nevertheless, they were occa

sionally dipped into, and even the mere handling of such vener
able tomes, and familiarity with their old type, quaint title-

pages, or more curious colophons, were not without influence in

the forming of tastes, and the impressions survived till the time
when the rich stores of the University and Advocates' Libraries
came to be within our reach, and even the reading-room of the
British Museum was not unfamiliar to us.

    " Certain books of our own smaller library, however, were
greatly more influential in giving a bias to youthful tastes and

studies. A copy of Goldsmith's ' Animated Nature,' in four

Ioctavo volumes, specially remember. At a somewhat later

date the ' Library of Entertaining Knowledge' opened up to us
14  MEMOIR OF GEORGK WILSON.  CHAP. I.

a whole fairy-land of wonders in its ' Insect Architecture its
' Habits and Architecture of Birds;' and its 'Menageries;'
besides that grand boys' book, which has since been the model
for so many others, ' The Pursuit of Knowledge under Difficul

Ities.' The ' Penny Magazine' was also an exhaustless treasury.

But, besides those, must not forget three well-thumbed quar
tos : the first edition of the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica,' which,
with its plates on all subjects, gradually passed from being for
us a mere child's picture-book, to its better purpose of an un
failing book of reference. But it must not be supposed that the

old favourites of the nursery library were forgotten. ' Jack the
Giant-Killer,' ' Cinderella,' ' Blue Beard,' and ' Beauty and the
Beast,' were never conned more lovingly than by ourselves, with

the aid of our eldest sister Mary, whose story-telling powers

were sometimes called into requisition to eke out our scanty

stores.

   " A small poorly printed copy of the ' Arabian Nights' Enter

tainments' was also most diligently and repeatedly perused.
To these must be added Bunyan's ' Pilgrim,' and an illustrated
copy of his ' Mansoul,' in which Diabolus figured in scaly

dragon-like amplitude of forked tail and fiery jaws, wonderful
to behold. Traces of this juvenile library may be seen in
George's maturest writings. He delighted to draw some of his

liveliest sportive and quaint illustrations from his old nursery

favourites.
   " One other class of reading remains to be noted. Our dear

mother was not only fond of the poets, but was herself a writer

of verse. She read us into an admiration of Cowper at an early
age, and so delighted us with some of the anti-slavery passages
in his ' Task,' as well as his minor poems, that both George and
I, in a fit of youthful enthusiasm, renounced sugar in our tea,

as a practical protest against the slave-labour to which it was
due. An acquired taste soon rendered the sugarless tea prefer

able ; but we were not sufficiently logical enthusiasts to feel at
all aggrieved in conscience by the bargain we made that we
were still to be allowed sugar with apple-dumplings !1 Besides

   i In a letter to Mr. Godfrey Wedgwood, Etruria, Staffordshire, allusion is made to

this. "By the way, are the moulds or dies of the famous anti-slavery medallion
1817 2?.  LOVE FOR POETRY.  15

Cowper, Henry Kirke White became an early favourite ; and by
and by, Felicia Hemans' ' Records of Woman' was added to our
library, and read aloud amongst us ; and even select passages
from Milton's ' Paradise Lost' were rendered pleasant to very
youthful ears by our mother's feeling and expressive mode of

reading and commenting on them. Thus a taste was formed at
an unusually early age for poetry, which by and by, when faci
lities for reading increased, made us familiar with Moore, Byron,
Southey, Coleridge, Shelley, and Scott ; and then, in preference
to all of them, with Shakspere : from which it followed that
there was pretty soon writing as well as reading of verse, and
sundry juvenile poems, long since burnt and forgotten, were

Iproduced, though shall by and by refer to others, preserved in

later years. The theme of one ambitious effusion, extending to

Isome hundreds of heroic couplets, was, remember, ' Woman !'

and doubtless embodied some very fresh and original views on

the subject.

   " At Mr. Knight's school some of the most lasting of George's

early friendships were formed. Dr. Philip W. Maclagan, R.N.,
now of Berwick ; Dr. John Alexander Smith, of Edinburgh ;
Mr. Philip Dassauville ; Dr. John Knight, and others who
passed with us to the High School, were already favourite
companions ; and it was from among these, with the addition
of Mr. William Nelson, the Rev. James Huie, now minister

at Wooler, Northumberland, Messrs. Alexander and James

Sprunt, with one or two others, that, in 1828-29, a 'Juvenile

Society for the Advancement of Knowledge ' was formed. The

Society met weekly at our father's house, where already we had
a room of our own, with our books and natural history speci
mens, out of which was now formed the museum of the Society.

A glazed book-case, provided with the requisite shelving, held

the accumulating stores ; and as everything had to be done with

as solemn dignity as the Royal Society itself possibly could as

sume, we, amongst other becoming proceedings, adopted a coat

with the motto, ' Am I not a man and a brother ?' still in existence ? If so, and a

medallion is procurable, please remember a man who dropped taking sugar in his
tea when seven years old, as a protest against slavery, and has never taken it since

Iin tea, though am sorry to say the inconsistent philosopher never abandoned its use

in puddings and other viands." -- May 19, 1857-
16  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                             CHAP. I.

Iof arms, which was duly coloured and put up prominently in

the museum. The blazonry have forgot, but the motto was

Ithis bit of juvenile Latinity : ' Iniens cctas est tempus.' A weekly

journal was also established, of which was constituted editor ;

and in it were not only recorded selections from the weekly

Ipapers on Natural History, etc., but also choice extracts and
pen-and-ink illustrations.  have not seen it for more than
Itwenty years ; but believe it is still in existence. It was

I Iwritten in double columns on a folded half-sheet of foolscap,

and think could recognise still certain fossils drawn in its

pages ; and also some amusingly crude discussions on palaeo
graphy, with illustrations, executed in China ink, the materials

for which were chiefly derived from the old folios and dumpy

quartos already referred to in our uncle's library ; for there was

a good deal of antiquarianism mingled with our natural history,
mechanics, astronomy, etc., and John Alexander Smith and my

self, who have each since filled the office of Secretary to the

Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, were already embryo numis

matists, and knew a Roman denarius from a bodle as well as

Edie Ochiltree himself. Our museum accordingly had its little

collection of coins, penny-tokens, Chinese cash, a shilling of

Edward and two or three dearly-prized Roman brass."
    a
              I.,

                                                         ;

                             I
                                                                                     :,
    Dr. Philip Maclagan has kindly supplied the following re

miniscences of his friendship with George Wilson in boyhood,

in letter addressed to his sister --
   " We entered Mr. Mackay's class together, and speedily be

came very intimate, from the similarity of our tastes in the

matter of amusements and was one of the original members

of the 'Juvenile Society for the Advancement of Knowledge'

which met in your house, and of which your brothers were the

founders. The Society met on Friday evening, papers were

read by the members in rotation, and questions previously
                            remember some of them -- Whether
started were debated.  I

                                                          a
the whale or the herring afforded the more useful and profitable
employment to mankind? Whether the camel was more useful
to the Arab, or the reindeer to the Laplander? and similar

puzzles for youthful ingenuity. We had museum, too, kept
1S17-32.        ' JUVENILE SOCIETY.'

in a cabinet with glass doors, which your mother kindly gave

Iup to us, and a scientific newspaper in MS. was written by, and
circulated amongst, the members.         remember that Daniel con

trived and executed an allegorical heading for this paper which

I Iwas much thought of; and many items of news which found aI it,

place in its columns, can recall as if had read it yesterday.
In also, we recorded the results of our Saturday excursions

into the country, the plants and animals noticed, with any facts

as to their habits and peculiarities.
    " do not think that at this time George had any fancy for

chemical research. Chemistry was becoming popularized then,

long before either Botany or Zoology, but was to these latter
                                                                        it
branches, so far as know, that his taste for inquiry was first
                I                                                                  a

                       a

                                      '
directed.  I  owe him debt of obligation for first affording me

the pleasure of reading the Pilgrim's Progress,' though at that

period neither of us thought of anything but the story                                   re
                                                                                         :I
member quite well the look of the copy which he lent me                                     ;I

                                                                                                  a
rather thin old-fashioned octavo in calf. As years wore on,

became rather an ardent collector of plants and insects, for

which George did not care much, so that our paths diverged                               a
little, and we were not so often together on Saturdays. But

until we left the High School, our friendship remained un

broken, and can testify to George having been very general
             I

favourite."

    Mr. Alexander Sprunt, of Wilmington, North Carolina, an                           :
other school-fellow, speaks of contemporaneous events --

   "During the period of our High School curriculum great

questions were occupying the public mind, and startling events

taking place in Europe, -- the final struggle of the Poles, the
French three days of July, the Reform movement, etc. On all
such questions George Wilson took the extreme liberal side.

The subject of the immediate or gradual emancipation of the
negro slaves in the colonies was keenly discussed about that

time. Some of us being related to families of the colonists,
were familiar with the arguments for gradual abolition of
slavery. George was an unremitting advocate of immediate

emancipation."
<
                                                                   D

                                                                     a
18                                                  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                        CHAP. I.

   " After we entered the High School," his brother proceeds,
" our long vacation holidays were spent, on several occasions, at
the manse of Cumbernauld,1 in Dumbartonshire, where the Rev.

John Watson, who had been our father's tutor in his youth,

made us hospitably welcome, and introduced us to all the no
velties which country life presents in so charming an aspect to

the town-bred boy. The hay-making was over before our holi

days arrived ; but the reaping, the carting and stacking, and
the harvest-home, were all within our happy holiday weeks ;

diversified by an occasional ramble when the minister's paro

chial duties called him off to visit some outlying farm or cot
tage, and by visits to Cumbernauld House, where Mrs. Aitken,

the old housekeeper of Admiral Fleming, made us welcome,

and we occasionally enjoyed the luxury of a ride through the

park on a frisky little Shetland pony which was at our service

--when we could catch it. It would seem, however, that in

I1830, John and alone went to Cumbernauld, and to this,

accordingly, is due the earliest fragment of George's correit,

Ispondence which have preserved. Here are some of the con

tents of suggestive of many other pleasant memories John

mentioned in his letter that Mr. Watson had promised him
cat in place of the grey one. But am sure you will be glad
                                                    I
                                                                                                             :
                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                      a

when tell you, your old friend, Mr. Grey Cat, came back on
           I

Sabbath morning.' Then, after news of other kinds, occurs this

important passage relative to some coveted treasure for the

....museum Mother would have bought the sturgeon's head, but:
                   '

they asked half guinea for it.                        have had several de
                                        a             a

lightful walks since we parted. The mice are lively, and getis I

a        run on the table every night. They are very impudent, and                               '

bite whoever touches them. The cat gives several side looks at

them, but never dares to touch them.'                 to one great triumph
    " The concluding reference here

achieved in the course of our Natural History pursuits. Our do

mestic menagerie never wanted some favourite pet, though these

         In the quiet little village of Cumbernauld,  sensation seems to have been pro
         1
             aby                                    John writes to his twin-brother in 1830,
                                                 athebut when we go through it, we generally
d"uAcelld       the appearance of the boys.
                people in the village know us,

get      brgaowodcasltlaanrets, ,'an"d              good many boys and girls run after us crying,   Look, there's
the
ENUMERATION OF PETS.                  19

were of the most varied description. We rejoiced successively
in a tame owl, a sparrow-hawk, hedgehog, tortoise, guinea-pig,

rabbits, etc. The hedgehog was long a favourite. It used to

sleep all day coiled up by the fire ; and towards dusk it began
to move, and would run about, with its grunting cry ; coming,
when called on, for a bit of apple, or a cockroach -- one of its
favourite delicacies. But it chanced on one occasion that a

poor, barefooted Italian boy, with his hurdy-gurdy and white

mice, became an object of compassion to us ; mother was readily
induced to provide him with stockings and an old pair of
shoes, and in gratitude for these and other services, he pre

sented us with a pair of white mice. A cage was made, which

by and by expanded into a sort of mouse-palace of two storeys,

with parlour, breeding-cage, etc. A part of it was apportioned

to a pair of black and white mice procured by some means or

other ; and as they multiplied on our hands, our great ambition

was to teach a rough little Scotch terrier that we had--famous
for rat-hunting, --to lie and let our tame mice run about his

shaggy coat. The mice were entirely devoid of fear, but Coxy

used occasionally to show his teeth in a way that did not

promise very well for his discrimination between white and

ordinary mice had he been left with them alone. From
George's letter, however, it would seem he had been trying
the same experiment with Mr. Grey Cat, and, though the

case was a harder one to deal with, apparently with equal

success.1

   " Meanwhile, the museum was receiving his special care. In

a letter from mother to me, of date 24th August 1830, she says,

' George has just come in from seeing Maclagan. On his way
If I Ihome, he saw a shop full of curiosities.
                      can find time,

   1 Letters of this date, of the brothers to each other, give amusing evidence of the
deep affection entertained for the mice. In one, the following passage occurs :

"There was no mention made of the mice in any of the letters, but from that, I
suppose they are quite well, for if anything had been wrong with them, it would

have been mentioned in every one of the letters." Parallel instances to this, of late

date, might be found in George's more than once rescuing mice about to be made
the subjects of experiments in his laboratory. No such things, he said, should be
done there. Any talk of poisoning mice always seemed to distress him ; and when
such death was unavoidable for them, he endeavoured to insure that the poison used
should be that most speedy in its effect.
20            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. T.

Ishall pay it a visit ; but you must not form any expectations, as

  am not disposed to part with much money in that way.' In

spite of the prudent warning, expectations were, no doubt,

formed and realized also. One of these ' curiosity shops' was

Mrs. Somerville's, in East Register Street ; where many a gather

ing of pocket-money was expended on minerals and shells ; the

arrangement and naming of which were unfailing sources of

pleasure. But the tastes and habits that were then being de
veloped, will be better illustrated by the following letter of the
same period :--

                                                         ' Tuesday, Uth August 1830.

    Daniel, -- was very happy to hear you had begun
      forgot to mention in the letter sent you that got
  I' Dear
I I IBotany.

the present of Bingley's Introduction to Botany, with coloured

engravings of trees, shrubs, flowers, leaves, roots, stems, and all

Ithe other component parts of flowers. From it learn the parts
Iof plants. On Thursday, Philip Robert Maclagan and went

out to Duddingston. We saw some beautiful dragon-flies. We

went on to Craigmillar, where we saw some pretty young foals

in a park. We returned home by Liberton, with our boxes

filled with plants. On Friday, we set off for Corstorphine ; but

falling in with some empty carts at the three-mile stone, we got
in, and rode past Corstorphine to a place called " Four Mile

Hill" (though it was six miles from Edinburgh). Returning,

we found a great many small frogs, some half-an-inch long,

-Iothers less ; we took them to a neighbouring ditch. They swam

very nimbly.- remain, your affectionate brother,
                                                               ' George Wilson.'

    " A letter of the same holiday time, addressed to his twin-

brother, John, records the marvel of ' a heifer exhibiting at

Calder, with two heads ; one the shape of a bull's, the other of

Ia cow' s. The cow's head was liveliest, but it could eat hay with
both mouths.  have read of a sheep with two heads ; and, in

deed, Mr. A. Maclagan saw it at Ayr.' Then follows an account

of an elephant which he had missed seeing, though his cousin

Catherine had been more fortunate in witnessing it perambulate

the streets, on its way to Leith, to take its passage to Newcastle ;
1817 32.                  VISIT TO THE TROSACHS.       21

and from her, accordingly, he derived the materials for his

interesting narrative. The next letter is addressed jointly to

' Messrs. D. and J. Wilson,' and tells how the latter part of the

holidays had been spent by him while his brothers were enjoy
ing themselves at the Dumbartonshire Manse.

                                                                        ' Thursday, 7th September 1830.

I' Dear Brothers,- -I have had a delightful jaunt, since last

wrote you, to Callander, along with Catherine and Mary. We
left Newhaven at half one o'clock for Stirling, in the " Stirling

Castle" steamboat. We reached Stirling at about half-past

seven. We stayed that night and the next day with Mr. and

Mrs. M'Ewan. On Friday, we went to Callander by the coach

at five o'clock, and reached it at half-past seven. We saw the

Pass of Leny, Bracklin Bridge, the Trosachs, Loch Katrine,

IHelen's Isle, Pass of Glenfinlas, etc. ; as Mary has written an

account shall not say any more about them, but when you

come home you will hear all about them. We returned to Stir

ling on Thursday morning, where we had left Catherine till we

Ishould return, and left it for Edinburgh on Friday at half-past
three.      saw Richard Alexander in Stirling. He gave me a

piece of the stone in which Bruce erected his standard at the

Ibattle of Bannockburn. As was walking out with Mr.
IM'Millan (when met Alexander) we fell in with an old blind
man, blind from his birth, who can tell the colour of your coat
              and he knows every verse in the Bible. If you
by feeling a

             it it,

                     is,
mention proper name that occurs in the Bible, he will tell

you where                 and repeat the verse.   brought home some
                                   I
sea-urchins and sea-eggs brought from Milport in the Cum-I

                                               it
braes one of them with spines, the other two not. On Monday
        ;

a balloon went off at Leith.       went up the Calton Hill. It
                          ;

                             II
was crowded with people as could not wait, being past
                                                   it

the time, came away however, saw from York PlaceI;

and the North Bridge. It Mr. Green's eighty-seventh time.is
Mr. C. Bass, of the Caledonian Theatre, went up. It descended

near Corstorphine. Mr. Bass gave an account in the theatre of
his voyage, and the feelings incidental to the aeronaut. John

Rutherford, the British sailor captured by the New Zealanders
22       MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                          CHAP. L

and tatooed, is now in Edinburgh, selling his narrative for a
Ipenny.
         saw him standing at the door. The lines are filled
Iwith charcoal. -- remain your very affectionate brother,
         ' George Wilson.'

   "The date of this letter indicates that the holidays were
drawing to a close. Within a week or so thereafter our daily
sports were in the High School Yards, and our busy duties in its
halls, but soon we bade farewell to the old High School, occu

pying the site of the ancient Monastery of Black Friars, of the

Order of Si Dominic, founded by Alexander IL in 1230, and

transferred to the use of the City Grammar School at the Refor
mation. The migration from the time-hallowed site at the head
of the old High School Wynd to the splendid edifice erected on
the southern slope of the Calton Hill, was an important change

in other ways besides the mere removal to a more commodious

and magnificent building. It put an abrupt close to a host of

old school customs and traditions ; and, among the rest, to the
hereditary bickers and strife between ' the puppies and black

guards,' as the High School boys and the natives of the neigh

bouring Cowgate and its purlieus respectively designated each

Iother. Without being at all quarrelsome, George and did not

pass through our school days, among some five or six hundred
boys, and with our hereditary Cowgate foes outside the play
ground walls, without a battle or two ; and when it fairly came

to a state of things which left no honourable alternative, George
was as little of a coward in that as he proved in other duties in

later life. The only real fear, indeed, was that of carrying home
the tell-tale traces of a bloody nose ; for mother was as little

disposed to look with favour on such relics of strife --however

unavoidable-- as good mothers usually are. Such chances, how
ever, which were always rare, were nearly brought to a close
with the grand ceremonial which transferred the school to its
new domicile. On the 23d June 1829, we walked in procession,
each bearing our white osier wand, with music and military
guards, and all the civic glories that the Lord Provost and
 Magistrates could muster to do honour to the occasion. The

upper rooms of the east wing in the new building were occupied
1S17-32.         HOLIDAY PLEASURES.   23

by the class under Mr. Benjamin Mackay's care ; and there, and
subsequently in the Hector's class-rooms, George maintained his

place among the rivals of the first form ; while at leap-frog,

foot-and-a-half, trap-bat and ball, or other sports in the yards,

or at a snow-ball bicker, or a Duddingston Loch skating-match,

he was quite as ready as for the quieter pleasures of a botanical

holiday ramble.

   "The vacation of 1831 was long remembered by us for its
holiday pleasures. In company with our father we extended

our wanderings into the Highlands of Argyleshire, spent a couple

of days at Strachur, on the banks of Loch Fine, in the house where

he was born, and looked with wonder and delight on a well-

grown rowan tree, or mountain ash, which he had planted when

a boy.
    " Strachur and its parental associations had a thousand charms

for us. Loch and mountain filled us with delight ; and in ferry

ing over to Inverary, and the wonders of the Duke's castle there,

it was long remembered by us with pleasure, that a whale

abruptly rose to the surface, so near us as to occasion our High

land boatmen no little apprehension.  The following letter was
written then :--

   ' Dear Mother, -- We are now safe at Cumbernauld. After

arriving at Glasgow, we sailed down the Clyde on Tuesday, and
saw, besides many other things, Dumbarton Castle, and at
four o'clock we reached Holy Loch. When we came on shore,
we went into a sociable or car, which carried us to Loch Eck.

We crossed Loch Eck in a little steamboat ; the engineers were

young boys. After landing on the other side of Loch Eck, we
walked to Strachur, where, on the road, we saw little boys with
kilts, and a little pig came running to us. When we arrived at

I IStrachur, John and slept in the bed where father was born.

liked Strachur very much. When crossing Loch Fine we saw
a whale rise and turn himself over, and we saw his back fin ;

the ferryman said he often saw them, and if they came near, the

least motion of the oar frightened them away ; he also added,
that when they are frightened, they squeak like a pig. We saw
many other animals : in the canal, a water-rat and hedgehog
24             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. I.

swimming ; a solan goose near Rothesay ; a hare and short-

Itailed field-mouse. In the steamboat returning from Inverary,
  met an English gentleman, Mr. Smith, and two acquaintances.

One of them was very poorly, and had travelled for the last year

Iand a half for the sake of her health ; she was very kind to me,

and told me the name of the plants had at that time in my

box ; she also invited me to come to the place where she was

staying in Glasgow, and showed me some plants. Perhaps you

are not aware that yon red and white flower Daniel brought

from the Calton Hill is Foxglove.
   'P.S.--Excuse all faults and the bad writing, as my mind is
               . -- From your affectionate son, G. Wilson.'
too full of C

   " A remark in a letter addressed to me by my father, in the

following year, reminds me that it was on this occasion a friend

ship was begun, memorable in after years to both of us. In

passing through Glasgow on our return home, we visited Mr.

Hugh Mackay, a generous friend of our deceased aunt, who had
taken a lively interest in our orphan cousins, and so become
known to us all. His two daughters were nearly of the same
age as ourselves ; and George --whose conversational powers,

and singularly frank and engaging manners, were scarcely less

remarkable as a boy than they proved to be in riper years --
soon ingratiated himself thoroughly with the younger of the two
daughters. Both fathers looked on, enjoying the sallies of
humour, and the graver avowals of youthful confidence and

kindly feeling; and the pleasant impressions then produced
experienced no diminution on a subsequent visit, which Miss
Margaret Mackay paid to our sister Mary. An allusion in a
letter to me recalls that, even at this date, George had, with rare

ambition for a boy, set before his mind's eye the goal of an

Edinburgh Professor's chair, and announced purposes to be ful

filled on the accomplishment of this desire. In later years,
Miss Margaret Mackay became my affianced wife, and letters

from George to her, resulting from the friendly relation of the
families, illustrate, in reference to those early times, the singu
larly attractive manner which always marked his intercourse
with ladies, and the pleasure he manifested, alike in boyhood
1817 32.             ATTRACTIVE MANNER.                25

and at a later period, in female society. The frankness of his

manner, and the total absence of any shyness or awkward

reserve in such intercourse, was certainly a very noticeable

characteristic in a boy ; for the very opposite is almost in

variably manifested in those days of peg-tops, marbles, and

leap-frog, whatever be the change that a few years produce.
   " Great changes have meanwhile transpired. Among others

not to be overlooked, our father had purchased a share in the
Edinburgh Select Subscription Library -- one of those admirable

proprietary lending libraries with which Edinburgh is peculiarly

favoured --and there we were turned loose, like colts in a rich

Ifield of clover, to revel as we pleased in the wide range of
English literature.  doubt if such unrestrained literary license

is conducive to accurate scholarship, in that sense on which

English University men plume themselves, not altogether

without reason, on their superiority ; but it was invaluable for

the healthful development of the innate intellectual powers of

the eager youth, and for evoking whatever was original in his

mind, by leaving him to follow out the bent of his tastes. A

reference to the books of the library would show a singularly

varied reading, embracing a very wide range for a boy; and

well calculated to bring out all the individuality of his in

quiring mind. It is the grave fault of some of our school

and still more of our college systems of education, that a boy
passes through them as if he had been put into a mould, and

comes out with the mere impress of the routine system and

unvarying standard of its tests, instead of having his own intel

lectual powers quickened into healthful development."

  A striking feature of George's later life was manifested in

those journeyings, namely, the power he had of gaining friends
and acquiring information. One of his fellow-travellers to
Glasgow, by the canal boat, gives the following account of him

when eleven years old : --" George placed himself side by side

with the greatest person on board (the captain) and plied him

with question after question till the moment he left the boat.

Before leaving, he very politely went up to the captain and

mate, and thanked them heartily for their attention and infor
26  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. I.

mation. They both said, they had never seen such a boy. Be
sides the captain, he met on board a Miss Peacock, a most
intelligent lady who had been in Ireland, England, etc. George
did question her, and got quite in love with her, saying, ' she
could speak about everything, just like his mother.' Before

parting, he gave her a cordial kiss."
   Ere we pass beyond early boyhood, one or two friends may

be allowed to give their impressions. The following is kindly

contributed by an accomplished lady, an intimate and frequent
visitor, in whom interest was awakened by the unusual intelli

gence of several of the children :--

    I" remember well the time when my dear friend Mrs. Wilson

introduced me to her then numerous young family, consisting of

her own six children, and four children of her deceased sister,

Mrs. Russell. I, from the first, admired the perfect subordina

tion maintained among them, and also observed that their

obedience did not appear to proceed from fear but from love.
Among the group, George and John, the twins, were very in

teresting. They did not resemble each other ; George was more

Iactive, perhaps both in mind and body, but they were like in
having a loving nature.  never saw them differ for a moment.

They were always together, and always busy, the one assisting
the other in some mutual plan of operations, each taking the
part that best suited his genius. John was a dear gentle boy.

I grieved much when he was taken ill, and, after severe suffer

ing, died. Mrs. Wilson's household was, indeed, an edifying

sight. All the young people were employed, attending to their

respective duties ; no frivolous excuse being allowed to prevent
the performance of the allotted lesson. When it was duly ac

complished, then the expected pleasure awaited them of joining
in the conversation, with their mother, and any guest who might

Ibe present. The subjects discussed were generally such as inter

ested and instructed their young minds, and remember George
standing, looking at his mother with his observant eye, drinking

in her remarks, or modestly making an observation of his own.

I always, from the first, thought him a very clever boy. He
might not be constantly at the top of his class in the High
1S17-32.  SCHOOL REMINISCENCES.         27

School, that proceeded more from a certain volatility or thought

lessness, which often accompanies genius, than from ignorance

of the prescribed lesson. He was always very much alive to

Iany ludicrous incident that occurred in the class, and remem

ber seeing a little book, in which he had set down a number of

odd remarks made by the master, and strange mistakes made

Iby the boys. The book was embellished by pen-and-ink

sketches, made, believe, by his brother Daniel. This book of

scenes in the High School was very droll. On one page there
was a likeness of the master, standing in his kind of pulpit

holding out a ruler ; a heavy- looking boy was rehearsing his
lesson from Virgil. He had made some stupid mistake in quan

tity, which had excited the master's ire to the utmost, and the

contrast between the grand classic Latin, and the terms of dis

approbation used by the master, in very undignified English,

was ludicrous in the extreme. On another page, a whole day's
lessons were given, with the remarks and interjections of the

master and boys, and the hearty laugh of the boys occasionally

at some classic wit of the master, which George greatly enjoyed.

I remember also, one fine frosty winter, such as we used to have

long ago, George's relating, with great glee, that the master

(I cannot recall his name), to the great surprise of the class,
after hurrying over the Latin lesson, said, ' Now, boys, as you

Ihave done very well, think it would do you all good to go out

for the remaining time, and have a hearty slide,' and, what

George thought added much to the amusement, the master him

self stood outside enjoying the scene.
I" One other anecdote
                       recollect his telling : The mathe

matical master, a short-sighted man, and enthusiastically at

tached to the science he taught, was one day demonstrating a

difficult problem, with his eyes close to his paper ; the boys in

the meantime were wistfully eyeing, through the half- open door,
the group outside sliding and snowballing. At length, the

temptation to join in the sport became too strong for them to

withstand, and one after the other departed. George happened
to look in at the window just as the master, having finished his

demonstration, lifted his head. The description given by

George of his confounded look when he saw nothing but empty
28         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.      CHAP. I.

benches, was irresistibly ludicrous. At a very early age, he

and his brothers were in the custom of noting down anything

Iremarkable they observed in the heavens, or in the animal
creation.  remember seeing a small book of these notanda,

and very numerous and interesting were the topics introduced.
IOne, remember, was on some phenomenon observed in the
Isky, with conjectures as to the cause.
                                         showed this book to a

literary man, who would scarcely believe that it was the com

position of mere boys. No doubt their abilities were beyond

those of most youths, but they owed the cultivation of them to

their mother (their father being constantly engaged in business).
She directed their young minds first to God, and their duty to

Him, then she steadily encouraged inquiry and investigation,

first into outward objects, and, as they advanced in years,

into scientific pursuits. When very young they had a museum

Iof their own collecting, with many really beautiful specimens.
    remember most particularly several beautifully prepared

skeletons of small animals, such as mice, sparrows, etc. George

used to visit me occasionally, when he never failed to impress

any scientific visitor who might be present with his talent and

eager pursuit after knowledge. Many were the predictions

uttered that he would be an eminent man.

  I" believe the key to Mrs. Wilson's success in the education

of her family, was the love that she fostered among them, and

the free discussion that she encouraged, she herself taking a part

in all their pursuits, and becoming young again for their sakes."

   A friend, and occasional guest of the family, Mr. Maxwell

Dick, of Irvine, greatly increased the interest of the boys in
mechanical pursuits, by familiarizing them with his own nume
rous and ingenious inventions. He was zealous on behalf of

their Society, kindly contributing from time to time to its stores,
and in various ways so winning their regard, that a vigorous
correspondence was kept up with him. Of this a specimen is
given. Mr. Dick in after days has often spoken with enthu
siasm of the extraordinary character of George, whose individu

ality stood out clearly even then. The special subject of interest
to him seemed to Mr. Dick to be Comparative Anatomy, for
1S17 32.  FOND OF MECHANICS.              2!)

every spare hour, and the Saturdays, he devoted to searching for
bones of every kind of animal, all of which he brought home,

and had carefully cleaned and classified. One day he brought

the entire skeleton of an infant, which he had got from some
surgeon. He was determined to be a doctor ; but considering
that in a large city the study and profession of a single organ
was as much as one man could undertake, his aim was to re

strict himself to the study of the eye or the ear. That of the
eye had special charms. These facts Mr. Dick vividly recalls
as connected with his visits to Edinburgh. The letter is not
dated, but it is probably of 1830.

I" Dear Sir, --Since we parted, have been very busy with

French, Greek, and Latin, but the vacation has freed me from

these. The Society has been recommenced, and we have very

warm debates on various subjects. Daniel still conducts the

Journal, which has had its pages filled with original communi

cations on various subjects. A communication of any kind
would greatly enrich the Journal. If you would send us an

account of the power you had saved in a threshing-mill. The

Iground1 railway between Edinburgh and Dalkeith is now com
pleted, and coal is sold from the depot.  visited it a few weeks

ago. The carts are drawn by horses all the road, except a space

something more than a mile up an inclined plane through the

tunnel, up which they are dragged by a fixed steam-engine.
The piston puts in motion two drum cylinders, on which the

ropes are coiled. The ropes rest on large cast-iron wheels or

pulleys. The tunnel is about three-quarters of a mile in length.
There is another large steamboat, called the ' Royal William'

(in honour of our king), of 200 horse-power, going between
Leith and London. There is a curious property relative to in

clined planes, i.e., of bodies which of their own accord ascend

inclined planes, and, contrary to the laws of gravitation, will
not descend, but, though forced down, will ascend, and remain

at the top. The figure of this body is two equal cones, joined

   1 Mr. Dick was at this time zealously occupied with an ingenious invention of his
own, a system of suspension railways, which he had patented, and of which his young
friends were zealous partisans. Hence the term "ground railway."
30                  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                     CHAP. I.

Ifat their bases.   this is laid on an inclined plane (not solid,

but such as a pair of compasses), narrow at the foot, and

growing as it ascends, it will ascend and remain at the top.

This   : is,
               is

                        is

                                      a
                                             a
              however, really descending        thing which might
                                                ;

                                                    a
                                                                              a
perhaps be of use for waggons ascending inclined planes. An

other plan to put piece of lead in one side of cylinder

or ball this will roll up slight inclination, till the lead comes

round again, and level with the plane. Mr. Thiodon (of the
Theatre of Arts) lately advertised that in addition to the usual
performance, he would exhibit tricks mechanical and mathe

matical. They were mere tricks of deception but at the end
                                                it

                                                                a

                                                                           ;

                                                                                  a

                                                                              it

                                                                        I
he showed us small gilt lion of wood, similar to the one you
              a

                 it
told us of. The head was cut off and sprang on again. One

gentleman cried was magnetism, but the steel knife with

which was cut refuted that. Another agreed with you was
a

          it
spring, but Mr. Thiodon explained to be wheel on pivot,

which turned away, and allowed the knife to pass through.

Since writing this, received your kind letter and presents.
                    I

cannot express too much gratitude for your present to the

museum, but more especially for your kind present of an eye

glass, which aids my bad sight very much. You have apolo

gized for not writing oftener and before but ought rather than
       is

           a
                                                    a

                                                                                              ;

                                         I
you to apologize for my procrastinating negligence, which                                        .I

must promise to rectify by steady correspondence with you.                                           .

There         large menagerie and museum come to town, contain

ing both live and dead animals, quadrupeds, birds, insects,

shells, fossils, and curiosities from all quarters of the globe. .
Father and mother send with me their love to you. --Yours
                                                George Wilson."
most respectfully,

   " P.S. -- find have written on the wrong page.                                                Excuse

this blunder, and the very bad writing."
It

    is

       I
               I
            needless to dwell longer on this busy, happy boyhood.
Various juvenile literary efforts in prose and verse remain to

attest the diligence of his habits and the wide range of his
sympathies. But enough has been said to testify to the abound
ing life and energy of both body and mind. The little rill,
1817-32.  LEAVES THE HIGH SCHOOL.

bright and sparkling, which we have seen emerge threadlike

from its source, and gleefully pursue its way through sunshine
and shade, has now widened its banks, and we begin to realize

that one day it may bear on its bosom the hopes and fears of
thousands, ere it pass into the boundless ocean, and be lost to
view in its expanse.

   In autumn 1832, he quitted the High School with a fair share

of prizes. Languages never proved his favourite study, and he
did not devote himself to them with the hearty zeal which
marked him in his earliest scientific acquirements. While

occasionally at the head of a class of one hundred and fifty
boys, he never passed below the first five, and enjoyed the ease
and freedom from care unattainable by the always envied dux.
32  JIEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  1832 -37.

                         CHAPTER II.

                                   YOUTH AND STUDENT LIFE.

                      " Shades of the prison-house begiu to close

                               Upon the growing boy,
                            But he beholds the light, and whence it Hows,

                               He sees it in his joy ;
                           The youth, who daily farther from the east

                               Must travel, still is nature's priest,
                               And by the vision splendid
                               Is on his way attended ;
                        At length the man perceives it die away,
                            And fade into the light of common day."

    The holidays after release from school were spent at the
manse of Cumbernauld, where, with his twin- brother, George
enjoyed some happy weeks. George, however, seems to have
been a little impatient to enter upon the duties of his profession.
Having no fortune to give their children, his parents thought it
only fair that the toils before them should be lightened by

willing hearts ready to brave any storms, if only the desired

haven might at last be reached. The choice of a profession was,
therefore, left very much to themselves, and that of a physician
had been George's selection. Whether even then he contem
plated engaging in practice is very doubtful, but the curriculum
of study it insured seemed attainable in no other way. On
September 1st, 1832, he added the following boyish postscript

to a letter of John's to the household at home :--

  I" Dear Daniel, -- . . . When first came to Mr. Wat

son's the windows were covered with flies, and for several days

I caught the largest, and away with them through the house to
Igive them to the white mice, but soon learned my mistake ;

and recollect, the next letter must tell about the health of all at
l«C2-37.  LABORATORY OF ROYAL INFIRMARY.             33

Ihome, and the white and black mice.  am glad at the subject

Iof your P.S. Perpetual Motion was too delightful an idea for even
Mr. Dick to put an end to.  have got a new way of applying
Isteam to the piston, and to raise a steam balloon.
                                                     hope next

letter may contain something about the Infirmary. Is there any

mention of when we are to return ? We have been here a fortnight.

Ask Mary to write a few lines in Greek, Latin, or French, but not

make the Latin too difficult. You did quite right about Samuel
Brown. Kind love to all. --Your affectionate brother, George."

The reference to the Infirmary was in consequence of a medi

cal friend, Dr. M'Culloch, House- Surgeon to the Hospital, having

recommended as the best training for the boy, an apprenticeship

in the Laboratory of the Royal Infirmary. This well-meant but

injudicious counsel was followed, and in a few weeks more

George was bound for four years, as apprentice. His friend Dr.

M'Culloch died almost immediately after, and the drudgery of

each day, so far from being lessened by pleasant companionship,

brought him in contact with evil and profanity altogether new

and hateful to him. Looking back on this period of his life, he

says, in his opening address as President of the Society of Arts
in 1857, "How a youth is taught is as momentous a matter for

him and for the world as what he is taught. It has been most

justly declared by a grateful man that the daily society of a

good and noble woman is in itself an education : such also, in its

degree, is the society of a good and noble man ; and the fellow

ship of the base and foolish is the heaviest curse which can

fall upon the young. All our skill is acquired by imitation

and practice, so that instinctive mimicry and unconscious habit

make us in manners and acts what we are. It is no small

matter, then, side by side with whom the boy-apprentice works.

IAh me ! When recall some of the enforced companions of my
I Iapprentice days, feel that would make the greatest sacri

fices rather than permit a youth dear to me to encounter similar

temptations." His first impressions of the new scenes presented

daily to his view, are graphically described in an Address he

gave to students in 1855. The portion we extract may justly

be reckoned autobiographical.
   " When the young student first visits the hospital, his faith in

                            c
34  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                             CHAP. II.

God as the wise and merciful designer of man's body, must, in

sympathizing natures, undergo a painful shock.
   " He goes round the wards, we will suppose, with an intelli

gent senior, who describes to him the more important cases.
There is one patient propped up with pillows, and panting for
breath ; he has not lain down for weeks, and the dread of suffo

cation which looks out from his strangely anxious and imploring
eye, compels him to snatch what repose he can in his uneasy

posture. He has, as the senior explains, ' disease of the heart f

certain of its valves are not fulfilling the purpose they were

designed to fulfil, and hence his sufferings, which death only
will terminate.

    " Here is a second, trembling lest you touch his bed-clothes,
and quivering from time to time with scarcely endurable agony.

He has disease of the knee-joint, and the senior whispers, will
have his leg taken off to-morrow. And so that articulation on
which the professor of Anatomy expatiated in special lectures,
as abounding in the most skilful arrangements for combining

strength, flexibility, and rapidity of easy motion, has suffered
such destruction, that it is not only useless, but so injurious, by
neutralizing or deranging all the otherwise healthful, life-
sustaining arrangements of the body, that it must be removed,

however harsh and perilous the process be.
    " Here is a third, haggard and wan, beseeching the doctor for

more laudanum, as he has no rest night or day. He has cancer
of the stomach, and will linger long before death release him

from his sufferings.
    " Here is a fourth, a virtuous and once a beautiful woman, but

lupus has eaten away half her face, and the disease is still

spreading.

  " We will look at but one case more. It is a relief to the

is

          a

            I
                              it,
student to turn to for the patient has bright eye, and says
with smile, though his breath catches little, that he better,
                                                         a
                                                              a

                                                                          '

                                                                                is
                                                                                    is
and feels he needs only the air of his native hills, to which he

    presently going, to make him all well again.' He far gone

in  "CTohnesumfacpttsion,haavnedmheasntinoontemd aanrey  days to live
                                                         unquestionably
                                                                         startling      and

sad. They drive some altogether from medicine as profession
                                                                         a

                                                                                                         ;
1822-37.      FIRST SURGICAL OPERATION WITNESSED.                                             .'!.-,

they tempt such as prosecute its practice to abandon                                          For
                 a
                                                                                        it.
tunately for those who continue in its ranks, the first painful

impression which the spectacle of great suffering occasions, be

comes, like other first impressions, deadened by repetition.

Other impressions, also, come in to lessen their effect. The

selfish and unreasonable complaints which sufferers too often

make, produce diversion in favour of the spectator's feelings.
Among the daily incidents of even the saddest sick ward,

amusing events occur to lighten the tragic darkness which

otherwise prevails. The convalescents are ready to cheer and

assist the distressed. The medical attendant has the unspeak

able comfort of knowing, that however mysterious may be the

origin of the anguish around him, he can generally do something

              and often can entirely remove it. And the patient
a isto lessen
               it,

                    I
                                            a
                                             a
                                      I
                                                                                           a
not seldom ready to declare, that the moral gain to him from

his sufferings has been such, that he counts them small price

to have paid for such reward.            saw performed in the
   " The first surgical operation which

Edinburgh Infirmary, soon after becoming an apprentice there,

was the amputation of sailor's leg above the knee. The

spectacle, for which was quite unprepared, sufficiently horrified

boy fresh from school, especially as the patient underwent the

operation without the assistance of anaesthetics, which were not

introduced into surgical practice till many years later. Some

days after the operation, when the horror of the first shock had

passed away, resolved to visit the poor fellow, who happened
       I
                           could render him any little ser
              I
to be a namesake, and see  iIf
                                    II

                                                       a

                                                          it a a

                                                     II
vice.      went, however, with no little hesitation, expecting to

find him in the same state of suffering and prostration as had

seen him in before, and fearing that should only distress my

self, without doing him any good.        was agreeably surprised,

however, and indeed amused, to find the invalid half propped

up in bed, and intently occupied with blacking-brush, bor
rowed from the nurse, polishing the single shoe which in six

weeks, or month at soonest, he might hope to wear.                                            could
           a

not help smiling in his face, and wishing him  speedy return
to his shoe, which at once became the text of  cheerful con

versation. The ludicrous inappropriateness, as then seemed
3C                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

to me, of the patient's occupation relieved my feelings ; and its

Iperfect appropriateness, as it seemed to himself, relieved his ;

for, as learned more fully in subsequent conversations, his
great concern was to count the hours till he should reach a

fishing village in the South of England, where his mother and

sister longed for his return. He made an excellent recovery,

Iand reached his home in safety. After this experience be-

* came a constant visitor on my own account to all the wards,

and in the course of four years made many a strange acquaint
Iance.
        refer here to the circumstance, that it may become the

ground of recommendation to the young student, who is dis

tressed by the spectacle of suffering, to interest himself in the

welfare of the sufferers. A feeling which may otherwise readily

grow morbid, is turned into a wholesome and profitable moral

exercise. The text sculptured on the front of the Edinburgh

IInfirmary, ' was sick, and ye visited me,' has a blessing in it

for the visitors as well as the visited, as our Saviour emphati

cally teaches, and as all who have obeyed its implicit command

have realized."1

    This Wilson, the sailor, became the object of many kind
attentions from his young namesake. For some time sailor-

friends visited him, bringing tobacco wherewith to while away
the weary hours. When they left for another port, George so
fully sympathized with the sailor without tobacco, coffee, or

friends, that money given to purchase a much coveted copy of
Coleridge's ' Aids to Reflection,' was cheerfully sacrificed to
supply lacking comforts. Nor were books, newspapers, or deli
cacies forgotten in the frequent visits, till the time of release
drew nigh. Then it transpired that so far from possessing the

means to reach home, his very clothes were detained for arrears

of lodging. This difficulty was speedily surmounted by a sub
scription raised by George, and with the aid of the Strangers'
Friend Society, and private help, thirty shillings and a free
passage to London were obtained. To crown all, as it happened
that the vessel did not sail till the day beyond that of his exit

   1 ' On the Character of God, as inferred from the Study of Human Anatomy.' Ad
dresses to Medical Students, by request of the Medical Missionary Society in 1855-56,
pp. 43-49. A. & C. Black, Edinburgh.
1832 37.    KINDNESS TO PATIENTS.                      37

from the hospital, he was brought home triumphantly as a guest

for the night, and next day left with the good wishes of the
household. In token of gratitude came a letter from the sailor's

sister, in Christ Church, Isle of Wight, addressing the boy in

jacket as " Honoured Sir," much to his amusement. A beau
tiful letter it was. The wanderer had been followed everywhere

by the prayers of his mother and sister, and now he was restored

to them in peace and safety.
   Like trees which yield an acrid poison when slightly pierced,

but contain for those who penetrate to their core a sweet and

refreshing juice, so must suffering be met without shrinking,

and its inner chambers entered for the relief of the sufferer, if

we are to   obtain the blessing of     the merciful,   as did this
            Sir," by the instincts of  a kindly heart  and healthy
" Honoured

moral nature. The shock, however, of his first experience of

the operating theatre was sufficient to make him shrink from a

speedy repetition of such scenes. In a joint family epistle of
October 20th, 1832, Daniel says :--" Two other operations have

been performed at the Infirmary, but George did not see either ;"
while Mary remarks, " sometimes when George comes in and

Itells me that he has been preparing 12lbs. senna, etc., ask him

if he never feels sick. On the contrary, he says ' he is hungrier

than before.' " Thus did the brave little heart bear its first hand-

to-hand fight with the foes of this sin-cursed world.
   His kindness to the sailor may be taken as a specimen of the

liberality that constantly emptied his own purse and lightened
those of his friends. An outer coat with large pockets caused

much amusement to all who knew the varied nature of its con

tents from day to day, while it made them wonder little that
the nurses, with whom he was a favourite, declared " they never
saw sic a laddie." His brother Daniel recalls an incident of

Ithose days thus : " specially remember one poor Pole, Ian-

koski, an old lancer of Napoleon's Russian Legion, who could

not speak a word of English. George cheered his slow conva

lescence by talking to him in French ; and at length, when the

gaunt fever- stricken patient was sufficiently recovered to move

about a little, the delightful news was brought to him that a

Polish countryman lay in one of the beds of a neighbouring
38  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                           CHAP. II.

ward. Off the two set, to enjoy the meeting, and George used

to tell with mirth of the shock he received, when his protegf,

almost before three words had passed between the invalids,
Juifexclaimed, scornfully hissing it through his teeth, ' Un
                                                              !'

and, turning on his heel, no persuasion would induce him to

hold further intercourse with the despised Polish Jew. The

old soldier recovered, and occasionally smoked a cigar with us

in our room. He learned a little English, and we improved

somewhat our French, and greatly enjoyed setting him to fight

his battles o'er again, or detail to us in his cool, soldier-like

fashion, the horrors of the Russian retreat of 1812."

    Shortly after entering on his duties in the Infirmary, George

began the student-life which his long hours of work made so

burdensome, for not till nine each evening was he free to study,

and we can imagine how weary and jaded the labours of the

day often left the boy. During the Session of 1832-33, he
attended the lectures, on Natural Philosophy, of Mr. John Scott

Russell, then one of the lecturers of the Extra- Academical

Medical School and a class for Mathematics in the University

under Professor Wallace.

   In the following summer, attendance on Mr. Lizars' Anato

mical Demonstrations introduced George more specially to

medical study. Notwithstanding these new objects of pursuit,

former projects were not abandoned.
   " The Juvenile Society," says his brother, " had fulfilled its

functions, and was being superseded by others suited to the

change of tastes and requirements of advancing years. By the
minute-book of the Edinburgh Zetalethic Society, which has
remained in my possession by right of my fulfilment of the

Iduties of Secretary during the two years that it lasted, find

George engaged with our cousin John, and a few other asso
ciates, on the 4th of April 1833, in organizing this Society for

the reading of essays and discussion. It differed in no very

special degree from the ordinary run of students' debating clubs.
The subjects of discussion were sufficiently miscellaneous ; but
their main use was in exercising the reasoning faculties, and
developing such facility of speaking in public, as was suffi-

    1 See ' Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. iv.
1832 37.  STUDIES CHEMISTRY AND ANATOMY.  30

ciently manifest in George's later public career, whatever such

ISocieties may have contributed to it. find the following among

the questions discussed at this period : The relative advantages

of public and private education ; The claims of the West- India
planters to compensation on the emancipation of the slaves ;

The morality of duelling ; The right and duty of resistance to

tyrants, as exemplified by the Scottish Covenanters of the seven

teenth century; The right of the American colonists to renounce

their allegiance ; The moral influence of the Drama ; and last,
but not least, ' Is the married or the single life the happier ?

on which George, with characteristic chivalry, stood up for the

married life, and carried the majority of youthful bachelors

along with him."

   The autumn of 1833 brought a few weeks of relaxation; and a
letter to his mother, of September 10th, says : " Our voyage and

land travels have been very fortunate, and this is more to be

wondered at from the ominous circumstance of two hares cross
Iing our path !
                  have derived great pleasure and profit from

Imy jaunt. Our voyage up the Forth was very agreeable; it

was not new to me, but enjoyed it very much. It was a fine

day, and, consistently with my profession, although those around

Ime were getting squeamish, was quite free from nausea, and

able to prescribe." The voyage was only to Stirling after all,

followed by a visit to Muthil, and home by Dundee.
   In November he entered Professor Hope's class for chemistry,

and two anatomical classes, Professor Monro's within the

University, and Mr. Lizars' without its walls. This was a

busy winter, but doubtless a happy one. The interest previ

ously felt in anatomy was deepened, while chemistry began to

unfold her wonders to his admiring contemplation According

to the laws that regulate the restless nature of boys, George
had not failed to prosecute juvenile researches in chemistry and

physical science while at the High School. One experiment is

borne in mind where the object aimed at was to produce an

earthquake. For this purpose a paste was made of steel-filings,
sulphur, and other forgotten ingredients, and this was buried in

a box of earth. The earthquake, however, was disobliging, and

slept quietly in its box, much to the disappointment of the
,10  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IL

embryo philosophers. Having attended a course of lectures on
chemistry in the School of Arts, to his intense delight, he was in

some slight measure prepared to enter on the systematic study
of this favourite science with eyes that had power to see, as

Carlyle says. In his ' Life of Edward Forbes,' after depicting
the great change wrought by the passing of the Anatomy Bill
in 1832, giving greatly increased facilities to the study of that

science, he goes on thus to speak of chemistry and its profes
sors at that time : " Chemistry, not less than anatomy, though

for other reasons, was also during Edward Forbes's novitiate in

the throes of a great change. A corner of the mantle of Joseph

Black had fallen, late in the preceding century, on Charles
Hope, a lesser but still a considerable prophet. In his hands
the Edinburgh Chair of Chemistry had become the most famous
in Great Britain ; and, except in Paris, it had been unsurpassed

in one particular for a quarter of a century in Europe. It owed

this pre-eminence to the grace and skill with which the Pro

fessor illustrated his daily winter lectures by an ample exhibi

tion of happily-devised and dexterously- executed experiments.

Dr. Hope had nothing of the fascinative eloquence or genius of
Davy, or of the inventive manipulative skill of Wollaston, or of
the penetrating insight of Dalton. His elocution was slow and

pompous ; his manner cold and ungenial ; but he was an admir
able expositor, and a most successful public experimenter. Had

his love of science or his ambition been greater, he had capacity

sufficient to have made himself distinguished as a discoverer.
But he was satisfied with the reputation and the wealth which

his University lectures brought him, and he fairly earned and

deserved both. Experimental illustration of public prelections
was not a novelty of his introducing. But no one before him,
in this country at least, had ventured to give a series of strictly
scientific lectures, extending for five days weekly over nearly
six months, and each illustrated to the full by experiments. To
his honour be it said, he simplified and legitimately popularized
chemistry without vulgarizing it. There were no needless blaz-

ings of phosphorus, or showy exhibitions of blue lights. A

conjuror might have envied his dexterity of hand, but he would

have despised the total absence of theatrical display, and have
1832-37.  MEETING OF BRITISH ASSOCIATION.             '11

smiled at the serious gravity with which the Professor poured aii

acid on a lump of chalk, and solemnly expounded why the latter

effervesced. He was little loved but greatly respected by the

students ; who complained of his chilling, unsympathizing man

ner, but at the same time acknowledged their obligations to

him as a teacher.
   " Like all other good teachers of a rapidly advancing science,

he unavoidably, and to a great extent unintentionally, made his

pupils eager for more than even he could give them."

The reader is referred to the remainder of the chapter from

which this quotation is made, for a graphic account of the ad

vancement of chemistry and the sister sciences during a quarter
of a century.1 The period of which it treats, from 1830 to

1855, has a peculiar personal interest, as well for the subject of

this Memoir as for Edward Forbes, bridging over, as it does,

the time from their entrance into the University as students, to

that of their return as teachers within its walls.
   His brother, Dr. Daniel Wilson, recalls that in 1834, " when

George was sixteen years of age, the British Association held its
first meeting in Edinburgh, and was an object of great interest to

him, giving shape and consistency to many vague longings after

scientific occupation and successes in what so soon became the
favourite pursuits of his life. An ingenious mechanical inventor,

Mr. Maxwell Dick of Irvine, who had invented and exhibited

in Edinburgh, some two years before, his ' Suspension Railway,'

was now our father's guest, and a member of the Association.

He had some subjects he wished to lay before one of the Sec

tions ; and so, through his intervention, we were both able to

obtain access to chemical and other Sections, and still more to

enjoy the invaluable treat of admission to the great evening
meeting in the Assembly Rooms, at which Dr. Buckland de

Ilivered one of his fascinating and piquant popularizations of
geological science.  well remember the delight with which

we both returned from listening to the humorous and attrac

tive lecture, and seeing for ourselves, amid the gaily dressed

evening Assembly, some of the scientific and literary notabili

ties already becoming objects of the liveliest interest. George

          1 See ' Life of Edward Forl>es,' chap. iv.
42  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IL

frequently alluded in after life to the influence this meeting had

on him."

   The Session of the succeeding winter, 1834-35, besides con
tinued study of anatomy under Mr. Lizars, brought Surgery and

Materia Medica into the field. Two years previously, Dr.
Christison, the present accomplished Professor of Materia

Medica, had been transferred from the Chair of Medical Juris

prudence to that which he still holds. "In his hands the

subject soon became one of the most attractive to the students.

A museum, still in many respects unrivalled, was, by indefatig

able exertions, furnished step by step with illustrative specimens.
Many of these were botanical, a few mineral, gathered from all

quarters of the globe. A large number were chemical, and

were chiefly prepared in the laboratory attached to the lecture-
room, where, assisted by some of the more zealous lovers of

chemistry among the students, the Professor spent many hours
each day in chemical research."1 Of this laboratory we shall
hear again. Mr. Turner, the Professor of Surgery, " was a most
uninteresting lecturer ; a timid, shy man, who could not look
his class in the face, and seemed fitted by nature for anything

rather than the duties and responsibilities of an operating

surgeon."2

    The following letters to Mr. William Nelson, then in Glasgow,

speak for themselves. It will be remembered that Mr. Nelson

was a school companion, and the friendship then formed con

tinued through life.

                                                                         *' Edinburgh, 6th December 1834.

  I" My dear William, -- Convinced that had you had any infor

mation of interest to impart, would have received a letter from
you, and feeling assured that any information from Edinburgh

Iwill be acceptable, take the pen to communicate to you all
Ithat conceive will prove interesting. My time at present is

fully occupied in the active acquirement of my profession ; from
nine in the morning to nine in the evening, the Infirmary and
classes leave me scarcely a moment to call my own, and it takes

                                    1 ' Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. iv.
                                    * Ibid., chap. v.
1832-37.                   PRINCIPAL'S INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS.                     43

me from nine to two or three in the morning to study the sub

jects of lecture. With anatomy, surgery, and materia medica,

I find my time fully taken up through the whole week. They
Iare glorious studies : the first have long admired ; the two
Ilatter are almost wholly new to me ; not that have not been

Imore or less for the last two years of my life occupied in the

minor duties of both, but never conceived that the laws of

Ieither were so curious and interesting. find my mental facul

ties most agreeably and usefully employed in the study and

observation of the singular phenomena of both. Forgive me,
                                              it

                                                     I

                                                                       if,
in the above lines, appear to be too egotistical, but believe
          ;

                   I
that in corresponding with an intimate friend can scarcely be

avoided and an account of your own feelings, and pursuits, or

productions, will be far more interesting to me than the most

detailed accounts of all that takes place at the Broomielaw.

But have no fear of being troubled with news of the latter
description and no professional duties will prevent me from
   I

                        ;

enjoying and answering your letters, for though my time well
                                           a

                                               I
                                                                    is
employed during most part of the week, yet have Saturday

evening to myself, and therefore no excuse for neglecting you.
    " On the last Saturday of November, the College was officially

opened by the Right Reverend Principal, practice always fol

lowed in the English Universities, and which would have been

adopted in the Scotch metropolitan University also, had there

been room large enough to contain the whole number of stu
   Ia
dents. The students assembled in the hall of the library, and

listened to wonderfully erudite discourse from his reverence.
              is I a
   quote to you passage from not pledging myself that theis
I                          a          it,

words employ were those used by the Principal, but that the

sen"timYeonutnsgagreenfatlietmhfeunll,ythperreeserveodn. e practice which' feel  it
                                           is
                                                                                      is
                                                       :

                                                    it
                                                         is

                                                         I
my duty to check-- practice which very improper in itself,
                              it a
and which am convinced you only practise because too little

attention paid to in preparatory schools                      that of making

balls snow! The students had all been listening with deep
          of

attention to the sage admonitory preface but when, instead of
                                           ;

animadverting on any flagitious practice, or blaming swearing,

etc., the Principal's only intention was found to be to correct the
    44                       MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.       CHAP. II.

    heinous offence of making ' balls of snow,' the effect was instan
    taneous, and for two or three minutes the laughter and ruffing
    that succeeded drowned the conclusion of the dire anathema."

        I" daresay                                " Edinburgh, 20th January 18?5.

                    Iby this time you are beginning to think

    have quite forgotten you, or had too much of your company

    lately to care about writing you speedily. It is want of time

    alone that has prevented me this week ; the lectures have

    Ibeen on particularly difficult subjects, their study has been

    more so, and have been kept later at the Infirmary too.

    IThis may account for this week's dilatoriness ; and for my

    remissness in the last week, let me tell you fairly intended to

    Iwrite you last Friday or Saturday, when a train of circumstances
    occurred to prevent me fulfilling my intentions.     was sitting

    on Friday in my studio, my brother had just gone to bed was
                                                         a

                                                                  (it

                                                                  I
    about one o'clock), and, thinking what should say to you,
                                      a
    had shut my medical books, and was looking over volume of
                                         I
    Wordsworth, when my cousin came to tell me that the Register
                                                      '
    Office was on fire.      soon reached room commanding view
                    I                                       a
                      I
    of this house, which appeared in full relief against the bright

    and lurid sky.           roused my brother, and in slippers' we de
    parted to ascertain the truth of the report. It was not the
    Register Office, but the New Buildings, North Bridge. It was

II a  glorious scene but the cold weather forced us home again for
            I
                          ;
    more substantial clothing, and we returned prepared for passing

    the night on the crowded street.     had never seen large fire
                                      I                  a

    before, and gazed on the sublime and awful scene with feelings

      never experienced before. My first feelings were those of

    great mental agitation. quivered like an aspen leaf, nor could
                             I
                                I
      raise the glass to my eye. These feelings were wholly invo
luntary. It was not fear.
                                   was determined to wait the whole

    night the fire continued, and ready to run almost any risk to
        if

see its progress and conclusion. These feelings gradually les '

sened, and were succeeded by sensations of intense horror for fire  ;

every other accident we are liable to shrank in my estimation,

and vivid picture of all the horrible attendants on this dread
        a

ful and devastating element passed in quick succession before
1832 37.  SENSATIONS ON WITNESSING HOUSE ON FIRE.

Imy anxious mind ; nay, so intense were my feelings, that won

dered the very fear of such a disaster did not prevent the duties
of life being performed. These painful feelings passed away, and

were succeeded by a powerful excitement; my eye passed from the

horrors of the fire to the strenuous exertions of the firemen, and

I Ifelt could have rushed at one of the ladders, and stood among
I Ithe ruins of the burning mass. It is with no feelings of egotism
narrate those feelings.  believe, to you the actions of the

mind under extraordinary circumstances will be interesting, and

Ifor that reason solely do trouble you with my feelings on this

occasion.

   " It was a glorious spectacle ; the whole tenement of three

houses, from the highest flat to the lowest, was enveloped in

flames ; from every window, sheets, or rather waves, billows of
flame were whirling, throwing a vivid light on all the surround

ing buildings, and from the combustible nature of the goods, the
fire burned furiously ; in less than half an hour everything but

the bare stones had disappeared from the inner walls. The fire
men acted most fearlessly, and with great presence of mind.

Three of them posted themselves on the stone ledge over the
window of the adjoining shop, and within a very few feet
of the flames, directed the water on the most necessary points.

One of them got up on the top of the house, and stood giving

signals to his comrades ; his stout, stalwart figure, his crested
helmet, and his short jacket, made him look like some old Roman

gazing on his favourite city amidst flames and desolation. Long
ere the fire had perceptibly receded, those bold men were on the
ledge of the blazing windows, and breathing an atmosphere at a
great distance disagreeable, and confronting a heat as powerful
as that of a furnace, directed the jets on the most needful points.

I saw three of them stand in the midst of the burning mass, their

red helmets conspicuous above the redness of the flames, and the

brass on their fronts flashing above all, as if they, the privileged

children of fire, were permitted to stand unscathed, with the

fearful flames rolling around them. It was horrible to look on

them, and the sight was more horrible when, with a crash, they

were precipitated through the floors to the lowest apartments.
Poor fellows ! they were all more or less severely burnt or in
46  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. ir.

jured ; one, after enduring great pain, died next day in the

Infirmary ; the other is slowly recovering ; the third was re

moved to his own house, where he lies at present suffering under

his injuries. The fire became much less at about half-past two,

and at three o'clock, as all the burning was within, and all effect

gone, we returned home, but not to sleep for some hours. The

following day the houses appeared as if they had been some of

the exhumed mansions of Pompeii, that had stood for seventeen

centuries the ravages of time and decay, and their tottering con

dition rendered their immediate demolition necessary. Excuse

Ithis fiery letter ; my mind was too full of the subject to permit
me writing otherwise.    have now disburdened myself, and
promise you a calmer, more peaceable letter next time ; till

which time believe me your most affectionate friend.
                                                             " George Wilson."

                                                          " Edinburgh, 6th February 1835.
    " Hoping with parental solicitude that the last offspring

of my pen has safely reached, and found you in your usual

health and spirits, and unwilling to trouble you by post,

unless when peculiar circumstances interfere, and anxious to

Iunburden my heart to my dearest friend, take the opportunity

of my cousin's return to Glasgow, and sit down to pen you a

Ifew lines, at least showing you are not forgotten. Forgotten,

no ! have lost all the friends of my younger days except you,

and have no heart or opportunity to make new ones ; but no
Ione has many real friends, and have plenty in you and my
Iown nearest relations.
                         have got on since you left me in the

I allold way ; the reality of life through the day, and its pleasure
and comforts at night.   am not well at  at present, how
ever. Bilious --you can sympathize -- no distinct illness, but

melancholy and sad, and a mournful despondency so affect-

I Iingly described by Byron, on waking in the middle of the night,

a feeling am a stranger to generally, for love to lie awake in

Idarkness -- all the worse feelings of my heart leave me then, and

in calmness and quietness ponder over happy ideas and fond

associations. 'Tis a strange thing (I am superstitious you will

say), that for years I have always been unhappy in February ;
1832-37.                    MELANCHOLY IN SPRING.                        47

Inot during the whole month, but only a portion of it. Now
IFebruary is the month in which was born.                            can look back

to my schoolboy days, and recollect perfectly those times as

being miserable from coincident saddening events, generally

those causing remorse for improper conduct. An awakened

conscience is a fearful depressor of happiness. Now you will

say, perhaps, that the circumstance of the time being about my

birthday, that was an epoch, or an ' Olympiad,' to which the

mind would retrospectively look, and the attendant circum

stances of which would be more deeply impressed on my mind.

I have endeavoured to account for it in this manner, but cannot
Isatisfy myself that that will suffice to explain the facts, for
Inever paid any attention to my birthday ; indeed, never knew

it,  or                        it,
                                      a
         iIf  did once hear certainly forgot          I              nor did look
                                                                     II
                                                         it

                                                                  ;
forward to next February as time when should be sad. It

was long after several birthdays had rolled over me that the

circumstance attracted my attention. Last February was the

most sad and melancholy period of my life, and can look back
                                                      iIf I I I
on many mournful birthdays. Perhaps shall die in this
month, but that will sadden me least, for will have no recur

rence of mournful seasons to vex me, and                             only understood

religion, my wish for death am sure would increase.                    don't
                            ;

                                I
                                    I
think will live long my mind will, must, work itself out, and
        I

          I
the body will soon follow it. But God has ordained all for the

best, and do not repine, and have great reason to be thank -

fui that though in minor points of everyday duties, am very
                                                    II
undecided and many strange fancies pass through my brain,        is I

infidelity has not, and have never been undecided about reli                         a
                            I                                                                 ;

gion.    I  have troubled you with enough of my sorrows, and            II

am always the happier of losing them, but shall keep diary,

or rather write my past life. It will be interesting to watch

metaphysically the changes brought about in my own mind,

though the causes are far less apparent than the effects.

have done as my last letter was from my heart, so this but
          I
recollect the circumstances attending;                its production, and
                                                      am not happy gene
perhaps you           will  forget its  strangeness.
   " Nor, my                William,    imagine that
                      dear

rally.      am sincerely happy, for instance, in reading your kind
48               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. II.

Iletters ; happy in writing to you.  enjoy reading and the
Icompany of those love ; and when night and quietness come,
I II am almost always perfectly happy. It is only at particular

times become unhappy, and at present cannot write you a
Imore cheerful letter, but shall take plenty of exercise, etc.,

and recover my usual health, and you shall receive a more gay

and merry epistle than this present one. The very thought
invigorates me, and the strength of my mind will return with

Ireturning health.

   " may take this opportunity of telling you that the Rev.

Mr. Alexander, of College Church, was ordained yesterday.

Dr. Wardlaw, of Glasgow, presided, and preached on Sabbath

Ievening; intend to hear him. And mentioning ministers
Ireminds me of a plan propose pursuing with reference to

Sabbath -evening discourses, viz., to take notes of the more
striking passages, and send them to you, hoping to be repaid in
Ithe same coin.
                 believe you are in the habit of taking notes ;
I mean to suggest favouring me with the beautiful ideas you
Imay hear from the pulpit.
                            propose principally to attend
Mr. Alexander and Mr. Anderson, and trust my labour will
obtain for us something worth having. In addition, you will

confer a great favour on me by recommending to my notice
Ithose books you find instructive, etc. It is near two o'clock
a.m., so conclude. --Yours most affectionately,  G. W."

                                                                          " February 28, 1835.
   " Really, what with Infirmary classes, and preparation for

Ithem, have had little time left me for perusing works of
Igeneral literature ; and have only been twice at church, and

neither of the sermons contained much very interesting. How

Iever, don't lose time, and contrive to get some moments for
Ireading interesting books, not strictly medical. At present
Ihave got hold of one that has interested me exceedingly, and

which, if you have not read, would recommend to your per

usal, viz., ' The Confessions of an English Opium Eater !' a very

singular book, written by a most talented, unfortunate philoso

pher, containing a narrative of circumstances of rare occurrence,
and full of descriptions of mental emotions, interesting to all
1832-37.                     'CONFESSIONS OF AN OPIUM-EATER.'                 40

Iwho love the study of metaphysics.                       have never studied meta
Iphysics ; suppose my hatred of mathematics will be no help in
Istudy. But at any rate love to mark the workings of the

human mind under various circumstances ; but though it is a

favourite pursuit of mine to watch the feelings and actions of

others, and mark the workings of the mind within, yet it is diffi

cult to ascertain the actions and impulses to such in others,

and though much may be observed, yet of course the mind of

the observer is the great field of observation. To no breast but

his own has he always access ; no bosom but his own is laid
open to him with all its joys and sorrows, hopes and fears, and

their causes and effects. But this book is an exception. This

talented writer has laid before his reader a narrative of a singu

lar life, and depicted in most beautiful and poetical terms, the

pleasures and pains of opium ; and as the first are of a most

delightful description, the latter are of a most horrid (descrip

tion). There is one singular thing he takes notice of, the peculiar
Istate of the eye (or rather the mental eye) in children.
                                                                              don't

know if ever in your younger days you used to shut your eyes,
and laying your head on the pillow, conjure up phantoms. It

used to be a favourite employment of my brother and me,

Iand the phantoms were of a pleasing description generally,

but often commonplace. Thus, recollect seeing a regiment
of soldiers pass before me by shutting my eyes in bed, and as

Isoon as they were opened all had disappeared, to reappear on

closing the eyes. This mode of producing images, was very
fond of; and even in the course of the day it would take place

by producing artificial darkness. This singular faculty (which
I II believe many children possess), totally left me as life advanced,
                                                                              till
so gradually, that had almost forgot ever possessed            I
                                                                       it,

                                                                       I
seeing the fact noticed in the Opium-Eater, in whom this

faculty was awakened to most insufferable degree.              can yet
                             a
                                    a

                                        is
                                             a
occasionally produce phantom, but generally the only thing

observe on closing           my    eyes,        spot; ifas of bright light.   this,
   " Now my reason            for   asking    you       you ever experienced

twofold in the first place, never recollect noticing                          to
is                           if                                it
      a                         it                                      it

                          ;          is

                                         I
you, and wonder                    new to you and secondly, seems to

me singular proof of how poetical an infancy many children

                                            n
50         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON. '  CHAP. II.

pass. Ill fact, the appearance of a child sleeping, the lovely

smiles on the lips, show the presence of happy dreams : and,

oh ! what can be the subject of the dreams of an infant a few

days old ? They cannot be dreams like ours, for all ours are

tinctured by surrounding circumstances, which have affected us,

or are mere versions of commonplace occurrences, rendered

ludicrous (when thought over), by those anomalies that take
place in dreams only ; or they are horrible imaginings of fearful

circumstances, or dreaded events, aggravated to so intense a
degree as to make awaking from them positive pleasure. But

the visions of infants cannot be tinctured by surrounding objects,

or be the exaggerated depictings of every-day occurrences, and

the smiles show they must be beautiful, supremely beautiful.

Oh ! what can be their subject, what their cause, or what

delightful emotions do they feel, ere they seemingly have asso

ciated with aught that could afford subject for thought, or have

obtained the power of thinking at all ? But thought is not

necessary for dreams, except those of association, and this is

Iproved by the fact of the lower animals dreaming-- the dog, the

elephant, and, believe, some others. All these circumstances,

my dear William, seem to show, that in spite of all that educa

tion produces and experience adds to our knowledge, in spite of

all that critics have said and may say, our infancy and childhood
I Iis the season of poetry.
           think it was so in my own life, and

I Ibelieve it is the case with all who possess any share of talent at

all. do not need to tell you that by poetry, mean not writing

verse, for who has not felt the most glorious thoughts impossible

Ito express? and the great and ecstatic pleasure of writing or

explaining fully an idea, believe, is always accompanied with

the consciousness that more glorious and beautiful ideas can be

felt than expressed. Thus childhood may be the most poetical

stage though no expressions show and though the child
unconscious itself. Now that have thought over this subject,
           I                                                    is
                      it,

some reveries and strange recollections, like dreams that have

long pleasurably haunted me, seem the relics of those poetical

days, and am sure at times remember some of them. There
is         I
   a

        I
    strange fact, viz., that on the point of sudden drowning, or

the like, the whole life of the individual, from his youngest days,
1S32-37.   DEATH OF TWIN-BROTHERS.                               51

has passed before him, accompanied by an aptitude to com

prehend the whole ; and a writer has most beautifully imagined
that the Book of Account of the Bible will be our own mind

Iendowed with a power of contemplating all its past conduct and
judging of its propriety.  fear this writing will be illegible.
" Now, how delightful it would be to have an aptitude to
Iunderstand all, given with a remembrance of the past !
                                                                 be

lieve the vision would be more beautiful than aught of the con

ceptions of maturer years. Do write me your opinion about

all these points, and excusing the strangeness and illegibility
of this letter (I intend to mend the last),- -Believe me, yours
most affectionately,                       " George Wilson."

The few religious allusions contained in those letters are

interesting as the only guide by which we may trace his feelings

on such subjects ; and they are the more so when we remember

how strongly materialistic was the tendency of the Medical

ISchool at that time. One of his dearest early friends says --"

have a vivid remembrance of a long talk with him one day

while he was in the Infirmary Laboratory, in the course of

which he lamented the Sabbath service required of him there.

I IThis remark impressed me much, for at that time fear should

have been glad of any seeming work of necessity which broke
in upon the Sabbath rest."

   Once again was the household darkened by the shadow of
sickness unto death. John, the gentle, loving twin-brother of

George, had never been robust, and pulmonary symptoms had

caused anxiety for some years past. Those now became so

marked as to leave little ground for hope, and some months of

lingering illness brought him to his heavenly home. Blessed

months they were to him, for in them he learned the wonderful

secret how God can be just, yet the justifier of the ungodly.

Instead of murmuring at the wearisome days and nights ap

pointed him, he rather most gratefully rejoiced that time had

thus been  given to work out his salvation  with fear and  trem
           friend already mentioned1 says   of him, " He   was a
bling. A

sincere and lowly Christian, and died in perfect peace, leaning

                           1 Ante, p. 26.
52  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                    CHAP. II.

I Iupon his Saviour.
    saw him the day before his death ; shall

never forget his look, it was full of joy and hope. Mrs. Wilson
was in truth ' a mother in Israel,' for notwithstanding the bit

terness of her sorrow, she it was who directed his mind to the

Cross, and supported and comforted him during the languor of

disease by her presence and Christian conversation, never

allowing her feelings to overpower her judgment, but always

appearing composed and even cheerful." The contrast to his

brother in personal appearance became more striking as his life
approached its close. He had attained nearly six feet in height,

and when, with his lustrous black eyes and raven hair, he was

seen beside George's slender little figure and fair complexion,

none could have guessed how close the tie was that united them.

    But two months before, John had entered his eighteenth year.

No record of George's sorrow at this mournful separation exists :

it was a grief too deep for much expression. His friend, Wil

liam Nelson, remembers a walk they had together in this time
of sadness, and George with great earnestness telling him there
was no text in the Bible he thought so beautiful as this, " God

shall wipe away all tears from their eyes." As a child this had

been a favourite, and was to have been the text of his first

sermon had he ever mounted a pulpit, but now new beauty was

seen in it. No wonder that in later years he writes, -- " The

Iother world and the shadow of death have been in my thoughts

ever since remember." To one or two intimate friends he

frequently spoke tenderly of John ; and the only wish he was

Iknown to express regarding his burial was in conversation with

a friend, " should like to be laid beside my twin-brother."

This desire has been fulfilled ; side by side they lie as in the

happy dreams of childhood, safer now and happier than then ;

for them that sleep in Jesus will God bring with Him, and they
shall be satisfied when they awake in His likeness. How truly
does the wise Jeremy Taylor tell us, that " the sadnesses of this

life help to sweeten the bitter cup of death."

    The winter Session of 1835-36 found George steadily at work.
The lectures of Professors Alison, Syme, and Home, were at

tended, together with Anatomy in Mr. Lizars' class-rooms, and

the Hospital wards. The determination to keep a diary, an
15)2-37.  BEGINS TO KEEP A DIAKY.  r>3

nounced in one of his letters to Mr. Nelson, was fulfilled so far.
The first entry was made before the year closed : it forms a
preface to the volume, but, unfortunately, only an eighth part
of the book is filled, the rest being blank paper. The entries
are irregular, ten occurring in 1836, one in 1837, three in 1838,
and the last one in 1839.

   I" December 23d, 1835. -- have sat down this evening to com
Imence what have long thought of doing, the record of some

of the curious thoughts and wild imaginings that pass through

my mind during the course of the day. It is not to be a diary
Ieither of events or feelings ; that is to say, have not the inten

tion of chronicling every circumstance that happens to me ; but

I intend putting down in this book such of my thoughts as

appear to myself worthy of preservation, either on account of

Itheir singularity or beauty. And the end hope to gain by so
Idoing is twofold : hope to create for myself a store of images,

and thoughts, etc., which have been the product of my own

meditations, and which will form (independently of their pos

sessing no other claim to attention but the circumstance of
having once been my own thoughts) a summary and conclusion
of all courses of reasoning which have busied me ; and in this

light will occasionally be of service, by affording the necessary
conclusions, without the labour of going through the necessary
preliminary steps. But the main object of my commencing is
the wish to treasure up the prominent features of my mind as it

acts at present, both to watch its progress, and to afford a fund
of pleasing delight afterwards, in musing over the thoughts of

Imy young days ; and it may appear strange to thee, reader,

whoever thou art, that should put any preface to a collection
of my own meditations ! But though destined to be a book
read by none but myself at most times, yet there are some who
love me, and take a kind interest in me, to whom this shall not

be denied, and there is one to whom it will be freely given ; but
besides all this, it is possible and by no means improbable that
no one will see it during my own life, but to whom it will be

I Iof great interest when am dead ; and though might wait to

see who shall be my survivors, and address them particularly,
54           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. II.

yet the possibility of my death being a violent and sudden one,

preventing the arrangement of such things as this, has induced

me to preface this book, that those into whose possession it may

designedly or accidentally come, may perfectly understand the

cause of its being written.

  I" Several evenings ago had a curious dream, different from
Iany preceding one, both as to kind and degree.
                                                  awoke in the

middle of the night surrounded by deep darkness and utter
Istillness.
             had the most distinct sensation of having been
Idreaming, although the precise nature of the dream could not
Irecollect.
             felt a strange indescribable sensation of great hap

piness, evidently a continuation of the feelings which had pos

Isessed me immediately before awaking, and there was no evident
cause to excite such lively feelings of delight.  had the sen

sation of being alone in some great hall or boundless valley, in

a state of the utmost loneliness and stillness imaginable, yet

pervaded with a feeling of intense happiness, and that happiness

calm and deep, in no way partaking of the character of idle

mirth or careless levity, but accompanied with a feeling of the

deepest solemnity and reverential awe felt for some invisible

I Ibeing of great power, to whom had some obscure idea was

indebted for the feelings of pleasure ; but my thoughts were so

Iintent on reflecting on the curious condition of happiness, that

  turned my attention very slightly to the cause of their occur
Irence.
         awoke, but this feeling of deep happiness did not

immediately disappear, not indeed till it had been much the

subject of reflection and analysis.

  I" have no remembrance of having such a dream before.

My dreams are for the most part, in health, ludicrous, in dis

ease, frightful ; but in no way resembling the dream in question.

IIt may be plausibly accounted for. On the preceding evening

   had been reading, with feelings of great admiration, the

' Confessions of an Opium-Eater,' and in addition enjoying the

conversation of a highly intellectual and imaginative friend, and

retired to bed under feelings of great excitement, more especially

my imagination called into play ; and it may be supposed that

such a state of mind easily produced the effects in question, i.e.,

the dream. This would go to prove the truth of Dr. Macnish's
r.1S32     SACREDNESS OF THE DEAD.                                                                    55

theory regarding dreams, that we dream all the night long, and

If Ithat the reason we do not recollect them is because memory is
not called into action.  that theory is correct, and think it

is,
                            a

                                  is

                          I
what glorious visions must have lost what entrancing
                                                                                    !

                                                                                                  !"
pictures of seraphic beauty and unimaginable glory

   On the next page a morsel of Infirmary life, in writing                          it
which he seems to have been interrupted, for closes abruptly
in the middle of sentence. Two pages have been left blank

for its continuation, but the story was never resumed.

"January 5th, 1836. -- have this day had to perform one of
                         I

                                          it

                                                      a
                                                                                       a

                                                         I
the most melancholy duties which                                                    has fallen to my lot, for

some time, to perform, the burying of stranger in foreign

land, in the cold grave. 'Tis about two months since was
struck, in going round one of the wards of the Infirmary, by

the handsome contour of one of the patients, and the exceedingly

beautiful forehead towering over Grecian nose and well-formed
           I

                                                 a
                                                    a

                                                                       a
features.  learned he was German, valet de place, who had

been travelling from Aberdeen to Edinburgh, but in getting off

the coach had had the misfortune to twist his leg at the hip.

The pain and inconvenience were slight at first, so as not to

prevent him travelling on but on reaching Edinburgh he be
;

                                 a

                                                         ;
                                                                                 ;
gan to suffer more and more, and at last the pain and inability

to move the limb which he experienced, increased so as to pre

vent walking, and he came into the Hospital. For some days

the injury appeared      trivial one he was cheerful, in good

health generally speaking"

   At the death of this man, no friends were found to claim his

body and the thought that his " beautiful forehead" should be

touched by the dissecting- knife, George felt to be unbearable.

He could not, however, undertake to be responsible for the ne

cessary expenses, so many demands did the patients make on
his slender stock of pocket-money. The result of anxious pon

dering how his object might be accomplished was, that he
searched out some Germans, waiters in one of the clubs in town,

and telling them of their countryman's death, he assured them

that, they claimed the body, his stock of clothes would amply
if
56  MKMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IT.

refund all outlay. Their acquiescence was readily gained to

this plan, and he and they were the mourners at the funeral.
    The gratitude of the men for this act of kindness was great.

Not content with thanks, they said, " Oh, sir ! is there nothing
we could do for you? would you like to see the club-room?"
He did pay it a visit to satisfy them that it was in their power
to give him pleasure. One memorial of the patient he retained,
a German prayer-book, hoping at some future day to visit his
native place, and communicate with his friends.

   This unprofessional cheating the dissecting-room of lawful

subjects was not a solitary case. Where his love or interest
was excited in patients, their bodies had a sacredness in his

eyes, and at almost any sacrifice he would save them from what

he deemed desecration. It may be supposed how much more

strongly such feelings influenced him in reference to relations

and friends, for whom his affection was so strong, and almost

passionate in degree, as to surprise those who casually became

aware of its nature.

    He was, in the days we now speak of, an impetuous, ardent,

and often impatient youth, capable of any act of unselfish devo
tion to those dear to him, but abounding in strong and some
times unreasonable aversions ; yet, with a certain waywardness,
there was mingled such a winning grace that it was a notorious

fact that when he chose, consciously or unconsciously, to exert

the power, no one could refuse him aught he asked. Indeed,
throughout life his powers of " coaxing" were often called into
requisition in cases where others had failed. Thus, while a

student, he was applied to by ladies whom he knew, to try what
could be done with an old woman in Portobello, a sea-bathing
resort a few miles from Edinburgh. She was aided by a charit
able society, but for her own sake it was most desirable she

should become an inmate of the hospital. All persuasions or

entreaties to this effect, however, were in vain ; and so week

after week had passed, till George went down, and to the un

bounded astonishment of the ladies, brought her triumphantly
to town in a cab, and deposited her, a subdued and willing cap
tive, in one of the wards. From this digression, we return to

the private journal, as the best source of information in regard
1832 37.  SPECULATES ON THE EMOTIONS.          57

to the inner life. The entries are more full in the first month
of its existence than at any future period, though some of them
are too sacred and personal to be made public.

"January Wth. -- Logicians have given much attention to the

study of the emotions likely to be legitimately excited by certain

occurrences, and on this point Dr. Abercrombie has most parti

cularly dwelt, and Iyet cannot perceive the possibility of ever

ascertaining or fixing what emotions should originate from known

causes ; for in every individual these emotions must differ as
well in kind as in degree, and there appears to me no subject

better fitted than this to show, to prove, how much mind differs

in different individuals, and how essentially it is the reflection

of the mind on objects and events which is the greatest cause of

joy and sadness, and delight and horror, and not those occurrences

themselves, so much so that we often find that the contemplation of

such objects awakes startling, striking, and vivid feelings, which

these objects themselves did not excite, though apparently cal

culated to do so. There is a curious case illustrative of this in

the life of the celebrated physiologist, John Hunter. This gen

tleman had among a collection of animals two leopards, which

by some accident escaped one day. Hunter was aroused from

his studies by their noise in endeavouring to get away ; and on

running down, found them attempting to scale the walls of the

court-yard. He courageously sprang forwards, grasped each by

the neck, dragged them back to their den, and secured them ;

but on retiring again to his study, he was so struck with the

risk he had run, and the extreme hazard of the attempt, that

the thought almost maddened him. The longer he thought, the

more forcibly was he struck with the thought of what danger he

had been exposed to. To adduce another case, in one of the

Iautumnal months a summer or two ago, walking along one of

the tributary streams of the Tweed, was struck with the ap

Ipearance of an old castle near the river. This castle (the Drochill)
being in excellent preservation, walked up to
a                                              and after
                                                                            it,

                                                   I

                                                                                     it
viewing its external excellences, began to examine the internal

accommodation of the donjon-keeps. Looking into one, saw

had hard, firm floor, and jumped down through the window
58                                          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.    CHAP. n.

Ito examine it. Unfortunately had made a very great mistakeI it it,     a it
Ias to the consistence, and instead of landing on solid ground,I
aIdescended to my knee in a mass of mud and green weeds and
                      a                                                 a;
water. Immediately on feeling myself sinking, made a con
                                         ;vulsive spring at the window, and grasping the stone lintel withI
supernatural energy, raised myself with the utmost ease from                       ;I
this quagmire, although unassisted by the desperation of the moI

II Iment, believe could not have made my way as did. My first        a

feeling on reaching solid ground was amazement, succeeded byis,

Iinvoluntary laughter at the absurd mistake of thinking a ditch;

of water terra firma. With the utmost alacrity immediatelyis

proceeded to remove the mud from my nether limbs, and anI
adjournment to the neighbouring river soon removed all the

Iadventitious stuff I had acquired in my luckless leap.

laughed a good deal on thinking of and soon banished from
my mind, nor the whole of that day did think of it. But at

night while lying alone on my bed in utter darkness, when the

circumstance came back on me, awakened thoughts of fear
ful description for the keep might have been fourteen feet
deep, as well as three or four, and might have sunk and died

   most horrible death, and my mysterious disappearance must

have been source of great sorrow to my friends and when
thought of all these things, was so horrified that eagerly

courted sleep to banish thoughts of so terrible description

and even yet, after the lapse of many month, my heart throbs
with unusual emotions, and the thoughts excited are still pain
ful and horrible.

   " The two preceding cases are curious in showing how fals,e

the common idea that when causes of joy or grief are over,
the effects will cease but in all minds of any power, both will

be immeasurably increased by reflection deepening their hues

and heightening their effects, and producing deep and inefface -

able impressions on the heart of the thinker.
   " There another curious thing with reference to mental phe -

nomena, which note down here as very curious and interesting,
that in poets and men of fervid, gorgeous imaginations, whose
minds are essentially non-mathematical, and who do not parti

cularly care for sciences or mere matters of fact, their most
1832-37.        ' THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII.'                                                                                                                r>9

splendid and striking productions have often been, not the

result of thinking over the subject to find what could be made

                it,
                                                              it,
of but from the subject, or some part of as in some way
'
connected with  striking their mind as being particularly
     it,
curious or novel, and the perception of that unique beauty has

stimulated their mental powers, and led to their brightest effects.

To take an instance, the talented and imaginative author of the

Last Days of Pompeii,' has mentioned in the preface, that the

idea of introducing blind girl into that delightful book, was
                a
                           a

                                        it
derived from a remark of friend that the blind would be the

most advantageously situated of all when the pitchy darkness

covered the devoted city, for to them would make no differ

ence, and they could easily make their escape, when those

gifted with sight would be confounded with the unusual dark

ness. This remark, one of sterling beauty and originality,

seems to have struck the mind of Mr. Bulwer, and sunk

deeply into his thoughts, and from the revolving in his mind

of this simple remark, has given rise to beautiful creation,
          a

                                                                       ;

                                                              a

                                       I
                                                                  a

                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                          ;
the blind Thessalian flower-gatherer, Nydia, one of the most

exquisite characters of the work and please myself with

imagining what delight Bulwer must have felt, when the idea

shot into his mind, and he saw what rich and beautiful chain

of incidents he could elicit from the remark of his friend for

whatever were his intentions in resolving to write The Last

Days,' the introduction of the blind girl into his work has evi

dently had great influence on the whole plot and characters of

the book. And the above might easily be shown to be the case

with all poets in whom the feelings of delight from such slight

remarks as that alluded to, are among the most signal proofs

the intensity of their genius, and the excellency of their
of
                                     a

                    I
                                      it a

                                                    a

                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                                         !
powers of creation, as well as palpably demonstrating how much

their minds must differ from those of other men."

  "January \2th. --What great and wondrous change comes

over the mind emerging from boyhood to youth, at sixteen or

seventeen. What change spreads itself over every thought

and feeling, and how does deepen and render more intense

every emotion. When was boy at school, my thoughts were

brilliant, my wishes ardent, and my cares few and, lo now
GO  MEMOIR OF GEOKGK WILSON.  CHAP. II.

what aii alteration, that which was liked is now beloved, and

that which was disliked is now abhorred. The pleasure of
school-boy life was in a great measure the result of a conscious
ness of animal life ; the feeling of being a living creature, as
Moore has beautifully expressed it in ' Lalla Rookh,' is sufficient

to give happiness ; but when sixteen or seventeen has arrived,
along with the striking and rapid development of the body, the
mind also increases in all its capabilities. With what different

Ifeelings do now look on objects calculated to excite strong

emotions. What rapturous feelings of delight are excited in
my heart by the contemplation of the ' Beautiful,' whether it be
the beautiful in physical or mental conformation, or in com
position, elocution, poetry, or means to an end. Whatever can
claim title to the term beautiful in my estimation, awakens in
my heart feelings of uncontrollable emotion. How delightedly

Ido gaze on works of art or design, such as Martin's or

Turner's, or the sculpture of the renowned masters, the Medicean
Venus, or the Graces of Canova. How rapturously and passion -

Iately do dwell on beautiful poetry, or the wild imagina

tive works of rare genius ; and how pleasing it is to contemplate

IGod's provision in this world ! So great an ecstasy of happiness

have felt from the above-mentioned causes, that it seemed that

death could be the only termination of feelings which were
utterly opposed to the daily occurrences of the world. But in
sad subjects as much are my feelings deepened in intensity :
the cries of distress, the moanings-of anguish, break on my
heart far more acutely, and sink into my heart far deeper, than
they ever did heretofore ; and the prospect of evil and misery,
and sin and woe, affects me much more powerfully than it did

of old. In short, now my mind is much more developed than
two years ago, and can ascend and descend much more widely
than it could at that time, and my joy or sorrow is much more
the result of legitimate causes than it was then."

    " January 1 ith. --What a horrible thing remorse is ! how fear
 ful in its influence over the soul ; clouding all the gay prospects

 that have been opened to its view ; throwing a black and gloomy
 shroud over the fair and beautiful, and tinging every emotion of
1S32-37.         ' SONG OF THE BLIND FLOWER GIRL.'                        61

the same ghastly hue, whether the mind may have been turned
to really proper or merely frivolous pursuits ; and how balefully
and abhorredly gleams back on my own mind the recollection

Iof the multitude of accursed sins daily commit ;--my exceed

ing and ungrateful unkindness ; my wayward temper, and my
excessive irritability so much increased lately, that even the

Islightest noises are sufficient to enrage me. Would that could,

with Divine assistance, overcome, banish them, and turn the

mental activity to more useful purposes."

I" July 2d. -- Bulwer's ' Nydia.' -- Every time I read the songs
in Bulwer's ' Last Days of Pompeii,'             see something new to
Iadmire, and of these would take for subject of notice at present
' The Song of the Blind Flower- Girl.' Beautiful creation ! I

have formerly referred to it while speculating on the causes

which gave rise to the idea -of its mention in his wildly beautiful

book. This song, like the whole of the poetry in the volume,

has evidently been the production of elaborate revision, added

to a highly -cultivated imagination ; and it has that character of

true poetry deeply impressed on that each repeated perusala it,

brings to light new beauties and rarer excellences, and, as one1'

has justly remarked, that idea must have something new, ora

striking, or beautiful which comes unbidden to the heart, and,if is

beckoned by no effort of the will, presents itself to the mind         a

when not wholly engrossed with some other subject. And often

have the ideas of that song come to my recollection, with their

rare beauty and most affecting comparisons, almost making the

tears fall in sympathy with that which, though in the present

case the imagined declaration of fictitious being, so similar

to what many one may or might have said with all justness
               a
and truth, that     must awaken as much compassion for the
                it

mournful state of the blind as could have been excited by that

which was known to be the faithful record of real occurrence.

There great art displayed in making Nydia, after referringis

to the Earth as the mother of the flowers, ask- as in lower
voice, in parenthesis,--

                    is 'Do they her beauty keep

And how beautifully the allusion to the Earth, as their parent,
62           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                               CHAP. II.

kept up ! How much is the unity of subject preserved ; how true

to nature is the whole picture ! The fond mother represented
sitting with her young children fast asleep in her lap, bending

    ' With her soft and delicate breath, over them murmuring low,'

and kissing them so often, that, when taken from her,

                                  ' On their lips her sweet kiss lingers ; "

while yet, with that strange, curious paradox of the mind,

                          ' She weeps, to see the young things grow so fair.'

How exceedingly natural the last idea is ! how consonant with

Ithe experience of mothers --of all mothers, firmly believe, who

have ever fondly loved their offspring ! Yet it is a strange and

most curious phenomenon of the mind, that the seeing beloved

objects growing more endearing should make the heart over

flow with tears. It is too curious a subject not to have received

the notice of those who are fond of metaphysical inquiries.
Isaac Taylor, referring to the subject, says : ' No position of the

mind is more peculiar than the one it occupies when, at the

same moment, the reasons of hope are irrefragable, and the

Imotives of despondency are overwhelming.' (Saturday Even
ing). --And  recollect to have read, in 'The Confessions of

an Opium-Eater,' a reference to this, in which De Quincey

Igives the only attempt at explanation of this phenomenon

which have seen. That writer mentions, that he could never

walk out in a beautiful summer day, and see all nature pro

lific in life; the air, and earth, and waters teeming with

myriads of animate beings; the hills crowned with forests,

clothed with full foliage, and the valleys rich with the freshest
verdure,--he could not look on all this without a deep feeling

of mournfulness coming on him, which he conceives most truly

to depend upon the antithesis between summer and the pro

fusion of life, and winter and the silence of death. And follow

ing out the subject, he conceives it a fixed law of the human
mind, that if two objects stand in relation to each other, as
things utterly different, the one will suggest the other. Thus

does the wild profusion of life suggest the solitary silent loneli
ness of death ; and thus to the mother will the sight of her

young babes, day after day growing fairer, awaken in her mind
1S32 -37.  THOUGHTS ON THE RESURRECTION.          63

the dread of pain, and disease, and death ; and the fond, loving,

hoping, and fearing heart will find relief only in the overflowing
of the ' well of a mother's love,' which has so often dropped its

scalding tears on the face of the fair young babe that reposed in

quiet rest on its parent's knee."

"July \0th, Sabbath Evening. -- I have opened the Bible this

evening to read one of its most beautiful and striking passages,
the 15th chapter of First Corinthians, containing the full de

scription of the resurrection of the dead, one of the most solemn

and seriously interesting subjects that can occupy the mind.

Solemn it is and must be to all, the idea that the period of our

existence in this world is but a minute fraction of the period
Iduring which we are to exist as immortal souls.
                                                  have often

thought with sadness on the dim, dark vista, down which the

Ancients must have looked when they contemplated death.

How must the mind have recoiled from the idea of annihilation !

A Catiline might deem such an ending no undesirable thing ;

but would not the thought of it throw a cloud over the musings

of Cicero or Plato ? How must the man of the world, the Epi

curean, have seen the locks clustering over his forehead becom -

ing grey and lustreless, his eye becoming dimmer and duller,

the smooth cheek becoming invaded by wrinkles, and care

stamping his image on the furrowed brow ! Mournful must

have been the spectacle, each new wrinkle, each additional grey

hair adding to the despondency that already was invading the

mind : the wine-cup and the evening libation might bring hope

and joy to the soul, but the morrow would bring the aching

head and the desponding heart, and bid all the woes stand forth

in a more sorrowful array. This is no vain conjecture of mine :
doth not Horace abound in multiplied reflections on the ' Inex-

orabile Fatum ?' and in vain for him were woman's blandish
ments, and ' the spiced Falernian wine.' He tells in sorrowful
strains of the inevitable end, and the visit that all must make

to the black Cocytus. Sorrowful picture of this world's joys

ceasing to delight the heart of one who knew no more enduring

pleasures, whose most joyous prospect beyond this planet was

extinction and annihilation.
<>4  MEMOIR OK GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. II.

   " A curious task it would be, a pleasing and not unprofitable

Iemployment, as have long thought, to see in what manner the

old Roman and Grecian philosophers looked forward to death,

and met him ; how all the varieties of sects, both of the old times

and the more modern ones, resigned the joys of this earth, and
grappled with that invisible but terrible foe ; but it will require

much reading in many languages, and the reflection of maturer

years, before this can be attempted.

  " I turn, then, to the solemn description of St. Paul (passing

over some symbolical tokens, which do exist in nature, till an
other time). In a strain of the most beautiful and impressive

reasoning, the Apostle proceeds, step by step, to show that the

resurrection of Christ from the dead was at least undoubted, and

combating the doubts of those who questioned the reality of

Jesus' rising from the dead, and yet preached eternal life, by
showing that if Christ have not risen from the dead, then the
Ifresurrection of men cannot take place.
                                          God did not, or could

not raise to life his Son Jesus, he would not resuscitate human

beings ; but, on the other hand, the evidence being complete
that Christ was raised from the dead, becomes a point whence the

necessity of our resurrection may be shown ; and he continues

to describe the glories of Christ, summing them up by stating,

that ' he shall reign till death, the last enemy, shall be destroyed.'

He continues to show that the question is vain, ' How are the

dead raised up ?' For the peculiar manner in which the dissi

pated elements of the human frame shall again form the perfect
whole, we cannot explain or understand, nor is it of importance

we should. We are told that the body ' is sown in corruption, it
is raised in incorruption ;' and that the change will be of a most

important kind is shown by the 50th verse, ' Flesh and blood

cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither doth corruption in

herit incorruption ;' and this mystery the Apostle, eagerly enter

ing into his subject, dwells more pointedly upon in the succeed
ing verse, ' For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and

this mortal must put on immortality ;' and finally, he concludes

the course of reasoning by exhorting the brethren to be stead
fast, ' forasmuch as ye know that your labour is not in vain in
the Lord.' "
1832-37.            CLASSES ATTENDED.                                                                                                                G5

   This is the last entry for the year 1835. The quotations are
given, not for their intrinsic merit, but chiefly as showing the
metaphysical bent of his mind at that age. Like the glass win
dow of a bee-hive, the journal reveals the workings that produce
the beautiful results, permitting us to hear him thinking, as it
were. The comments on 1 Cor. xv. derive interest from their

being the first evidence of his pondering the subject of the
Resurrection, which in after life was so reverently and earnestly

studied. In some points regarding the resurrection-body, his

views were different from any he met with, and he frequently
expressed, up to within a few weeks of his death, a purpose of

extending those of them already committed to writing, and em

bodied in an Address to Medical Students. The reading aloud

of this chapter at his own funeral service had a touching signi

ficance for those of his friends present who knew his special love
for and to whom seemed inseparably associated with him.1

    The Session of 1835-36 found him attending the lectures of
Professors Alison, Home, and Syme, on the Institutes of Medi
cine, the Practice of Medicine, and Clinical Surgery, with those
of Mr. Lizars on Anatomy. Attendance on the hospital wards

was also continued as before.

   In May, the pleasures of botany were renewed under Profes -

sor Graham. As boy we have seen the attractions this science
had for him, but many occupations had placed beyond his
reach for years. The blank page of a note-book for botanical
extracts gives this entry --
1

    it,

             a
                                it a

                           ; : it
                                                              :

                                                             E

                                  I

                                                                                             is

                                                                       it

                                                                                                                                       ;a
                                                                                                                                                  1

                                                                            I
" May 15th, 1836, Sunday. --An annular eclipse of the sun

took place this day the next day commenced my botanical

studies seriously.               G. Wilson, Monday, 6th."

The following fragments of conversation are preserved on this subject. They
are written in pencil, as, owing to his mother's inability to hear his voice unless
"raised to high pitch, was often his custom thus to converse with her :--                                                                            have

thought a good deal about the resurrection-body.  It every way great mystery.
Our bodies will not be like that of Lazarus, the old body over again nor like that
after Christ's resurrection, but rather in degree like his after his ascension. . . . The
Saviour said he was not a spirit, but had flesh and bones, and he ate before his dis
ciples after his resurrection yet the hands were still pierced, and the spear-wound

leading to the heart remained."
66  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

    The " prelections were delivered in a pleasant lecture- room
in the Gardens, where the foliage of the luxuriant trees, which
peeped in at its windows, served as window-blinds, and singing-
birds took the place of the College bell."1 The lectures are

given at 8 A.M., and most students, accustomed to late hours of
retiring, find an effort required to accomplish the necessary feat
of early rising ; but how pleasant are the remembrances of the

return of George and a friend, as daily guest --Mr. Williamson,
a fellow- apprentice and clerk in the Infirmary-- to a late break
fast, very hungry, and full of fun, with flowers in their hands
which had been used as specimens in the course of the lecture.

They never could agree as to which of two routes was the

shorter way home, and each holding to his own opinion, they
parted at one point, and met in time to arrive together. The

sight of a magnolia never fails to recall those merry breakfasts,

from an image stamped on the memory of a morning when that
flower had been used for illustration at lecture. " To an extent

unknown elsewhere in Great Britain, least of all, perhaps, in
London, the energetic and genial Professor led his students,
each summer's Saturday, on a botanizing march in some direc

tion across the country within a few miles of Edinburgh. In

the autumn he headed a smaller party on a continuous excur

sion of a week or more, to more distant districts, such as Clova

in Forfar, Sutherland, the Welsh Hills, or the Lakes of Kil-

larney. The field-botanists who made those campaigns acquired

a knowledge of plants, such as the closet study and the finger
ing of herbarium-mummies cannot give. They gained health
to the bargain, and enjoyed not a little fun ; whilst now and
then, like other campaigners foraging in lands not their own, a
casus belli would occur, and the invaders be accused of for
getting that the fields in which they were reaping what they
had not sowed, were the property of neutrals, who could forbid

their presence if they pleased. The more thoughtless students

alone gave occasion to complaints, which were rare. Genial
and hearty though the Professor of the day -- Dr. Graham- was,

he could become the stern provost-marshal if occasion de
mauded. But the hearty welcome shown year after year to the

                                1 'Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. iv.
]fQ2 37.  BOTANICAL CLASS.                          67

University botanizing parties, by those who have long received
their visits, is the best proof that the landed proprietors and
farmers, whose grounds were traversed, were willing to excuse
a little youthful folly, for the sake of the good which so largely

preponderated."1

   The advantages to the students were, however, very inferior

to those offered now by the liberality and enthusiasm of the
present accomplished Professor, Dr. Balfour. Instead of the
hundreds of beautiful diagrams, the profusion of specimens, the
carefully arranged microscopes, and the richly stored museum,
" it was a dispute among the students whether Professor Graham,
an accomplished botanist of his day, had six or seven diagrams

to illustrate the structure of plants. A microscope was never

seen in the class-room, and the majority of students could not
have told with confidence what end of the tube should be put
to the eye. No instruction was given in dissecting or examin
ing plants, further than by pulling them to pieces with the
fingers, and examining them with a pocket lens. There was no
subdivision of the class into sections, who, in convenient small

groups, could be tutorially taught from the systematic arrange
ments of plants in the garden, or the rare exotics in the green
houses. Finally, though every student was laudably encouraged
by precept, prize, and example, to collect a herbarium, and
preserve a hortus siccus of the smaller plants, a mausoleum of
the giants was unknown, and a museum for them would have
seemed to most like a sepulchre in the midst of a garden of

roses."2

   George Wilson's hours this summer were very fully occupied ;
but while it was his custom to enliven the family circle with

details of each day's doings, humorously told, it was evident

that some mysterious work was going on, to which no clue was

given. At the close of the session, revelation was made in the

following manly record of hopes disappointed. The letter is to
his elder sister, then in broken health, and a guest at the

Cumbernauld manse ; though without date or postmark, internal
evidence leaves no doubt that it was written in 1836.

          i ' Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. iv.  *
G8           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

                                                                    " Edinburgh, A ugusl Id.

    " My dear Mary, -- The mystery of the essay shall be made

known to you, and that which cost me so much trouble to con

ceal, and so many equivocations to keep secret, shall now be

fully made apparent to you.
    I" The essay was written to compete for a medal given by Dr.
Graham, but  have been unsuccessful, and the unwearied

labours of nearly two months, and the fond anticipations of

three, have been disappointed. Seven essays, a much larger

number than usual, were given in, and two students unknown

Ito me obtained both prizes. The morning on which they were

decided was excessively stormy ; but, nothing daunted, trudged
on to the garden. As the period which was to decide the matter

Idrew near, became, of course, very anxious ; but when Dr.
IGraham read out the motto, and saw that all hope was over,

my heart, which had been throbbing violently, became as calm
Ias that of a young babe.
                             quietly listened to all he said in

Ipraise of the successful competitor, and when the ceremony was

over, arose, habited myself with firm, stoical apathy, and

trudged home, ' chewing the cud of bitter fancy,' and all that
Iday dedicated to calm, sober, thoughtful meditation on the
Idecision of the morning.
                             was cast down, but not despairing ;
Idistressed, but not hopeless ; and in vain did look back on it
as a reality. It appeared but as some horrible dream which has

scared away the quiet slumbers of midnight, leaves behind it no

forcible recollection of what was the cause of horror, but a dim,

confused spectre-like remembrance of some unusual occurrence,

which excited feelings of no pleasant description. It is now,

Ithen, decided ; and the gold medal which in imagination hung

before me, for which deprived myself of rest, and leisure,

Iand summer walks, and the company of those loved, has passed

away to reward the labours and talents of another aspirant for

Ifame.                       have been disappointed, there is
   " But although thus far

I Imuch to mitigate regret ; the successful candidate is a much
older student than am.       gainsay not his talents, and do not
Iknow him in the least ; but from anything have heard, he is

a talented, clever young fellow ; and what is of far more im
1832-37.  UNSUCCESSFUL COMPETITION.                          <><J

Iportance than the latter cause, I have the inward delight of

knowing that have acquired an immense mass of knowledge
on an important but very little understood subject. And be

Isides, there is no goad so piercing as that of disappointed but
honourable ambition.         have lingered not, nor wasted time, nor
Ispent any period in vain and needless regrets.
                                                 commenced

the following day several important works on other subjects,
Iwhich demand much attention.
                               have too much to occupy me,

too much to do, too much expected from me, too many wild

aspiring dreams, to dedicate time to unavailing regrets on a

subject which is fixed, which has taught its bitter lesson, and

must now go by and give place to higher subjects. So the

Imystery is explained, though not in the way hoped to have

done. You will pardon, then, all the seeming unkindnesses
which that essay made me guilty of, and deem me not acting

Iunbrotherly again if should work away in quiet solitude at

my studies. All students love peace and solitude ; the nurs

lings of hope must be long cherished in secret before they can

be given forth full fledged to the eyes of all ; the busy work

ings of the mind, the knotty points, the puzzled understanding,

the tortured, racked, mental attention, the new and delightful

idea, the original thought, the logical sentence, and the flowing

line, are the sorrow and joy sacred to the breast of the student ;

the finished work, the wound-up labours, the polished sentence,

and the clearly expressed thought, are the property of all who

care to regard them.    If,  then, my dear Mary, should keep to
                             a it
myself, not from perversity or any wicked cause, but solely from
                                       it,
necessity and mental constitution, the thoughts and studies  I
                                            I
am busy in pursuing, do not consider me unkind. The end of

the working, the consummation of the labours, the ended duties

and concluded studies,I      they produce anything worthy of at

tention, anything important enough to justify its being sentif

beyond the studio, to whom shall more readily and eagerly be

given than to you, for know affection will magnify its beauties,

and love pass over its faults. Should you wish to see this essay

at Cumbernauld, shall at once send  premising that  it  is
          I
                                                            a

copy in my own handwriting, in great hurry, through which
you will have to wade to find out the drift of the production."
70         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

    Along with botany there had been pleasantly associated this

Isummer the pursuit of chemistry, under Professor Christison.

On June 2d, he writes to Miss Mackay, Glasgow,-- " am now

with Christison, labouring away under his superintendence at

Iall sorts of chemical operations, analysis, synthesis, etc. etc.

have got a corner to myself, and the whole laboratory, with all
its contents, at my disposal, and depend on it I'll make good use
Iof them.
           have had many a project, which the limited and

fragile nature of my chemical apparatus, consisting of a few

tubes and vials, prevented me ever putting to the test of experi

ment, but now I shall stick at nothing, and be sure I'll always

be busy with something of my own." His small sleeping

apartment at home was fitted up in every available corner with
bottles, flasks, retorts, and such paraphernalia. His younger sister

Jessie was his assistant, and had the vials handed over to her

for washing. She was led to form an alarming opinion of Dr.

Christison, from being so frequently told, on presenting what

seemed to her a vial made clean and pure by much trouble,

"Ah ! if we had offered that to Dr. Christison !" But notwith

standing the difficulties of her post, the child enjoyed much her

office, and did her best for the bottles. Some small portion of

his enthusiasm made her at least respect what was evidently so

important and interesting. In the fourth chapter of Professor

E. Forbes' ' Life,' already so frequently alluded to, the marvel -

lous changes in pharmacy, of which the dawn now appeared, are

dilated on at length. Much of it possesses biographical interest,
                                                             it :--
    for the sequence of our story, we shall again dip into
    one of these [Professor Christison's] assistants, speak   from
Iand,

" As

personal experience to the profound impression of a mighty

change passing over medicine as an administratrix of substances,

which in one sentence are food, in another medicine, in another

poison, which my daily laboratory work made upon me ; and

Itogether with a gifted fellow-student and fellow-chemist, the

late Samuel Brown, often, as we watched a process, wondered

at the changes which ourselves had witnessed, and, with the

hopefulness and confidence of youth, echoed the prediction that

these were but the first-fruits of a far more wondrous harvest

which should yet be gathered. . . . The spirit of the alchemists
1832-37.  ANTICIPATION OF HOLIDAY PLEASURES.                 71

was in us, but we had realized that it was not an elixir of life,
but an elixir of health, that we had to seek."1

    The much -needed relaxation of autumn came at last. To his
sister he announces its approach : --

                       " Edinburgh, Sept. 3d.
If" My dear Mary, -- it will be in any way interesting to you,
I Imay let you know that hope to be in Glasgow on the second
IMonday of September.
                       shall be at Dunoon on Tuesday, and
Ithen shall be able to consult and determine with you as to the

propriety of returning home or prolonging your stay. Perhaps

you will be persuaded to wait a few days longer, to be my cice

Irone over all the beauties of your present habitation ; nor can I

exclude from my mind the hope that shall obtain an introduc

tion to my brother-practitioner the medico of Dunoon, from
Iwhom expect much pleasure and profit, in consequence of all
Ithe information Daniel has given me on the subject.  think I

shall have no difficulty now in getting away from the Infirmary.

We have got two new apprentices to lighten our labours, and

Igive me an additional right to claim three weeks of absence.

have been sleeping in the Infirmary for the last month, to let
IC. away, whom intend paying in his own coin, to teach him
I Ithe propriety of keeping good faith with people.
                                                 cannot say
Ihave been about anything particular since last wrote. The

translation of a French work on the Natural History of the Ibis

of the Ancient Egyptians, and a few verses written on the same

subject, are the sum of my literary labours. The shifting to the

Icomfortless room in the Infirmary has prevented me following

the strict course of study had laid down for myself, and the

Iclosing of the library for three weeks prevents me reading new
books.    am diligently engaged at present studying the history,

geography, and political constitution of Egypt, and its talented

governor, Mehamet Ali, who raised himself from poverty to sit

Iupon the throne, and whose treacherous murder of the Mame

luke Beys, have no doubt you are well acquainted with. In

spite, however, of this sanguinary deed, and many other despotic

          i ' Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. iv.
72  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

acts, he promises, from his powerful, energetic conduct, his well-
disciplined armies, and his just views of civilisation, to raise the
abject inhabitants of the Fair Valley of the Nile to some consi
derable eminence even among civilized nations. And though the

last three weeks have been less profitably employed than they

I Iwould have been if had been staying at home, yet have not
I Ibeen altogether idle, and think shall be able to enliven your

walks a little, and add some more pleasure to your sojourn in

Dunoon, by some of the many subjects, grave or gay (which of

the g's will you have), which afforded us food and merriment in

Ithis our native city ; and shall be sure to hasten down the
IClyde as fast as can to see again my two dear sisters. Mean
Iwhile, have ceased to count the period of my stay in the hospi
Ital by years, or months, or weeks. Every morning of the last

week, in arising from bed, have said, ' Here beginneth the

I Itenth day,' and so on. Now it is the eighth day, and one week

sets me free, and shall study no more till return from the
west. What with packing and scraping things together, and

seeing grandmother and aunt, and every other friend, and gather

Iing letters, shall feel very little inclination to sit down to pon

der over any grave abstract, or wear out brains and eyes in

endeavouring to master the mystery of the Atomic Theory. All
these wise doctrines will have to lie by on the shelf, like many

Ibetter things, till have snuffed the air of the west, and floated
Idown the Clyde ; and then, refreshed and recruited, shall re
Iturn, trust, to laugh at every difficulty, and distance every op

posing restraint. Hem ! the less said of that matter the better ;

Ihowever, the week that remains shall dedicate to ' Egypt and

its Gods,' the ' Life of Baron Cuvier,' and some light works, that
there may be no dull days to embarrass my mind in my wander

ings, or any stiff restraints to damp my energies. All the little

pieces of news shall be carefully hoarded up for a personal in
terview."

    The two following letters were written during this holiday
time. His host in Rothesay, and companion to Arran, Mr.

 Campbell, had been a fellow-student, whose acquaintance had

been made at the defunct Zetalethic Society.
tS3i-37.              AURORA BOREALIP.  73

                                                    " Rothesay, Saturday, September 1836.

   " My dearly beloved Brother, --As the weather up to the

IThursday of the week has been delightful, have seen the

country under its most beautiful aspect, and the rain and clouds

which now overspread the sky give rise to scenes which could

never have been presented to the eye in sunlight. Before I say

Ianything of my own views or actions, allow me to tell you one

thing which gathered from my companion on the coach to

Glasgow. He had resided for a winter in Banffshire, and often

saw the Aurora Borealis, in beauty far excelling its appearance

in our more southerly locality. One appearance which occa

sionally presented itself was that of a great sheet of light waving

back and forwards in the sky. You know to what delightful

ideas such a description gives rise. In pleasing meditation I

laid myself back, in imagination beholding this great curtain

of green and silver light waved to and fro in the heavens by the

hands of archangels, the drop-scene as it were of heaven, which,

rolled back as a scroll, would show the cherubim and seraphim

hymning to their lyres ; and often last winter when walking out

Ilate in the evening, when the aurora was nickering in the sky,
   have watched with delight a dark mass of cloud seemingly

rent asunder to show a scene of dazzling unearthly brilliancy,

Ifrom which have hoped with a fond credulity to see an angel's
Iface look down ; but why need have recounted the ideas given
Irise to by the stories of other men and other days ? have not with

Imine own eyes seen enough to delight and amuse without at all
referring to extrinsic things ?  was exceedingly delighted with
the view from Dunoon, as I saw it on a day the most beautiful ;

the still, calm, mirror sea, now calm and tranquil, bearing on its

bosom tiny barks and great vessels, slowly sailing with every

sail unfurled to the low breeze, and again its depths foaming

behind the gallant steam -vessel. On the later class of vessels

I am disposed to look with feelings of greater admiration than
Imen will generally concede to them ; and a Liverpool steamer,

as saw it yesterday-- alone, in a wide expanse of the deep,

moving close to  the  land, so as to have both the shadow of the
mountains and    the
                      black clouds thrown over its pathway --
appeared so solemnly without a single sail, stalking as it were
74              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                        CHAP. II.

Ithrough the dark, gloomy waters, that felt more and more

convinced of the propriety of Turner introducing such vessels

into his pictures, for, when giving out only a small quantity of

smoke, they are truly highly interesting.
   " Mr. Campbell's house, situated on a point of the island of

Bute, opposite the mouth of the Clyde, has this great advantage,

I Ithat can see three lighthouses from the window ; and think
I could almost never tire of watching the Toward Point light re

volving, now like a dim and distant glimmer, and in a few moments

like a star of the first magnitude, again to dwindle down and be

almost invisible. There was another reason made me love to sit

and watch the Cloch Lighthouse, far up the Firth : you know

the practice that has been adopted by two lovers far away from

each other, to agree to gaze at night on one beautiful star, so

that, as it were, the ray of love passing from the one eye might

ascend to the glorious heavenly body, and then, darting down

like a sunbeam, enter the watchful eye of the other, and thus

Ipass to the temple of soul ; so have sat looking at the light

house, knowing that for a large portion of the day it was before

the eyes of two dear sisters at Dunoon, who must often have

been gazing on it at the same time it riveted my attention ; but
I have ceased latterly to watch
          is                     for suppose you have Mary

              a

                    I
                                            a
                                                a

                                             it,

                                    I
and Jeanie home.                 far greater number of architec
   " This island contains

tural remains than ever expected to see. The Castle of

Rothesay  large ruin in fine state of preservation. The

great central hall must have been very large, and several of the

donjon-keeps are still very perfect. In the churchyard are the

remains of very old chapel       in vain made inquiries con
    a                            is ;I
            is                                          ;
                    a

                         is
                              a

                      I
cerning its date or history. It has been built,            iIf  mistake not,

in the Gothic style, though not very pure or much enriched

with ornament. A very fine recumbent statue of mailed
                                                                a

                                                                       I
knight reposes on tomb, his feet resting on some animal, as

believe often the case in such statues one old woman pointed

to grave near this effigy as the burial- place of the Big       '

Stewart.' This  all have been able to learn of his history.

In the graveyard itself there    the usual utter want of taste

which characterizes country burial-places. The church           is

                                                                     a
1R32- 37.  DRUIDIC REMAINS.  T.-i

perfect barn, although they had the old church as a model

before them, and the tombstones, covered with absurd inscrip
tions, are painted white, yellow, or black, according to the taste
of relatives ; and to crown all, a cenotaph, the property of the
 Marquis of Bute, is built in rude courses of rough stone, plas

tered, ' harled,' painted white, and slated on the top. I wonder
any one's bones, far less those of one of the aristocracy, could

Irepose in peace under so abominable an erection. Were pos
Isessed of one tithe of the Marquis's property, should level it

to the ground as fast as possible. In the east end of the island,

as probably you have learned from mother's letters, there are

the remains of an old Catholic chapel. There is nothing very
particular about this ruin ; it has the Saxon circular arch, and

in one case the zig- zag arch ; it is not, however, very large. In

a wood near, a circle of stones is mentioned as the remains of a

Druid temple, and from the immense Cyclopean stones which
have been employed in the erection, it is highly probable it was

Iso built. It was certainly with very curious feelings of mingled

fear and awe stood within the circle where centuries ago the
unhallowed rites of the Druids were carried on in the deep

shadow of close woods ; where often the sacred mistletoe bough
must have been carried in solemn procession, and the reeking

blade sheathed in the quivering heart of the human victim.
How true is the sacred declaration, that ' the dark places of the

earth are full of cruelty.' Egypt, a country situated under a

tropical sun, a fair valley where rain never fell, a region of
strange customs and mental habits, and Scotland, in the same
era, a wild and uncivilized remote region of the earth, ' where

savage men more savage beasts pursued,' however different in

other respects, were assimilated in this, that the great prominent
features of their religion were the same, ' lust and blood ;' in

both licentiousness rioted over mankind, and in both the human

victim was slaughtered to appease the avenging gods.

   " In the long nights when sitting within doors, we have not
been idle. We have conjointly edited an ' Agricultural Report
for Bute,' in which we are very eloquent on drains ; ' An Essay
on Mental Haziness ;' ' A Love Letter from a Rothesay Gaelic

IMinister to his Chere Amie ;' and finally, have, at Mr. C.'s
7G  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                       CHAP. n.

request, indited two love ditties for his boors, and a few verses
for Miss C.'s album ; so that, recoiling from the charge of idle

Iness, remain your most affectionate brother,

                                                              " George Wilson."

' " Irvine, Tuesday, September 1836.

   "My dear Mother, --Time hath brought the changes of

Iplace which anticipated, and you will see from the date of
Ithis epistle have arrived at Irvine. The three last days of the

week before this were so miserably bad that they were utterly

useless in the country -- the whole land and sea overspread with

mist ; not a point of land, not a lighthouse to be seen ; nothing

but the sea lashed by the angry wind, and the gale not suf
Ificiently strong to give sublimity to the scene.
                                                   sat within

doors, talking, laughing, joking with Mr. Campbell and his

sister, and a fortunate discovery of the ' Essay on Taste,' by the

Rev. Mr. Alison, father of the professor, was hailed with great

delight, and served to amuse me for a long time.

  I" On Saturday evening, at six o'clock, Mr. Campbell and set

off in the steamboat for Arran. It rained, till within a very short

time of our embarking, very furiously, and under most dispirit

ing weather we set off. The evening was cold and occasionally

wet, till we rounded the headland of Bute. The gale then fresh

ened considerably ; the wind blowing on the side of the vessel

made it reel and toss very wildly, and the spray was swept over
I Ius by the rude gust.
    could not go below ; should at once
Ihave become sick ; so sat it out on deck. There was some

thing very wild in the night, quite dark, the vessel pitching very

much, and the billows breaking in foam upon her ; still there

was a peculiar beauty in the sky, which could never have been

seen in the effulgence of sunlight. Long, long after the sun had

set, he sent up a dim flood of light on the edge of a cloud which

overshadowed the west, and the appearance of the one still sub

dued line of light mirrored in the wave was peculiarly beautiful

and wholly new to me ; and the time passed rapidly on in

watching the moon labouring in the sky, in fitful gleams, now

shining out, and now behind a dense cloud which she fringed

with her light. We arrived at Brodick, the most easterly of the
1832-37.  A SUNDAY IN ARRAN.                                                                 77

two villages of Arran, at nine, and immediately disembarked.

We were landed on the beach, and set out for the village at a

little distance ; but soon we were brought to a stand by a great

stream which ran right across our path. The army of some

great conqueror could not be more astonished at a river like the

IAmazon or Orinoco, than were we at this impassable barrier.

was just about to walk straight through when stout hand
I

                                                                           it,
                                                                                          a

                                                             I
some Highlander came wading through, and carried us across,

one by one, upon his broad shoulders. When Mr. Campbell and

had been ferried over, we stood laughing at the strange per

plexed look of those whose turn had not yet arrived.                                         was

strongly reminded of the description given by the classical poets

of the grim disappointed look of the ghosts who could not afford

to pay Charon the small coin he charged for ferrying them over

the Styx. Eain and hunger soon drove us away from our bene

volent spectacle, and we were speedily ensconced in far more
                                              a
comfortable room than had ever dared to anticipate in so out-a
          a                                                a
of-the-way an island. We had tea, looked about us, tumbled        a
           I;
into very comfortable bed, and were soon asleep.;a
   " The Sabbath, though at first wet, turned out most beau;a

tiful day, and we set off for Lamlash Church, distance of sixI

miles the walk was very delightful, for long way through

that most beautiful heath country where the heather and bracken

are the only plants growing, and for while we walked by the

sea-shore. A splendid rainbow, the most vivid and beautiful
                        ;                                                                    it a I
ever saw, spanned the sky, its apex passing over the peak of;
Goat Fell, the famous and highest hill of Arran.
                                   is             it I a Ihave seldom
                                        is a
seen more beautiful sight and after crossing hill, the bay at
to
       athe western end of the island burst into our view.  have never

seen so fine bay, so admirably scooped out as were, and

large island which occupies the mouth of the bay protects

from the violence of the winds. It confessedly one of the

safest anchorages in Scotland, and accordingly greatly resorted

    by shipping in gale they come crowding in, one after an

other, till often, am told, 150 large vessels will in one night

assemble. We entered church one of the detestable country

kirks, white-washed walls, unpainted decaying wooden seats,

and earthen floors the sermon was much better than ex
                                                                     I
78            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                   CHAP. II.

Ipected, and got one new idea from it. We put a halfpenny

each into fine tasselled black velvet bags, which supply the place

of ladles, and came away.

  I" had reserved all my energies for the Gaelic sermon in the
Iafternoon, although could not get the stupid people to under
stand how I, who could not understand Gaelic in conversation,
Icould comprehend it preached.
                                 did not think it worth while

to enlighten them. As, in consequence of the lateness of the

day when the Gaelic sermon commenced, had we stayed we

should have had a very disagreeable walk back in the evening,
I did not go, and so missed all the edification which should have
Iensued from the Highland discourse.
                                      had, however, a very

edifying conversation in the evening with one of the Arran

women concerning adders, to see one of which alive was a most

eager wish of mine. The principal facts concerning their natu

ral history were that they could draw birds out of the air ; that

if they tasted bread they grew to an enormous size ; and she

assured me that when the people were eating bread out of doors,

they were very careful to allow none of the crumbs to fall, for

fear the adders should eat them, and be converted into boa con
Ifstrictors.
              one of the said adders bites any person, it imme

diately runs to the nearest water, and the person bitten must

immediately run also ; if he gets first, the wound will not be
dangerous, but if the adder reaches the water before him, he
must make up his mind for a great deal of suffering. A silken

bandage tied round the bitten limb cures but cotton or linen
is

  II
          I

                       it a

                                  ;a

                          I
                                                         a
                                 iIf
                                                                    it,
                                          I
    useless.  questioned this in the woman's presence, telling

her had no doubt ligature tightly tied would be very useful

in preventing the poison passing into the blood, but that would          '

be exceedingly foolish to allow sufferer to wait till silk had             it

been got when common garter would suffice. She got very

angry, and my crime was consummated when asked her what

they were fed upon she asked me  read the Bible, and told

me would find there.  in vain tried to recollect any pas

sage telling the food of adders, till one of the bystanders sug

gested the curse put on the serpent, that he should lick the

dust.' On attempting to question that way of reading the pas

sage, so great grew her ire that was fain to decamp from the
                      I

anathemas which were unsparingly hurled at me.
18E -37.      LAST YEAR OF MEDICAL STUDY.                                                              70

" Mr. Campbell departed for Rothesay at five o'clock, by the
Isteamboat.
              hoped to have compassed the great object of all

Ivisitors to Arran, the ascent of Goat Fell ; and a young, pretty,

gazelle-eyed invalid, whose acquaintance had made, was to

have accompanied me on Monday forenoon ; but her ruthless

relatives unexpectedly demanded her return home on Monday,
Iand I was left at six o'clock A.m., utterly alone. I was kept a
prisoner all day, the rain falling in torrents.                                              earnestly

requested something to read ; they gave me two old news
Ipapers.
          One of them was an                                   ' Edinburgh  Advertiser    '  read it
Ithrough, every notice from beginning to end.                                           ;

                                                                            then took the

other, a ' Glasgow Herald,' and quickly devoured and then
                                                               II
                                                                        I

                                                                                        it,
                                                                                             it,
my breakfast. For the rest of the day walked about the room

with my hands in my pockets, repeating all the scraps of poetry

could think of. Most gladly did hail the arrival of the
it, I
      I
          aI

                                            ?

                     I
                                                            ;

                               I
Ardrossan steamboat and who do you think met in fortu

nate that am  by the merest accident found myself in the

company of the celebrated traveller in Palestine, Rae Wilson.

We had long conversation. He gave me several tracts on

cruelty to animals, and the like, and got scrap of his writing
                                                               I

                                                                            'a

                                                                                                   is
too. was very much amused to see him licking,' as he called

some noisy pigs in the vessel who disturbed us. This my
last letter. In two days shall be in Greenock, and in two

days more you shall see your affectionate son,                                          George."

Returning to work, he entered on the last year of his medical

studies in November. His apprenticeship in the Infirmary

having now ended, much to the regret of nurses and patients,

the needful time for study was more attainable, but many of the
"Iclasses and duties were uninteresting to him.
                                                                                        can testify

from experience," he says, referring to Edward Forbes' disincli
nation to go up for examination, " they form an irksome burden

to such as only desire to make medicine door of entrance to
             ;
                      i
                           '

                              ;
                                                                                      1

                                                                      a

                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                                                 ;
the prosecution of the physical sciences."

The classes of this closing session were, Professors Jameson

on Natural History Alison on Clinical Medicine Hamilton

on Midwifery and Mr. Kenneth Kemp's Practical Chemistry

              Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. v.
80  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

besides attendance in the Hospital wards. The first, but espe

cially the last named of these classes, would go far to make the

rest palatable. In his Life of Dr. Eeid, Mr. Kemp is gratefully

mentioned. " I cannot name Mr. Kemp without a passing

tribute to the memory of that highly-gifted chemist, who, like

his friend, to whom this volume is specially devoted, was too
soon cut off by a lingering and painful illness. Mr. Kemp, who

was almost entirely self-taught, united, in a rare degree, origi

nality, ingenuity, and inventiveness, with constructive skill and
manipulative dexterity. Had his erudition been equal to his

qualifications in these respects, or had he prosecuted to a close

the many novel trains of research which he opened up, or had

he only published the many remarkable discoveries which he

made, he would have occupied the highest place among our
electricians and chemists. He could scarcely, however, be per

suaded to use the pen, so that not a tithe of what he observed
was put on permanent record, and his name in consequence ' is
writ in water.' He did much, however-- much more, indeed,

Ithan believe is generally suspected --to foster the study of

chemistry in Edinburgh ; and many of his pupils retain, like
myself, a very grateful remembrance of their obligations to him

as a teacher."1

   Among the many societies connected with the University of
which George Wilson was a member, was the Diagnostic,
though in its proceedings he never took an active share.
Allusion to it is made by him in the account of academic stu

dent life in the Memoir of Edward Forbes. " It fell to my own

lot about this time, as the solitary medical student in the Uni

Iversity Diagnostic Society, to defend the Anatomy Bill at one

of its meetings ; but cannot remember whether the Ayes or

Noes had it. Nor was it matter of half so much concern to the
combatants which side was victorious by number, as which was
most skilful in fence. He would have been counted a very

unworthy member who could not, on due notice, take either side
on this or any other topic ; and it must not be held as implying
indifference to truth, that to make a good speech was considered
much more important than to win a verdict. The debates were

                                   1 ' Life of Dr. John Reid,' p. 47.
1S32-37.  PAPER ON IODINE.                       81

gymnastic exercises. The members were training themselves

for the bar, the pulpit, or the academic chair, if haply they

might reach one or other of these high places, and could not

always be discussing, 'Was Charles I. a martyr?' A novel

topic was welcome to all classes of students, and it was dis

cussed by them in a novel fashion." 1

In summer the botanical class was resumed, but no special

record of the earlier months of the session remains. In July,
he says in a letter to his sister Mary, " My iodine inquiry is

Ifinished, although not half so satisfactory as hoped or expected
Iit to have been, and indeed so unsatisfactory that declined

giving Dr. Cogswell any report on the subject : he however in

Isisted, and have given him a paper which will be printed in a
I Iday or two.2 Meanwhile, till am surgeon, have forsworn

chemistry, got my window and drawers' -head purified, which

they will remain till some new project enters or rather leaves

Imy head ; for there are plenty in it waiting only for time to

develop themselves, and hope with more success than the
iodine." In the following month the journal once more tells a

little, though only one extract will be made.

  I" August 25th, 1837. -- have not written anything in this
Itome for a very long time ; in truth, have been far too busy

thinking and working to have time to record either my thoughts

Ior my works ; and it is only because this evening feel too
Imuch exhausted from bodily fatigue for anything else, that

Ihave taken up this, and it is but to record feelings already suf

ficiently imprinted in this book. Since poured out my feel

ings on this subject, my faculties have acquired a firmer and

healthier tone, my energies have been directed to the zealous

study of the physical sciences, and, above all, chemistry, in
Iwhich hope to distinguish myself, and my harassing connexion
Iwith the Infirmary has long since ceased.
                                                 have enlarged the

Icircle of my acquaintance, and made some kind new friends, the
Misses S---- , kind, simple, artless, obliging.  hope for much

pleasure from this society." Allusions to other ladies follow,

   1 ' Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. iv.
   * See ' Prize Essay on Iodine,' by Dr. Cogswell, in the Appendix of which the paper
referred to appears with the title, ' On the Decomposition of Water by Iodine.'

                                                        F
83  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CIIAP. II.

whose accomplishments added much to the enjoyments of his

leisure hours. His passionate love of music made it a delight

to see the exquisite pleasure their performances gave to him.
His manner to ladies whom he respected was peculiarly fasci
nating, and he was a very general favourite with them. Music
seemed a necessity of his life ; even the acquirements of his
younger sister, then a school -girl, were daily called into requi
sition, and the interval between dinner and tea thus filled up.
He expresses the influence it exercised over him to his sister

I I IMary in a letter :-- " know this, that cannot by any word

could learn from others, or by one of my own coining, or by any

Iform or number of words, tell of the passionate love for music

have."

   In the autumn of this year the family circle lost two of its
members by his cousin John Russell's marriage, and subsequent

departure for Australia, and his brother Daniel's settlement in
London. The loss of the brother who had been his daily com
panion for so long a time, was keenly felt by George. Their
intercourse had been more like that of lovers than any other.
Community alike of goods and thoughts had been theirs, and
henceforward George, with his usual self-forgetfulness, tried to
contribute to the happiness of the absent one, in making letters
do their best to compensate for the pleasures of confidential con
verse. To this we owe an abundant store of letters, not such as
the penny-postage has introduced, but long, well-filled sheets
of foolscap, written within and without.

    Before this parting occurred, the examination for the College
of Surgeons' Degree was passed. Here is its announcement to

Daniel, who was then from home on a visit :--

                                                                          " 6th September 1837.

   " Mine good Brother and Friend, -- Give me hold of your
right hand ; there, shake it right stoutly, and congratulate me
on having passed Surgeons' Hall. Ah ! ha ! ha ! it is but two

Ihours since the memorable metamorphosis took place, and here

  am ready not merely to perform all kinds of bloody opera
tions, which is small matter, seeing diplomaless folks can haggle
wonderfully well, but ready, prepared, and resolved to take fees,
1832- J7.      OBTAINS SURGEON'S DEGREE.                                    83

Iand be independent of the subsidies of any one.                  took good

Icare none of the good folks at home should know aught about

it. completely blinded them, and the more so, that in a walk

Ilast night with Catherine and Mary, took care to talk as much

nonsense as possible, imagining that such a careless, thought

less-like piece of policy would completely mislead them as to

my intentions. To atone for                   it,                 had to sit up till

                                                   I

                                                               I
                                              however,

one, spelling over all the mysteries of bones, muscles, nerves,

etc. and all next (that
   ;;                                         this) day, have been busy reading

         Ia

                    it

                    I
                                         is,
over half book of chemistry, and the whole anatomy of the

leg and arm, from the shoulder and haunch to the fingers and

toes and well was did so, seeing was examined on the
                                              I

arm, and was all the more expert at answers from having

looked over it. At the eventful hour of half-past one, having

slipped out in my best coat and waistcoat, and taken your cane,

that might delude any of my friends with the idea was about
   II                                                             II
to wander out on walk, carelessly looking into the jewellers'
               a                                                         a

or toy shops when any one passed even on the other side,

who        thought might recognise by my dress my intentions,

all the while swinging your wonderful stick with as much

composure as possible, though believe kept pretty good
                       II                               a if it
time with my heart thumping on my ribs, so much indeed,a
that thinks to myself,' I'm in love--with what, leave youII
     '

            I

to guess, being one of those courteous writers who don't insult

their readers by explaining everything, as they were address

ing children.                                                     little plain room,

  "I was ushered into the waiting-room,

which contained two fellows sitting in the window, and putting

on very big magnanimous look, strolled down to seat, on
a
which planting myself, kept stedfastly looking at them, that
   I
they might not look at me, plan which succeeds as well with
men as lions (see African travels). At last, however, tiring of
staring, fumbled in my pocket to see                    had any sort of book
                                              iIf

to while away the time.                       dragged out of the recesses of my

pocket Mr. Williamson's French Prayer-book, and for want of
better, fell to reading Epistles, Collects, Prayers, and Psalms, all
very much to my edification no doubt. At last, saturated with
theology, the clock having struck two, returned the book to
                                              I
84        MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

Iits cell, and pulling off my gloves, laid them, hat and cane, aside.
  now learned that one of the gentlemen at the window had

Ipassed the day before, and that one (comforting thought) had

been rejected ; and was awaked out of a chirurgical reverie
by the other fellow singing out, ' Have you any tremors V 'No,'

said I, and thrust my head up against the wall, and planted my

feet firmly on the floor, that the said tremors might not appear.

They were two good-natured fellows, and were busy telling me

to answer as quickly as possible, lest they should hear too dis

Itinctly. Hem ! thought I, and the bell rang, and in was

ushered to the grandees, whole four inquisitors. There they fell

to ; shoved me Gregory, made me translate, twice write a pre

scription, tell them as much about drugs and chemistry as
would fill a pharmacopoeia, and so much about the anatomy of

the arm, skull, neck, etc., the surgery of the same part, and the

philosophy of broken skulls, and the method of coopering such
Icasks, that might rival Syme, Liston, or Lizars. ' You may
Idepart, sir,' said the President.
                                    was kept for a moment in a

small side-room, and then pulled in to be told, ' that my exami

Ination was highly creditable to me, and that they were very

much pleased.' -- Rejoiced in heart, here am, your affectionate

brother,                            George."

    To his cousin James, also from home at that time, he gives
the same news, with some interesting additions. James Russell,
four years his junior, had distinguished himself at the High
School, and given proofs of the genius which was afterwards
developed with great promise. The brotherly love and compa
nionship between him and George, so tender and true through
many years, was now beginning to be established.

                                                                     " September 9, 1837.

  " My dear Cousin, -- I am breaking through the acknowledged

rules of epistolary correspondence in writing, for all learned
judges of such matters teach, that he who departeth from home
to sojourn in a foreign land oweth the first letter to those at
home ; for the most cogent of all reasoning, that he who is left
at home has but the accustomed round of everyday duties,
1832 37.  EXAMINERS HIGHLY PLEASED.  85

amusements, and pleasures to discourse upon ; whereas he, the

vagabond, has travelled by land and sea, has voyaged on the

great deep, and been a peripatetic on the solid earth, and visited

a strange town, and seen many new sights, and made new com

panions, and, in short, has entered into a new circle of folks,

things, and circumstances, which should yield to an inquiring
mind, a watchful eye, an eager attention, and a prying spirit,
the elements of many a joke, and many a story and circum

Istance ; so that shall hold you in the highest degree culpable,
if you do not afford me a rich, well seasoned dish, compounded

' de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis.'

  I" Yet although plead the excuse of travelling in the same

home circle, like the mill-horse, and therefore in sight of a

horizon whose every prominent object has already been often
scanned, yet, in truth, one little change has passed over my out

ward circumstances and inward feelings, sufficiently important
to deserve a short notice in this my epistle. On the 8th day of
September, which was last Wednesday, I, your most worthy

cousin, appeared before that dreadful, inquisitorial tribunal, the

College of Surgeons, and having been duly examined, sounded,
and tried as to my proficiency in the arts of medicament-com

pounding, limb-dissecting, and wound-curing, was duly declared,
pronounced, and registered as one in every respect fitted to bear
the honourable title of Chirurgeon, commonly called Surgeon.

I found the tribunal of a far less terrible cast and character than
I Iat all anticipated ; in truth, should have faced it long, long
Iago had dreamed it could have been half as easy. A little bit

of Latin to read, which was soon despatched ; a cough-mixture

to prescribe, which was equally soon got over; and a volley of
questions on all sorts of pharmaceutical and chemical subjects,

Ifollowed up by a round of subtle interrogations on the mysteries

of anatomy and the grave matters of surgery, and was thrust
into a little closet, to be immediately drawn out again, and told
that my examinators were highly pleased with my appearance,

and that my examination was highly creditable to me. And I,

most highly pleased, scampered home to give the welcome and

Imost unexpected news ; for had taken great care they should

not have the dimmest notion of my intentions, and I had been
86               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. II.

Iquite successful in the means adopted for blinding them as to
Imy real projects.
                    have, of course, tossed away to the furthest

and most dusty corner of my room those grim and unwelcome
Ivolumes, which
                 had too long been under the necessity of
Ibrooding over, till could have found in the dark the passages

I Ireferring to the various unwelcome topics.
   " Now that am released, shall turn to more congenial

Itopics, more especially to my beloved chemistry, in which hope
Iand trust to make a figure ; and have some leeway to make up
I Iin literature, both ancient and modern, which trust shall be

Iable to compass.
   " have heard with pleasure of your having taken with you
your classic works. They cannot fail often greatly to interest

at times, when weather and other contingencies prevent you en
joying those delights which are more properly rural ; for in spite
of all poets, novelists, and romancers delight to sing of concerning

the pure, holy, delightful, and inspiriting beauties and pleasures

of the country; and though most merchants, tied down from day
to day to their mercantile pursuits, love to ' babble about green

fields,' and to sigh for running brooks, and secluded glens, and ro

mantic dells, and cloud -capt mountains, and clear pellucid lakes,
and frowning cliffs, and gloomy precipices, and all the other

Iromantic, picturesque, and exquisite pleasures of the country, --

yet it is very possible, as believe must be the confession of

every one who has often spent a week or two in the country, to
spend a most stale, flat, and unprofitable day, in spite of all the
elements of the sublime being within sight and easily accessible.

   " In truth, we are a most discontented race of shuttle- cocks,

who are unhappy with staying here or there, mountain or val
ley, hill or dale, river or lake, town or country, but must be

driven about, now east, now west, now north, now south, in a

restless, wandering mood, which is ever thirsting after some un

attainable good, some unrealizable project. The temple of Alad
din was bereft of all pleasure in his eyes, although built of the

most gorgeous materials, gold, silver, and precious stones, ivory,
ebony, and scented woods (for the full inventory of which see

the ' Arabian Nights Entertainments') because it lacked the

roc's egg, which it was thought would be the crowning pinnacle
1832 37.    EDWARD FORBES AND HE TWIX-STARS.

of glory and perfection; and Haraan thought his pleasure in

complete because Mordecai hung not on gallows thirty feet

high, and Alexander found this round, spacious globe far too

Ilittle for him. That was Alexander the Great : what says

Alexander the Little ? daresay he finds room enough to move

about in Stirling. Give my best wishes and hopes for his

happiness, comfort, and renown, and for yourself, be sure you
I Iread your classic books.
                       left the High School just when

was becoming alive to the beauties of what had formerly been

looked on merely as tasks. You have been more fortunate, and

you ought not to lose your opportunity. As it
                          a                           find much

                             I iIs,
delight in Cicero, Lucretius, Seneca, and in modern writer, Sir

T. Browne; but you are far better classic than am, and must
                Ia
find far greater delight in having more extensive and varied
                       a

round of pleasures than can at all command.
" Although
          I  have been gravely proving the country not

Paradise itself, yet may be soon there myself. Perhaps you
             I

shall see me at Stirling in week or so, on my way to Callan
                    a

Ider. am not sure, however. Write soon see you address;
to G. Wilson, Esq., Surgeon, or the other George Wilson will
get the letter. --And believe me, your affectionate cousin."

   The journal will be allowed to speak for itself before we pass.

to a new epoch of life, bidding farewell to scenes wherein thea
nucleus of all future greatness has been year by year forming
itself. "The tastes of most men can be traced back to the:
habits of their youth, and their habits are, in great measure,;
moulded by the circumstances, physical as well as intellectual,
in which that youth has been passed. . . The youth whose
hours of relaxation are spent in the presence of those magnifi
cent prospects so rife and many around us, carries with him in
after life the memory of their beauty and grandeur." So said
Edward Forbes, in his Inaugural Lecture on entering his Pro
fessorship in the Edinburgh University and as twin-stars
revolving around each other, alternately coming forth in bright^
uess, he and George Wilson have in this chapter thrown light

on each other. Once more we borrow words that are wonder
fully appropriate to both of them " The dew of his youth was
88              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.              CHAP. II.

still upon him. The corrupting breath of the world had not
tainted his freshness, or its cold touch chilled him. His eager
eyes looked forth on a rich and boundless future. Young men
of genius and tastes like his own had become his attached
friends. Seniors of the highest repute welcomed him as a

pupil. Libraries and museums of the greatest value were open
to him daily. His shortest walks were through the streets of a

city which delighted his artist-eye, and had a strange fascina

tion for him."1

  I"September \§th, 1837. -- have entered on the third week
Isince passed the portal of Surgeons' Hall, and am long tired

of my dignity, in truth, ever esteemed one, which never
much did. In my sight was rather an ordeal to be under
                a                    it               I

                       if,                ;                     it
                                  a
                                           I
                             it I
                                                  it
gone than triumph to be achieved, and looked forward to

for long time with feeling of carelessness, which prevented
          a

me from seriously preparing for      and in addition, through

the bygone summer, was so thoroughly occupied with chemical
                I

speculations, that anything in the shape of anatomy or surgery
Iffilled me with disgust.
                           anybody gave the degree of chemist

        would not mind how stiff an examination got, and proud
a I if I                             I it             a
                                         I               a

                                             I             II
        certainly should be of such title. As was, had resolved,
                           II a
          rejected, for ever to give up the notion of Surgeons' Hall, andI

        believe my friends would have striven in vain to have induced

        second trial, although by such refusal should certainly have

        deprived myself of very beautiful patent lever, jewelled and
                1
        caped silver watch, which my good, kind uncle Peter had in
                  'a
        reserve for me. Fortunately passed without any difficulty, in

        truth may say with flying colours, for only missed few
          II I                       a

                                        it I

                                                   a
        trivial questions, and they made me flattering speech, when
        was dubbed surgeon. In short, found
                                                      great deal easier

        than at all anticipated yet never felt more distrust in my
                      ;

        own powers, more want of confidence in my abilities, than just

        before stepped into the examining chambers.   felt strong
                                             a

                                                 I
        wish to walk home and give up the idea of confronting them,

        and the great probability of rejection for thousand reasons

        arose before my anxious and troubled mind. The inordinate

                Life of Edward Forbes,' chap. iv.
1S32-37.  FEELINGS OF THE DYING.                    89

palpitation of my heart, which up to the moment of my enter

Iing the room had troubled me exceedingly, ceased as soon as

the first question was asked, and was calm and collected

Ithroughout the whole scene ; so let it pass. It has at least,

think, given me a clearer view of the sad state of feelings which

a dying man may be believed to have, especially one who has

to prepare for eternity. The fond hope, the eagerly entertained

expectation, the gloomy doubt, the oppressive despondence,

Icommingling in the mind, and shifting its purposes in the most

fantastic, lawless, and painful fashion, were, doubt not, the

very same in kind as those which the anticipation of immediate

dissolution must produce, though, of course, greatly different in
Idegree.
          felt that abandoning of the mind to one subject, that

thorough occupation of it by the one engrossing idea, which has

been so beautifully described by J. B. Patterson as the charac

Iteristic of the dying, even when they appear most delighted
with the attention of their friendly ministrants.   wish to ex
I I Ipress what am afraid have not done sufficiently, that con

ceive the doubts of fitness to undergo an examination are

exactly of a kind with the dread of an insufficiency of prepara

tion for the tribunal of the Almighty, which haunts the mind

of the most holy and Christian saint."

  I"September 20th. -- am not in a scribbling humour to-night

at all, but anxious to write down a thought or two before going

off to the country, so as to leave a clear way for marking down

whatsoever of interest may happen there. . . . Monday, saw

I Isome good ladies at tea with us, and, fortunately, thanks to a
long post-prandial walk, was merry and frolicsome.  greatly

edified Miss B. by proving how many quaint and passed-over

virtues repose in the folds of a brown coat. She answered me

gravely in my own fashion, but soon gave in, in a fit of glee-

I Isome laughter. What said of the coat cannot now remem
I I Iber. never can remember what have said when ruminate

over a night of fun and folly, and as for sitting to coin, or

Igravely to rehearse a joke, never dreamed of it. Anything of

that kind is with me the unbidden impulse of the moment.

IYet feel the love of the thing, and the power of excelling daily
Iincreasing, and don't see any good reason for nipping it in the
90            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. n.

Ibud, so I'll let it blow and become a full-blown flower, if it will.

However, contrived to say a great deal of apposite nonsense

concerning the said brown coat, and sundry other things, and

we laughed right merrily ; but the great happiness of the even
Iing to me was R's most beautiful music.
                                           really never heard

any one sing with so much taste and expression, or seem so

thoroughly to enter into the spirit of the songs. There is some

thing especially thrilling, and, to my ear, most beautiful, in the
full round tone in which she pronounces the ' again,' in the

concluding line of Mrs. Hemans' affecting duet, 'The Child's

IFirst Grief,' which, sung by two sisters whose voices most sweetly

harmonize, affects me more than anything else have heard
this long time. ' The Last Links are Broken,' has gotten hold

of my inmost soul, prompting me to give utterance to the beau

tiful sounds and beautiful words which compose as yet in
                                              I it,
                                                         I
effectually, for though the whole present to my inmost ear,
                 is
                      is
cannot speak  with my tongue. . . . Although  do think
    I
the forte of the female mind moral greatness and purity, in
which, in spite of the silly, base, and groundless hints of liberit

             I
tines, they very far excel the rougher sex, and for the possession

of which venerate the sex in general, and many individuals

in particular, yet meet with scarcely one lady in ten or fifty

who has sufficiently cultivated her natural intellectual powers.

Excuses and explanations may be given, which most willingly
                                           I

admit. Ladies moving in the highest and least embarrassed

circles have so many domestic duties for papa, mamma, old and

young brothers and sisters, that they never can steal time

enough to study. Some good ladies admit the intellectuality of

their own sweet selves, but waive apologies for its non-advance

ment as absurd, because unnecessary while some of them, and
                          ;

                              I
these often the most amiable and clever, disbelieve the excuses,

because they deny the intellectual power.  know many young

ladies who honestly and modestly shrink from the study of
                                              it

                                                         a
science, which yet they confess to be inviting and interesting,

which am sure they could completely master. Far be from
    I

me to imagine that there not cardinal difference between
                 ; is
                               a

                                     '
the male and female mind equally distant from my thoughts

be that fantastic foolery, the modern march of intellect' system.
1543 '37.  LADIES NEGLECT MENTAL CULTIVATION.                     01

I do not wish to see young ladies blue -stockings, i.e., female

pedants, or to see one grain of their high-toned morality and

Ipurity lost, to give place to literature or science ; yet believe

they would add to their own happiness by affording the mind a

more extensive and interesting circle of subjects for thought,

did they study, with some little care, our litterateurs and scien

tific men. But mothers will keep their daughters scouring and

dusting, and sewing and mending, and darning stocking-heels,

to teach 'five hundred points' of housewifery; and to that

every moment of time and study is given, because, forsooth,

mamma read no books when a Miss (except stolen novels) but
on a Sunday, and cannot see why the daughters should need
what the mothers had not ; and this absurd ' stocking -darning

system' is pursued by women of strong, active, intellectual

minds, of which mismanagement I have seen too many

Iexamples. But this winter shall see me do my utmost to sug
gest an improvement among my own small circle.               must not

forget, when talking of ladies, to make honourable mention of

Miss       , a pretty young coquette, who promises to have

beauty, handsomeness, and nonchalance, in equal doses. She is

a happy young girl of some fourteen or so, already bent on

Imaking conquests, and resolved to lead a whole host of discom'
fited suitors at her chariot.  ' May  be there  to  see  !   but  only

to see, and not to feel her coquettishness."
92  ilEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. III.

                  CHAPTER III.

                     A YEAR OF STUDENT LIFE IN EDINBURGH.

            " The pleasure and delight of knowledge and learning, it far surpasseth
          all other in nature."-- Bacon's 'Advancement of Learning.'

   A letter to Dr. Niven, his friend and companion alike in

school and college life, gives particulars as to the purposed re
laxation from labour mentioned in the close of last chapter. Ten
days only were available, as his connexion with Dr. Christison's
laboratory, as assistant, was about to begin. That the most was

made of those few holidays, will be evident from the notice of
the excursion in letters which follow, and speak for them
selves :--

               To John Niven, Esq., Willow Grove.

                      I " September 20, 1838. 1

   " My dear Friend, -- very much regretted my being out on
the evening you called before you went to the Highlands. In

I Itruth, am so seldom out at untimeous hours, that do feel

annoyed when a chance call finds me out wandering ; and I

should have called the next day to testify my anxiety to wish
you well in your northern journey, had not all my doubts, and

Idreads, and fears, been occupied with the approaching horrors

of Chirurgeons' Hall. In truth, made no visits anywhere,

dreading to be asked anything about the unwelcome subject.

INow, however, am relieved from all apprehension, ' from the

consummation so devoutly to be wished' having left me learned

   1 The date of this letter ought to be 1837, as the facts it contains show. Mistakes
as to the year are of very frequent occurrence in early letters, characteristic of the
inaptness for numbers in George Wilson. When there is no doubt as to the correct
date, it will henceforth be altered without referring to the blunder.
1*38.       AN EXCURSION IN PROSPECT.  93

Iand gifted in diplomacy (forgive the pun) ; and should have

been delighted to have accepted your kind invitation to Peni

I Icuik, where know should have been very happy. A splendid
I Iequestrian doubt not should have become, under the foster
Iing care of you for my Ducrow, and though might not have

learned to stand on my head on the saddle, or play a somersault

Iover a horse's back, or drive four horses in hand a la courier, yet

   think you might have turned me out, albeit little versed in

the mysteries of horse-flesh or the delights of the saddle, at least

fitted to trot gaily, perhaps to canter, assuredly to gallop ; and

Iyour uncle, too, am sure, would have been kind and obliging,
Iand should have relished the place, society, and country

abundantly, had it been in my power to accept your kind in
Ivitation.
            have been most earnestly invited, however, by

friends in Stirling, Callander, and Glasgow, to visit them, and
I propose setting off to-morrow for Stirling, then to Callander,
ILoch Katrine, Loch Lomond, etc.
                                  am fortunate in having
Ifriends in all these places, and am the more anxious to set off
Iimmediately, as must be home by the first of October to begin
Iwith Christison at his laboratory ; and have, in addition, some

most important projects of my own, which in truth cannot well

I Istand over longer, for must look forward to the next winter as

a very busy one. had hoped to have had Mr. Williamson with

me, but being now completely enrolled as clerk in the Infirmary,

Mr. Lizars won't let him go, at least he strongly advises him to

stay at home ; for it would appear that he got his situation with

Isome difficulty, and had better not be very ready making

requests till he has been longer in office. So shall be deprived

I Iof his most pleasant society, and shall not enjoy my journey

half so much as should do had the company of my ci-devant

fellow-apprentice, whose merry, happy joyousness would much

Ihave beguiled the weary minutes, which more or less beset even

the most delightful journey, and which cannot expect any

Imore than most other folks to avoid. . . . Now, though

cannot have the pleasure of accompanying you this autumn,

I may perhaps find you disengaged, and as willing to put

yourself about for me next season. Honestly, nothing could

delight me more, and nothing would delight my friends, espe
01              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.     CHAP. 111.

Icially my mother and sister, than my going Penicuik-ward

and becoming a bit of a cavalier dragoon ; and shall feel

sincerely glad of your company and friendship this winter,

for I have just parted with my brother, who, having gone away

to London to push his fortune as well as he can, has left us

melancholy and disheartened, and me especially, who never

loved any one so fondly as my brother, and will with difficulty
Ifind any one to supply his place or cheer my solitude.
                                                         pro
pose, and I hope you will assist me in what I imagine will excite

in you as much mirth, though not perhaps as much indignation,

as it did among my good sisters and mother, viz., to get a dog

to be my companion, and in some degree break up the tiresome

solitude of a study. It won't be to your liking, but I'm going

to tax your friendship to get me none of your great, big, black-

and-white Newfoundland dogs. My room is too small, and my
Itastes too domestic. What should like to get hold of is a
Iwiry, fierce, little terrier.
                                think I've got something of the
Iterrier in my own perverse disposition, and could love one and
Iget on very nicely with it.
                                had the company of one for two

years ; a handsome, rough, little, rat and cat hating fellow, who

Ishowed great affection for me, which did my best to recipro

I Icate, till some wretched scoundrels about Silver Mills poisoned
the poor animal, and ' was left lamenting.'  can't get on
Istudying alone ; must have some one beside me. Now, my

sister can't come, for my cousin would be left companionless,

and my two young sisters are inseparable, and a great old skull

Ion my mantelpiece is not the most engaging of companions ;
and think I should be greatly the better of Phantom, for such
Ishall be his name, with whom could amuse myself in my

idle moments."

                                                               " Glasgow, Tuesday, Sept. 20.

  I" My dear Mother, -- I sit down in a great hurry to write you

a few lines before leaving Glasgow, although trust the arrival

of Mrs. Thomson has abundantly informed you of the manner
in which I spent my time in Callander, so that I shall say
nothing, as I might merely recount to you things already suffi
Iciently well known.
                      started from Callander at five o'clock
1837 38.   WALKS TWENTY- EIGHT MILES.  9.-)

on Monday morning, and, with the crescent moon for my only

light, journeyed along, singing and musing and meditating. In

an hour the first slant rays of the sun began to peep above the

Ihorizon, and had the pleasure of seeing his illustrious majesty

the sun rise in all his glory, -- no small pleasure to me, who can

not recollect to have ever seen him before in similar circum
Istances.
           arrived, after a most delightful walk, at the head of
Loch Katrine, nothing doubting that I should find a boat ready

to receive me, and waft me along the lake, but although boats

and oars lay about in abundance, there was no appearance of

Irowers. Imagining that the boat had already gone, although
was quite in time, I walked along the banks of the lake, hoping

to make up to them if passed, and to be taken up if they came

Iafter. As it afterwards appeared, they sailed after me, and

saw them slowly sailing up the loch, but though I halloed and

shouted, and waved my handkerchief, they either would not or

Icould not hear me, and had to tramp on along the sides, which

as they form every here and there wide bays, make the land

journey much longer than the way by water. I pushed on,
however, at a rapid pace, keeping almost up to them, till I came
to the last two miles, where I lost my way and wandered in a
wood. Skirting the waters, having no notion at the time that I
I Iwas wrong, pushed on, though saw no road, and after a very

perplexing, weary journey, now clambering over rocks, now

climbing over walls, now creeping through rough hedges and

palings, often uncertain which was the right path, but, contriving

to fall in with the footpath, without very much difficulty, I at

last threaded my way, wearied out and exhausted, to the ferry

man's house, -- for the road runs along the east side of the loch,

Iand you must cross to gain Lochlomond. Here earnestly

craved a drink of butter-milk, but the woman had none. She at

once, however, sent out her pretty little girl to get water at my

Irequest, but, meanwhile, milked her cows, and brought me a

bowl half full of milk and warm water, which most greedily

drank, and was thereby greatly refreshed ; in truth, it was no

Idoubt the best thing could have taken ; and when, in answer
to some inquisitive questions of her fine manly husband, I said I
Iwas a surgeon, she so simply said, ' And to think that should
9G               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.         CHAP. IIL

IIbe giving you advice!'
                     assured her knew them as being
very skilly folks, and that I was half a Highlander myself, and
I at once craved her husband to sing me a Gaelic song. While
crossing, he told me he ' couldna sing' unless he ' had a glass o'

Iwhisky ;' but as had every reason to believe there was none in
Ithe loch, my only accessible place for liquors, had no means of

making him musical ; and so, with stories about Rob Roy, and

jokes, and the like, we sat and talked while he rowed me across.

I had still five miles to walk, which was no cheering prospect

to me, who had already walked twenty-three ; and, in spite of

my invigorating drink of warm milk, I crept very laggingly on.

IThe road was a dull, sterile, rugged thing, only, every now and

then, saw the party which had passed up the loch, moving
Iwith ponies.
               should have been very glad to have made up

to them, and should certainly have treated myself to a pony's

I Iback had reached them. At last, jaded and exhausted,
Iarrived at the small clachan of Inversnaid. After resting,

took off my collar and washed my face and hands in the cool
Iing waters of Lochlomond, along whose surface
Iwas moving in a comfortable little steamer.      very speedily
                                                      was much
I Itoo weary to enjoy it as should have done, had been re

Ifreshed ; but it is truly a magnificent (that's the word) loch,

especially at the west end, where was greatly delighted with

the fairy-like appearance of the scattered islands. We make a
work about our Arthur Seat and Calton Hill, and our Dudding-
ston and Lochend, -- the market here is quite glutted with them.
You might tumble Ben-Ledi or Ben-Lomond and fill up half a

dozen lochs, and the only effect would be to bring into view
Itwice as many more of hills, lochs, straths, gulleys, peaks, and
Iknow not what.
                     am just going off to Dunoon ; and with the
Ikindest love to all, am, your affectionate son,
                                                  " George."

               " To Miss Mackay, Glasgow.

    "My  dear  Miss  Mackay,-- Having  finished     October 6, 1837.

                                                  the perusal of

Isome tomes treating of certain recondite philosophical and lite

rary subjects, gladly sit down to dispel all your anxious fears
1S37 38.  ENTERS DR. CHRISTISON'S LABORATORY.       97

regarding my safe arrival from your most hospitable city. Some

foolish people would at once have called for pen and paper, and

before their boots were fairly pulled off, have indited a scanty
unreadable scroll, purporting to tell that the steamboat had not
blown up, nor its engine gone wrong, nor itself come in colli
sion with another, nor the writer fallen overboard, etc. Then

reverting to travels by land, the scrawl would go on to say, that
the horses did not run off, nor the coach tumble over a cliff, nor

the traces break, nor the wheels suffer any mishap, and so on.

IBut am far too much of a philosopher to write any such non
Isense, nor am about to bore you to death with a melancholy

recital of my being almost frozen to an icicle, and nevertheless
Inearly tumbling off the coach with sleep.
                                                    have fortunately

forgotten these trivial and temporary inconveniences, and the

reminiscence of them would be of no possible use to either of us,

Iso meddle not with it any more. After the sobering influence
Ihad duly improved me, set off on Monday morning to the
ICollege, and the first person 'beheld was my most respected

Iinstructor, Dr. Christison. After shaking hands with the worthy

professor, and making inquiries after his health, whipped off

Imy surtout, and on with my old coat, -- say my old coat,

but it stands in the same relation to my back, that Elijah's

Imantle did to Elisha, being    the   legacy of a   departed (to the
                                to a  very curious  case of attempted
Continent) friend, -- and fell
poisoning, by putting vitriol in tea, in the analysis of which

I Ioccupied the whole of the first day. Since then have
Ibeen engaged up to the period when write, with two deli

cate processes for the purification of Sulphuric Acid, one for

the more accurate preparation of Tinctures of Barks, not to
mention the analysis of Laudanum, and assistance in opening
a box from Ceylon, containing roots, fruits, leaves, etc., from

that most interesting place, sent by a lady for Dr. Christison's

Museum.

  I" Situated as am just now, --buried in the difficulties of

several of the physical sciences, changing from pharmacy to

chemistry, from chemistry to physiology, or taking a refresh

ment in the subtilties of logic, or the elegancies of rhetoric, --
you must not expect my epistle to be very rich in what may

                                G
98       MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.          CHAP. III.

Ieither amuse or instruct, the more so, that have lost my brother,
Iwho sharpened every faculty as ' iron sharpeneth iron.'
                                                          have

Ino one now to laugh and joke with ; or, if a feeling of lonesome-

ness comes over me, and cast my eyes round for a familiar

countenance, they fall on a grim, grinning battered skull, sur

Imounted by two cross-bones, the adornments of my mantel

piece. Nevertheless, am not to be outdone in grinning by a
skull, and when any odd idea comes from the caverns of my rest

Iless head, grin and show my teeth, and a great many more too,

in a far more joyous fashion than the said lifeless cranium

can do.
    " Whatever the reason, medical men are never more at fault
                                           I seem to have bid
than in reasoning on their own disorders.

good-bye to a considerable portion of my senses, not to talk of

bottles, messages, appointments, and articles of dress, forgotten,

misapplied, or neglected ; of a letter put into the post-office

I Imarked paid, thrust into the common receiving aperture, and

safely lodged at the bottom, before remembered that had
written in great characters the ' paid ' so cheering to the receiver,

but in this case, destined only to raise the compassion, or awake

the indignation of the young lady, its recipient, at the melancholy

....poverty of the writer.
  I I" Now think know the reason of all this mental absence,
Iand as you are a discreet young lady, shall not scruple in con
Ifidence to tell you.
                       am over head and ears in love, and the

Iobject of my attachment so thoroughly engrosses my thoughts,

that have scarce a speculation to give to anything else, and

Ithough have wooed her steadfastly, she, with the coyness and

fickleness of her sex, gives me but doubtful signs of a recipro

I Icity of affection, and feel that make but small progress in
Iher esteem ; and eager as am to ingratiate myself with her,
Iand high as should esteem the honour of having a most
Ithorough acquaintance with her, know that many of my friends
Iwould imagine her a very unfit companion, and can conceive

you saying that although a lady might occasionally converse

Iwith her, a familiar intimacy would be most undesirable, and

believe you to have more than common charity in such a case

as this. Nevertheless, she is descended from a noble and influ
1R37-38.  CHEMISTRY HIS LADY-LOVE.  90

ential family of very ancient origin, which can show incontes

table proofs of having nourished in the dark ages, under another

title, and which received great additions to its power and

influence, under the reigns of Elizabeth and James L, under the

Chancellorship of Lord Bacon. If you wish to see the birth,
Idescent, and fortunes of the family, would refer you not to

Burke's Peerage, but to the Encyclopaedia, where, under the
article ' Sciences,' you will find a minute history of the family ;

and if you ask me which of the daughters has awakened in me

Isuch admiration, reply, the ' Right noble the Science of Che

mistry,' who in my eyes is by far the most attractive and

interesting of the family. In case a kindly feeling to the writer

should incline you to know more of this noble house, and its
Icollateral branches,
                       would refer you to a work written by a

lady, deeply versed in this branch of Heraldry, Mrs. Somerville's
' Connexion of the Physical Sciences.'"

    We shall now be greatly indebted to the series of letters,
addressed to his brother, just settled in London, for information
as to his employments and aspirations. Speaking of this cor
respondence, Daniel says :-- " London, to one crossing the Border
for the first time, had perhaps greater novelties then even than
New York or Washington at a later date, and some of the allu
sions in one of his first letters are in reply to an account of its

marvels. Amongst these, one of the oddest, to my unpractised

eyes, was the public display of the undertakers' establishments,
with miniature coffins and all the paraphernalia of death, so
totally unknown in Edinburgh, where, excepting an ambiguous

sign-board, labelled 'Upholsterer and Undertaker,' there is

nothing to indicate the fact that the last sad rites supply a pro

fitable trade to the craft of undertakers. In total contradistinc

tion to any such decorous euphemism, the London tradesman
engraves a couple of coffins on his card, and presents it to you

with a courtesy that clearly says how happy he will be to find
you speedily requiring his services ; and in full accordance with
this he paints boldly on his signboard, ' Funerals performed ! ' "

To a description of these and other London wonders, George

thus replies, with a running pun on the names of two London
100  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. III.

publishers, with whom his correspondent had then some trans
actions : --

  I" My dear Daniel, -- had just awaked from a tolerably

sound and refreshing sleep, at the excellent and philosophic
hour of half-past seven, when in bounced into my room, mother,
holding in her hand an opened letter, assuring me she had but
read one sentence. She proceeded to go over it again for my

Isatisfaction. I, still rubbing my eyes, and not very sure where

   was, patiently ensconced behind my curtains, sat trying to

Icollect my scattered ideas, and make out what mother and you

would be after, (those horrid steel pens, could not write a

kind letter with them !) till my attentive ear felt the word
' Moon,' which, coupled with the circumstance of my having

watched an eclipse of the said luminary the evening before, and

joined to the fondly-cherished belief that the word struck had

been kindly passed over by mother, explained the whole mys

Itery. Your conduct in the omnibus, which you so unblushingly

relate, justified my fear of your being moon-struck, and needed

only to read your cautions against communicating the news to

feel satisfied. There is no surer proof of lunacy than suspicions

entertained of intimate friends. My only consolation and com
fort is that it was into the power of the moon, and not that of

the graves, that you had fallen ; an accident which the treatise

on coffin-making in your last epistle to me made me dread had

befallen you. By the by, what a very odd and amusing thing,
of a sort, would the entry-book of one of these London performers
be. You can imagine some scamp who had spent his time in
kicking his heels in the air, like the donkeys, leaving in his
 will, ' Item, that my coffin be made roomy at the heel end ;' or
 a gouty old gentleman, who felt very doubtful how he should
 reach the Styx without his sticks, and feeling also convinced
 that in case of old Charon getting surly, and ' couping' the
 boat, the said stilts would be of great use, might append a
 codicil addressed to the undertaker, ' Item, that room be left

 for my crutches ;' and as for those unfortunate beings whom

ICampbell used to characterize by his strangely expressive

 phrase, as able to act Richard HL without stuffing, know what
 they would say, perhaps, 'Wanted an Italic S coffin, to be
1537 -38.  BIKTH OF A PUN.                101

made roomy at the bends. . . .' My dear brother, we are most

heartily delighted at your success, in every way so far superior

Ito what we could have expected, and do congratulate you most
Isincerely, and with a lightness of heart which have not known

since you left, and which is my only apology for the nonsense I

may write or have written. . . . Let us return to more trivial

Ithings, and first to the exploits of others, and then of myself ; for

  am going in my yepistles to cater from all sources for news for

you. Well, on the sixth, my friend John Niven was safely de

livered of a right good pun, and both child and parent are doing
Ivery well, and as was present at the accouchement, you may
Ifeel interested in the detail of facts.
                                          was dining with his

uncle, who told us a grave, sober piece of nonsense, believed by

him, however, about the Countess of Mar having had a number

of children born blind, a mischance which no one could under

stand or explain, till an old spaewife, who called at the door,
referred it to a great stone statue of some heathen god standing

in the park, which the Countess greatly admired, and whose

great convex pupilless eye-balls the old crone said were the

sympathetic cause of the children's blindness. The statue

was removed, and the next child could see. Now, said

the uncle, turning to us, what can you doctors say to that?
' Why,' says John, gravely pulling up the corners of his mouth,
' there is no mystery in it at all ; the children were stone

blind.'"

                                                                             " 18/A October 1837.

  I" My dear Daniel, -- Though you can scarcely have digested

the contents of my last epistle to you, make no excuse for

Iagain writing, --the more so that forgot a great many things
Iin my last, which hope to be able, like Campbell, to ' squeeze
Iinto ' this ; and, in addition, have been mainly prompted to
Iwrite at this short interval that might tell you what, if left

for a longer time untold, might from passing occurrences
become historical events, and pass out of the jurisdiction of the

letter-writer. . . .
    " Jessie has been rather complaining for a few days back, and

yesterday became so feverish that we called in the doctor. It
     102                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                        CHAP. III.

proves to be an attack of smallpox, which is prevalent in Edin

burgh just now. Her case, however, is quite mild ; . . . and

she is the contented, uncomplaining occupant of the sick-bed

                                                    is,
                                                      is

                                                                              I
which you could foretell. . . . Mother                 of course, anxious,

but does not anticipate any but mild attack. For my own
                                              a

     part never saw milder, and Mr. Lizars equally convinced
     I                  a

           is                 ;
of its non-severity so that we are not distressed by anxious

fears, but patiently wait for the disease running its course.

     have taken the earliest opportunity of letting you know the

     particulars, lest any exaggerated rumours reach you                                . but
                                                       I
     you will remain satisfied,                                        ;
                                                                           .
                                                                                .
                                 I  am sure, with what have written,

which the whole truth, and we shall write you from time to

time of the progress of recovery. Meanwhile, pray God for

her speedy recovery to complete health                                                  all, my dear
                        I
                                                                                     :
                                                            it
                                                                    is
brother, that you or can do, and we know too much of the

Christian dispensation to stop at the consideration or applica

tion of mere secondary causes or means, or to doubt the efficacy

of prayer.

   " All the rest of us are quite well, and get on very comfort

ably in all respects, forming household somewhat diminished

in size, but knitted closely together. Mother says don't write
you proper letters, that instead of stuffing them full of nonsense
               a                                       ;

                     I                                     I
     should tell you about the family's doings but, besides thatI
I II
    I                                      a
       was never very enthusiastic watcher or recorder of family
     incidents, -- and in addition conceived them, like ginger-beer or
     Seltzer water, apt to lose all their spirit by travel,-- thought
                                                                                        I
                                                                                           iIf

                                                                                                 I
     should be most likely to please you in my epistles                                 just

     wrote to you what would have chatted to you had you been

     sitting over your work, and at my window with book in hand,

     surrounded by my bottles and tubes, the gods of my idolatry,''
     with the exception of snatches of songs, which are as untrans-

     portable as the articles mentioned above though, by the by,
                                                    ;

     may say I'm making considerable advances both in singing

     and whistling, as well in compass of voice as in number and

     variety of tunes.           have seriously begun the piano, and am
                        I

                                         a

                                   I
                                          I

                                                                                                                        ;

                                                             I
     told finger the scale in very promising fashion to all of

     which profitable occupations of time am greatly cheered by

     the hope of amusing you when have the happiness of visiting
1S37 3S.              TROUBLES COME THICKLY.           103

London. Well, this parenthesis, worthy of Knickerbocker,

purporteth to let you know that, till orders to the contrary
I Iarrive, shall
  I I" have no
          write       as    have written and  spoken. . . .
          time        to  tell you how busy
                                                am with Christison
... Iall day, and chemistry and physiology all night.
                                                       need
not tell you, 'I'm lonesome without thee, my own dear br' --other.
-- Your affectionate
                                                  George."

    Two days later than the preceding letter is the last entry for

the year in the journal :--

  I"Saturday, October 20th. -- was agreeably surprised on

coming home to-day to find a parcel awaiting me, addressed in

Ia very pretty lady's hand, and, as it was easy to know, from
Miss      . opened it with great glee, expecting an answer to

a very odd, whimsical letter sent to thank her for a present of

Ibottles ; but how amazed and aghast was to find in it that my

poor friend, Samuel Brown, had been seized with fever the day

he should have left for Berlin, and that 'accounts are very

I Iunfavourable indeed.' Poor fellow ! don't know what should
Ido if lost him, almost the only friend I have except my

brother ; gained as a friend, though an acquaintance before, at

Ia time when returning health and energy had sent me to the
careful study of the physical sciences.       was delighted to meet

him, and to meet one who so fervently reciprocated an enthu

siastic love for such pursuits. The gaining of such a friend was

a stimulus to more active study, and a most potent motive to

steady perseverance, and many a day-dream of the future, and

many an air-built castle had him for its hero. And now, when

I every day expected a letter from him, to be stunned and

Istartled by such terrible news ! prayed to God for him every

night, and perhaps God was beneficially watching over him, and
Ipreventing his reaching Berlin, where cholera is very bad. It

has quite unsettled me ; the idea of studying -- what thought
to have done -- chemistry this evening seems cruel, while a
Ibrother-chemist is lying in the fangs of fever.
                                                  cannot open

my books, and instead am in a listless, melancholy mood of

mind. Troubles have come thick on me : my brother gone to

London to buffet with the distractions of that great city, my
104         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.       CHAP. IIL

sweet sister Jessie lying ill of smallpox, my friend Brown
dangerously ill of fever, and poor Dobbie [an artist friend]
Idreading the development of consumption.
                                           have been out at
IMr. Dobbie this afternoon, and feigning a mirth did not feel,

have succeeded in raising his spirits above their former most

Imelancholy state, without in any degree swerving from the truth.

But to my sister can be of little use, and to my brother and

poor Brown not only of none, but an anxious, passive, not even

Ispectator, but most anxious listener, depending on letters for
the increase or removal of my sorrows.  don't much crave

sympathy, and my brother Daniel would suffice of my own

sex; but I've lost him, and it's a terribly awkward way of
I Iexchanging feelings, the post.
                               would       had one dear
Ilady, either beside me or in correspondence, but am denied
Iso great a privilege, and must e'en feed, as best can, on my
Iown thoughts, for friends of either sex have scarcely any to
                                        Iwill do, don't know ;
share them with me. What poor

it's a most melancholy situation, suspense is so agonizing;

. . . and the risk of infection makes it impossible for my

sister Mary to call there. The fortnight that's to elapse

Ibefore more news come, how wearisome and long to all of us !
Could it but be annihilated !  shall exist in most troubled

suspense."

   Ten days later he informs Daniel of home affairs :--

    " Lest you should entertain groundless apprehensions regard

ing your sister's health, and magnify her ailments, I, at this
early period after the receipt of your most kind and acceptable

epistle, sit down to write you ; allow me to give you the con

soling intelligence, that Jessie is declared convalescent, and
freed from all the restrictions of an invalid. She is now engaged,
after the approved mode of all convalescents, in speculating

after the finishing of one meal what shall be the character and

quantity of the next : already has she so much progressed, as
to have made great havoc in the corner of a beefsteak, not to
talk of eggs, calf-foot jelly, grapes, plums, and other such trifles,
which are despatched without so much as ' by your leave.' The

periods between meals she enlivens, after the equally orthodox
1837-3S.  STUDIO DESCRIBED.                                                105

fashion of recovering sick-folks, in listening to odd tales and
fantastic anecdotes : the great demand is for ' funny stories,' and

such a thing as drugging the market is quite impossible, so
great is the consumption of the article in question. She has
already digested a great portion of the celebrated story of Rory
O'More, with the top-boots, the illigant stick and the gridiron ;

has devoured piecemeal Croker's Legends of Ireland, and having

her eyes now open, she has been able, in addition to hearing the
inimitable story of your namesake, O'Rourke, to feast her eyes
with a sight of the sketch taken from life, of ' 'pon the honour
of a gintleman,' and the stone sinking in the bog. This evening
has seen Mary and me relieving each other (like shipwrecked
passengers at the pumps) in instilling into her the wholesome
precepts of Mansie Wauch, and as a further proof of her being
on the high road to complete recovery, though yet very weak,

Iand unable to do more than half sit up in bed, she and sing

together the ' Angel's Whisper,' the ' Mistletoe Bough,' and the
' Fairy's Song,' every verse with great iclat and mutual congra

I Itulation. Before close the letter shall have a message from
Iherself, but just now she is sleeping, so for the present close

my duties as Secretary for the Home Department.
   " Lest you should throw back in my teeth some of my grumb

Ilings, let me tell you something about my own doings. Well,

you will be delighted to hear that have made great progress
in the--honing of razors. Excuse the vanity that dictated that

Ilast sentence, while proceed to tell you what alterations have

been effected in my studio, that you may be able to realize the
idea of myself sitting in the ancient morning gown. Well, there
are no wooden or brick partitions built up ; it has four walls,

one window, two hat pegs, two doors, one museum (see you pro
nounce that rightly) ; and in addition to all that, your protege,
the muse's son, M'Donald, brought me over, the night you sailed,
an oil painting of the Dutch surgeon, and his patient squealing

before the knife touched him, --a fine spirited thing. Dobbie is

greatly pleased with and have got the young fellow engaged
to paint me partner for in the shape of an old grave grey
headed and bearded alchymist, puffing his furnace among fan

tastic vessels, so that, as the one points to surgeon's room, the
          a

                        it,

                        it, I

                                                                        a
106           MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. III.

other may point to a chemist's. In addition, generous Mr. Dobbie

has given me a dog's skull to match the leopard's, a cast of the

sheep and bull's head from Trajan's column, and two heads from

the same, so that when they are hung, one on either side of the

cattle, my two pictures farther out, my skulls, and two or three

busts, on the mantelpiece, interspersed among crystals and alche
Imical-looking bottles, in a mission for the obtaining of which,
Iam about to set off to the Cowgate,
Iunique room for my study.            shall boast of having a

                             have another object in making it
Ineat. You know proposed beginning a set of demonstrations
I Ion chemistry this winter ; well, did begin, though got no

time to tell you, Jessie's illness permitting me only to give one,

which was attended by all the Misses L. and Mrs. L, Mr. L.

Ibeing prevented by necessitous calls on his attention. These,

added to the family, made a goodly audience, and am promised

Miss Gibson and Miss Blackwood, not to mention others. I
Lcreated quite a sensation with my first prelection, Mrs. won

Idering if would print it ! and with Mr. Macgillivray's assistance,

we made a splendid enough show of experiments, only a few of
                                      took notes. Jessie's ill
the more trivial ones failing. B

Iness drove the idea out of my head. Now that she is fast reco

vering, shall begin to get my bottles in order anew, but a

Igloom is cast over my chemical speculations, by the knowledge
of poor Samuel Brown's illness.   feel it in the light of a piece

of hard-heartedness, to be thinking of such matters when he is
Ilying ill ; but it would appear it is a nervous fever which very

rarely is fatal, so augur the best. But to wait a whole fort
night in restless suspense is a most torturing thing ; poor B
Imust feel it very deeply.
IChristison.                 work some three hours with Dr.

              get on finely with him, and we are knowing each
Iother better every day ; hope we shall soon be on the thorough

est footing. Have you seen or heard anything of Faraday ?
II have not seen the Misses L, or Mr. Scott, or in truth, any one,
since Jessie took ill.  have nothing new in the way of story

or intrigue to tell you, which is my only apology for the barren

character of this yepistle.

"Jessie bids me tell you that she will soon be up and will

write you. She sends, carefully sealed, signed, and marked
1837-38.  GENEROSITY OF NATURE.                                     107

If' this side up,' a kiss, which you are leisurely to devour.       the

hope of visiting London was great heretofore, how much greater

is it now. Your account of the pretty young Quakeress, to

IIwhom should be delighted to sing anything could, and the
notice of Mr. Mitchell's organ, are great attractions. If I knew

Ithe piano, he would perhaps teach me how to manage the organ

stops, and should make some progress. Meanwhile, don't you

imagine I'm an accomplished piano-player; I'm just fagging
away at all the horrid scales, gamuts, etc., but I'll stick closely

to You must on no account think of waiting for me to see
it.
the sights of Londonit ;        extremely doubtful       I iIf      shall get up
      ;                it

                            is
at all at any rate, cannot be earlier than next autumn, so

don't think of waiting. If gained the Essay am working at,
                      I

that would decide me in the affirmative."

   George's unselfish devotion as brother and friend, was nevera
more visible than now. Whatever his own sorrows and dis

appointments, at some of which even his most intimate friends

can but dimly guess, he was able to put them aside, and assumeif

the most hearty mirth, others were cast down. When the
infectious nature of his sister's illness kept almost all aloof from

her, he would not be restrained from trying to cheer the little

invalid. The evening-time that brought him home was eagerly

longed for, and when her eyes were sealed up from the effects

of the disease, and ray of light unbearable, this good brother
sat outside the chamber door, with candle so placed, that no
          a
                                           a
                                                      a
light could enter the room, and for hour after hour read the
drollest stories, laughing over them with heartiness peculiarly

his own. Wishing to give some slight token of her gratitude

for all this love and care, the child said to him one night before
going to sleep, " Kiss me, Dozie." Immediately was the kiss
given, to her great satisfaction and not till weeks after, when
the first glance at mirror was permitted, did flash upon her
          is,

            it

                          a
                           a

                                                                 ;

                                                               it
what she had asked, what the repulsive state of the lips had

been, and the danger even to his life. Trifling though the

incident  was true expression of the generous nature,

ready at any moment with unconscious grace to sacrifice life

itself for the objects of his love.
108  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                    CHAP. III.

The last entry in the journal treats of the lectures given at

home ; though written at a later date, its contents make it suit

able for our notice at present.

  I"May 1839. -- Following out the proposal to amend the sub

jects of ladies' conversation and study, assembled some of them

in my father's house, and delivered a course of lectures on
chemistry, especially the chemistry of nature. It was in the
Iwinter of 1837-38, so that was then cel. 19 ; the majority of
Imy audience were older by a year or two.
                                                 was greatly

praised and encouraged, most kindly listened to and assisted in

Imany ways, especially by John Macgillivray, a generous, unself

ish, happy fellow, without whose aid should have come on

very poorly. This course, which began in October, was first

interrupted by the illness of my sister, and afterwards, in

February, by the mournful indisposition of my cousin Catherine,

so that only ten or twelve lectures were given.

  I" place here the names of those who smiled on a juvenile
Iattempt, both because would keep on record the titles of those
Ipersons who gave rise to many a happy thought, and that as
Ihope to address other audiences, may not lose the recollection

of my first, which was more kind, generous, and forgiving to

wards me than any future audience ever can be."

   Of the list which follows of twenty-seven names, thirteen
have passed into the unseen world, almost all in the bloom of
youth and hope, so that it recalls sadly, years of anxiety, fear,
suspense, and desolation to the hearts in whose depths all those
loved ones lie buried. In a letter of 1839, George says to his
brother, referring to the death of his cousin Catherine, -- " How

I Ilittle did think, when last winter assembled a few happy,

youthful forms to hear of my favourite science, that in another
year two of the fairest, and kindest, and seemingly most healthful
of them should be struck down by the demon disease of our

country."
   The correspondence with Daniel continues the narrative : --
1837 38.  VISITS GEORGE HARVEY.                                                                  109

                                                                       " November 4, 1837.

" My dear Daniel,--

                               " 'Tis the last sheet of paper
                                          Left blooming alone,

                                  All its foolscap companions
                                          Are crumpled and gone,

and gone to you every one of them, saving and excepting a

single sheet which winged its way to the Row, and cost two

pence, and this yepistle you certainly should not have had, had
not the kind Mr. L -- sent up to acquaint us with his pro
Iposed journey to the capital of Cockneys.
                                                                       have therefore
Ijust arisen from the old piano, whence have been educing

the most melodious strains, again to take plume in hand, and

indite a few lines to keep you from quite forgetting, among

the ecstasies of 'big works,' that you have got both 'wee'

brothers and sisters at home.
   " To begin, as is befitting, with sisters : Jessie has been greatly

delighted with your letter, has read it over and over again, and

all the favoured entrants of her bedchamber are privileged with

I Ia sight of the elegant sketch of the Charity Boy.

  " In addition to what told you of formerly, am to get from

I IDobbie a bas-relief of Arago's head, by David, and perhaps

another of Cuvier. You see how covetous am, and entertain

some hopes of getting a portrait of Fanny Kemble, whose portrait

If II long ago fell in love with, and used to go a particular road to

see. get old Irvine shall leave his frame and give room

to the fair ladye. It was the last work of Sir T. Lawrence, and
is,

 I
              I a it,

                                a

                         I
   according to my notion, the most beautifully expressive face

ever saw. It shall hang over my mantelpiece as my guardian
                                                                       ;

                                                                             it

                                                                                I
angel.                                                                 was

   " called last Wednesday evening on Mr. Harvey as

after daylight had departed, did not see his picture, but enjoyed

the pleasure of long conversation with him. He begged me to

call again, which certainly shall do at an early opportunity, and

think myself proud of an admission to his studio. . . .
" We have had very busy month of
                                                                  it,  plotting and plan

ning apparatus, and executing analyses, in most of which we

have been very fortunate. All our wits were at work to manu
110  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. III.

facture a convenient arrangement of tubes for distilling, and at
last we succeeded in erecting a most beautiful and simple appa

ratus, which completely effected its purpose, and saved us all

Itrouble in tending it. You would be greatly amused did tell

you some of the little incidents which take place in the labora
tory ; they are rather of too flimsy a kind for grave insertion in
a letter, however well fitted for telling you while chatting to
gether ; but as this will only cost you the breaking of the seal,

I may venture to tell you one. While rummaging one day over

one of the dark cellars which are appendaged to the class-room,

we stumbled on a great, large, thin, glass vessel in a hamper,

generally used for holding sulphuric acid, and known to mer

chants by the title of a carboy. It was at once agreed on by

the triumvirate, composed of Rob. Christison, Geo. Wilson, and
Mariano Martin de Bartolome', that the said vessel would make

a most excellent recipient for the distilled water we were en
gaged in preparing. We soon succeeded in dragging it from its
obscurity ' into life, and light, and fame,' and in doing so dis
covered that it contained a large quantity of some liquid.
Christison out with the bung and down with his nose al
most to the bottom, and slowly pulled it out with a most merry,
gleesome look, as he sung out, ' Smell that, Mr. Bartolome", and

Iyou too, Mr. Wilson.' As soon as we had inserted our probosces

as far down as we could (I half wish that had your nose, but

no matter), he declared it was the mother liquor of opium ; in

other words, the infusion of opium, from which the morphia
alone had been removed, and which contained all the other pure

and crystallizable principles. Here was a prize, a very useful

bottle, and a valuable liquid. All the basins and platters were

Iimmediately in requisition to contain the nectar ; and Barto

lome" and set about devising a plan of cleaning the bottle,
which was encrusted with the thick resinous matter. Alas,

alack-a-day ! man is born to disappointment ; the fragrant

liquid, after boiling for three days, and almost suffocating us
with its extraordinary odour, ended in smoke, affording us no
thing but an abominable tarry stuff, which has spoiled all our

Ifilters, towels, etc. ; and for the bottle, woe is me ! ' Frailty,' as
Ihad occasion to write to Miss L-- in the letter told you of,
1837-38.  FIRST LECTURES ON CHEMISTRY.                      Ill

' thy name is glass.' While Bartolome" was working away with

a long flexible rod and a sponge, polishing the inside most care

fully, for he is a very neat-handed, ingenious fellow, bang was

I Iheard an awful sound, and the point of the rod protruded ! So
much for our calamities.     hope you sympathize.  am sure
J. G. retains a sufficiently vivid remembrance of his apothecary

dealings most sincerely to feel with us in our present bereave

ment.

  I" may tell you another odd conversation --one with Barto
Ilome" --who is really a fine fellow, from whom learn a great deal.

We were talking about some of the infidel and atheistic students,

Iand mourning their folly. ' Ah ! wish they were Free-Masons,
Ithey would then know the true God.' am sure this idea of
Ievangelizing wicked people will greatly amuse you, and could
Itell you a great deal more ; but here is James L-- arrived to

say that Mr. L-- is just going, so must seal up this bad and

hurriedly- written letter."

                                                               " Laboratory, November 25, 1837.

                              " ' SPECIMEN OF HIEROGLYPHICS.'

  I" My dear Dan, -- have been upbraiding myself for many
Idays back for not writing you, but, in truth, have been very

busily occupied, so much so, as almost to preclude me writing

Iany one, and am still in debt an epistle to Macmillan and B-- ,
Iboth of whom allow to stand aside (though you are not to tell
them) till your superior claims are satisfied. All notion of
Iletter for letter is absurd in our present circumstances.
                                                            shall
I Iwrite you when find time, taste, and opportunity, and have
Ino doubt you will do the same to me, so proceed to describe.
II may observe, that should not likely have had leisure suffi

cient to write to you to-day, had it not happened that last night,

while engaged in delivering my second chemical demonstration

before an audience of twenty, a piece of phosphorus on the end

Iof a wire, which intended should have descended in a vessel

of oxygen-gas, became refractory, and whether because not dry

enough, which is Macgillivray's theory, throwing the blame on

me ; or because it was not sufficiently fixed on the wire, which
was only stuck into which my hypothesis, blaming Macgilli
          it,
                        is
112               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                 CHAP. III.

                  it

                      I

                                              a

                                       I
                                                        iIt,
vray, who insisted on trying his own way of impaling          know

not but suffice to say, that he and got three fingers apiece
burned, and here am with great blister on the neb of my
Ia
           ;middle finger, prevented from going to Christison's, and thereby
      ; ;I
enabled to write you an yepistle. We both deserved the punish

ment and with my hand stuck in jar of water, spoke on for
                                       a
                                            a

                                                     I
short while longer, but the phosphorus still sticking to my

fingers, had soon to stop, and after few remarks, closed the

scene the evening, however, had got on magnificently before,

and this was but startling episode. With my one hand in
                  a                                           a

jug of water, and my other across the table, bade the ladies
                                       if

                                                     I
good-bye, assuring them that they would return next Friday,

should promise them something better than even that night,

with which they expressed themselves pleased, and whispered

to Miss Gibson that would only burn my own fingers, and not
                  I
                    I
theirs. Our digits wrapped in cotton, my fine young friend

Macgillivray and sat quaffing our tea together in joyous and

laughable reminiscence, endeavouring to throw the blame on

each other, but obliged at last to confess that we had both

neglected certain necessary precautions. We shall repeat the

experiment next night, we hope and confidently expect with full

success but fire                       the goddess of the chemist,' and don't
     I;           is                           if
mind being burned in carrying on chemical researches.I
    " Now, am going to tell you another laboratory incident, for'1

                     'I                                   I
unless tell you them shall have nothing to tell you at all,

for as far as concerns moving accidents,' my life lacks them   :

the variety change of thought, notion, or speculation, not ofis

place, personages, and scenes of action only,           weary you, tell
me, and will fish up some other thing for you.;
     I
                                         it ;
" It so happens that Dr. Christison's laboratory comprises

three huge rooms, at considerable distances from each other, and

all far removed from the outer door            generally happens that

we are spread through the rooms, most of us separated from the

entrance -door by two long passages and two flights of stairs. It

therefore great bother to us when people come to the door,
is is
                        a

                                    ;

                            it
obliging us to follow this long circumbendibus of way to let
                                                        a

some idler in for unfortunately happens that the laboratory

near the college gate, and vagabond strollers of all sorts come
1837 38.  STORY OF A HAT.                       113

poking, and peering, and rattling at the said door. For the last

month the door has been most carefully attended to (this being
the primary chemical duty of the Doctor's assistants), because

the new students are taking out his ticket, and he says himself

Imerrily, ' am willing enough to run to the door just now when

the prospect of a fee allures me, but you'll see, Mr. Wilson, I'll

not be so alert by and by.'
   " Well, Christison and two of us were standing together carry

ing on some analysis of salts ; over and over again the door had
been knocked at, and shaken, and rattled. ' That restless door,'

Isays Christison ; but know something more restless.

   " It happened, the Doctor told us, refusing to answer some

questions about the chemical operations we were engaged in, and

declaring that he would tell his story first, that when he was a
young man, he was a clerk in the Infirmary, residing there.

Among his companions was a grand-nephew of the celebrated

Cullen, the physician, a very clever young fellow, by far the

cleverest person Christison had ever seen; moreover, good-

looking and handsome, and having a very large circle of ac -

quaintance among the fashionables of Edinburgh, and a great
favourite, from his talents, handsomeness, and politeness, with

the ladies. Accordingly, when he and any of his companions

walked through the streets together, every few minutes he met

some one he recognised, especially ladies, and of course he

politely raised his hat and did graceful obeisance. Well (for
my plot is complicated), there was another Infirmary clerk, one

IS , think, an ' uncombed' lad from the country, who, from

his various oddities, was the butt of the rest ; nevertheless by

no means destitute of some cleverness, and although generally

the theme of ridicule, often succeeding, as you must have seen

such persons do, by lucky single strokes, in occasionally flooring
a whole bevy of cleverer fellows. One day, after dinner, it
chanced that the clerks, being very religious, fell to talking
about the probability and nature of punishments in another

world. Espousing the doctrines of Pythagorean transmigration,

they wondered much into what sort of animal or form each
Iwould be transformed. ' wonder,' sang out Cullen over the
'Itable, 'what animal you'll be turned into, S
                           V                    don't

          H
114                        MEMOIR OF GEOKGK WILSON.              CHAP. III.

know,' says S              , bristling up, for the very question had
I Iawakened a wild shout of laughter ; ' don't know, but would

....not, at any rate, like to be turned into your hat!           Was it not

exquisite ? So much for the ' restless hat.'
" We have received the most gratifying intelligence from

Russia. Samuel is fast recovering, and was able to dictate a

portion of the last letter. He was very ill ; a whole month
delirious : he will likely come home, and not think of Berlin

at all."    finished       my fourth           " Laboratory, Friday Evening.
                                      discourse on chemistry, and the
  " I have

knife which mended this pen has just been absolved from the

Icutting of corks so as to fit accurately the bottles which serve
so many useful purposes.              shall, however, take up no time

with a recital of the various perilous risks which fragile tubes

run, and how they escaped being broken, etc. etc.

  I" Let me take other topics, though not to be less egotistical,

for am about to recount to you so many particulars of my own

most wonderful doings. Well, an odd enough incident occurred
Ito me the other day. When entering the College, saw in its
Ipost-office, in a hand which
                                      did not know, a small note,

marked ' George Wilson,' which, presuming it must be for me,
Ias there has been no G. W. about college since joined
                                      '                                                         im

                                            it

                                               ;I
                                                             it,I

                                                                                            S.
mediately dragged out, and promised Mr. Borrowman his two
pence next day. On opening the epistle, was startled by the

first words Dearest George,' and, on turning to the end, scarcely
less so by the concluding term, Yours in love, Agnes Y. M.'
it
You may guess what kind of letter was inquiries after the
health of the G. W. addressed, protestations of fond admiration,a

                        'and curious declaration that the correspondent, all the time
specified, was suffering under toothache, which she declared

would be dispelled, as by 'farry's wand,' by the sight of her
beloved, and some more of such stuff. Perfectly puzzled, read
                           ;;                                    I

                             it

                                   a
over and over again there was no other G. W. known or re

gistered about College              must be for me.  I         did not know any

                                                              !
one, high or low, named Agnes so that, unless some servant;
maid or the like had fallen in love with me and taken this

modest plan of saying so, could not tell who could be intended.
                           I
1C37 3«.                 LABORATORY INCIDENTS.                                                     115

IPuzzled what to do, showed it to Bartolome', and then to Chris-
Itison, who could make no more of it than ; Christison declar
Iing, however, it must be for me. At last, Bartolome' went to the

college album, but was the only G. W. It might still, however,

be some student of divinity, or some extra-collegian who took

Iadvantage of the post-office ; and, as felt perfectly convinced
Ithat was not the enchanter that could wield the 'farry's'

I Iwand, and as it was no business of mine to keep her from her

' Dearest George,' though was not he, marked within the

envelope my profession and address, and a statement of my

          it

            it ;I
                    it,
having opened but being sure could not be for me, had
                                it it                   I
returned
                                                              I
          sealed and gave back this was on Saturday.
                         it            it
                                           ;
                             I
On Monday was gone, and no questions asked, nor have

heard any more about it.        thought possible the veritable

fellow might conceive the opening of the letter designed insult,
                                                a

and demand satisfaction but he had the good sense to say no
                         ;

thing about it. How he and Agnes took the singular denoue

ment, of course, do not know but Christison very justly
          I,                    I;
                     it
remarked that would have been the best answer to demand
                                                    a

for explanation, to declare that was the insulted person, in

having my name connected with such persons and so the mat
                                                ;
ter rests.                                          fear you will
   " Now for some Laboratory incidents, though   I

but shrug up your shoulders at the word, and think of the middle

syllable, 'bore nevertheless, as your sensitive nose cannot be
          ;'

offended by noisome odours or pestilential emanations,  I  shall

venture to record another thing or two, begging you will read

them with the window up, and put out all the contaminated air

with your bellows.       claim on your sympathy, but about very
   " Well, my first      is

                             a
                                                  a

                                                                                                a
trivial matter. You'll remember paragraph regarding the find

ing of a huge glass bottle, containing an opium liquid, which

disappointed us completely, our bottle breaking in the cleaning,

and our stuff almost suffocating us with its overpowering odour,

and after all yielding nothing. It so happened, that some of the

large porcelain basins, in which the stuff had been evaporated,

were left standing on the table of our farthest back room.

Something led me into that room, where had not been for
                                              I
11G              MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.                                                          CHAP. III.

Isome time, and carelessly casting my eye over the table, saw

Isomething dark and shining in the bottom of the basins ; re

membering our former trials, picked out a little of and saw
                                                                                 I,
   had crystalline structure. What, thought                                         if

                                                                                         it,
it                                                                               this be the
          it a

                                a
                                              a

                                                                          ;
                                                                   '

                                 I
muriate of morphia, which has slowly separated from it.                                               aI

showed to Dr. Christison   Oh,' says he (for he had been too

often disappointed to entertain sanguine hopes),                                 will just be
                                                                                 '
muriate of lime,' useless thing.
                                                                                   it

                                                                                                ;
                                                                             resolved to try boiled

little with alcohol in tube, and having my attention at the

time directed to something else, put the tube aside, thinking

that the proof of its being morphia was incomplete, yet puzzled

to conceive anything else. For two or three days was em
        it                                                                   a

                iIt,                                                                   it I
                     I;
                                                                                                  I
ployed in other processes and, on the third or fourth, chanced

a  test tube was wanting.  carelessly took the one in which

the solution of the crystalline matter had been put, but as

proceeded to wash          was struck by singular appearance

inside, and what was my astonishment and delight, on looking

more closely, to find most beautiful circle of small feathery
        it

                       a
crystals, which could not be doubted were morphia, and which

was completely proven to be this, by adding the test of morphia,

which gave the most characteristic results.                                  II  am now analysing

the whole, some two gallons of stuff, having volunteered to un

dergo the disagreeableness of the smell, which keep from every

one else, by shutting two glass doors between me and them.

You will understand that this refuse liquor, discarded by the
                           it,
druggists as useless, from which we are separating                                                 a  large
                             I is
quantity of the precious high-priced muriate of morphia. We

shall have fine laugh at old       throwing away the good
        a
                 is
                       a
morphia, and work hard at for believe will please Chris
                                                                             it

tison and there           great deal of useful manipulation to myself.
     ;

   " But I'll tell you another laboratory tale, which cannot fail

to interest you as Scotchman, away from your country, anda
fond of your native language. The other morning, when all

standing before the museum fire, before going in to lecture,

Bartolome announced some rather singular proposition, on which

the Doctor commented by saying, It's all lee frae end to end.'
                              '
                                               a

                                                          is
                                                                  a
This was quite unintelligible to Bartolome, who                                                    capital

English scholar and speaker. On this Dr. Christison took
1837 38.  SCOTCHMEN IN PARIS.  117

 occasion to remark, that he had generally found a few Scotch
words sufficient to confound one who was well versed in English,

and quoted as a case what occurred to him in Paris. It so

 happened that he and several other young Scotchmen paid a
visit one evening to the Theatre -Francais ; a short time after
 their arrival, seating themselves in one of the most conspicuous
 places, they began, with the characteristic recklessness of
 Britons, to talk treason about all that was going on around them.

 In the midst of their criticisms, a very polite old French gentle
man, with a low bow, leaned over the seat behind them, and

 suggested to the thoughtless fellows, that there were a great
many more of the audience knew English than they were at all
 aware of, and that they would assuredly get themselves into

scrapes if they continued talking as they had done. ' Come,'
says Christison to his friend Cullen (he of the hat), ' we'll try
them with a little Scotch;' and so they began, Christison watch

ing the face of old Monsieur, but soon convinced that he at least
had not studied the mysteries of ' but an' ben,' etc., and ever

after, when they had any foolish thing to say, they discoursed
it in good broad Scotch. When you commend me to my much

esteemed and loved friend, J. G., give him my advice, if you

please, to be sure and study Scotch before going abroad, and
then he may say anything about their vaunted pictures without

getting himself guillotined for his trouble.

   " In spite of Christison's studiousness in Paris, he seems
to have loved most heartily all sorts of fun. He told us of
himself and half a dozen other Scotchmen, celebrating a new-

year's night by a supper, and shouting and singing, to the

amusement or vexation of the restaurateurs ; winding it all
up by finding their way home through the streets of Paris,
singing at the full pitch of their voices, ' God save the King !'
to the utter astonishment of the sentries, who well knew the

tune

  II I" wish, I hope, and expect for you all success ; and can
Ido this the more heartily, as can in return crave sympathy ;

for though it might appear otherwise, by a reference only being

made to lectures and Christison, my whole time and energies

are occupied in reading, writing, and experimenting for my
118                  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.                 CHAP. HI.

IEssay ; and only allow myself half an hour when walking, to

think of my next lecture. Dr. Christison has given me liberty

Ito try as many experiments as like in his laboratory, and I
Ishall not miss the opportunity. Meanwhile, am toiling night

and day, as you are, elated with hopes and depressed with fears

Iand troubles, as you are, and feeling how much more would be

my progress had you beside me."

                                                                      " Saturday, 16th December.

" The letter which envelops this was written to-day, and I

now snatch a moment to bring up to the present time, as far as

time will permit me, the news of house and family.

  " To my last I intended to add a postscript, but so many

Ithings have since occurred to me as deserving a place there,

that now have dropped the idea of filling up that space ; and

I doubt not that, after filling up this letter as far as time will

permit, the accompanying Maga will serve to amuse you and

J. G. about Dr. Barry's fooleries. He has been bringing home

an odd animal, one of those, you will remember, referred to by
Sir H. Davy in his ' Consolations of Travel,' as found among

the lakes of Carniola. Of course he has been acting Jamie the

showman with   is     and deserves the whipping he gets. The
                 it,
other picture        of young Thomson, very like the rest can
                                                   ;

scarcely interest you.
   " Mr. Dobbie and Mr. M'Donald form part of my Friday
                                         a

audience.      have received great kindness from the former. He
     I
        I                                                     it,I

                  a
has given me most beautiful-- cannot say more of                     sum
                              I

up all, think, in the words,  it      a  beautiful -- basso relievo of
                                  is

Arago's head by David the French sculptor          I a itisa  very fine
                                            a

                                               ;
head, and exquisitely done as the head of scientific man, as
                      :

the head of one have seen, and especially as piece of fine
     a

         I
            I
and high art, greatly value it. Mr. Dobbie told me last night

he had Christ's head also for me, so you see have great
                                                              a
deal to make my solitude happy.                                   a
                      a               am going to have unique

                           I
Study. You remember two white jars of unglazed porcelain,

one of them the property of lady in Glasgow, Miss Mackay,
                                                   a

but have seized on both. Mr. M'Donald to paint them or
I                                              is

stain them brownish -red. They are then to have black devices,
1837 38.             CHARLES LAMB'S LKTTERS.                                  110

alchemical retorts, crucibles, etc., painted in black, like the
Etruscan vases. Mr. Dobbie is to supply a Moritz Retsch-like

Idesign for the central part of some alchemical thing ; and won't
  be a happy man !
  I" must scamper off to Christison, so forgive this scrawl."

The length of letters in those old days is inconceivable to the

degenerate correspondents of this penny-post prepaying genera

tion. When a letter cost thirteenpence halfpenny sterling, and

its recipient was expected to pay for his correspondent feltI
                                     it,
himself on his honour to send the money's worth. Such, how

ever, was not needed as stimulant to brotherly affection. A
                      a
well-filled sheet of foolscap to Daniel, of date 20th January
1838, concludes as follows " How have wished to be beside:

you, when reading Lamb's letters, which, after reading all the

reviews on them, got hold of in reality this week. They are
                  II
most exquisite.      have laughed and giggled to myself over my

solitary cup, and wished had been near to read them to
                           I

you, and have I      sympathizing agreement in praising them.
                  a
Many of them, think, far excel some of his essays. The India-

House and the Temple are now hallowed in my eyes, and                         if

ever in London, shall take care to travel to them, and you will
              I

join me, am sure." And being now close to the foot of the
          aI
fourth page of closely written sheet of foolscap, and one o'clock
              a

AM. striking, the letter abruptly closes but with the morrow
                              ;

receives postscript nearly as long as itself, embodying the

chronicle of an event famous in the College annals --the great

snow-ball bicker of 1838.
              --
Here      it
                                              " 20th January 18?8.
              is

                      :
                                      !

                               a
                                                                         it,

                                                         Ia
" Good-morning You must have seen by this time notice

of certain College disturbances, which being in truth riots or

insurrections, have good deal excited public attention. The

newspapers have given most lying accounts of which dare

say, or rather am sure, you have already passed over as un

worthy notice, knowing the doubtful morality of newspaper

editors, especially Radical ones, towards students, who are of

necessity Conservative in their likings. Well, here's true,
                                              a
120  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                         CHAP. III.

Iand am sure a refreshing account of the College bicker and its

consequence.
    " Last Thursday was the first good snow storm we have had,

and a goodly quantity bespread the ground. We, the students,

began to bicker each other as usual. A posse of students set

themselves in the quadrangle, so as to command each class door,

and pelt the sober fellows, who had to run the gauntlet as they

came in or out ; then the pelters divided into two parties, and

bickered each other. And it was most amusing to see one event

of the skirmish. While throwing at each other, a host of idle

shop-boys, bakers, servants, etc., had placed themselves in the

College gateway, and were amusing themselves gazing on, when

all of a sudden the two parties, without laying their heads to

gether, raised the war-whoop, and rushed on the spectators.

What a scene ! tumbling over each other, knocking, driving,

letting fall candles, and other contents of baskets ; while a mer

ciless shower of snow grapeshot thwacked them soundly.
   " This, however, was an episode in the day's deeds, and not in

any way necessarily connected with them ; for, meanwhile, a

set of idle apprentice lads had begun attacking the students as

they went to their classes, and soon the fight became warmer.

And now the first element of riot began, namely, that the police

would not take up the idlers, while they came into College and

apprehended students. This was a double affront : first, the

police showed partiality in only taking students ; second, they

came into the quadrangle, which the students believed after
                                                      ;
wards appeared wrongly) was sacred from their intrusions.
   " So they had meeting on the Mound, swore to avenge theira (it
     a
affronts, and agreed to meet, each with an old hat and short
         it
stick. Away then they went  procession, four abreast, fine
                            ;

                             Ia

                                          it
                                               is
gallant young fellows (Medicals, need scarcely say) and after

wandering through all the streets, they parted. Next morning,

they provided themselves with chapeaux and shillelahs. Little

was done in the first part of the day, but         notorious that even

on the second day began with the misconduct of the police       A
in refusing to take up blackguards who assaulted students.

regular bicker began against all who passed the middle gate
                                                   ;

being shut, and the Meds crowding on the stairs, showered away.
1837-38.  SNOW-BALL RIOT.                    121

All the shops were necessitated immediately to shut their

windows, to prevent more breakage, and the thoroughfare

blocked up. Still the police continued to aggravate the feel

ings of the students by refusing to take up any of the primary

aggressors, and now the attack began on them. They had as

sembled in considerable numbers, and Bailie  was strutting

in all his dignity, and getting pelted soundly. At last some of

the superior lieutenants of police arrived, and they attempted to

dislodge the students : they repelled them easily, and a shout

was raised, ' Open the middle gate, and see if they can get in ;'
so the middle gate was opened, and in they rushed. At first

the students gave way ; the short, heavy batons of the police
were more efficient in the porch, and they drove them back in

the quadrangle, without ever taking prisoners.
    " The students, too, at first fought in detached groups, and

necessarily quailed before the regular phalanx of the batoned

mercenaries. Soon, however, counselled by an Irishman (every

one of whom was, of course, led there by natural instinct), who

made a speech to them, and ranged them in an opposing line,

bringing all the short sticks to the front, the long ones being

behind, so as to hit over the heads of the first rank --a glorious

plan. After this was resorted to, victory never left the students.

They battered the police, and six different times drove them to

the porch, where their short batons availed them, and there they

stopped. Along with them, and this was the grievous thing,

was an infuriated mob, who gladly took part against the stu

dents--bakers, and butcher-boys, and sailors, mingling in the

affray by police connivance, and being even given the sticks

captured from students. This was an hour's work from two to

three, and things getting serious, a despatch was sent for the

Lord Provost, who made an attempt at addressing the students,

with the hope of pacifying them. One huge Irishman walked
up, and, patting him on the back, asked in a slang phrase of the

day, but sufficiently expressive on this occasion, 'Does your

mother know you're out ?' Another promised him protection in
his waistcoat pocket ; and all laughed and jeered at him. In

furiated, he rushed off, addressed some words to the mob, and

up to the Castle for the military, who by this time had become
122  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. III.

absolutely necessary, for blows had been given desperately, and
Imany gashed heads testified to the fury of the contest. Tis

said, know not on what authority, that many of the police got
Itheir arms broken.
                     don't very well know, but it was their

own fault as a body. Meanwhile, an official was obtained, and

the Eiot Act read at the gate, amid the pelting of the officer,

who got it knocked out of his hand, and himself driven out, the
students encouraging each other to kill the police, which they

could do before the reading of the Act was over. Meanwhile,
down came the military as fast as they could run, with two

ball-cartridges in their pockets ; and having reached the gate,

the bugle was sounded ! and with fixed bayonets, the officers

with drawn swords, they charged the gate, and, of course, drove

the students before them. The scoundrelly police now came

forward, and picked their men and the ringleaders, lugging

them off to the police-office. Meanwhile, the company of

soldiers was drawn up across the quadrangle, and five minutes

given for dispersion. The major looked very nervous, dread

ing evidently that the students' rashness would drive him

to extremities. He is a fine fellow, a Waterloo man, and, of

course, like all good officers, dislikes quelling a civil riot. He

seemed afraid of his men taking the students' part, especially
when a Pole shouted over the window, ' Shoot the police !'

   " The major had him immediately apprehended, and with the

back of his sword drove back the students, declaring he did not

wish to hurt them. Very likely something awkward would

have occurred, had not Christison mounted one of the broad

corner stones of the balustrade, and thence addressed the stu

dents, who received him with acclamations, and waved their

hats, which they took off as a token of respect. He bade them
go away, as they were all liable to be apprehended and lodged

in jail. We had to find our way out, through a line of soldiers

across the North Bridge, amid the jeers of the dastardly mob,

the soldiers laughing, while the police put out their spleen

against us.
   " That night every one like a student was assaulted by the

rabble, who always fell on single persons and abused them.

Macgillivray was prevented from coming over on Friday, in
1837-38.            THE UNIVERSITY MAGA.           123

spite of his courageous bravery, by the attack of a crew who

severely hurt him. He was taken, however, as a culprit to the
police-office, which was so full that he got out. The other

students were bailed out, and trial is coming on. Meanwhile,

the students and the professors are having a daily committee,
sitting in Dr. Christison's room, collecting evidence, a Mr. Scott,

solicitor, having volunteered his services ; and we hope to have

against the police various charges, likely to cost them their

Iplaces. The students will probably be fined, in which case we'll
all subscribe to pay.  shall most cheerfully contribute my
mite. The students are all in great glee. A number of songs

and parodies are written on the occasion, such as the ' Battle of

the Quadrangle,' the ' Gallant 78th Regiment,' and so on. There

are parodies, one a most excellent one, on Hamlet's famous

scene, 'The Policeman's Soliloquy,'- -- 'To stand or not to

stand, that is the question.' One on the Battle of Hohenlinden,

the Battle of the Baltic, the Lady of the Lake, Byron's Hebrew

Melodies, Burns' Tarn o' Shanter, etc. It is intended to publish
them in a pamphlet afterwards ; if so, I'll send you a copy.
The students have no ill-will at the soldiers, but praise them
highly. It is declared that the soldiers were brought to accus
tom them to snow-fighting in Canada. In another song, the

'Major's Address to his Men,' he shows the probability of

his being knighted, and recommends the expunging of Sala

manca from the flags, and putting in its place, Quadrangle, and

so on."

The Maga alluded to in this letter was a weekly periodical,

sold at the College gates, of which Edward Forbes was editor,

and the contributors students. It might be considered a Uni

versity Punch, containing, as it did, caricatures of lecturers,

chiefly professorial, as well as of civic dignities, or others who

chanced to rouse the wrath or mirth of the students. A healthy

spirit ran through and formed safety-valve by which the
                it,
                         it

                                    a
                                             a
worries of student-life found harmless outlet. Correspondents
were informed that " no libellous personalities, or betises of any

kind," were admissible. The number George speaks of sending
to his brother was the first of that Session and Dr. Martin
                                                ;

Barry, of whom  it     treats, had excited much amusement by
124                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. III.

wonderful accounts of an ascent of Mont Blanc, from which he

had just returned.
    To George and his cousin James, also attending College, the

Maga was the source of much enjoyment. On the day of pub
lication it was brought home with glee, invariably producing an
amount of merriment incomprehensible to those in the house

hold to whom the butts for satire and ridicule were less familiar.

They were not only admirers of, but contributors to it. The
first article sent by George at this very time is mentioned in
notices to correspondents. The signature B. I. stands for Bottle

Imp, a name he had adopted long before this, occasionally dat
ing letters from " Laboratorium Impicum!'

   "B. I.'s communication is received, and meets with our ap
probation. All articles from the same quarter shall receive due
consideration ; so he may spin another yarn or two with a fair
prospect of insertion." A private note accompanied the article.

                   " To the Editor of the Maga.

   " Sir, -- Being a warm admirer of the University Maga, I read

with sorrow your doleful account of editorial difficulties, and

Iwith the hope of assisting you, bestirred myself to the producing
of the following.  know not whether it will suit your purpose

or not ; perhaps its length will be sufficient to exclude it ; if

that be passed over, the subject may be amiss; but having

quizzed police, military, mob, Council, Provost, etc., till the

subject is threadbare, why should we not quiz our sensitive

selves, and hand down to posterity a record of our present Col

lege fashions for the benefit of future Antiquarian Societies ? If

the thing suits your purpose, give it what name you please.
Perhaps ' Ourselves,' or ' Sketches about College, No.
I;                                                      might

                   I

                                                          it
                                                                                                                                1,'
                                                                                                                             a
do but of this you will be best judge. To save yourself and

the printers trouble, have eschewed hieroglyphics, and got

youngster fresh from the irons to write  out in his best hand.
                                                          " B. I."
-- remain yours, etc. etc.,

   The name given was " The Consulting Room, and College
Philosophers."
COLLEGE PHILOSOPHERS.  125

    " ' 'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view ;' so saith our

poet, and so seem to think the sight-seers, who value places the
more, the nearer they are to our antipodes. We read daily of a
' Visit to the Slave-Market at Cairo,' of a 'Day spent with the
King of Timbuctoo,' or 'Among the Inhabitants of Pitcairn
Island,' or ' With their Majesties of Otaheite.' We hear of

stolen journeys to the mosques and harems of Constantinople,

of visits to Jewish synagogues, Greek convents, and Catholic
monasteries, with sundry other notices of peeps into salt-mines,

coal-pits, madhouses, and all sorts of charitable institutions ; yet

we never chance to find among the multifarious tomes of those

vagabonds who wander to and fro over the face of the earth, in
search of choice specimens of ' men and manners,' any record of
a visit to the Consulting Room of our University Library. We
have in vain searched through all our Voyages and Travels,
from the folios of Humboldt down to the octavos of Sir Francis

Head, Mrs. Trollope, or N. P. Willis, but hitherto hopelessly,
unless a reference, in the late work of Rich on Koordistan, to

the site of the ancient Babel, has an implicit allusion to the
confusion of tongues characteristic of the Student's Den. And

we have equally mourned to see the many strangers who enter

its precincts, attracted by our unique Museum, our magnificent
Library, and our choice collection of pictures, pass by the ' open

Sesame' door of our Reading-Room, except at rare times when
some illustrious stranger, with one of our august Professors for

a cicerone, thrusts his hand inside the door (thereby exhibiting
men and manners), and listening for a while to the 'sounds
within like music flowing,' draws it back, and marches off to

some more noble Academic Lion.

   "To prevent a continuance of this mournful inattention to
one of our most noble institutions, we now crave our reader's

attention to the short notice our limits permit us to give of it.
   " After the first hum of many voices has become familiarized

to an entrant into the Consulting-Room, he begins, like a tea
dealer or a pearl-fisher, to arrange the busy crew into three sorts
--good, bad, and indifferent; which, of course, he afterwards
subdivides into various genera, species, and varieties. We shall
rather treat the subject in a popular way than in a strictly dia
126  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. III.

lectic one, being unwilling to trench on the business of the

Logic chair.
   " We set out with the fundamental law, that the farther in you

go, the more quietness, thought, and study you find. There is one
square table at the door, with magnificent mahogany chairs, in
the same style of costly decoration as the rest of the gorgeous

apartment, where, to the best of our knowledge, a new idea was
never picked up, it being the rendezvous of a set of raffs, who loll
on the chairs, lay their accoutrements on the table, and bravely

bid defiance to the demon of ennui. At the other end of the
room a different set are seen. We generally find, about the

second divan, some two of Forbes' crack students, unravelling
the mysteries of the last week's problem, now with head bent
over, tracing the course of their mathematical hieroglyphics, and
anon, when some debatable point arises, talking with a loud

ness and energy sufficient to square the circle, though it were as
large as Ducrow's amphitheatre. A little farther on sit arm -in
arm, most lovingly, their debate being over, two neophyte Aris-

totles, fresh from the logic class, diving deep into the subtleties
of innate ideas, concepts, con-elates, and the like -- these, we

need scarcely say, are disciples of the Academic school : the

philosophers of the Porch, a much larger body, will be found

clustered round the College gates, studying human nature on the

great scale ; and the Peripatetics, by far the most numerous
body, oscillate between the North Bridge and Princes Street,
unless the weather be wet, when they join their rivals of the
porch, or, along with them, mingle with the Academics ; the

Epicureans, an equally large body, are spread over the many tem
ples of their order situated in the neighbourhood, among which

 we may particularize one, having marked on its walls the mystic

words doull, Sinclair, and white, which, according to the learned

 Greek Professor, indicate the names of the ministering hiero-
phants within ; the Stoics in our University a distinct branch

from the disciples of the porch, a mere handful, will be found in

 an adjoining edifice, sacred to their order, eating hard biscuits
 and drinking water. But to return : we can only indicate the

 more prominent characters of the room, and we draw attention

 to a species, individuals of which are to be found at every table.
1SX-33.  ACQUAINTANCE WITH EDWARD FORBES.  127

They are known by their care-worn, anxious looks, and by
having a huge folio of anatomical plates before them, and a

Dublin Dissector lying hard by. You peep over their shoulders,

and find them tracing the course of the vidian nerve, the rela
tions of the external carotid, or the like ; and you know that
before the eye of each floats, like the Mirage of the desert, a
japanned tin-case, which, when attempted to be grasped, fades
like Macbeth's visionary dagger into viewless air. Reader !
these unhappy mortals are aspirants to the name and honours

of Surgeon. You will join us in wishing them a chirurgical
exit from the inquisition in Nicolson Square.

    " We pass over the stray Divinity students, who have wan
dered from their own library ; the Law students, digesting
Digests of Scotch Law ; the students of Humanity murdering
Latin, et hoc genus omne, to notice a strange crew, whose occupa
tion we could never divine, or the exact object of their frequent
ing College. We think naturalists would style them the aber- '
rant types of the genus Student. We observe them stalk up to
the librarian, and ask the ' Small ' favour of some huge Greek or
Hebrew tome, over which they bend for hours together. From
the want of ' Attic salt ' in their conversation, as well as from

direct proofs, we believe that the object of their studies is to
restore to its ancient glory the forgotten Doric dialect.

                                                                                         " B. I."

   It may have been shrewdly surmised by our readers that

Doull's temple was a pastry-cook's shop ; and as the name of the
college librarian is Small, we can understand what a huge book
had to do with the smallness of the favour. So fully did the
preceding communication " meet the approbation " of the Edi
tor, that it induced him to seek the personal acquaintance of

B. L Those two genial spirits found in each other many points

 of sympathy, and the friendship then formed soon ripened into
 true regard and affection, which only terminated with life.

    The second contribution of B. I. was not inserted ; its quiet
 satire was abundantly appreciated, but it did not seem to the
 wise editor prudent to turn the peculiarities of the College
 Museum into ridicule, and thus offend the Professor of Natural
128  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.               CHAP. III.

History. Seeing it can injure none now, and may amuse many,
there seems no reason why it should not appear in our pages.

   " It is now nearly four years since the courts of the Univer

sity rang with a debate which for a long time engrossed public

attention. There was as yet no Maga, and the world was not

enlightened by the wisdom of the disputants. It is not our

     a
              it,
                           a
intention to do more than merely allude to as fitting intro

duction to the subject under consideration.
   " Among the literary students arose question concerning the

proper pronunciation and etymology of the word generally

spelled and pronounced museum. After much wrangling and

turbulent debate, the disputants divided into three sects, to one

of which each student interested in the progress and result of

the discussion joined himself.
    " The first party, or disciples of the old school, advocated the

common or vulgar pronunciation already referred to, declaring

that the word in question was derived from the Latin musa, since

the first cabinets were dedicated to the Muses.
    " The second sect, the disciples of the middle school, reversed

the sound of the word, and named as  were written muz-
     aa
zeum, scoffed at the invocation of etymology as fitted to deter
         it
mine the point, and rested the truth of their doctrines on some
                    ;
new laws of euphony, deciphered from one of the manuscripts
               if
found in Pompeii.   it
   " The views of the third party (which included all the stars
                                a
about college) supplanted in the minds of all men of calm and
                              it
sober intellect the opinions already considered. They declaredis

the right pronunciation to be museum, contending that the word

was derived from the Latin mus, mouse, since, though cabinets

may come to contain elephants, camelopards, and even mam
moths in the course of years, yet must they all have begun by

enshrining the stuffed skin of mouse. True  that the

illustrious Pillans, seconded by the learned Scholtenbruner, held

it  to be against all classical precedent to derive word from the

nominative and not from the genitive but as the pages of the

Maga are as open to them as to us, and there being no claim on

us to record their reasons and arguments, we unconditionally
advocate the common -sense view of the question.
1837 3S.  CANVAS- LIPPED ELEPHANT.

     " Let us now enter the Museum, and in this paper we shall

confine our attention to the lower room containing the larger
animals. We are not about, showman-like, to say, on the right

you will behold this, and on the left that ; but, taking the great
Cuvier as our exemplar, we are about, as he did, to open up a
new field of fossil zoology not less striking than that which the
illustrious Frenchman caned out.of the gypsum beds at Paris.

    " We had not paid more than two visits to the Museum before

we began to peer narrowly into the characteristics of the assem

bled animals, and for the sake of simplicity we took the larger
quadrupeds first; and, singularly enough, we have discovered

two extinct species, which we proceed to indicate to our readers.
    " On your left hand as you enter the room stands the effigy of

a huge elephant, at first sight not apparently much different
from other stuffed elephants. To be sure, it has a resplendent
coat of blacking, which all of them have not ; but we daresay
Day and Martin, or, failing them, Warren, could nigrify any

others as well ; otherwise, this animal, to the vulgar eye, pre
sents nothing remarkable. Great discoveries, in truth, are only
made by those who, as Professor Whewell remarks in his late
work on the inductive sciences, possess ' exact facts and clear
ideas.' Being favoured with a very acute perception of both

these desiderata, we carefully scrutinized the wondrous quad
ruped ' from the tip of the nose to the insertion of the tail ; '

and as our eye wandered over the huge mass, we were struck
with something singular about the lower lip. We had traced
the wrinkled skin from the bosom upwards in unbroken texture,

when suddenly we were startled by a strange line of demarca

tion which ushered us into a new territory. On approaching

nearer, it seemed marvellously like a piece of interpolated

canvas, and a closer inspection convinced us that the pointed
characteristic lip was neither more nor less than a piece of cloth

painted black without and red within. It was not without great
caution and many doubts that we adopted this opinion. We had
read of ' canvas-backed ducks' (see Stewart's 'America'), but of
canvas-lipped elephants, never ; and as a diligent inquiry soon
satisfied us that not only did no living specimen exist, but that

no dead one adorned the walls of another museum, we gazed on

                                                    I
130  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                        CHAP. III.

this relic of a former age, this strange extinct genus, and thought
of ourselves its discoverers ; like Franklin, we heaved a deep

sigh, and declared us immortal. To this genus we have given

the name of ' Elephas linteolabiatus,' or canvas-lipped elephant.
   " Stimulated by our discovery, we made a ' labial' journey

round the room, but no other canvas trophy rewarded our la

bour ; but whilst stooping to examine the mouth of the rhino
ceros, we were startled by something rough in the cavity. We

gazed within the mighty jaws expecting to behold a white and

polished skull, when a large, shapeless mass, much resembling
a block of fir- wood, attracted our attention. Here was an un-

described characteristic ; the replacement of bony matter by

ligneous fibre struck us as a physiological phenomenon hitherto

unnoticed ; and we need scarcely say that this led to the con

clusion that we had here a solitary specimen of another extinct

genus. Till the learned Professor of Materia Medica publish

his analysis of this curious mass, we shall only say that we

have satisfied ourselves that it contains a large proportion of

lignine mixed with that variety of gelatine called glue. We

purpose therefore to term this genus ' Rhinocero xylocephalus,'

or wooden -headed rhinoceros. But we may remark that it is not

our intention to depart from the current fashion of naming new

genera after distinguished individuals ; we shall only make the

trivial difference of naming the individual after the genus, and

not the genus after the individual. We are aware that many

illustrious men have begged the title of the latter animal, but

we gladly take this opportunity of showing that forgiving spirit

towards the' hero of a late memorable engagement inculcated on

us by our eminent counsel ; instead therefore of naming it

' Rhinoceros xylocephalus,' we shall entitle it ' Rhinoceros For-

restianus,' or, for brevity's sake, 'Frostianus.'"1

In a letter of March 1st, the last notice of the memorable
Isnow- battle occurs :---" suppose you got a paper containing a
Ireport of the ' students' trial'
                                   shall say nothing more of it

in this epistle, but in an early one will refresh you with some of

the amusing pleasantries of our witty counsel [Lord Robertson].

   1 The reference is to a well-known civic dignitary, who had made himself very
unpopular with the students durinj tl.e snow-ball riots.
1837 38.  ILLNESS OF A COUSIN.                                            131

The students' expenses amounted to two hundred pounds, and         7,
we are all subscribing.
                                                                     it,
    " Catherine is much the same ; for some days back she was
better, i.e., in her feelings, for the real state of the case never
altered ; but she is again not so well. She is in that state of
mind which theorists might deny, as impossible, but which all

who have felt keenly or have thought much, can enter into and
sympathize with ; she is entertaining the incompatible feelings
accompanying a looking forward to another world and yet a
lingering interest in a present. That the latter should remain
is no cause of wonder, specially in her disease." What this

disease was, with its clinging to life, the reader will easily sur

mise. Catherine was the second oldest of the cousins, and was

loved as a sister. Her illness was of long continuance, as will
be seen from references in future letters. Truly the clouds re

turned after the rain in this household, and the stern monitor,

affliction, seemed commissioned to take up her abode in and

teach, for many years to come, lessons hard to be learned.
   The enthusiasm with which work in chemistry was prose

cuted strikingly shown in some letters of which specimens

are now given.
I aa
             is                             " February 1838.
                                    a

                          is I
                                   II

                                         I
" My dear Daniel, -- am quite ashamed to take up so small

bit of paper to begin writing to you.       have no foolscap, and

long sheet appals me. In truth, should not have written to

you at all (for my time very much occupied at present), had
  not been told of gentleman going to London, who will take

the accompanying drawings, which have had lying beside me
waiting an opportunity. You will recognise them as sketches of

the leopard's skull, and they were done for practice' sake by

your quondam protegtf, young Macdonald. As soon as saw
                                                        I

them, and called to remembrance your fondness for that osteo-

logical ornament of our mantelpiece, thought the drawings
I
                                 I
would please you.                                                  Your
    " am very glad to learn your comfortable progress.

persevering undauntedness, spite of frozen water, etc., was to

me quite refreshing and invigorating.
132  MEM01K OF GEORGE WILSON.                                       CHAP. III.

   " Be it known to you, most worshipful brother, that in the
course of some speculations on crystallography, which sprang

I Iout of my abortive essay to bring to the test some views, which,

could but realize, would be the making of me, thought of
trying to make a chemical compound, whose existence hitherto

Ihas been only guessed at -- a compound of iodine and sulphur.

Searching in Dr. Christison's, fell upon a glass ball, a most
necessary piece of apparatus, and cut and bent a piece of glass
tube for myself, and fished out a small glass bottle, my object
being to pass the vapour of iodine over melted sulphur, thus :

I suppose a drawing will please you most, so there's for you.

IWell, only waited for an opportunity, which soon presented

itself in the illness of Dr. Christison, which kept him at home

on Saturday. Secure from interruption (though remember Dr.

IChristison would let me experiment before him, but hate to
Ihave any one near me, and work best alone), set up my appa

ratus, as you see it above, and worked from ten till two in a

lower room without a fire. On first removing the vessel there

Iafter, was stopped by an explosion from the stoppage of my

tubes. There seemed nothing but a concrete mass, and, with a
I Iheavy, deep-drawn sigh, I said, ' Then there's no compound such

as expected V when, turning the vessel, saw a little portion
Iof rich red fluid -- all was right.
                                      carefully set aside the in

valuable liquid, and succeeded by a few hastily contrived ex

periments in showing that it possessed curious properties. The

next point was to make a large quantity, to purify and exa
                                      1

                                                               it,
mine its chemical relations. Away went to the glassblower,
1837-3a             ENTHUSIASM FOR CHEMISTRY.                                              133

and got a piece of apparatus with tubes of longer diameter, and,
on King Charles the First's martyrdom day, tried the process

Ion the larger scale ; but though worked from ten till four in

the same cold room (obliged to dip my hands now and then into

hot water kept boiling over a gas-light, or 1 should have

I I' starved'), not a single drop of the liquid did get. Then re

Isolved to reverse the process, and pass the sulphur over the
iodine. The thought struck me about nine o'clock.                                          imme

Idiately got three test-tubes, one without a bottom, and tried it.

   made a very little this way, and

Icleared out my large apparatus,

which with much difficulty did,

and, sitting down next day to bore

a cork forI         forgot was in my
              a        it it
pocket, and crushediIt,       to pieces.

No time was to be lost, so fished out an old funnel, and
                              I
                              rigged up thus but only got the
                                  a it        I;
                                       it         II
                       smallest quantity. Then thought of

                       a      different plan, and bought from Mr.

                       Duncan compound of iodine and lead,                                 a

                       and tried --equally unsuccessful;
                       compound of iodine and potassium --

no better. Then thought of getting new arrangement of
                    I                      a

apparatus, where both should

meet in     state of vapour.

Whilst getting the corks ready

for this, bethought of trying

with different proportions of

iodine and sulphur fused to

gether.    Some dim indications appeared with glass tube, so
   fused  some in tobacco-pipe bowl, and noticing ruddy va

                                           pours, held glass jar over,
I

                                 a

                                        I

                                                                                       aa

                                and was delighted to see some

                                of the fluid condensed. All

                                doubt was at an end, and, this

                                day, discarding all glass para

phernalia and other fooleries, have made half bottleful in
                              I

                                                                  a

three quarters of an hour, with an old and well-known black
134            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  chap. nt.

Iink-bottle, and a curved glass tube. In my next epistle,
Ihope to tell you more about this ; meanwhile am very glad,

with all my disappointments and labours, to have met with

some success. Enough of chemistry."
                                                                             " March 1st.

  I" am glad you were pleased with the chemical dissertations.
II shall give you more of them, for give you all credit for sym
Ipathy, but cannot add very much definite as to results. The
Icompound have got is a very curious one, and throws very

Igreat light on the constitution of a supposed element, bromine,

which am at present trying to decompose. Mr. K. Kemp is

much interested in the inquiry, but I dare say nothing yet as

to the results, for they may be very tedious, and complicated

I Iprocesses must be gone through before any conclusion can be
safely drawn.  have to regret that must almost entirely re -

linquish chemistry for the next two months, to study for exami

nations, and revel in the delights of anatomy and practice of

physic. You must not contrast your situation and mine as you
do--years of labour, and months rich in discoveries. Remem-

ber that you have fairly begun, have got all the machinery set

in play, which can ' lead on to fortune.' You are engaged in

Ipurely professional labours, and the result is very much in your

own hands. Now, have not even entered on the threshold
I Iof my profession.
               am obliged to study what abhor, and
Icannot get pursuing the branches that I wish ; and even if
Icould, would not, my dear brother, make discoveries so very

plentifully as you think they may be made, and, like yourself,

II must imperiously mind the main chance, and alchemist or

no, study the art of gold-making. Don't think am proving
myself to be miserable--not at all; I'm content and willing

to wait and hope the best, but the future is very dim and

doubtful
I" read, with very great pleasure and sympathy, of your
Ikneeling at the altar of St. Paul's.
                                       cannot understand the

religion which mingles not with every act and feeling, or con

ceive of those who dismiss God with the morning and evening

prayer, as too pure or holy for the affairs of this busy world.

The busy world may perhaps be the scene of many actions
1837 38.          THE DESIRE OF HIS HEART.            135

where God could not be invoked as the spectator or disposer of

what was just or good, but ' an undevout anatomist,' Dr.
Fletcher says, 'is a maniac;' and while perhaps the chemist

has less powerfully than the anatomist the incitements to de

votion, yet must he study his subject in a wrong way if he find
Ithem not.
            have no altar to kneel at but my own bedside,
I Iwhere
          have often prayed to God for you ; but there have

prayed for success in my endeavours, and there, should God

grant me the honour of going deeper into His laws than others,
II would pour forth my sincere thanks and gratitude.
                                                      found
a strange verse in reading over the Psalms. I have not now time
to look for the exact place, but it was to this effect, that he who

obeys God ' shall have the desire of his own heart.' Do look
Iat the passage.
                  think it is in the early Psalms ; but of course

to love God should be the primary feeling, though the secondary

' desire' will in our minds too often supplant it. . . .

  " You say the folks ask if I'm coming to town. I think you

might have told me whether it was ladies or no. As to my

reaching London, you know, Dan, nothing would give me more

Ipleasure ; and to spend a winter there would greatly delight

me, and I'm sure could turn it to very great professional

Ibenefit. Dr. Christison and Mr. Kemp would give me letters

to Professor Graham, and would perhaps get introduced to

IFaraday ; also there are classes there that cannot attend here,
I Iand won't state any hypothetical objections, but do not en
I Itertain a hope of being there. Had gained that Essay, should
Ihave come up in autumn to spend the winter with you ; but
Idid not, and ceased to look forward to the realization of my
Ihopes. Further, and let this be your consolation, would not
Ilike to leave Mary at present. Meanwhile, shall be very busy

preparing for my first physician's examination in May. I, in

the midst of much haziness from dull weather, remain your

very affectionate brother,                  George."

                                                                                                 ·' March 20, 1838.it,

  I"I am breaking my promise in taking up a sheet of long

paper, though that is but half-stating my crime, for sent out
expressly for that you might have no cause of complaint con
136                      MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                 CHAP. III.

Icerning littleness of letter, and so thought old John1 and his
Iconcerns worthy of a long sheet.
                                        do also think certain

Iyoungsters, who have lately sojourned with us, equally worthy
                                        called Foolscap. This
     aI
                      I

                                              it,

                                                                                a

                                                          iIs,
of what is so justly, as feel

believe, positively the last long sheet you will get for some

time, as have put on my wisdom- cap and taken to osteology

and its delights again.                 shall send you parcel soon, and

perhaps few lines, but Mary must be your correspondent till
my examinations are over. You will remember my delightful

leisure when preparing for Surgeons' Hall, and excuse silence.!
Well away ye bones Have you seen any strangers floating?
in your tea -- yes or no Well, whether or no, here they have
     ;
                      ?

come-- the two daughters of an excellent old gentleman you

have heard me speak of, one Hugh Mackay of Glasgow. They

have spent whole week with us, and now, after slowly becom -
     a

ing reconciled to the dulness which has succeeded the pleasur

able feelings their presence awakened,          sit down (or being
                                        I

                                                                                       ;
already seated, remain sitting) in some degree to call back the

...pleasure by recounting               to one who will believe all said, and

think too little.                        get on hazily with this letter but
     I it
                    I I it
now that have got clear of what does not belong to myself,
I'll perhaps amend.
                                        suppose, like me, you find any little

incident regarding folks or things you know about, amusing and

pleasant, as disturbing the monotony of your thoughts. When

can get speculating on chemistry, don't care for these things
I                                       aI I                                              ;
               I                             I
but now when dare not speculate, as would soon leave my

studies to chase atoms and the like, am very glad of any foolery

to amuse me. Well, here follow few of the last incidents for

your benefit One night, at my only visiting place, chanced
iIf                                                               it
   I

          I
                                  :

                            a
                                   it,
that asked the young ladies to sing The last links are'

broken.' They sang but declared that, although wearied of

the words, they loved the tune, and would sing to new words
                                                              it

     would write them. Accordingly they sent me the original

words, and fell to, setting James at the same time to the task.

We both wrote couple of verses. James took, as suggested,
                                                              ;

                                                                  I
                                                                              I
autumn, and wrote very quickly two verses the first halted,

the second was very good, and, failing in the autumnal lines,

                         1  John M'Lure, of whom more again.
1837 3S.    LINES TO BE SUNG.                                      137

took the ' iEolian harp' and soon despatched eight lines, and

Isent both off with a letter. They were most favourably re

ceived, and was down on Saturday night to hear them sung.
James's did not sing well, in spite of the goodness, especially of

the last verse. There was, from his almost complete want of

musical ear, a certain indescribable roughness, which threw a

discord over their singing. Mine own did better ; in truth, they

were declared faultless ; and both B. and R sung them (you

know it is a duet), as they said, with great pleasure. Like
Campbell, I'll squeeze them in here, as they won't take up much
Iroom ; and have a very useless head to-night ; but mind you
Idon't give anybody a copy, for think they are the property and
copyright of the Misses L    ,for whom they were written.
I IOnly, as used formerly, when promised to keep a secret,
I Ito make the reservation that should tell you ; now send you
Ithem, premising that was restricted to two verses, that each

line must have a double rhyme, and that the first rhyme must

be a dissyllable, or equivalent to it. Here, then, the lines are.
' To be said or sung.'

          " The deep tones are dying that haunted mine ear,
             Like the summer wind sighing, when autumn is near ;
             When the fairies are singing along the green lea,
             And bright birds are winging their way o'er the sea.

          " That music revealing awhile to my heart,

             Each heaven-born feeling, too soon to depart,
             But awakes the desire, that so witching a strain
             Should steal from the lyre o'er my senses again.

" I amuse myself in my afternoon ramble in stringing to

Igether different rhymes promised for insertion in ladies' albums,
in somewhat an odd fashion.  have the three somewhat oppo

site subjects of a quizzing Conversation with a Skull, an Ode to

a Soap-Bubble, and a Hymn on Death. They are all begun,

Inone of them ended. Now apostrophize the grinning cranium,
I Inow address the resplendent soap-bell, and again move in

the trappings of woe. My mind is a mobile one, and loves the
Ishifting.
            don't hurry with the execution of these poems, as
I don't care to lose the amusement very speedily.
  I I" will not let slip any opportunity can improve, of writing

to you, spite of anatomy, biology, and all the ologies."
138         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.     CHAP. III.

                                                                   "April 7th, 1838.

I" did not expect to have had the pleasure of writing, except,

I Iperhaps, a few lines at the bottom of some other person's letter,

but studied this last week till gave myself a headache that

drove me from the college to wander away and inhale the spring

breezes.

   " And this day being Saturday, and Sam Brown having come

Iinto town yesternight, shall just take a holiday, hoping the

better on Monday to assail all the recondite and abstruse sub

jects which must be made at present my daily fare.
   " Many and many a choice thought you should have had and

have lost, because, not having an amanuensis, they were all given

to the winds and lost for ever ; now and then only did an idea

seem deserving enough of treasuring up, to be thought of a

second time, and commissioned southwards. There was, for

instance, a declaration of Professor Jameson, that leather, espe

Icially that from the sow's back, was of great use to ' saddlers,

trunkmakers, and other artists' which thought could not fail

to give you a pleasing idea of the category to which your fellow -

worker and friend belonged.
   " Owen has been here with his wild vagaries of a new moral

world, and his living in parallelograms of harmony. D. is

smitten ; came to me telling that he had had very few antipa
thies before, but he had none now and explaining to me how

foolish and absurd it was of me to be angry, seeing the object of

my anger was possessed of the character he had because society

Ihad made him so, and a great deal more in that strain. He left
me Owen's book, desiring me to read it.  tried a page or two,

and found it as you may imagine, just such a tissue of nonsense

as Whitelaw, the vapour-bath man, wrote in his Buttercup

theories of disease. You had just to change the subject-matter,
Iand the mode of reasoning would have served either.
                                                      ex
Ipounded a page to him, forcing his assent to the proposition ;

built upon  it, it,

                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                  a

                                                          I
            by obliging him to confess that he could not

understand and he of course replied, in his own characteristic

way, that Moses and David and Job did not know of future

world, and sundry other equally cogent arguments and when

proceeded to prove to him that Job and his friends did, he
1857-38.          UNWELCOME STUDIES.  139

departed, declaring at least that Solomon did not, and so it is
with him the bubble of the hour, to live till a bigger and brighter

spring.

  " I made a vain attempt on Saturday to write more than the
Ipreceding page ; so here on Monday night, am again doing my

best to write you a few lines, though in such a state of ferment

Ias to be unable to write anything very worth reading. In truth,

occupied, as am at present, all hours of the day except one
(and meal hours), it is not very easy to shift the thoughts from
the multitudinous technicalities of manifold sciences, and at
once fall into the pleasing vein that fraternal love demands,- -

the more so that each hour given, even to the worthiest pur

pose, awakens only the feeling that rejection may be the result,

and calls up the thousand ugly yet relentless phantoms that wait
but for one moment of remorseful leisure, to rush in and over

Iwhelm the unfortunate medico. It is not that, in an hour of

leisure, cannot turn over a merry thought, and get the good of
   for am never merrier than in the sweet hour that succeeds

fagging but never reading anything but dry matters of medical
sciences, all the fresh and juicy ideas of my brain are sucked
it,

   I

               ;

out and expended on my own needful self, and no overplusa
remains to send to friend for his help. But you must remema

ber my former willingness to write to you, and anticipate the

renewal which emancipation will assuredly bring, and in the
hope of this, suffer me for while to drink in at my studies,

and afterwards you shall receive the outflow thence welling.
   " have, in spite of the narrowness of my bonds, read one
I

interesting work, of which you have probably already heard from

Macmillan, Isaac Taylor's new book on Home Education. It
                                      I
certainly an extremely interesting and very beautiful book, onis

which this opinion, which you and have often passed on others
                  ;

                                is

                             IaI
of his works, may be held, that, without putting faith in all his

statements and views, there         very great deal curious, novel,

ingenious, and true and few, whatever their age be, can fail to

derive very great good from it.     at least have, and am sure

you will. We are both of us past the age when the Home Edu

cation he proposes should be put in force, but we are not past the

age when the hints intended for an earlier period may be prac
140                   MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.           CHAP. III.

tically useful to a riper age ; and Samuel Brown and I, waiving
the application to ourselves, justified our perusal, by declaring
we both proposed to be educators, meaning public teachers of

Iscience, --but suspect Samuel might have an inward reserva

tion of a looking forward to have a charge of Home Education

Iin its most natural and most simple sense ; have none, but

Iyou may.it,

   " descend to no particulars on the system till you haveit, I

read but should enjoy very, very much long talk with

you over its benefits and the like, as we used to have in our
evening walks. And this leads me to remark, that grieve
say cannot encourage the hope of seeing you in London this

summer or autumn, and that trust you will not either form
                                                a

                                                     I

                                                                               to

I

                            I
                                I
high hopes, or, above all, deny yourself the visitation of inter
esting things about London with the affectionate intention

waiting for me, for really, Daniel, know not when shall get

up. As soon as pass my examination, which will be some

time in May, shall have to begin German, to re- study French,
                                                         I
                                                                              of

             I
                I

to attend    the Infirmary, to attend (most   horrible)  the Dispen
             necessary studies and duties.    Further,      shall have
sary, --as                                             I

                                                            I

                                                                      I
to write my Thesis,1 which cannot put off till winter, seeing
                            I

shall have abundance then to do in preparing for my second

examination, with all its delights of midwifery, surgery, practice

of physic, pathology, etc., etc., so that fear, even could other
                                 a
wise reach London, should commit an error in going, which you1
             I

                       I
would be the first to mourn. shall likely go out to Haddington
as soon as pass, but that will be thoroughly practical journey,
                          I
                              I                  a

                                                                       ;

                                                               if
                                                                      I in
to have the benefit of Sam Brown's laboratory and assistance

carrying on my series of experiments in bromine, on which, my

researches are successful,  shall early publish          paper and

shall have very extended series of experiments to perform
             is a
there, at home, and at Dr. Christison's on the subject of my

Thesis for my only hope, and     it    a      feeble one, of getting on
a                                    is

          ;
as chemist to succeed in some projects which shall convince

unwilling friends that have some chance of success in such pro
                      I                                                       a

fession, and this must do before pass as physician, for thatII
consummated, must at once begin for myself in some capacity.
             I

     '       The inaugural dissertation required from graduates of medicine.
JS37-38.              OBSTACLES BOLDLY MET.               141

" I shall betake myself to the study of practice of physic this

summer and next winter, and fit myself for practice when
II am set afloat on the world, should such an alternative be my
only resort ; but what have ever felt   is,I
                                                             a aI
                                             that even although
had no liking for chemistry, should be most miserable as
               I

                          is

                               I
                                     I
practitioner, for am neither intellectually fitted for discerning
the nice shades of disease, in observing and detecting which

physician's sagacity      shown, nor am      morally formed to

grapple with the tremendous moral responsibility that in my

eyes hangs over my profession, and am physically unequal and

averse to the eternal trot of going rounds and thus feel, that
     should practise, all labour at other things hopeless. But
a iIf                                    ;

     it a                                  I
           is
                                                 is

                                                   I
                                                      I

                                                               I
of course none of these are reasons for my staying to burden my

father, or making greater claims on his house and purse, and

have too much pride and independence to be beholden to others

for livelihood, when may make one for myself.    wrote
Uncle A        a ,I
               at mother's request, to tell him about Catherine,a
                         a' I
and as he has always been very kind to me, mentioned cau
                            I
tiously my wishes regarding chemistry. He writes me back (in
  very kind, however, and affectionate letter, in which he asks

for you particularly), Respecting chemistry, you may find
                                            I'

                                                  is,

                                                      I
                                                                I it
more pleasing than profitable,' and regarding the future hopes

held out of becoming lecturer, he says,      entertain the idea

that but poor profession.' The letter let me however

say, written in very kindly spirit, and he adds that am better

qualified than he to judge, and begs me to write him soon.

You see what must expect, and that every moment between

this and my final passing must turn to the best account.
                                         I

                                               ;

                                                I
                                                                                    ;
                                                              I
write this neither with morbid feelings towards my profession,

or towards those who do not see things as (and you) do they
shall only stimulate me to redoubled energy and shall neither

mourn nor repine, for have high hopes, and not unprofitable
               I

                    if

                       I
speculations, and God grant me health and leisure, my most
urgent needs, shall not despair. All this write as my apo
                                             II
logy for giving up the hope of seeing you.       am sure you will

agree, and we shall meet the sooner and the more honourably
to ourselves, when all the sorrows are past. Don't write, unless

your health permits."
142                MEMOIR OF GEORUK WILSON.         CHAP. in.

                                                        " Laboratory, May 4, Friday.

  /" My examinations are over, and am half a physician, and

Iso, five hours after birth, am writing you the good news,

knowing it will interest you. We receive our summons a week

before, from a kindly wish to give us time to look over our sub
Ijects.
         luckily got hold of mine at the College, so they had no
I Iidea at home that was going up. shall not trouble you with
Ia recital of the toils and troubles through which
                                                    passed ;
Isuffice it to say that began yesterday at ten o'clock, and
studied straight on without stopping till three o'clock this
Imorning, so am rather wearied now, which is my only excuse
Iif this letter be dull and uninteresting.
                                                    might amuse by re
Iciting the contrivance fell upon to keep myself awake last
Inight.
         was in the finest studying trim all day, and dreading
I Ishould become sleepy at night, pilfered a portion of tea,
Ikept a slice of toast, a little cream and butter, which hid

Ibehind a rampart of books, and having commissioned Margaret
[a servant] to leave the tea-kettle where put       iIt,made myself
                                                            I
cup of tea, and got on excellently; the object of all this        aI
a

  I
                                      .
                                           .

                               I
                                   I
secrecy being to conceal my intention of going up for examina

tion to-day. .
    " shall not attempt to run over the peculiarities of each

letter you have sent me since was chained to the oar, but

shall only say they were great treats.              took them with me out

in my afternoon walk to the Dean Bridge, and read them with

much comfort and inward refreshment, and to the last of them

shall somewhat more minutely bind my attention and exchange
  few thoughts, as many of the subjects you touch upon are in -
a

  I
                                                 ;
                        if
                      I
                            II
teresting to both of us, and excellently fitted for the easy freedom
of letters. Don't you fear that will take into consideration the

getting to London  possible, shall come, for nothing could

be more delightful, and could study excellently beside you,

but cannot say anything yet very definite, although shall

write you more explicitly afterwards. . . . Albums are the most

flattering and comfortable records of poetry for folks like you

and me one         sure to please, and should never think of
     ;

           a

                is

                                I
writing songs did not the wish to please, or promise to fill
page, form stimulus. Now for the story of the soap-bubble,
1837-38.              TO A SOAP-BUBBLE.                                                                                  143

which is certainly, as the sternest mathematician would allow, a

trifle light as air.
I" Miss
             reproached me for not writing in her album.
Itold her never wrote without being asked, but would will
ingly if she wished. On receiving
verses -- :                                             inserted the following
                                   aaa

                                             a
                                                       is
                                                                              a

                                         ; it,I

                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                      ;
                                  "TO A SOAP-BUBBLE.
          " Bright little world of my own creating,

                Blown with breath of the viewless air,

          Thy fragile form in circles dilating
             Seems destined each hue of the rainbow to wear

          The amethyst's purple given to thee,
             And the ruby has lent thee its own ruddy hue,

          And the emerald's green, like the sparkling sea,
             Mingles its tints with the sapphire's blue.

          Thou art sun, rich in thy brightness
          Thou art moon, silvered with whiteness
          Thou art planet, begirt with glow
          Of colours enamelled above and below,

          As only the pencil of light can bestow.

          " Who knoweth now but that each starry sphere

                That silently floats in the heavens on high,
            Was once gay bubble, pellucid and clear,
             it a

                                       a
                                                                                    ?
           Before was given place in the sky,

             And blown by the lips of some young angel, trying,--
                While his close feather'd wings were yet tiny and frail, --

             By other bright things, and their fashion of flying,
                To learn on his own gilded pinions to sail

             For thus one by one the planets were blown,

             And the bright milky way with starry gems sown.
             In the ether above no storms ever blow
             To crush their frail forms, or toss to and fro

          Those delicate worlds,-- so round in their orbits they ever shall go."

                                                                             " May 28, 1838.

" It now a long time, nearly month, since wrote you,
a                     I
                            Ia
       I is                               I
and without the excuse of busy study to plead for silence. Not

line has reached you from me since wrote immediately after

passing.   told you then that purposed going to Haddington,

on Samuel Brown's invitation. At the time, however, which

suited me best, some friends came out to see the family, and                                                             it

would not have been convenient to receive me, so was left
                                                        I
                                                                  I
disappointed in the very beginning of the flitting [AnglicZ,
removal]. You will not wonder that hesitated little to
accompany Mr. Mackay to Glasgow, in which place, and the
144           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. III.

Iadjoining towns and the like, have spent more than two weeks,

having returned to town on Friday evening from Lanark, which

I made the goal of my journey."

   The day after he writes to Miss Mackay : --
   " You will not doubt my sincerity, or think the less of me for

a it,  when say am very glad to be at home again.  am such
       III I  ;I                        ;I
     slave to habits, and so easily set wrong in bodily frame, andII

therefore so unequal in spirits, that the change of mode of living,;I

and the like, however slight, which attend moving about, soon
discomfort me and with much greater wish to be merry,

thoughtless, and at ease, than among the grave studies of home,

   am always less so and would rather have my friends comeI

and see me, than go to see them. In all this, talk of the
part play, not of that of my kind entertainers so you are to
regard this in the light of an apology for any dulness, stupidity,
crossness, or the like, which appeared in me. Since came

home, have got several new ideas, especially in geology, which

I  am studying, and have devised many foolish poems, quibbles,

and much such nonsense, which of course evaporates away,a
leaving, hope, clear full-bodied liquor, as the brewers say,a

all the better, like porter, of losing the barm. My visit to

Glasgow was very pleasant one, and the source of much

pleasure and happiness."

                                     " Gayfield Square, June 18, 1838.

       " My dear Daniel, --Your most acceptable letter to mother

arrived to-day, and the reading of the last line has set me to

writing you. Think not that have suddenly had my discern
       iIf
ment of logic so powerfully increased, as to make the question
          I

              ; II
                    I

                         I
                                I
of whose letter was last, decide my periods of correspondence
                                                   I
even   had, should be guilty, for your letter recognised both    ;

of mine, and was inexcusable. My only excuse for not writ
ing you, has been the apparently paradoxical one --to you, am
sure almost without meaning and weight -- of having too little

to occupy me not that have been idle, for that cannot be,
                                     I
                                          I
but my business has been more of the body than of the mind              ;

more of the feet than the head. As soon as came home from

Glasgow, knew had to begin dispensary duties, and set
18.17 -28.           DISPENSARY PRACTICE.  145

Iabout finding one.  found the New Town one full. The Old

Town Dispensary had the Grassmarket district, which they

Ioffered me ; but felt little inclined to take on me at once the
onerous responsibility of so large a district, in which I knew I

should be little assisted by superior doctors, but left to blunder
my way on through fevers and wounds and distempers. In an

agony of fright, and a delirium of suspense, fearful of committing

evil, and by the very fear unnerving my hands and paralysing
my energies,-- in short, doomed 'to wade through slaughter to'

a knowledge of practice, --and bent on learning the profession of

Ia doctor, articled myself to the Port-Hopetoun Dispensary,
Iwhere, though their list was full, was taken on as a subsidiary ;
Ithe period serve being sufficient to give me claims to a certi
Ificate, so that learn and get over all difficulties at the same

time. The great recommendation, however, is that, instead of

being a principal, I am hooked to my good friend John Niven,
with whom I every day perambulate the delightful purlieus of

the West Port and the neighbourhood, sometimes steering across
the ' bridge that spans' that prince of ditches, the Canal, and at
other times winging our flight to the Grassmarket ; and wind

ing up all by journeying to the West Kirk Charity Workhouse,

where we have charge of all the little urchins' health and wel

Ifare. So you see am a great man in the way of practice, and

not destitute at least of patients, and the means of learning that

branch of medicine.

   " John Niven is an exceedingly clear-headed fellow, the very

opposite of me in perhaps every point and every prejudice ; dif
ferent in the constitution of his mind and body, different in the

education he has got, and very different in his views of all sorts

of matters. But he is an excellent fellow, gifted by nature with
that estimable but unacquirable qualification, ' a physician's

sagacity,' which, like the ability to be a poet, of which Montgo
mery speaks, and which you may think far too noble a thing to
be placed side by side with the calling of those who ' thrust

their solemn phizzes into every abomination,' is nevertheless

I Iequally the gift, said, of nature and of God ;-- mean that

acute discernment, at a glance, of the state of a patient ; that

perception of the change of a symptom, its aggravation or cessa-

                     K
H6                   MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.    CHAP. m.

tion, which have flashed on the gifted physician and decided his

practice, while the man, like me, of common gifts, is feeling

pulse, and looking at tongue, and touching skin, etc., after the

approved method handed down by Galen and Hippocrates to

their medical posterity. One after all is puzzled to know what

to think or what to do. This sagacity, which has much in it of
a noble instinct, John has largely, and he has cultivated it by a

zealous attendance on hospitals and dispensaries, by a generous

expenditure on books and other means of acquiring knowledge,

and by a hearty enthusiasm in his profession ; further, he is an

exceedingly well-informed person on most matters, and, though

not very speculative, fond of hearing anything odd, and greatly

pleased with a joke ; to all this add great kindness of heart and

action, invariably shown me, and particularly in this present
instance, you will not think me so badly off in my daily walks ;

and let me say we don't always talk of medical things, of which

more hereafter.

  I" trot about every day from ten till two, and most tiresome

it and when come home, am fit for very, very little. Up
is,I     I                       is I I I I

to the present time, however, have taken geology in hand, and
get on with considerable speed, and with very great delight
                                                 is
but have got nothing done at chemistry. There    no room
                                                           ;
for working at home, and cannot work to my heart's pleasure
                                                         a it, ; ;I
in Dr. Christison's.             must have no one overlooking, even
                     I it
kindly so, up to this time, have been miserable from want ofa is, I
      ;

my laboratory, and means to try, by the test of experiments, the

projects of my brain. It the disagreeable mood of mind, at

tendant on this state of things, which has kept me from writing,

though had plenty to say, and have great deal more than
    II                         will hold. To-morrow sees my chemicalaa
this letter, big as

labours begin, as you will learn before you finish this letter

but lest make this mere preface and apology, and because

have been wearying to say let me heartily congratulate you;

on your success.                       it,
                      cannot, as mother did when she read

bring tears to my eyes that becomes kind mother but
kind brother will, with exulting, joyous feelings, wish you
all the comfort and happiness so auspicious an event should

bring, and feel his own soul bettered by the knowledge your
1837 33.  A PALACE OF A LABORATORY.    147

Iletter conveyed.  am proud of you, Daniel, with your high

thoughts and high hopes, and persevering laborious duties, and

unresting application

  I" For the present bid you good-night, and as night brings

sober, chastened, religious feelings and duties, let me only add

the hope (alike for both of us) that earthly things, however

noble, will not shut from our straining eyeballs the higher
things which must swallow up all other feelings, when death

beds and eternities come. God bless and preserve you, my dear

Ibrother, from all evils and snares, and myself too, for have

many. Good-night."

  I"June \9th. -- do not resume with good-morrow, for night
Iis the time with me for writing, and have just fallen to again

to your epistle. Having discoursed of your prospects, occupa

tion, and the like, let me say a word of my own. After the first

Ire-beginning of Dispensary rambles was fairly past, began

seriously to think of some way of getting my chemistry prose
cuted, and it came into my head, as my wisest plan, just to have

Ia room, a garret, or the like, and turn it to good account.

betook myself to requesting the assistance of some old dames to

Iget me one. Chancing to call on Mrs.  to see Samuel

Brown, had to sit a while, and mentioned the wish to that old

lady, who immediately stalked about the Lothian Road, and

Isuch places, in search of a room. Whilst engaged thus, called
--at Leith Street, and mentioned it to Mrs. -- , who at once

offered and gave me her most kind and most useful assistance,

for she sent me over to a pensioner of hers, a widow, who had

rented a room for six months or so, but having lost her daugh

Iter, had gladly taken a place as housekeeper in a family. From

her got the key of the room, which will cost me nothing but a

trifle a week to the old deaf lady who sweeps and sorts it ; and

will be as it is a very palace. It is situate in that strange and

Inot very decent place of Edinburgh, Richmond Court ; but, as

far as have yet seen, it is an excellent little corner, with the
Ibest window in the court.
                            have a goodly sized furnished
room-- a perfect palace of a laboratory ; the window to be sure

does not command a very fine view, but lets in a great stream

of light, that valuable auxiliary to all sorts of researches that
148     MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.     CHAP. III.

Idon't ask the shelter of darkness.  have five arm-chairs, with

flaming yellow covers ; walls adorned with sewed samplers, por

traits of Queen Mary and Richard Cceur de Lion, and which is
a great deal better, a beautiful, unframed, fine engraving of one

of Gerhard Douw's pictures, not to mention an elegant looking-

I Iglass, basin-stand, tumblers, glasses, etc. ; and a press, the key

of which am promised, if don't break the old lady's china.

IIn short, want but one thing, as you will be pleased to mention

to , -- a housekeeper. You would have been greatly amused

at a conversation between Mrs.       , of Argyle Square, and me.
IShe is a kind, simple, affectionate woman ; and at once ad
Idressed her, ' Well, Mrs.
                          , have taken up house for myself.'

' Taken up house, Mr. Wilson ; is it possible ? You are not very

old.' ' No.' ' Have you really left your father's V ' Yes, ma'am,

I have got a house of my own,' said I, adding it was ' in a retired
I Ipart of the town, as we wished privacy ;' and explained had
been visiting it that day, getting the furniture (a few bottles) in.
' Well,' said the good-mannered but wondering lady, ' you'll
                       I' Of course,' said ; ' whom do you re
need a housekeeper.'
Icommend ?' and so on. A great deal of fun got, laughing and
Iblushing for the last foolish thing did, seeing two very nice

pretty young ladies, strangers to me, were listening to all this
                                     , ' I won't be your house
nonsense. ' Well,' says Miss
keeper.' Said I, ' You might have waited till you were asked.
I see there's been somebody here before me ;' and ended by in

viting the ladies to visit me at my private residence. Explana

tions, fun, nonsense, and laughter followed, and all enjoyed the
Ijoke.  told them if they knew any young heiress, wishing
Ito be lady of a house, to send her to me ; would know the

motive, and spare her feelings any questions. The promise was

Imade. Make you a similar one. must close this long yepistle.
I shall write you in a few days, by a bearer whose face you will

be delighted to see."

                                                          "Gayfield Square, July 6, 1838.

  I" In spite of lost time from several causes, and at eleven

o'clock p.m., begin, not on short glazed paper, but on long

foolscap (the foolscap seems to fit me), to write something. I
1*37 -3S.             OUR COURT OF RICHMOND.                                     149

don't know what you could make of my last epistle, so hurriedly,
Iconfusedly, and stupidly written was it ; and so conscious of this
was I, that as soon as wrote                                          it,
                                                                                is

                                                                                I
                                                                                      .I

                                                                                                                    .
                                      it iIt,  sealed                 for fear of being

tempted to look over and put in the fire. Busy as am,I it,

have not been unforgetful, my dear brother, of your interests.
   " This day on which write, Saturday morning, very beau

tiful, great thunder-storm last night having swept away the
       a

darkness and gloom and mist.          I        write away busily to you,

intending, when done, to get my chemical labours on bit, as
                                                                      I
                                                                              a
the thunder-plump of last night was so severe that could not

stir out, and the day before          was almost suffocated with
                               ;

                                 I
chlorine gas, and obliged to come home and recline on some

chairs for couple of hours my headache has scarcely left me
           a
             a
yet, and snuff of the fumes brings back, but would never
                                      it                              a

                                                                          it
do to retreat for that. That's quite enough of letter to be full

of sense   ;I    must now see  I iIf  have no nonsense to fish up for

you, of some kind or other.           get strange visits at my Richmond

Court, from friends, presume, of the previous resident. Yes
                      I
                         I
terday, dumb man knocked at the door, and looked with
           Ia
amazement when opened it.      I      tried to speak on my fingers,

but found had forgotten the dumb alphabet.                                    hailed him,
                                               a

                                                     I
and took pen and paper to write, but he could not read writing                   is ;

however, he whipped out of his pocket bit of chalk, and

snatching up black tray, wrote on with his left hand, back
       I'                      I
                   a
                                        it
wards, Friend of way,' which suppose stood for my friend

away.         saw him in the street, and begged the chalk to write

his friend's address, but he would not give me.
                                               it

                                                       I
   When took possession of my royal apartments,1 saw lying
           I

on the window-sill one of those large buttons which livery-ser

vants wear, with their master's crest on it. The eye being

broken off, doubted not must be button pitched up by
              'I               it
                   a
                                            Ia
                                                                  ?'
some of the players at pitch and toss, this being the season
                                                                              '
accordingly, rap came to my door, and two laddies put their                                ;

heads in Will you gie's our button, Sir Just think of the
           ;

simplicity they never seemed to dream could be ignorant of
              ;

the place where the button lay, nor did they preface their re-

    A book containing notes of experiments made in them, has for title-pagei     Impic
Archives of Labours performed at our Court of Richmond in August 1838.'
150         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.              CHAP. III.

Iquest by any statement that the button was theirs, that it had

accidentally been tossed up there, that would find it on the

sill, etc. etc., but evincing the most perfect confidence in my
Iuniversal knowledge, they at once asked for it.
                                                  thought such

confidence deserved similar treatment, so I, without any unne
cessary remarks, said, ' O yes ;' walked to the window and got

them their button.

  I" What a delightful walk it is round Arthur Seat ! When the

evening is dull, walk through the valley and the Hunter's

IBog; when anyway clear, journey round the Radical Road,

Ifor the sake of the extraordinary view, never two nights alike,
and yet always so beautiful.            wonder some of the painters

don't build themselves a painting-box, as the sportsmen do a

shooting-box, beside the Cat-nick : the whole line of buildings,

the alternation of land and sea, are so fitted to show every

charm which varied atmospherical effects can produce on a
If Iscene.
            had a son who showed any capacity for landscape
I Ipainting, would stick him up, think, on Salisbury Crags, and
disinherit him if he did not beat Turner. The scene is altogether

so wondrous, so changeful in all its bearings, and so soothing to

Ia mind busied with turning over a thousand subtle subjects, that
            I                           and probably as long as go out to

                        it,
shall never weary of                          is I

Richmond Court, shall come home that way.          a
   " lately gathered some forget-me-nots, from the spot where
     I                                              I

you used to pluck them at the foot of the rocks below St An        a

                                                                                     ;
thony's Chapel but was more fortunate than you, for little
           I
               I;
                     I

                                  a
                                     a
boy brought me down drink of St. Anthony's water, which,

though not dry, readily drank, to show him appreciated his

kindness.   lately had visit from your pupil, M'Donald he

seems very diligent and very enthusiastic; and    curious enter

prising promising fellow, though extremely simple in his views.

When he chances to be sent to any house, to look after painting

its walls, or the like, he gets the servants to find out for him

who painted the pictures on the walls, which he takes care to

study.                                  a
   " He tells me there are two unknown or scarcely known pic ,

tures of Sir Joshua Reynolds in house in Edinburgh, repre

senting George III. as introduced to his Queen, and his marriage.
1837 -38.  EUSY FROM 9 A.M. TILL 12 P.M.                  151

One has not been quite finished ; the figures, he says, are stiff,
but the faces very beautifully painted, and said to be all por

traits. In Sir Charles Bell's house, too, he saw some curious

paintings. This certainly is the pursuit of knowledge under
difficulties." . . .

                             To Miss Mackay.

 I " July 21.

" daresay you have thought the old Scotch proverb, ' Out o'

sight out o' mind,' completely verified in your case, seeing my

promise to write a second time has never been fulfilled, and no
I Ireason for silence given.
                        can only say in excuse that if have
Inot written you, it has not been because have been writing
Iothers, for except to Daniel,
                                have written but one letter
I I(No. 2) since left you, and if have thought by chance for a

Ifew minutes of ladies, as ladies, you have had a very large

share of those very rare thoughts. In truth, am at present
from 9 A.M. till 12 p.m. completely occupied ; one half of the day

with Dispensary duties, the other half with chemical and lite
rary labours. It is not, however, the actual occupation of time

that has stopped my pen ; but the mood of mind engendered by

chemical speculations excludes almost wholly other thoughts.

I am devising, suggesting, experimenting, breaking glass vessels,
Iand melting, and fusing, and evaporating ; and when am doing
I Iso, and am thoroughly possessed with the idea, don't care for

anything else.

  I" am no longer able to afford myself the hour's walk at three
Io'clock, which spent in traversing Princes Street, and walking
Iout into the country.
                        never see ladies now, therefore, even

Ion the street, except when hurrying home from Dispensary or

Laboratory, and so am more and more every day losing any

opportunities (few at best) of gratifying the passion for seeing
Ipretty faces ; though now, often hurried as my glimpses are,
I Isee some forms and countenances cannot easily forget.
                                                          saw

the lady that's like you to-day, with her lame and very interest

I Iing looking friend; have seen neither for a long time.
Ilooked on them as friends and felt quite pleased, for had
Ibeen looking in all quarters for them in vain, for some time.
152                      MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.     CHAP. III.

have lately got acquainted with a new face in the street, a very

Iinteresting one ; would give a great deal to know its possessor.
I am sure she has come lately to town ; she is young, florid, with

regular, good-tempered, but dignified features, and something very
I Ipleasing in her appearance.
                             cannot get out of my head that

Ihave seen her before ; at any rate she is very like a particular
friend of mine.          am determined to find out who she anda
                                                          is,
am likely to succeed, for found out lady's name, etc., lately,
     a                              IIa                       I
after three months' search, at the time told you of having met
          I
her at the Exhibition of Pictures.I had, however, seen her

                    I
                         aI
often going to school before, admired her eyes and forehead, and

was tormented about her. However, in spite of these annoyances,

and to the great amazement of my friends, made point of
                                         I

asking at every house was in the practice of visiting, about the

lady, whom described to the best of my ability, from the contour

of her form to the material of her gown. The ladies of the
families where inquired kindly assisted me three families in
                                                   ;

the south side who have very wide circle of acquaintance, lent

me their aid. One gossiping widow, whose room commands one

of the most famous streets for belles in Edinburgh, went over

the inhabitants of every house, commenting on the ages, sizes,

accomplishments, and the like, of all the female intellects, and

opinion was divided between great tobacconist's and jewel
                         I
                                 a
                                          a
                                                            a
                                                                             aa

                                                                                                                              ;
ler's daughter. However, would not believe she was either
and in spite of the assurances of friend, young Secession

student and great beau, that she was the daughter of gentle
I
man in Leith, persevered in my scepticism, and at last learnedI

who she was --but you don't deserve to know, and I'll not tella
you any more. However, I'll immediately set an inquiry afoot
              Ia
about this other lady, who   is    far nicer one than the former.
                                a

     " have goodly set of duties, like those you voluntarily im

pose on yourself, in the visiting of patients, having the famous

or infamous district of the West Port for my share of the town.

see queer sights and queer things, and am amused, and grieved,

and made indignant, and rejoiced, and wearied by turns.

shall be glad, however, when the work over. With visiting
                             is
                                                  is

                                                                                      a

                                                             I
and chemicalizing all day spent, and evening brings recur
rence of either or both duties, while new ones are added. The
1837 3S.  OVERWORK TO BE DREADED.                             153

Ipresent is with me a season of labour, whether or not to purpose

has yet to appear; mention so much to excuse the matter-of-

Ifact tone of this epistle."
   To his brother he says : " have been very much shocked to

hear that Dr. A. B. is dying of consumption. Poor fellow ! he

seemed to be going on so prosperously, and now to be stopped

by that cruel disorder. Daniel, be warned ; remember you are
drawing on your capital of health -- hoping afterwards to refund
it--but remember you have no means of ascertaining the capital

you possess, and may find yourself in irretrievable bankruptcy.

You will say, 'What can I do?' Well, I can say nothing,

only don't let ambition conceal herself under other titles and

mislead you. Both you and I are in perfect health, but we

have nothing above present wellbeing in the least to look to,

Iand fear you are not sufficiently alive to the risks you run in

Iworking so hard. beseech you, for the sake of yourself, and of

every one who has an interest in your welfare, if possible, walk

at least two hours every day, an hour morning and afternoon,

and see that your room is as well ventilated as possible, and as
Ilittle confined as may be --that at least you can do.
                                                        assure
you, the tears come to my eyes when I think of you working at
I Ithat rate, and dread the consequences.
                                           don't consider you
I Ifan invalid ; only fear the results of the life you lead.
                                                              you

have thought my previous remonstrances unnecessary, take a

Ifwarning by poor B., who has suffered from working too hard.

Iin all this have done nothing but awaken useless fears, forgive

the imprudence of a brother's love, who has learned from the

sad records of his family and his patients, that it is more easy

to prevent than to cure.
I" I said did not know when I should be up at London, but
Isince wrote circumstances have occurred to change my inten
I Itions, and think shall be able to spend the month of Octo
I Iber with you.
          don't think can get away sooner ; perhaps I

may, in the end of September. However, meanwhile believe

me, your affectionate loving brother,      George.

  I" P.S.--Now, Daniel, my head 's hazy, or would write more,
Ibut my heart opens up at the idea of seeing you again. have not
154        MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. III.

Ia friend like you, and what a host of things have to tell you,

that could not be written, with divers funny jokes and the like,

which the occasion no doubt will inspire, and as I'll not bring

any of the chemical stuffs, you need have no fear of your nose.

II'll bring Euclid, and get lessons in Mathematics and Algebra.
   have left mother laughing at the idea of studying Mathe

matics with you. She sends kindest love, and requests as the
greatest favour, that you will conceal no difficulty from her.
My head yearns for the pillow, so good-night."

                                           " 1th August 1838.

   " Mother gives me this paper, as ' small paper ;' it looks very

large, however ; nevertheless I'll try what can be done in the

way of filling it.
   " Your letters and their bearer arrived safely, three days

ago, and we have all been feasting on them. The description

of London is exceedingly enticing and amusing, and all the

motives for visiting so goodly a metropolis, weigh well in my

mind to urge a visit ; but my main object in coming will be to

see you and spend a while with you, my dear brother and best
I Ifriend.
     can now speak a little more confidently as to when
Ishall come up.
Ipensary.        am at present the only student in the Dis

           shall have heavy and responsible duties till the end

Iof August, when my time expires.

   " shall hope to spend a part of September and a bit of Octo

ber, perhaps the whole of with you, and surely that would
                 a
satisfy you. Tell me, when you write, very particularly abouta

the arrangements you propose, mention the expenses and thea it,
like, and I'll get all put right in time.
                                           shall haul up with
                                         ;

                                           I

                                                                                   a
me some books, and study beside you however, we'll not say

much about the study.               paper in one of the Journals, on
    " am going to publish
I

new exposition of chemical law, which has been debated all

over Europe, and argued one way and another, without any one

being able to prove which of two opinions was the true one.
   " While engaged in wholly different inquiry, made little
                                           I
                                                    Ia  was
discovery which threw some new light upon the subject.

confined at home two days unwell, and tried an experiment or
1837 3.5.      A TROUBLED NIGHT.                     155

two, which proved my views, and, in short, before the week was

Idone, had proved my point, beyond the possibility of contra

diction.
" Samuel Brown recommends me to speak to Christison to get
Iit put in the Royal Society's Transactions.
Ito-morrow.                                   intend doing so

               was only kept by a dread of seeming to over

value the matter, and especially by an unwillingness to seem

courting patronage ; but I'll see him, and be guided by his con

duct to me.

  I" am extremely tired and sleepy, so excuse the remaining

blank paper."

An extract from a letter to his sister gives a specimen of his

medical practice and its unwelcomeness to his tastes.

   " My dear Mary, --You should long before this have heard

from me had not a succession of engrossing cares so occupied

my time, that it was impossible for me to do almost anything.

IJohn Niven left me last Monday, and now am relying on my

own resources, and fighting away most horribly, at the Dis
Ipensary.
               purposed writing you two nights ago, but on the
Imorning of Wednesday, was awakened at six o'clock, and

Ihurried away to the Dean Bridge, to see an afflicted woman ;

all day was kept running after her, and night brought me no
I Irest, for was liable to be summoned at any hour.
                                                     lay down

on the sofa, wrapped in my Mackintosh cloak, a little Camlet

I Icovering of James's on my feet, my head being cased in a good

white cowl ; but soon got cold, and whipped off my boots,

and laid me without undressing under the bed-clothes. This
I Iwas at one o'clock.
               slept ill, thought every minute was

hearing the door-bell ring-- started up, and awoke fairly at four
o'clock --fell asleep again, and awoke finally at six -- dressed,

read till breakfast, and then walked out to see my patient, to

find my trouble misplaced, seeing they had called in another

doctor, as they did not like to send to such a distance. A wee

Ibairn's voice was the first thing that saluted my ears, and saw

its little red face peeping from below the quilt. The mother's

name was Mrs. King ; and willing to prove my skill in logic,

if not in physic, I observed that a King's daughter must be a
156          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.   CHAP. III.

Queen, and therefore the child's name should unfailingly be

Victoria. The good woman smiled, but I'm not quite sure that

the logic told on her. The upshot of this childish story is that

neither that night, nor last night, which was its successor, was

I in an epistolary vein. You may well suppose I was very
Ithankful to get to bed soon last night ; in truth could not fall

Iasleep, for felicitating myself on my good fortune in not having

to sit up or tremble in fear of a knock. In real earnest, spent

twenty-four hours in a state of the most miserable solicitude

and timorous apprehension, prophesying for myself I know not

how many unwelcome things, and quite unable to rest at any
I Ithing.
     was never made to be a physician, and I'll never,

do believe, try practice again.
   " I'm much delighted to think you are beside Miss Campbell.

I pray thee, Mary, question diligently anent our genealogy ; I

Ihave a very particular reason for wishing to know our lineage.

  know that Highland lore is more concerned in tracing out the

lateral ramifications, and interweaving families of this Ilk with
families of that Ilk, and goeth seldom up to the stock, whence
the sprouts have budded ; but if you can get our lineage some

Igood way back, either among the Campbells, which suppose

Iis the only chance, or among the Wilsons, which is a doubtful

clue, should be greatly pleased. Follow it up to Adam, or as

near as you  can, unless midway, about  Noah's time or so (N.B.
             Webster's time), you find  out some vagabond who
-- not Noah

was hanged, drawn, or quartered, or who hung, drew, and quar

tered some one else ; there you may stop and take a rest, and

we'll refresh ourselves about the scoundrel's prowess. In serious

verity, I would willingly believe the rumour that the Wilsons

are of Danish extraction, and swear that my veins throbbed

with the blood of Hamlet, but that good prince having died
without issue, leaves me in an awkward dilemma, and forbids

that line of descent. I'll be satisfied if you trace up any of the

branches ; the Campbells surely can be linked on to the Duke

of Argyle, and that may do for them."

   On September 11th, the final arrangements for visiting Lon
don are announced : --" You will be surprised not to have heard
1837-38.  rEKILS BY WATER.                         157

Ifrom me before this.  have waited to be able to tell you

everything as definitely as possible. Mary and Jeanie are now

home, both looking a great deal better, and in all respects im
Iproved. Their arrival sets me free to set off when choose.
INow, am not coming up directly by one of the Leith and
ILondon steamers, but by Hull.
                                  shall arrive there on Sunday

evening, stay all night with our old friends, leave on Monday

morning, and be in London on Tuesday afternoon or evening. . . .

I am in no mood for writing, have been so knocked about, have

Iso much to do, been so late up, and am so sleepy, that shan't

write a word more. Everything it is desirable you should know,

I keep for oral communication. -- Believe me your very affec

tionate, loving, sleepy brother,       George."

                                     "George Inn, Hull, Monday, 1ltlt SeptemJber.

" My dear Mother, -- The best of friends are often bad ad

visers, and so it has proved in my case ; for the ' Innisfail,'
instead of arriving in Hull on Sunday at twelve o'clock noon,

did not get in till one o'clock at midnight of Sunday, and no -
body got ashore till this morning.

  I" On Saturday, up to eleven o'clock p.m., when ' turned in,'

the weather was most delightful, and the voyage in all respects
I Ivery pleasant.
          did not fall asleep for an hour, and then
Itumbled over into a doubtful snooze.
                                       believe there was a

sensitiveness among all present to any alarm, from the late

accident on the station ; and, accordingly, when the engine

Istopped at two o'clock in the morning, and many others awoke.
I did not know what hour it was then, and being aware that a
Igentleman and lady were going ashore at Scarborough, thought

it would be the boat stopping to let them out. One of our

number, however, got up and went on deck, and learned that

some pin in the engine had broken, and caused the stoppage.

However, it was deemed so trivial that he went to bed again,

Iand we began to talk about steamboats and accidents, and the

like. Now, you must notice that slept in a room containing

four berths, three of which were occupied by Englishmen, the
Ifourth being occupied by your Scotch son George.
                                                   was soon

embroiled with the whole three about the nature of the last
158  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.        CUAP. III.

Iaccident : and when pushed one of them too hard, he began

his speech by telling me, that ' we in arguing in England do so

and so,' implying a full anxiety to show he knew my nation,

Iand hated it. However, disregarding the taunt, baffled them

all, and was not a little amused next morning, when a surgeon
of dragoons, who had lain in some corner or other within ear

shot of us, remarked to one of them on the amusement he had

had listening to our conversation, adding, ' There was a great
Ideal of eloquence in it at times.'
                                     take the credit of all the

eloquence to myself, the precious triumvirate can divide the

remainder of praise among them. T and the surgeon enjoyed a

laugh at them afterwards. All that is episodical. After talk

I Iing a while, thought heard the steam cease blowing, which
Iis always dangerous if the steamboat be still, and immediately

dressed and went on deck. The steam, however, was blowing

away all right, but one of the engines was completely maimed.

The whole crew were at work unshipping the broken engine, a

work of nearly two hours, during which time we were lying off

North Shields, on the Sunderland coast. The night was most

beautiful, the water as still as a mill-pond, which was well for

us. Had the wind blown hard, it would have been scarcely

possible for us to have managed ; and had the gale blown on

the shore, nothing could have saved us but casting anchor,

which cannot always be done on these coasts. As it was, we

not only lost two hours in absolute inaction, but being palsied

of one side, we could only creep along at five or six miles an

hour, so that it was one o'clock last night before we reached

Hull. One of the many pigs which we had on board walked

overboard in the confusion, and was to be heard squealing at a

Idistance. A boat was sent in pursuit, and had an opportunity

of seeing verified two truths sometimes doubted. A foolish pre -

Ijudice prevails that swine cannot swim, but cut their throats

with their feet ; but this pig, assure you, swam, and well too,
-- so well as to be nearly a mile off. What was its exact object

in going over, has not yet transpired. Whether it had been

exhausted with its exertions in the way of squealing the night

before, and wished a cold bath ; or mistook the English coast

for its own beloved Irish coast, and was journeying homewards,
1837-38.  A PIG OVERBOARD.  159

as it thought ; or possessed a devil, like the sacred swine of

Iold ; or purposed (' awful thought') to commit the crime of

sowicide, cannot say ; but so fervent was its love for the

' deep, deep sea,' that it sprang from the embrace of the loving

mate into the wave, and was only secured after a gallant

struggle.

  I" While the boat was setting off, saw the other curious thing
I Ireferred to,-- the phosphorescence of the sea, which have so

long wished to behold. Nothing could be more beautiful. In

the wake of the boat was a line of the most delicate pale green
light, speckled with stars of a darker green, while each dip of

Ithe oar broke the wave into the most beautiful scintillations.

walked the deck till five A.M., and having no fancy for being

I' laid on the shelf' again, wrapped myself in my cloak and

Igreatcoat, and laid me down on two chairs, where brooded till
Iseven, when washed and redressed, and was among the first to

gain the quarter-deck. 'Twas a most queer sight the cabin at

rising time, -- here a cowl was popped up, and there a long thin
shank came delicately over the shelf s edge ; and such unbuck
ling of boxes, and bags, and portmanteaus, and hauling out of
razors and soap-brushes, and combs, and the like ; for my part,

thinking it right to ' rough it out' at sea, I kept my beard on ;

and thanks to the goodness of an excellent old man, who gave
me, unasked, a hair-brush, when he saw me stroking my head

Iwith my fingers, was able to make myself comfortable. 'Twas a
Isorrily kept Sunday yesterday. saw only the old gentleman who

gave me the brush take out a small Testament, when he got up,

Iand read a chapter to himself. He then offered it to a tall, old,

military-like man, whom suspect to be an East Indian general
or the like. Nothing could equal the wonder, and fierceness,

and politeness of the refusal. He seemed amazed that he should

offer that to him (doubtless an Episcopalian, for he was after

wards hoping he'd be in Hull in time for evening prayers) ;

Iangry, because it was an implication on his impiety ; and polite,

because it was kindly and simply offered. When heard the

Irepeated refusals of the old gentleman, it quite overcame me,

and laughed long and loud. It was without comparison the

Imost lovely day have seen this summer : the sun shone out
160           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. III.

without a cloud to dim his brightness ; the sea was literally
covered -- studded--with vessels ; and the low undulating coast
of England, with here and there a picturesque windmill, and the

like, was seen to the highest advantage. My animal spirits quite
Ioverflowed.
              lay stretched at full length on a locker, indulg
Iing in the most blissful reveries.
                                     did not go to bed last night,

but lounged on the sofas, and laughed almost to suffocation at

the old Indian general who lay next me, popping up his head

and muttering the oddest oaths."
1838-33.     VISIT TO WESTMINSTER ABBEY.                                      161

             CHAPTER IV.

             RESIDENCE IN LONDON --DEGREE OF M.D.

  " In this theatre of man's life, it is reserved only for God and angels to
be lookers-on." -- Preface to Bacon's ' Advancement of Learning.'

   In the renewal of the joyous companionship of former times,

the brothers were truly happy. " I can't tell you half what I

have seen," George's first letter to his mother says. " I've been

at the British Museum, and gazed with delight on the splendid

fossils, the huge 'crocodile- like monsters of the ancient deep,
Iand one specimen wished you had seen of those marks of
...beasts' feet which you used so much to laugh at.  I called

on Professor Graham, and received a most courteous reception.

We talked together for an hour and a half. I told him some

of my speculations, and he smiled, as all older and wiser heads
Ialways do.
             was invited to come to the laboratory whenever
I listed ; but the distance is tremendous, at least six miles from

IDaniel's place."

   About a week later he tells her, " have visited Westminster

IAbbey since wrote you last, and strolled through that magni
Ificent pile. Daniel and were fixing on the corners we should

lie in when we are buried in that noble sepulchre. Daniel's

steps led him to a wide but gloomy cloister ; mine were long

arrested at the small tablet raised to Sir H. Davy's memory
It's a shame, a shame !--that's far too feeble a word --it's a poor

piece of very mean feeling, to see in Westminster Abbey enor

mous piles of marbles, pyramids bolstered up by all sort of

extravagant allegorical figures, raised to the memory of soldiers,

many of whom were but the obedient servants of accomplished

generals, while Davy has but a little corner of one of the subsi-

             L
1G2     MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

diary chapels, and neither figure nor allegory ! His birth, his

death, his name, and a few words more, cover the stone ; not
that any pile would have made him more noble, but it would

have shown a wish to ennoble him. What, after all, is fame ?

The man who walked with us, pointing to Sir H. Davy's tomb,
said, ' See, sir, he was a Baronet.' That was all the merit he had

in his eye. Fame is a bubble ; but, like the soap- bell, it is a

beautiful one painted over with very bright hues, and arrayed

in most enticing colours. It may burst in the grasp, but it is

beautiful till it hath burst.

  I" Were you to wander along the streets as do, finding abun

dant occupation and pleasure in watching the flood of faces that

rolls past, you would be at no loss to guess the subject of each
one's thoughts. Business --business --business, is written in

letters of black, with squaring of red, on each ledger -like face,
with pens --seemingly steel-pens, to judge from the lines they

leave on each shrewd countenance. Yet is this stir of business

healthful and exhilarating ! 'Tis true they are worshipping

Mammon ; yet are they putting forth great mental energies and

much talent, and power is to be respected, for whatever ends it

works.
     I I" dined last night with Professor Graham, and spent a
Ivery happy evening among a circle of young chemists.
                                                       stayed
Ibehind them all, and had a long talk with him, from which
Ilearned a great deal.
                        did not get home till one o'clock, so

great are the distances."

  "I Iam afraid shall not see Faraday. He's not in town
Iat present, and his lectures are not begun; nor shall be

present at a meeting of the Royal or any other of the Societies.

This is just the worst period of the year for all these things.

Some of them begin in November, the majority not till Feb

Iruary, the beginning of the fashionable season, when the titled
people return to town.  must, therefore, depart without seeing

these men and things. Yet there is still a chance of seeing

IFaraday ; but fear none of beholding the Queen."

   Of this period Daniel says, -- " My lodgings were then at the

extreme eastern verge of London's suburbs, in the village of

Stratford -le- Bow, on the borders of Essex, into which we occa-
1S38-39.                         A STEEPLE CHASE.  163

sionally rambled together ; to Westham, where an introduction

had procured us a friendly welcome ; and to Barking, through

the marshes, and so to the Thames dykes, where a steeple-chase

was long cherished by him as a favourite jest against me.

Rambling on a holiday we had made for ourselves, through that

strange, Dutchman's corner of merry England, lying below the

level of high-water, with river-dykes, sluices, and other fea

tures, then as foreign to our eyes as any Dutch canal scene

could be, we spied a steeple in the distance and gave chase.

Already we had got a peep at some of England's lovely little

parish churches, and here was another chance ; but to make for

it as the crow flies could only be done by a crow or a duck.

Carefully navigating our way by means of dykes and hedge

rows, at length we reached the banks of the Thames, and found

the great river was between us and the object of our desire ; but
we had gone too far to be baffled now. After waiting and long

                                                   !' '
                                                                     '

                                                                           ?'

                                                                       it,

                                                                                       '
                                                                                       a
ing, we at length succeeded in hailing a boat, got into and,

as we rowed across the river, the boatman was drawn into con

versation about the church, its name, its history. It was an

old one   Oh yes, was an old church.' Very old for, as
       a

           ?'
                   '

                  it
                             it
we drew near, we began to suspect that distance had lent'
little enchantment to the view. Well,' said our ferryman, he

did not doubt was well nigh fifty years old which was pro

bably very accurate guess. It turned out to be about as plain

a red brick meeting-house, with square belfry at its end, as

ever village bricklayer designed and executed. But we enjoyed
our ramble on clear October day, making up for the long in
          a

terval since our Edinburgh country walks, by many remini
                                                   a
                                                                   a

                                                                                    a
scence of the past, and so beguiled our walk to another ferry

and home. Epping Forest was reached by similar ramble,

and George's imagination excited by the romantic encounter of
small encampment of gipsy tinkers with their donkey and covered

cart. The season, however, for wanderings in the green lanes of

Epping Forest or the Essex marshes was soon at an end, and

time was valuable to both of us. The wonders of London, how

ever, were an inexhaustible delight. Westminster Abbey, St.

Paul's, the Tower, and all other lions, were thoroughly and lov

ingly explored the British Museum was never-failing resort
          ;

                                                                 a

                                                                                                                                            ;
164            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

and through the kindness of our old schoolfellow, Adam White,

it was as free to us on private as on public days, and the read

ing-room of its library became a favourite resort of both of us
when we could spare the time. Nor is it to be doubted that

both the Temple and the India House were visited for Charles

Lamb's sake."

At the close of a month, when about to return to Edinburgh,

the offer of a place as unsalaried assistant in the Laboratory of

Professor Graham, now Master of the Mint, but then Professor

of Chemistry in University College, caused a complete change

in George's plans. The advantages it offered were too great not
to weigh strongly with him, as in no place in this country could
better opportunity present itself for acquiring a knowledge of

analysis and the other branches of Chemistry. He wrote to

"Iconsult friends at home, saying to his mother-- will not

make a vain parade of the grief my non-return will give me.
A thousand links of the dearest kind which nothing here can

make up for, draw me to Scotland and Edinburgh ; but you, I
am sure, would be the first to say ' go.' "

The week of suspense caused by the tardy postage of those

days was happily ended by the receipt of the desired permission

to remain ; and a few days later found him settled at work, and

reporting to the home circle -- " I have not completely recovered

my chemical vein; besides the dissipation of thought which

Ioccurred during my idleness here, the long distance have to

go every day, and the consequent fatigue, as well as the un

settled nature of my views yet, have hindered me reacquiring

the thoughts which were my summer companions. . . . Let me

say a very little of the Laboratory and my companions there, as

Iyou will be anxious to know with whom my days are to be
spent.  have at least entered on my labours with the best

wishes of my preceptors and fellow-labourers. Both Mr.

Graham's assistants, Mr. Youngi and Mr. Playfair,* are glad of

my addition to their number, and give me all the assistance in

their power, and as they are both good practical chemists, and

IPlayfair a geologist, hope to profit by their society."

     i Mr. James Young, Bathgate Chemical Works.
     J Dr. Lyon Playfair, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh.
1838 39.             MEETS DAVID LIVINGSTONE.               165

of  After naming     pupils in   the  Laboratory, he goes on to speak
    " an odd little  mortal, a  sort  of apprentice, who does the dirty

work, cleans the bottles, etc., a poor friendless orphan, aged

fifteen, who never learned anything but his alphabet. He has

contrived to teach himself chemistry most thoroughly, and with

Ifew or no encouragements has attained (no difficult thing, as

know) to love it too. He is a very obliging, good-tempered,

I Ihappy little fellow ; has taken a fancy for me, and for him.
shall certainly help him every way I can, and he says he will
Ido anything for me. shall immediately begin at his own little
Icell some of my old things, as shall not have, or wish to have,

at home any convenience for such things."

    Among the students in the Laboratory that session was Dr.

Livingstone, now distinguished for his labours and discoveries

in Africa. On the return of the celebrated traveller to this

country a few years ago, it was a pleasure to him and George to

renew their previous intercourse. A much prized copy of his

travels bears the autograph inscription, " To Professor G. Wilson,

with the kindest regards of his friend and class-mate David

Livingstone." Letters from the rivers Shire and Zambesi have

come to this country since George Wilson's death, in which Dr.

Livingstone speaks of specimens intended for the Industrial

IMuseum of Scotland. " have collected," he says, " some little
Ithings for you, but they are really so rude that have doubts
Iwhether ought to send them. The mill for grinding corn, for

instance, is a great block of stone with a hollow worn in it of
about three inches in depth, and the mortar, exactly like the

Egyptian, is about the size of a man's body. A web in process

of weaving, is an uncouth affair, as indeed everything here is.

They have not improved a bit since Tubal Cain, and those old

fogies, drove a little into their heads. Such as they are, how

ever, you shall see them some day." How much these and

other gifts mentioned in the letters would have delighted the

Director of the Industrial Museum, we can readily imagine.
                                               He says --
Some of Daniel's remembrances are amusing.
" At an early stage of George's London wanderings the unfami

liar face of Charles Lamb's India House led him strangely

astray. His connexion with Professor Graham's Laboratory
166         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

necessitated a daily walk from my remote suburban quar

ters, through the City, to Gower Street. But at that time the
vigorous and enthusiastic young chemist thought little of
a walk, through Mile End, Whitechapel, Cheapside, and Hol-

born, with such a goal in view ; nor was it easy to wander,

where the road was straight and well defined. George, however,

was not more remarkable for his singular memory of every face

he ever saw, than for his utter want of what phrenologists call

locality. He would persist in taking short cuts on his way to and

from Gower Street, in spite of all warnings, and was picked up

after pursuing his devious track in far-away unexpected nooks,

such as only those who know the intricacies of old London's back

streets and lanes could conceive possible. Warned, however,

by such dear-bought experience, he resolved on contenting him

self with the plain long road, steering his way by well-known

landmarks, which even his untopographical head could appre

ciate. Guiding his way accordingly by such means, as he

explained to me afterwards, he wended his way eastward one

afternoon. St. Andrew's Holborn, Field Lane, St. Sepulchre's, and

the Blue Coat School were all safely passed ; the Post-Office and

St. Paul's were glanced at, in emerging from Newgate Street into
Cheapside ; and, --pursuing his course steadily onward, --the por

tico of the Mansion House was next noted, as the mariner satisfac

torily descries a guiding landmark or lighthouse -- so far all was

well. But coming soon after upon the portico of the East India

House, in Leadenhall Street, George pulls up in sore confusion :

I' Why,' said he to himself, ' where can have been wandering
Ito ? passed the Mansion House not long since, and here it is
         '
again  !    So to put matters straight he turned up Bishopsgate

Street, and started with renewed energy on a road which, if

pursued far enough, might have landed him in Edinburgh, but

could never have brought him to his desired haven. After

getting ever more and more perplexed, he had recourse at length

to that unfailing remedy for such a dilemma, a hackney cab, and

was comforting himself over a favourite passage in Foster's
essay on ' Decision of Character,' in which the author laments
the want of a parallel resource for the undecided man --when,

feeling for his purse, he found he was moneyless ! The cab was
1838-39.            LONDON PASTIMES.                              167

Ionly intended to put him in the way of the Bow omnibus ; but

that would not do now ; and well remember the eager head
out of the cab window, as he at length caught sight of me on my

way to meet the absentee, already long after his time. A few

such incidents, added to the unreasonable length of the road, led

to our changing our quarters, and we set up our abode in Great

Clarendon Street, Euston Square, where we fell into the hands

of the Philistines, and got initiated into some of the mysteries

of London lodging-houses, which furnished materials for many

a joke at a later date, but were serious matters at the time, when

our    purses were  fully as light as our hearts.  of the  great  Lon
    "  We did not   fail to make good use of some

Idon sights of that time : its picture -galleries, museums, cathe

drals, etc., and among the rest, do not think that George ever

repented of having availed himself of the opportunity of witness

ing some of the wonderful reproductions of Shakspere's choicest

dramas, with which Macready was then delighting the London

world at Covent Garden ; nor of his first peep at a pantomime,

brought out with all the glories of a London stage, and which he

enjoyed with a mirth as hearty and unrestrained as the happiest
child there. ' Peeping Tom of Coventry ' was often afterwards

laughed over, and furnished illustrations, both grave and gay, in

writings of a later date. Such pastimes, however, were only the

rare relaxations of an exceedingly busy and happy season."

 IFurther details of Laboratory duties are given in writing home.

" go to the Laboratory at nine o'clock, and do not finally leave

it till five o'clock. Long as these hours are, they are agreeably

Ibroken up : thus, at eleven o'clock, go in to hear Mr. Graham's
I Ilecture ; at two go home to dinner, and at five leave finally.

IThree days a week there will be a practical class, where shall

have to assist, so that there will be no room for wearying. You

Iwill observe am never more than two hours continuously at
work : at Dr. Christison's Laboratory I was often four or five,
Iand as many at Richmond Court always. My lodgings are at a

mile's distance from the University, so that shall have a
comfortably long walk, to and from my working place, twice

each day.
16S         MEMOIR OF GEOliGE WILSON.      CHAP. IV.

" We have just learned to-day that Mr. Graham has obtained

the gold medal of the Royal Society, endowed by George rv.,
for the best papers in the Philosophical Transactions. Every

I Ibody was coming in congratulating us on our master's prize.
   " think referred, in my last letter to you, to a young boy
who was in the place-- a friendless orphan of fifteen, who learned

Inothing but his alphabet from others, but has nevertheless con

trived to make himself a thorough chemist, the best know.
There is scarcely a fact, however out of the way, he does not
know, an experiment he has not tried, nor a subject on which
he cannot give you something. After slaving all day at the

laboratory, cleaning bottles and such things, he goes home to a

miserable dreary garret, where he falls to his own labours, and
works away at the science he loves. He is a most striking

instance of the pursuit of knowledge under difficulties, and that
Iyou may keep in remembrance one of whom shall likely speak
I Ioften, add his name, William Saunders.
                                           shall probably work

with him, repeat some old inquiries, and engage in new ones, but

of that more hereafter

  I" hope Jessie and Jeanie were satisfied with my extremely
I Ihurried notes, especially as wrote them before got Jessie's at

Iall, which tell her. They must write me now and then, and so
must all of you, when you can.  shall live upon my Scotch
I Iletters, as
            know so very few people here.  cannot find

pleasure in visiting.
I" shall stop here, promising you a larger epistle the next
Itime, if
Iof those   can spare the time ; but considering the multitude

             must write, you will be merciful, and be sure I

Icannot make more evident, or feel more towards you, the affec

tion of a loving son, than I do now that am for a period a

stranger."

  I" shall not send any papei-s to the journals, so do not look

for such things ; my Thesis must be my first labour, and till

that is done, every other subject must be laid by. Nor is it

I I Ilikely should write if had the time, though have many
Ithings in hand ; am more anxious at present to be a learner

than a teacher, and still look to more profitably extending science
1838 39.  ENGLISH CLERGYMEN.              169

hereafter, by storing myself with all the truths it has already

gathered.

   " Mr. Graham is an excellent teacher ; so well versed in his

subject, and so earnest in displaying it aright, and in impressing

Iit on his audience, that the hour of lecture speeds very rapidly
away.     cannot make intelligible to any of my non-chemical

friends the nature of the inquiries he is pursuing, except per

haps by saying, that he is prosecuting the study of the ' Laws of

Combination' between different substances.
   " Another assistant, as well as I, is working at his subjects :

the other pupils, four in number, are labouring for their own

profit. We have at last succeeded in getting a corner apiece in

the Laboratory ; before this desirable arrangement was accom

plished, we were always in each other's way, and half the ana

lyses were ruined in their middle stages by the carelessness of

some one else than the experimenter. It would often have been

amusing had it not been very provoking, to return anticipating

the progress your analyses had made, and find your vessels,

materials, ay, everything gone, -- some other philosopher having

found a use for your apparatus, and not troubled himself to inquire

whether the vessel and its contents were precious or no. That

is past, and it is now death by law to meddle with anything on

another's table. Suffocation in the laughing gas is the method

proposed for the infliction of capital punishment.
   " So much, my dear mother, for my weekly employments. I

had intended writing you at length on the system of church

Iworship here, and shall do so yet, at some early period. Let
Ime only tell you that came up to London embued, in spite of

my love for Episcopacy, with the idea that a pious, sincere,
simple-minded English clergyman, was a very rare thing. I
Iwas most agreeably disappointed.
                                   have now heard a great

number of the London ministers, and can assure you, that in

meekness, simplicity, and earnestness of purpose, they cannot

well be surpassed by the ministers of any denomination, and I

I Ishould feel that praised any denomination amply if said its

preachers equalled them. My love for Episcopalian form of

          I

                 is,I
worship is a love in the abstract ; that  love the system of

bishops, archbishops, and the like, like the solemn simplicity
170     MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                              CHAP. IV.

Iof their prayer-book, and am delighted with the beauty and
Iaptness of the musical part of the service. But do not meddle

Iin the least with Church and State questions, nor do care for
Ithe party interests of the body ; attend the Church of England,

because it seems to me to conduct the public worship of God in

the most befitting and devout way. There are doubtless some

Iwrongheaded men in the body ; probably not a few in so large

a hierarchy ; and could tell of the amusing ingenuity of a
vicar S. has been telling me of, who went out to shoot snipes in
the snow with his equally white surplice on, so as to escape the

observation of both the feathered and unfeathered bipeds, who

I Imight have made a bad use of their observations. But putting

such cases aside, am sure shall convince you that the great

majority of the preachers of the English Church are excellent

I Imen, and know can write you freely on this topic.
  I" shall forget nobody at home, not even the little (query

little now ?) black cat."

   However the head and hands might be filled with plans andaa
work, the heart had still room and to spare. To his sister, the
                              ?),
Ijuvenile chemical assistant of previous days, he writes,-- ";
                                                           ;
daresay you are now so completely taken up with your studies
(do they deserve that name chattering French with the littlea

--foreigner, or playing the piano under the watchful eye, and still;a

more fastidious ear, of Miss M -- or engaged in the intricate

meshes of sampler stitch, slipper pattern, or the trying diffi
culties of hemming shirt-border straight or some of the other
important duties which wise preceptors require from youthful
disciples, --that you have clean forgotten, in the whirlwind of
cares, that any such brother as George ever tormented you.
Well, for any good you will get by reflecting on the foolish
words and deeds of that brother of yours, you may as well dis
miss the recollection of his existence yet fain would he keep
place, even in your little heart, which he hopes possesses an

'apartment unfurnished,' and therefore fitted to hold him, his

laboratory, bottles, bluelights, nonsense and all."

  A difficulty was found in obtaining scientific works, the

library of the College being only for consultation, and the store
1838-39.  LABORATORY INCIDENTS.                                           171

of his fellow- workers too small to last any of them long. Heit,a
                                        a
requests, therefore, that his own be sent up, averring that otheraa
                         aa
wise he will perish of mental starvation, and when the metaa           a

physicians hold an inquest on him, they shall find the organ ofa
the mind shrivelled into nothing. Apparatus, too, he finds ne -

cessary to carry on experiments for his Thesis, which must be
ready before April. Apparatus of all kinds being expensive in
London, he requests that the " corners" in the box to be sent
from home be filled with " the best of his bottles." The subject
of his Thesis was ' The Existence of Haloid Salts of the Electro-
Negative Metals in Solution ;' and shortly after this the parlour
of the brothers was amply stored in all available corners with
test-tubes, bottles, spirit-lamps, and solutions, which their little
Welsh landlady was trained and lectured into leaving untouched,

whatever amount of dust might accumulate on or around them.
The comparative leisure of the Christmas recess was eagerly
seized to help forward his own researches, besides working with
Dr. Playfair at having some salts crystallized for Professor
Graham, and ready against his return to town. On the day
preceding Christmas day, he was surprised at the unusual con

Idition of the laboratory. " found it," he says, " in a sad mess,

a furnace knocked down, and a crew of bricklayers at work re

pairing while couple of blacksmiths set my teeth on edge,

and wounded my musical ear, by filing and hammering at bars
of iron. To add to the confusion, whole bevy of those water-

nymphs called charwomen, had taken possession of the place,

and had made themselves quite at home, presenting spectacle

strange to chemist's eyes, and according ill with the usual ac

companiments of laboratory. On fireplace, sacred hitherto
to crucibles and retorts, and glasses redolent of fuming acids and

most potent but unpotable fluids, stood coffee-pot, wherein was

simmering the aromatic infusion which charwomen love. A jug

stood by, to refresh those who preferred the more common beve
rage of tea, while in pail, near the water- cistern, were lying

some roundish red bodies, which, after considerable hesitation

and rubbing of my spectacles, turned out to be --potatoes. Arti
cles of domestic comfort are rarely found in such workshop as

ours, and excited my suspicion that more valuable creature com -
172  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                 CHAP. IV.

Iforts would reward a more diligent search.   was, however,
Isatisfied with what saw, and, after listening for a few minutes

Ito the maledictions of the women against the fumes which filled

the place and made them cough, turned away and treated my

self to a walk in the crowded streets of London." Next day,

along with his brother, he attended divine service in Westmin

ster Abbey, and passed a happy evening with kind friends.

   Part of the holidays were spent in writing long letters to the
home circle, which being forwarded by " a private opportunity,"

took a month to reach their destination, much to the annoyance
of the writer. The following alludes to this disappointment : --

                                                                " London, February 9, 1839.

   " My dear Mother, --These horrible ' opportunities' are so

Idisappointing, that have resolved to give you the expense of

a postage, rather than trust to the precarious chances, especially

Ias have delayed writing in hopes of getting the books, and if
I wait longer, must keep you in unwelcome suspense regarding

your boys. This non-arrival of the parcel from Edinburgh has

served to keep up the vexation, which your notice of that long-
Idelayed bundle of letters caused me.
I Iover the disappointment yet.        have by no means got

     know can appeal to you for
Isympathy when say, that we often feel much disappointed

when those little arrangements, by which we hoped to surprise

our friends, fail in their success, or produce an opposite effect.

  I" believe women oftener than men, and the best of women

too, busy themselves in such kindly stratagems, and suffer the

bitterness of disappointment when all their plots fail or are
disregarded. You will think of your favourite authoress's beau
tiful, beautiful lines of her most beautiful poem, --

     ' To make idols, and to find them clay,
         And to bewail that worship.'

Now, when Mr. Graham's departure and the Christmas holidays
left me a period of leisure, a breathing time, between the

Ilabours past and the worse labours to come, turned my willing

thoughts homewards, and remembering that the Christmas week
must pass more quietly there than it had done on most former
1838-39.  LETTEKS OUT OF DATE.  173

Ioccasions, I thought might happily and usefully occupy my
time in writing you all Christmas letters. Accordingly, I wrote

Iunder the inspiration of mince-pies and mistletoe, roast goose

and boiled turkey, i.e., wrote, as ' The Doctor' would say,

Christmatically, and never supposing that I needed, like Charles

Lamb writing a Christmas letter to a friend in China, to make

Iany allowance for the time that must elapse before my letter

reached its goal, made the whole virtues of my story turn on

allusions which were out of date and meaningless, if read a

week later than they were written. Think after all this, after

wondering and wondering and wondering that my letters were

not acknowledged, let alone relished, that the first word should

be that my letters were very short (this referred to other and
former letters, as it afterwards came out), and next the staring,

hideous truth, that the epistles had loitered a whole month on
the way, and came lagging in like a cold dish at table, not quite

unpalatable, but, as the cook would say, quite out of season.

  I" When write letters to those I love, and having time, and
Ihaving the happy mood on me, feel that have written what
Iwill please them, am fond of anticipating the effect particular
Ipassages will produce on the readers. Here a smile, hope,

will be elicited ; there it will go hard, but the smile will be
fostered into a full laugh ; at another place a doubtful shake of

the head may be given, and the whole letter, perhaps, ended by

an exclamation, ' George will always be George !' And then

the re-readings of the choice passages, the spelling over and
over again of special lines, and perhaps the little tit-bits read
out to Jessie, or Jeanie, or Mary, all this had been amusing and
pleasing me in my thoughts about the letters, and then to find
that not merely had not these letters arrived in proper time,
but letters written afterwards, and of no value unless coming

after them, had arrived sooner, and been divested of their own

Ivalue, and seemed only to stand in the way of their tardy pre

decessors. There now, am sure, when you got my brief note

accompanying the verses to S., you thought my apologies for
brevity very ill-timed, when accompanying the confession and

Iproof that had been devoting the time to spinning rhymes for

 a lassie instead of writing to my dear mother ; whereas, had you
174  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                        CHAP. IV.

got the long letter first, and not anticipated another very soon

after, the brief note and the verses (written during Christmas)
would have borne some value, instead of coming as a mockery

and a disappointment. And we seem destined to as long and

Ias provoking a delay as you were, for no tidings have reached

us of the books, and how or when we shall get them don't

know ; but do not say anything about it-- it is the stormy wea
ther and nobody that's to blame. I'll be in the City on Mon

Iday, and shall learn about it then, have no doubt. Meanwhile,
Ialthough neither you nor have read (I have not) the Queen's
ISpeech, and are not much given to political speculations or

anticipations, am sure we shall heartily agree that far above

universal suffrage, vote by ballot, negro slaves, or factory chil
dren bills, is the Post-Office Reform, which would enable us, at

the come-at-able price of a penny, to write as much sense, non

sense, or love, as we felt in our hearts wearying to get utter

ance. . . .

  " My love to all I love, and all who love me, Imp though I

am (a very bottle-imp, as you know, when you think of the

I I Ipennies you now save, by lacking the temptation to buy queer

vials for your alchemical son,) -- Imp, say, though am, have,

I know, some affectionate and most dearly-loving friends, who

think of me far above my deserts, and forget the cloven hoof ;

and to all these remember me kindly. I am not about to

chronicle their names in rank and file, like the debtors and

creditors in the merchant's day (or some other of his, to me,
Imysterious) books, or a Serjeant's list of militia recruits, or an

apothecary's list of his simples ; but will speak of them as a

chemist, and say, all that answer to the test of thinking, asking,

Ior wishing well of me, are my friends and beloved of me. . . .

For my own part, am now very busy ; the class is only every

Isecond day, but it includes thirty-four students ; and so large
a practical class involves a great deal of trouble.  work at it

Ievery day from nine till five, and sometimes till six or seven ;

and have sometimes had to spend my dinner hour in the

Laboratory. All analysis or personal improvement is at an end

I-- quite at an end. My health and spirits are quite good, but

my daily occupations are uninteresting, and never get a walk,
1838-39.          ORIGINALITY OF SHAKSPERE.         175

even through the streets of London. It is this makes we wish

my friends to write to me, as- 1 have no materials whence to

devise letters for them. I was lately visited by one of those

yearnings which I think must often visit London-detained

Scotchmen,-- an intense fancy for a walk by a babbling brook,

Ia bright conception of hills and rocks and trees, such as have

somewhere seen long ago either in day dreams or night visions;

I Ibut such thoughts always have in the spring months, and
Ibelieve could as little gratify them in Edinburgh as here. . . .

Talking of poor folks, and thinking of the black man, and the

Iother black man, the sweep,1 1 think can now sympathize with

a sweep's Sunday feelings. One of my prospects of the day

that I'll have my hands clean the whole of it. . . . Remember

me to all the poor people, and you ever long for me, think

how soon you shall see your most affectionate son,
                                                                          " George."
                                         if

                                                                                               is,

   Extracts from home letters at this time give pleasant glimpses
in various directions.

   " You tell me in your last you have been reading Shakspere.
  am delighted to think you are so engaged. You cannot but
feel to be most divine work. When James spoke of non-
originality in Shakspere, he referred to his ideas, his thoughts,
I

        it

                        a
                                a
                                      a

                                if

                            I
and imagery, he talked great nonsense    ;       to the plots of his

plays, he stated notorious and easily explicable truth. Thea if
plays of Shakspere are not, believe, in single case original
in their plots, and purposely not. When Shakspere began

writing there were great many subjects familiar to men as

having been dramatized, certain plots and characters and even

names being as familiar to the play-goers, and as much stock

pieces in their eyes, as Little Red Riding- Hood' or The Babes''
in the Wood' are in the apprehension of the inmates of the

nursery. When Shakspere, therefore, wrote his plays, he pur

posely took plots familiar to his audience, securing so far their
favour for must ever be remembered, in thinking of Shak
1
           ;

              it
spere, that he was himself an actor, and wrote his plays as

     Acquaintances made in the Infirmary during his apprenticeship, and kept on as
pensioners.
17G  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WII.SON.  CHAP. IV.

pieces to be performed on the stage of theatres with which he
was professionally connected. But the genius of the man was
the more seen in thus, as it were, shackling himself. The ori
ginals of many of Shakspere's plays, such as ' King John,' and
' Romeo and Juliet,' may be compared with his writings on
similar subjects, and such a comparison brings out the great
power of this wondrous man in more marked prominence ;
indeed often the only similarity between his play and preceding
ones is in the names of the dramatis persona ; all the force, truth,
and individuality of each separately drawn character, and all
the blending of the whole piece into one harmonious whole, are
his, and prove his possession of powers which no other writer
has ever exhibited. No one can read him, and remain for a

moment in doubt as to the originality of his conceptions ; no
one can be aware of the powers of his own language, and the
high rank of its poetry, who does not read, and read, and read
the wonderful works of Shakspere. The names of Dr. Johnson,
of Cowper, Wilberforce, Coleridge, Wordsworth, Southey, Isaac

Taylor, John Foster, Professor Wilson, and many more whose
names are passports for good to what they speak of, will urge
you to go on in your readings. Meanwhile, I'll stop to add

another name, that of your loving son, George."

                                                                    " London, 21st February.

  " My dear Mary,-- It shall never be that you and I shall be

left at the sport of the winds and waves, and debarred writing
to and loving each other, because the seas take a fit of wild-

Iness, and the waves become impatient of the ceaseless beatings

of the steamboat wheels. Why, have a project for a steam-

balloon, which I'll finish and put into practice. Would it not

be a glorious thing to leave this dull earth, and, far above its
mists and its vanities, fly straight as the crow to the point we
wished, and when that was reached, descend like a plummet,
with as true an aim as the eagle has when he drops the tortoise
or the doomed oyster on the flinty rock ?

    " So manifold are the advantages such a machine would give

Ifor loving intercourse, that now that my steam is up, could
go on for the whole of this paper, ballooning. But I doubt if
183S-39.                     A CHEMICAL PUN.                     177

Ithat would exactly please you ; and shall be satisfied with in

dicating a single advantage which such an engine would give

us for assisting our friends to comfortable abodes. You antici

I Ipate me, am sure, and are already smiling ; must, however,

write it. Don't you think, that by raising ourselves among the

clouds, high above every earthly thing, we should find it a most
easy matter to drop each friend into his or her ' niche' as the

balloon passed over just as the old gander opened his webfootif

and let Daniel O'Rourke descend, as he thought, to the shipit,

below, but in reality to the marine villa of an astonished whale,

who whipped him for his untimely intrusion. You might, per

haps, sagely ask, my machine were possessed of safety-valve,
                                                   ;

                                                             a

                                                             Ia
and there were no risk of being blown up but such risk             is
is I
      ifeffectually cared for by the patent wadding-cushions     have

               adevised for the use of aerial voyagers. Talking of blowing up,

have lately devised most excellent pun, which shall here
                     a                             it

                                                     I
record for your amusement, my dear sister, though to record so

foolish thing, and gravely to find place for in this letter,
                                                a

    very absurd; and moreover, puns, like mineral waters, are

very uncarriageable articles, and being amorphous, cannot be

warranted and marked this side upwards,' so as to insure their'

going off with proper effect. That's the priming here's the
charge --Last Saturday, Mr. Graham, chancing to be illus
          I:                                       '

                                                             it, ;

                                                                  I,

                                                                   I
trating the nature of flame, required one of Sir Humphry Davy's

lamps.            went and asked Mr. Young, the assistant, for one.

He brought me one, adding, You had better trim and make
                             I'
                                   a'
it  burn well, or you'll get blowing up.'          Oh,' said after

smiling few moments,            defy him to blow me up as long as
    a
        a
have safety lamp.' And while they all laughed and enjoyed

the chemical pun, advised every assistant to provide himself
                  I

with one to ward off explosions."

                                                                                       "February 1839.

  "My dear Mother, -- Wind, and storm, and bad weather,
and broken rudders, and maimed steamships, have failed in
their cunning conspiracy to keep us from communication with

each other, and have resolved to celebrate the deliverance

from the plot by writing you long letter.

                                                              M
                  I

                                             a
178                  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                 CHAP. IV.

    " The weather here, which for a while was warm and sunny,

has suddenly repented of its mildness, and made us shiver with

Ikeen, cold, and cutting blasts ; whether because Murphy, the

Almanac maker, had so arranged it ; or because, as hope, the

warmth and sunniness are being hained for their right time, sum

mer ; or in consequence of the ladies presuming on a few good

days to doff their tippets and thick cloaks, and sport lighter,

frailer, and less comforting dresses.
   " How oddly ladies' ideas shift as to the part of their dresses

needing decoration.                They used (I speak of my remembrances)

to wear lace in the form of veils, then it descended and be

came flounces to their gowns ; a partial rise took place, and
last year it was dedicated to adorning their mantillas and tip

pets. This winter, I find, it has climbed to its former heights,

and black fringes of precious old lace are hung along the edges

Iof bonnets,                                                                  it is termed)

the straw                                                                      It will next
           or thrown               --aroumnedan(Iofknaolwadyn'sotbownhnaett.
         built capital

be woven into veils and resume its ancient place, after the

approved fashion of fashions, which, like endless chains, return
to themselves, or like the fingers of dials, revolve in appointed

Icircles, which they never leave. By the by, saw a very
Icurious head-dress the other day, which intended to have
Iwritten about to Jeanie, whom always look upon as destined,

Iat no far distant day, to take her stand among the arbitresses
of fashion. Subtle and discriminating                                         in the
                                                           know she           is,

                                                                                        it
patterns of samplers and foot-stools, and very learned in all the

mysteries and niceties of perplexing stitches. For her, there

fore, this fact specially intended but having forgot to tell

her in the letter to herself, intrust you with its delivery.
Well, not to make very trifling matter swell into absurd pro
         II                        a
                   is
                                a     aI
portions, was greatly surprised to see last Sabbath day, as;
                                                                              a

                                                                                   I
walked home from church, bird of Paradise on lady's

bonnet.  have seen tails and wings, or wing feathers, of these

glorious creatures glistening in the sun, as they did when cloth

ing living members but whole bird surprised me --yet there
         I                                                                    ;
                           ;
                                                                                   I
a it  was, the head and beak projecting over the side. When say

    whole bird, of course exclude one element of integrity, or

wholeness, in birds, viz., feet for you know that birds of Para
                                   ;
      39. DELIGHT FROM SPRING FLOWERS.                   179

dise have no feet, and, according to poets, a lying set of men,

never roost ; physiologists, a presumptuous set of men, declare

they have as good pedal extremities as geese or ganders ; mil

Iliners, a foolish set of women, evidently support the poets,

and unfeet them. Where, wonder, do the feetless birds of

paradise roost or slumber?  IWe might send out a balloon
on a voyage of discovery.
                            Till can blow a soap-bubble
large enough to carry Samuel Brown and me after them, I'll

believe that they slumber among the ruins of the castles in the

air.
  I" was out at Westham last Wednesday, and what do you
I I Ithink got from S. ? A kiss -- eh ? Perhaps did, but won't
I Isay anything about that.
                            got from her two snowdrops.

was quite amazed when she put in my buttonhole two of these

lovely flowers. I'm thinking of making some verses on them,

Iinvolving and evolving a new theory of snowdrop births ; but
Idon't think it would be quite fair to send them to you till she

has gotten them ; besides, have got some verses on the stocks

solely and specially for yourself, which, as soon as my hobbling

muse helps me out with them, shall be sent to you. Let me re
Iturn, however, to the flowers.
                                 always experience a strange
Iand delightful exhilaration when meet with flowers out of

their season ; they catch me by surprise, and ministering to
that efficient cause of strong and keen-felt sensations, the

novelty of impressions felt, they awaken all kinds of happy
Iemotions.
            got no good of the flowers somehow last summer.
I made a few new acquaintances among them, and acknow

ledged the return of old friends ; but as a whole, the season was

so much spent among rottenness and disease on the one hand,

and among fumes and noxious odours on the other, that the

steaming fragrance of the flowers found my nostrils deadened to

their delicacy, and the beauty of their petals was wasted on my
Ismarting eyes. Do you remember the forget-me-nots
                                                         ga

thered for you among the rocks of Arthur Seat? That is a

pleasing exception to the flowerless year. Have they all died
away, and sunk into the earth ? Is there any sign of awaking

from sleep ? any signal of their slumbers breaking into a glori

Ious resurrection ? Flowers lead to my telling how glad was
180      MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                          CHAP. rv.

Ito learn of B-- L--'s convalescence.  I do not wish to see more

of those love die, to prove--
         " That the good die first, and they whose hearts

         Are dry as summer dust, burn to the socket."

I speak of her in connexion with flowers, because she promised

I I Ito share the flowers she got sent her with me, but did not after

all, because, as suppose, one day laughingly said should
watch diligently what flowers she sent me, and consult the

--' Language of Flowers,' to see the hidden meaning of each. B
Ilaughed in return, and said, ' Oh, then, won't send them.' And
Iso lost my flowers.

   " One of the latest and most gifted writers on old favourite
Egypt has found (for he travelled in the valley of the Nile) cer
tain little porcelain bottles, in some of the catacombs or other

strange nooks of that curious country, which have inscribed

on them a legend in Chinese characters. These bottles are sup

posed to have been brought from China to Egypt, containing

some rare essence, for the material of which they are made is
Icoarse, and inferior to Egyptian ware.
                                         pass over the curi
ous proof this little discovery gives of the equal ancientness of

these two curious and very similar nations, and of their having

carried on traffic together, when this geological version of the

Iworld was new, probably before all the timbers of the Ark were
rotten.  wish to tell you that since these bottles have been

brought to this country, Dr. Morrison's son, or some other

learned reader of hieroglyhics, has deciphered the words sculp

tured on the little vases : they tell the following beautiful truth,

I' The flower opens, and behold another year!' Is not it a beauti
ful and truthful prophecy ?  feel some sympathy with that

Icold-hearted, shaven-headed, long-tailed, infanticidal race, the

Chinese, for so sweet a legend. The snowdrops got forcibly

reminded me of it ; for as God, when he creates a bud, creates it

I Ito be first a bud and then a flower, and then a mature fruit (if

  Iknew the Bible as well as should do, should here quote

the passage which tingles in my ears, speaking of first the blade,
then the corn in the ear, etc., you know it), he gives the earnest

and assurance in the first bud or flower of spring that another
year will be ; for as a whole year will be needed to let the buds
ORIGIN OF THE SNOWDROP.                                                  181

pass through their several stages till they reach perfection, so
we feel, in the heart and in the head, warmly and with realiz

ing conviction, that another year is given to us by the Giver of

all good.

  I I" have but time to add that it is quite arranged that leave

the Laboratory in the latter end of April ; this is all settled, and
it is all that is settled ; so be sure I'll not in this thing disap
point. My M.D. degree will oblige me to come home."

We append the verses of which the preceding letter speaks.

                          " ORIGIN OF THE SNOWDROP.

                   " No fading flowers in Eden grew,

                                Nor Autumn's withering spread
                             Among the trees a browner hue,

                                To show the leaves were dead ;
                             But through the groves and shady dells,
                             Waving their bright immortal bells,
                             Were amaranths and asphodels,
                             Undying in a place that knew
                          A golden age the whole year through.

                     " But when the angels' fiery brands,

                                Guarding the eastern gate,
                             Told of a broken law's commands,

                                And agonies that came too late ;
                          With ' longing, lingering' wish to stay,
                             And many a fond but vain delay
                             That could not wile her grief away,
                             Eve wandered aimless o'er a world
                             On which the wrath of God was hurled.

                  " Then came the Spring's capricious smile,

                                And Summer sunlight warmed the air,
                             And Autumn's riches served a while

                                To hide the curse that lingered there ;
                          Till o'er the once untroubled sky
                             Quick driven clouds began to fly,
                             And moaning zephyrs ceased to sigh,
                             When Winter's storms in fury burst
                             Upon a world indeed accurst.

                   " And when at last the driving snow, --

                             A strange, ill-omened sight, --
                             Came whitening all the plains below,

                                 To trembling Eve it seemed-- affright
                          With shivering cold and terror bowed --

*
182  MEMOIR OF GEORGE -WILSON.                                 CHAP. IV.

     As if each fleecy vapour cloud

     Were falling as a snowy shroud,
     To form a close enwrapping pall
     For Earth's untimeous funeral.

     " Then all her faith and gladness fled,

           And nothing left but black despair,
        Eve madly wished she had been dead,

           Or never born a pilgrim there.
        But, as she wept, an angel bent
       His way adown the firmament,
        And, on a task of mercy sent,

        He raised her up, and bade her cheer
        Her drooping heart, and banish fear :

     " And catching, as he gently spake,

          A flake of falling snow,

     He breathed on and bade

       A form and bud and blow
     ''                               ; it            take
                 is
     And ere the flake had reached the earth,
                               a it,
     Eve smiled upon the beauteous birth,

     That seemed, amid the general dearth
     Of living things, greater prize
     Than all her flowers in Paradise.

     " This an earnest, Eve, to thee,'                      ;

           The glorious angel said,                   ;
          That sun and summer soon shall be
           And though the leaves seem dead,
       Yet once again the smiling Spring,
        With wooing winds, shall swiftly bring
        New life to every sleeping thing
       Until they wake, and make the scene
        Look fresh again, and gaily green.'

     " The angel's mission being ended,a
           Up to Heaven he flew          ;

        But where he first descended,              a
           And where he bade the earth adieu,

       A ring of snowdrops formed posy
        Of pallid flowers, whose leaves, unrosy,
        Waved like winged argosy,

        Whose climbing masts above the sea,
        Spread fluttering sail and streamer free.

     " And thus the snowdrop, like the bow
     That spans the cloudy sky,

     Becomes symbol whence we know
     a
                                    a

                                              ;
     That brighter days are nigh
     That circling seasons, in race
     That knows no lagging, lingering pace,
     Shall each   the other
     Till Time's   departing          nimbly chase,
                                       final day

     Sweep snowdrops and the world away."
1838-39.            THE FAIR DEMANDS A SONG.                   183

   A fuller account of the origin of the verses is given to Miss

Abernethy, a lady whose acquaintance he made in the begin
ning of his student life, through her nephew, Dr. Niven. An
intimacy then sprang up with the family at Willow Grove,

which each later year became more close and tender. Miss

Abernethy was truly a second mother to George, but the affec

tion on both sides was usually hidden under a guise of fun of
the most exuberant kind, he representing himself -- in sportive
reference to the difference of years between him and his ma
tronly correspondent-- as her devoted swain. The repetition of
facts given in previous letters, will, we trust, be pardoned, for
the sake of the new dress in which they appear.

                                                                      *' Thursday, Uth A'ov. 1839.

   I" Dearest Jess, -- send you the long promised verses at

last, which you may well before this have .despaired of ever

seeing; but not even a chemist can refuse when the 'fair de
Imands a song.'
                    have spared my own words by quoting these

from Cowper, but remembering that you are not a reader of that

Ipoet's ' Task,' foresee a chance of my quotation being misap
Iplied. For while am using ' fair' as an adjective, in referring

to my dearest Jess ! she may be thinking of ' fair' as a substan

tive (that as she told me in Penicuik, the name of person,is,
place, or thing'), signifying the collection of men, and women,
                it                          is             ;a
and beasts, and roly-poly pins, that assembled at the afore
                                                 '
mentioned town, and so expect me to celebrate the glories ofa

the Penicuik fair. Truly that fair did demand song but did
   not receive from the improvising lips of Rhyming Willie,
it

         a
since dead and become immortal? and was he not rewarded

with dole of bread and cheese which more, perhaps, than
                      ;I a I
Rhyming Wil(lie)son may receive for his labours. So that, hav?
ing seen to the rightful application of my quotation, by which

I  thought to have saved myself the coining of some delicate

compliment and, after all, have had to dedicate nearly page
            ;                                              Ia

to avoid its recurring as slander, or implied but unfulfilled

promise on my own head  may make stride forward, to
                                            a

wards the blotting and blearing of the great expanse of fair
Ifwhite paper, which stands waiting for hieroglyphics.
                                                               have
184  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

Ilong delayed sending you these verses, remember that have

not been, like other of your friends, sailing on the blue Medi

terranean, or drinking in inspiration from the bright eyes of

Inoble Greek ladies, or dancing with Barcelona dames ; but had

to gather what spirit of poetry could from the reading of trea

tises on Heat or questions in Algebra ; to which were added,

grief and sickness about me, to hinder the muse. So that, when

I came to my rude rhyming anvil, and strove to hammer into
Ishape the crude ore that lay in my brain, could never get the

Imetal raised to the red-heat necessary to its being wrought ; or

my hand refused its cunning, and threw the tools away. Thus

verse was slowly added to verse in capricious fashion, the
second last being written first ; and it was not till the pleasure

Iof writing my essay awoke in me some quickness of thought,

that could get my ideas rendered into rhyme.
   " As you may be curious to know what led me to take so odd

Ia subject, shall very hastily tell you how it happened. One

Iafternoon, last spring, after a long day's work in the Laboratory,

at London, set off to a little village in Essex, to pay a visit to
the fair young Quakeress, whose portrait John brought from

ILondon. When was departing, she brought me two snow

Idrops, the first that had flowered, and placed them in my left

button-hole ; and so we parted. As had some eight miles to
walk home, -- the snowdrops in my bosom, and a speculative

Ihead on my shoulders, -- fell to thinking of the flowers, and

wondering whether all plants are equally old, or may not have

Ibeen added in successive tribes, as occasion demanded (see

Lyell's ' Geology") ; and as pondered, some angel, like the one in

Ithe story, whispered in my ear the ' theory' which have just

dedicated to you.

   " It has lain in some cobweb corner of my brain ever since ;

only a single verse being framed, which came into my head one

day when walking to church, but remained brotherless, waiting

for some angel like you to make the other unrhymed thoughts

Ibud and blow, and so take away its loneliness. When got

home that night, however  was the 13th February 1839),
     I

                        (it

                                                                                                               1
put the flowers carefully by; and, being somewhat given to

symbol- worship, folded them up and laid them among my
1838-39.  BOTTLE IMP AND MYNHEER VAN SCRATCH.                185

Ipapers. There found them the other day, when turning over
Imy portfolio. Instead of burning them, thought I would

keep them, and send them to you. They accordingly accom

pany this letter. It is not every day that a lady gets not only

Ia poem, but the very thing on which the poem was written.

So far as learned, poet D. R did not send to Miss Niven the
'spirit of the old man' that came to him, -- wrapped up in
Ibrown paper, or tightly corked in a bottle ! so that there
Ithe advantage of him ; and ask credit for it."              have

   Daniel notes in evidence of the versatility of taste which kept
the balance straight between work and recreation : " Leisure was
found, in spite of much occupation, for an occasional evening

with the poets; and others of his favourite home relaxations
were singing to the accompaniment of the guitar, in which he

then took lessons ; and writing verses, grave and gay. One or
two of his earlier efforts have already been given ; and a

memorial of the poetical pastimes of this season lies by
me now, in the form of a well-filled MS. volume of our joint

rhymes, to which he more than once refers in subsequent

letters.

    " His favourite nom de plume, Bottle Imp, was adopted as his
poetical designation ; and on the title-page of the MS. volume,
among the whims of a miscellaneous emblematic pen-and-ink
sketch, is a large glass flask, out of which an imp struggles to
escape, while thrusting forth one hand with a ' sonnet,' or other
rhyming product in its grasp. An easel behind supports a pic
ture partially veiled, on the cover of which is this title of the
volume and its contents : ' Quips, Quirks, Quodlibets, and Quid

dities, by Bottle Imp and Mynheer van Scratch.' A rhyming

preface, introduction, and errata of quips and quirks follow ;
and it will be seen that after his return to Edinburgh, George
continued to contribute to the joint volume. At a later date,
our cousin James claimed a share in its space, and some beau

tiful poems of one we had learned to love as a brother preserve

 there the few and slight memorials of intellectual gifts of rare
 promise, which were quenched in death just as he reached his
 twenty-first year :--
186  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                         CHAP. IV.

                            ' When life was in its spring,
                              And his young muse just waved its joyous wing,
                              The spoiler came.'

    " Among these youthful productions contributed by our cousin
to the MS. volume is one of considerable length, and rich in

quaint, fanciful imaginings. It is entitled ' The Trance,' and is

' founded on a story told in one of the Fathers, of a monk who
was bewailed as dead, and afterwards awoke in life.

   " The volume is illustrated with pen-and-ink sketches, and
one of the lighter effusions of ' Bottle Imp's' quill may be given
here, though the contents of the book embrace grave and earnest
thoughts, as well as quirks and quiddities :--

                 MERMAIDS' TEARS.

     Pearls are the tears that mermaids weep
     When they their midnight vigils keep,
     For mermaids sigh, and sorrow too,

     IAnd weep, as well as or you.

     Perhaps you've thought, perhaps believed,
     That mermaids, when their hearts were grieved,
     Wept briny tears ; 'tis even true,

     'Tis they with salt the waves imbue.

     But tears more precious must be shed,
     When those whom they have loved are dead,
     The mermen of the deep, whose charms
     Have wiled the mermaids to their arms.

     And nereids catch them in their shells,
     And hide them where the sea fish dwells,

     Till years revolving tint them o'er

     With hues they did not know before.

     Then from the depths of Eastern seas,

     Where dive the swarthy Ceylonese,
     The tiny shell-fish, from the rude rock torn,
     Through waves unwelcome, to the light is borne.

     The unconscious casket of a gem,        eyes
     Dies to adorn a diadem ;
     And tears that trembled in a mermaid's
     Become an English lady's prize.

   "The advantages of Professor Graham's laboratory did not

altogether realize George's expectations ; but he attained in
1838-39.     SOUL CARRIED OFF BY GOBLINS.             187

other respects some of his most cherished wishes in visiting

London. Among these may be specially noticed his obtaining

an introduction to Faraday, and his attending one of his brief

Icourses of Lectures at the Royal Institution. To these accom

panied him. The subject was Electricity in some of the aspects
in which it was then receiving his special attention ; and sub

ject and lecturer alike furnished a rich treat to the young che
mist. Faraday delighted him in all ways ; a self-made man,
and yet with a manner so modest, and a bearing so kindly to
the eager inquiring youth ; in addition to all which, he was a
link that seemed to connect him with Sir Humphry Davy.
So those lectures on Electricity, in the Albemarle Street Institu
tion, were a pleasure of the highest kind, and full of profit to
him afterwards in various ways."

  During this winter the illness of his cousin Catherine had

caused much solicitude. For above twelve months, she had

been almost entirely confined to bed, and George's letters abound

in the kindest messages to her. Mary's health was also indiffe

rent ; and dark clouds hung over the household. Ou March

I26th, he writes : " How very mournfully you are circumstanced

at home ! shall soon be with you and find myself in the midst

Iof all the sorrow ; till then, am the occasional sufferer from
Isad reflections, but do not revolve these subjects half so often
Ias should do, being engrossed too much about far less profit

Iable things. My Thesis has knocked everything else out of my
head.     had a severe fit of sickness after finishing which doesa
                                                 it,
not seem to have left my head clear yet." Referring to this letter
                                                I
he says, ten days' later:I

    " My dear Mother, -- sent you letter by fellow-chemist,
                               a

who left this for Edinburgh, which suppose you have got by
                               I

this time you will have found  it      very heavy, stupid pro
          ;
                                    a

duction, altogether unfitted to excite pleasing emotion, and
                                       a

very unlike the sort of letters generally send you.   suppose
                            I

II  had been suffering under the reaction which succeeded to the

  toss and ferment had been in for three weeks before, and that
             I

    was paying the penalty of overtasking my powers and work
188                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                               CIIAP. IV.

ing double tides. Whatever be the explanation, the case was

this, that my soul was carried away by goblins grim, and hurled

with a splash into the Red Sea, where it was tied to one of the

rotten wheels of Pharaoh's broken chariot, now converted into a
mermaid's bathing coach. There it was left lying, ' deeper than
plummet ever sounded,' many millions of fathoms deeper, for it

was converted into lead, and not having a string attached to
it

                                             a

                                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                                    it,
   dived to the bottom in moment of time and all the horrid

ugly creatures that are permitted to torment ill- regulated

minds, learning from the dull air of the mansion (the body)
that the soul was not at home, took up their abode in its de

serted temple, and indulged in their hideous cantrips, till even
   'bottle imp' was tired of their presence. It was doubtless
a
                                           a
                                                                                          a

                                                                                                               a
some corner of my mortal parts that had got out of repair,

lobe of the liver, or pouch of the stomach, or fold of the

midriff, which set the faculties that are under their influence

out of balance, and tormented me. In these circumstances, an

ounce of Epsom salts will effect more than an aphorism of

Plato.  am now in possession of my soul again, not to the full
        I

                a
as good as before, but still tolerably well and so I'll try and
                                                     III a ;
write you more readable letter than the last was, though the

brevity of time tells me shall be able to scribble very little.I
   " wrote to father yesterday, in reply to kind letter from
   I

him, saying that should certainly return at the time stated.
                   I                                                it

   must return immediately and study for my passing.I                 is I
   " They must all excuse me not writing, as shall be so soon

home, that may much better keep what have to say till
        I                                                                   I

come home, than hastily scrawl from here.                           shall moreover
                                                 it

have many things to do before leaving London, and writing

won't at all suit me, in these circumstances. Three or four

days ago the weather was pleasantly warm to-day                           freezing
                                                     ;
                                                                 ;
cold, and snow falling thickly on the paths all the pretty
        a

                       is

                                           ;
flowers will be killed, and the young buds be nipt by this un
timely frost. A little squirrel, that lies near me, has played

about short while but even his warm fur was too thin to shut

out the cold, and he has crept into his dormitory, and rolled

himself round and round and round till nothing but the tip of

his tail peeps from beneath his bedclothes. How cold and sad
             SUMMONED HOME IN HASTE.  189

Iand dull everything seems ; have had nothing but disappoint

ments, cruel disappointments, all winter, and you have had

disease and death for your portion.

  I"Poor B-- L--. She was a noble, lovable creature, and

since you first wrote of her illness, have ever hoped bravely
that she would recover ; but Mary's last letter has extinguished

all hope, and left me nothing but a horrid apprehension of grief

spread through many families, and hearts wounded irrecover

Iably. She is ripe for the kingdom of heaven, and too good for
this world.  shall learn to think of her fate in this light, but
I cannot yet. Write soon, and let us know how her ailment

I Igoes on.
    " Before
             come home to you, shall run into Kent for two

Idays, and snatch a look at the old cathedrals.

   " You are better, am very glad to hear, and Mary is better,
and Jeanie and Jessie are well, all which things do greatly

Igladden me, and enhance the pleasure with which contemplate
Imy return. Meanwhile, remain, your sincerely attached son,

                                                                                 " George."

   His departure was unexpectedly hastened by intelligence of
Catherine's death. Though prepared in a measure for this sad
news, yet the brothers were taken by surprise ; so great is the
marvellous change from life to death, we can but very rarely

feel otherwise. All plans were cast aside, and George hastily

packed up his books and papers, bade good-bye to the friends
he had made in London, writing a special farewell to the friend
for whom the "Snowdrop" verses were written. Her society

and music had proved a pleasant relaxation from study, and he
begged her acceptance of his favourite guitar, never again re

suming that instrument. Hastening to Edinburgh by way of
Liverpool, he reached it in time to bear a part in the last sad
rites with which his cousin's remains were committed to the

dust, in that hallowed spot, where now he and two others of the
group of mourners present on that April day are laid to rest.

   The first letter to Daniel after leaving him, tells us of his

journey and home-coming.
190  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                  CHAP. IV.

  I I" shall never succeed in telling you all wish to do, even
Ithough a huge folio of paper lies before me. But shall run the

best chance of interesting you by beginning at the beginning.
" A right famous and rapid bowl we had along the railway,
Iin most comfortable carriages. You remember,
                                               daresay, the

young Irishwoman intrusted to my care by her weeping mother.

Poor thing, a first child, and it only five months old, so dis

Itressed her with maternal fears, that strove to alleviate her

unnecessary alarm, and soon succeeded by a few little atten

tions, such as holding Fanny's bonnet, and getting its mamma

a drink of porter, halfway ; but above all, by devising an

Iarrangement of my handkerchief so as to shade the baby's eyes

from the carriage lamp, won for myself all of her heart she
could spare from her baby and its father, --that quantity, how

ever, not being measurable even by our chemical scales. It

would have pleased you --it did me-- to see the warm-hearted

young mother gaze on the little baby's face, and then kiss its
Icheek, to gaze again, and try, as imagined, to trace its father's
Ilineaments in its tiny features. This was my notion.
                  Iwould say to it.                    don't

know what Mrs. G                             did not rest till 1

saw her fairly accommodated in an inn, and then with a thou

Isand thanks, reached the boat destined for me.

  I" may pass over the weary town of Liverpool, a most dull,

stupid place, and the voyage to Glasgow, which was enlivened

by a sight at once (like many scenes in real life) sad and mirth
ful, of an Ayrshire carpet-weaver, who, having been drinking,

I Iwent through the whole phases of intoxication in so charac

teristic a way, that shut the book was reading (Campbell's

I' Life of Siddons'), and sat watching the real actor with a feeling

of amazement, and must say pleasure, which does my heart

no credit ; but it proved Shakspere's characters to be so truly

I Idrawn, that think did right to read the lesson which a
Ifoolish fellow-mortal afforded me.
                                     got into Glasgow about

six o'clock on Wednesday evening, and received, as usual, a

most kind hearty welcome.
" Catherine was little altered ; a little more emaciated than
I Iwhen left her, but serene and beautiful.
I Ilike her mother, as remember her.         thought her very

                                      kissed the cold, blue
133S-3).                   THE CASTAWAY.                                                                  191

Ilips, and wished had but been in time to have bidden her

farewell. Every cause of sorrow that embittered her life seems

to have been lessened, as she prepared for death, and the kindly,
affectionate feelings she had for all of us were in full force. . . .

I remember the thousand kindnesses she showed me, from her

earliest days ; the generous presents which afforded a thought

less schoolboy the means of gratifying many an eager desire,

and the manifold unnameable favours freely rendered to an

often ungracious recipient. The dead are hallowed. To think

                           with me, to think only of their love
of them as they lived,  is,

                          I it if
                                              iIf

                                                                                                       ;
and their noble qualities;  the image of faults comes back

with their memory to me, so swiftly reminds me of my un-

kindnesses to them, that dare not, even            would, think

evilly of them. Catherine suffered little before her death she

retained her intellect unimpaired to the last, and with most

steadfast declarations of firm hope in Christ, increasing as death

drew near, she sighed away her spirit, and went to be with

God. James was desolate and woebegone, but by timely con

versation  :I  have won him to brighter mood, and he daily
                            a

grows more cheerful."

A          visit paid within the next fortnight to the Exhibition

of Paintings by Living Artists, which each spring enlivens the

citizens of Edinburgh, gives rise to impressions communicated

I a by in   letter to Daniel, which cannot fail to be read with interest
       a
         many --
         " Harvey's picture, The Castaway,' to be engraved. It
                        '                 I is                                                            is

fine picture.  I  am every day more and more convinced how

little judgment, and taste, and knowledge have about pictures.

only care for what touches my feelings.         I  am quite dead,

from mental dulness, to the dexterities and resources of the art.

But this picture influenced me as the Titian' in the Louvre did'

Haydon.    I   looked over my shoulder, and past Mary's arm, and

through the doorway, till my eye fixed on the solitary figure of

the helpless sailor, huddled up on some broken spars, arranging

his position so as to elevate fluttering rag as signal, while
                            a
                                                              a

his curved hand shaded his eye from the lurid glare of a sun

setting in blood. A lean, famished dog standing shivering on
192  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

the brink of the unstable raft is his only companion ; and this
simplicity in the elements of effect is one great charm of the

picture. The newspapers, and a host of fools here, have found

that the man is a ruffian by his look, because, like me, he forgot

in parting from home to take his razor with him. But this is

all nonsense ; and if it were truth, it would not alter the value

of the picture, for the instinct of life is probably doubly strong

in ruffians, who have no hope beyond the grave. Anyhow, the

intense eager look he casts towards the unbroken horizon, fills

up my conception of such a scene. The sea is that waveless,

Isilent abyss, which Coleridge's ' Ancient Mariner' was becalmed

in. should not wonder though Harvey had been taking a

spell at that glorious poem. They say he painted it in ten days.

Such happy thoughts are not born every day.

  I" have much, too, to say in favour of David Scott, a great

favourite of mine. He has a picture of ' The Alchemist,'

representing Paracelsus among his pupils. It is a speaking

picture : in the students' faces are shown all the moods, from

utter carelessness to intense attention, which may be seen in

the hall of any College, only they are exalted, and made

delicately characteristic by the touches of genius. Two happy,

dark-haired Italians lean listlessly over their lutes, telling by

their looks that they have found in love and mirth an elixir of

life which could not be surpassed by the alchemist's art. A

sceptical Englishman near them looks incredulously on a mystic

vial which his friend declares to be a portion of the aurum

potabile, the all-powerful liquid which was to make us immortal.

There are few now-a-days who would drink that draught could
I Ithey have the refusal.
     am sure should not on any terms ;
I Ibut think might press a teaspoonful on some of my dear
Ifriends to call them back from the precincts of the grave, that
might have again those who make life worth possessing. Well,
Iof the picture. It is absurd to try describing the picture ; but
  am so haunted by the remembrance of the earnest, impassioned

air of a young enthusiast, who records on his tablets every wild

word of his master : the perplexed look of a grave old knight

who has lost the alchemist in his extravaganza, and is catching

the sound of a single familiar word here and there, but at such
1838-39.                   PARACELSUS AND HIS PUPILS.                        193

lohg intervals that he knows not what the teacher would be

after ; the shrewd air of a wily monk, who has eyes and ears

only for the exaggeration and positive deceit which he sees the

adept is mingling up with some real and more fancied truth ;
lastly, there is introduced, with excellent effect, a fool, the jester

of some court, who has wandered witlessly in, and sits on the

bench in his motley coat, with glaring, wondering, meaningless

stare, baffled in all his attempts to understand what is going on
Iin his presence.
                           have forgotten all about some dames of high

blood and great learning who crowd the porch, except that they

are as ugly as bluestockings are privileged to be. The colouring

of this picture like Scott's former ones, unpleasant, but that
                           is,

                                 it I

                                           is
                                                    a
forgotten in the boldness and effectiveness of the execution.
isAllan's 'Slave Market' utterly disliked. It
             a                                                 is       cold, stiff
                                                                  it a
thing, painted so smoothly and softly that makes quite im
                                                          it

possible to forget that         a picture. You cannot be startled

into forgetfulness of its being fiction for moment there                       is
                                                          ;    ;

                                                            a
no starting of the figures out of the canvas no depth of shadow

to give bold effect. It seemed to me merely pictorial inven
                                                       a

tory of the wardrobe of Mr. Allan, P.E.S.A., daintily displayed

on good-looking men and women, but as for exciting the emotions

there nothing to sympathize with. The Exhibition               ;           as
I                                                                            IIa
             is                                                       is,
                        a
whole, very, very poor. The committee of the old Association

are accused of senseless conduct about the pictures of this

don't know, but these are all the ideas got from the Exhibition.
                                                       I

                                                           I
would pay shilling any day to get as many new ideas, and

am contented. But on former occasions                          have got better
                                                                        a

shilling's worth out of them."

A  supplement to his Thesis was the first work that occupied

George on his return home, followed afterwards by study for his

last examination for the degree of M.D. Early in May, he tells
his brother, " am zealously prosecuting my professional hopes
                II
                         I
                                    NI
                                                    I

                                                                 I

                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                                                               ;
and, weighing domestic and professional hopes together, shall

have no reason to regret that came back here. This                         the

place for me, Daniel. The advantages for studying are very

great, and am getting acquainted among the enthusiasts in

science here, whom too much neglected.                         shall look among
194                     MEMOIR OF CEOEGK WILSON.           CHAP. IV.

Imy peers now for welcome and assistance ; and trusting to

enthusiasm and perseverance, do hope for a name and a fame
among them, worthy of myself, and of us all." A pen-and-ink

                                by an artist friend,  accompanies this
                                " How like you the    enclosed likeness
Iportrait of George,    taken
                        says :
letter, of which he
of your loving and loved brother?                          shall here tran

scribe for your quiddity book, if they are worthy of
                                a                                                  some
                                                                              it,
linesI                wrote on Sunday to Polyanthus, which mother loved.
                       " How the rich cups of that so lovely flower
                     '          Lift to the heavens their purple velvet leaves,!
                                                        :
                           That every petal freshened by the shower

                                  Which falls in dewdrops, from its slanting eaves,

                           May feel the warm sap through its vessels run,
                           In glad obedience to the glowing sun

                        " Each fragrant chalice breathes upon the air
                                 A scent more sweet than censer ever flung

                           In clouds of incense, blinding all the glare
                                  Of garish candles, when the mass was sung

                             The long-drawn aisle,' and the cathedral's gloom,

                           Ne'er felt the richness of such rare perfume.

                        " With forms more graceful, and with vestments clad,

                                    Such as the haughty prelate never wore,

                            They give to God an adoration glad,
                                  That well might teach us all our souls to pour

                           In high-souled, earnest, heaven-uplifted prayer,
                            To Him who doth for all his children care.

     " We are all pretty well. Mary not so well as she was but
                        is

                                        a
                                             a

                                      I
                                                      I
                                                          I;
some cold east winds having blown by, look for her soon being
better again. Write to mother soon. She tells me am not

improved by my visit to London, which of course means, am

worse. Don't you earn this character."

   The next letter to Daniel gives choice specimen of the fun
ever ready to brim over on the slightest occasion. The British
Association met that year in Birmingham, and the possibility of
attending its meetings alluded to.

   " Is not this letter- writing poor, lean, meagre apology for

talking and laughing, and looking happy and looking sour, and
being merry, and being perverse, and sitting side by side, and
drinking and smoking, and seeing each other's faces, and watching
eyebrows going up, and eyes sparkling, and brows knitting, and
1838-39.     'TROUBLES OF A LETTER WRITER.                                            195

lips pursing and pouting, and lines moving from corner to corner
of your friend's face ? And what aid lendeth the sketch of my

viznomy in helping you to realize my April-day countenance,
and fill up the blanks ofmy written talk to you, by thinking of

the look which tells the sentence before the words come, and

might teach us to keep our lips closed, and be content to make

Ifaces at each other? A young fellow whom met at Willow
IGrove the other evening, asked if were not the brother of one

who had gone to London. He had met you somewhere, and he

dilated at great length on the ' exceeding amiability of                              !!
IHang amiability ! get daily more afraid of what would be
Ibetter christened ' selfish indolence.' think better of perverse-

ness, and eschew the friendship of every one who does not, at

Itimes, take indulgence in pride, or satire, or some other mis
named vice of wicked human nature.  will become a Free
IMason, or learn the Egyptian hieroglyphics.
                                              will invent a

system of symbols, and chalk down eyes and noses, and lips
and brows, and tell my tale by some other way than blots and

blurs, and stops and commas, and scrawly sentences. It is no

use writing you news ; every fact is twisted and set awry before
it reaches you. Our epistles always set off at the same time,
and, like the fleets of Bonaparte and Nelson, which crossed each

other in the dark seas some half dozen times and did not know

it,

                                                      iIf
    come athwart each other, and pass on to spread false intel

ligence among us. A great pile of unanswered questions weigh

down my faculties, and would rub the nib off my pen                                   tried

to reply to them. Think not that you know anything about us

here. Publish nothing that reaches you. Be very wary of
reflecting on the ideas you gather from my letters. The very

moment after send letter to you, something arises to alter
          I
            I

                II
                               a
the truth of what have written and the next morning letter
                                  ;

                                     I

                                                                   ;

                                                   I
                                                      aI

                                                                                   a
comes from yourself, which by half anticipating, yet in different

way, what had been writing about to you, tumbles me down

from the height of satisfaction, where had been regaling myself
with the idea that had cleared scores with Daniel. And yet

the crossing of letters (not ladies' crossing, which love not)
sometimes effects good, as in the present case for, when wrote

the last letter, had abandoned the idea of going to Birmingham.
          I
196                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.          CHAP. rv.

But your most kind, welcome, very delightful letter urging it on

Ime, and reminding me of what, in the ungeographical cast of

my brain, had absolutely forgotten--the nearness of Birming

ham to London, has set me a thinking*again on the matter, and

I Ithink shall be able to accomplish it. Although my plans
Iare still green and immature, write that the damping of your

Ithoughts on seeing me, which my last letter may have occasioned,
may be effaced by the shadow at least of a hope.     shall not

stay long in Birmingham ; probably come away before the end

I Iof the time. Samuel Brown will go up with me (if go ; if

don't, he says, he will not either), and he'll go on to London too ;

so that, if things work well, we'll give you enough of our poor

Ipresence.

  " If had been brought up at the desk in the ' Br.-Sir' one-
Ipage school of correspondence, would stop here, having written

Iwhat took up the paper to tell you about ; but, if you oblige
Ime to write letters to you, you must read all write you. And
Ihaving discoursed largely on rational matters, like an oracle,

Imust now have a little room allowed me for some antic gambols.

  have had a huge share of misfortunes lately, all of which have

Iconcerned my upper works. They have been capital occurrences ;
and have come nigh unto affecting of my brain.       am still,

however, lucid, and take the opportunity to record them for your
I Ibenefit.
     think forgot, some long while ago, to tell you that,
Iwhen one evening, ' high as heaven exulting,' clomb Arthur
ISeat, a breeze, an envious puff, whirled my good hat ' sheer o'er
the crystal battlement' of the lofty pinnacle.    rushed in

     it
                        it,

                   I
desperation after       but the hat, having taken side chase
                                     ;

                                        it I
                                                            a
                                                 IaI
before descended (?), was whisked out of sight before could

follow in hot pursuit.       galloped down to the Hunters' Bog at

break-neck speed, but all to no avail (here want line from
Gray's Elegy, written in anticipation of this event, to the effect,

Nor on the hill nor in the bog was he) no hat could see, and
'

            a

         I

                              a

                 it ' I

                                 it
no hat did find.        strongly fancy that ascended, and was

borne aloft by some cross wind' to the limbo of vanity, which,

as according to Milton contains monks' cowls, could never

refuse place to good twenty shillings' stuff hat, not much the
Ifworse of wear.
                        was refused admittance there, incline to
                                                  I
1838-38.           ADVENTURES OF A HAT.                                                                   197

the idea that it went up among the stars, and forms a new con
Itstellation.
               would probably settle upon the locks of Berenice,

whose tresses have too long ' wantoned in the wind' not to feel

glad of such a covering. You remember who taught us about
' Coma Berenices.' I'll speak to the Astronomer-Royal when
I'm in London, and set him to point his telescope in that direc

tion. It would quite suit Sir James South for a new letter in

Ithe Times. Well, got a new hat, and thought to treat it

handsomely ; but one day, in Princes Street, it took advantage

of a favouring gale to bounce off my head, and after rattling

along, to the great delight of the lookers-on, for nearly a division,

was captured, with a compound fracture of the upper edge. A

Icap doctor (not a capped one), by means of a ligature, healed the

breach ; but, as can assure you, it was never the same since.

This injury to its upper storey deranged its intellects ; and the

Iconsequence, the fearful consequence was, that when was

seduced by John Niven into entering a bathing coach, two days

ago, my hat took advantage of my head not being in it to rush

with insane energy into the waters. Nor was this enough, for
not content with suicide, it strove to commit murder by dragging

in with it my inoffensive gloves. After being two or three times

overwhelmed among the waves, and battered on the steps of the

Imachine, it was dragged out, carefully wiped, and being planted

on my head (which it kept cool) it dried as walked up, --
doubtless to the great delight of the passers-by. John Niven's

hat, actuated by a generous impulse, bolted in after                                                      but
a

   I

                                a

                     I

                                                                                    ;

                                  I
                                                                                   a
                                                                                           it,
                                                                                     it
suffered little, having been quickly rescued by its vigilant

master.   must have gossamer at three-and-ninepence."
The next letter says, " have offered myself as lecturer for

the Philosophical Institution here but fear all chances are

gone there. They propose to let the Association lie dormant

for couple of years, and give the folks time to digest what

they have learned. In truth, last winter did not get on swim

mingly, owing to the absence of popular speakers, and they do

not wish to try again. However, was told by the Secretary
a

           I

                     it

                 iIf

                                   it

                                  I

                                                                 a

                                                                                                       ;

                                               I
nd Treasurer that  gave them in syllabus of my proposed

course, they should give  every attention this shall do.

Failing this, shall lecture somewhere else, write papers, teach
MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                  CHAP. IV.

Ichemistry even in a boarding-school ; anything, so as am kept
Iamong the retorts and crucibles. Whatever happens shall not

Ireg"reMt eLaonnwdhoinle,andhaitvseadavlmanotsatgefisn. ished a supplement, as long as
Imy essay, from which hope for credit, as it is thought highly
If I Iof among the good people here.
                           write any more must

give over telling truths and take to lies, such as that pussy

I(whom would have called Miss Hamlet, had she not inten

tions of early marriage), i.e., Lady Othello, sends her love to
Bob, not Bob H., but Bob Grimalkin ; and I, imitating her

Christian example, send kindest love to you and to all friends."

On May 24th a postscript to a letter is as follows :--
"The examinators at Physicians' Hall have rejected one of

the presidents of the Medical Society, and a great star among

the students to boot. This frightens us all, and will explain

my hasty, horrible scrawling. Samuel Brown has passed his

first examination. Poor B  is no better.
  I" As you have so much labour on your hands, shall tell you
I Ia little incident learned the other day. have overdrawn my
Ibank in the article of sense, and so add a piece of real non

sense. You must know by name a certain medico, Dr.                ,

who gives people certificates although they do not attend him,

and lives in a very sorry fashion, being in truth a misbegotten,

ill-conditioned, crack-brained knave. Well, the other day, he,

as is his wont, marched out at the head of a crew of raffs, bent

on the capture or destruction of weeds and wildflowers. Having

gained the wood of Colinton, they sat down on a bank to

examine a flower, and while the doctor was explaining the

envelopes of the plant, and descanting on them, one of his sa

tellites, more curious about the Doctor's own outward covering,

saw with some surprise his preceptor's coat buttoned close to
his chin, and his bare wrists sticking out at his cuffs. ' Doctor,'

quoth the pupil, 'where's your shirt?' 'Tout, tout,' was the

Ireply, 'just where it should be' (by which suppose the Doctor

meant, hanging over the back of a chair at his garret fire ;
although, as you will see from the nature of the case, the State

Paper Office, which holds so many documents valuable to prove
1 533-39.  EXCELLENT TALES.                                             199

or disprove anything, might be searched in vain for those im
portant records, yclept in law phrase ' washerwomen's bills,' to

authenticate this idea). The question was repeated, and the

reply; and at last the youthful philosophers, determined to
have ocular demonstration, stripped the Doctor, and behold,
like the happy Irishman in Sultan Serendib's tale, he had no
shirt at all ! To prevent any bad consequences from the

exposure, the Doctor was immediately taken to the nearest
public-house, soaked outside and in with whisky, and sent
home preserved in spirits."

                                                                               " June 22, 1839.
   " As my last letter was steeped to the brim, and overflowing

with egotism, my present one shall treat of other folks, and

Itheir  passing prospects. .  ..       as  he  came  home,  to  go  up  for

   "    urged John Niven,     as soon

his examination. He arrived last Saturday, adventured passing
Ion Wednesday, and is now half an M.D.
                                               don't know whether
I mentioned that David Williamson passed the day before

me [the first examination for M.D.] Anyhow, we three callow
doctor chicks, as you rightly christen us, had a grand chir
Iruping together last night at having broken our shells.
                                                                    was

purveyor of crowdie.

  I" have learned a most excellent tale, illustrating the strange
Ifancies which monomaniacs take, which think will at least

amuse you. A young medico was calling the other day on an

old dame in the west end of Princes Street, and found her sitting

at tea, the tea- cups being placed on the table without an inter
vening tray. ' You'll be surprised, sir,' says she, ' to see me

without a tray ; but you see, Dr. So-and-So took me once up to

Ia tinsmith in the Lawnmarket, and japanned all my arms, and

since that time canna bide a tray.' Some conversation fol

lowed this announcement, and the old lady volunteered the ac

count of the beginning of her monomania.                    liked weel,

  I" ' You see, sir,' says she, ' my only sister that
Idied, and was sitting at the fireside, thinking on my sister,

Ihonest woman, that was lying dead in her coffin on the bed

beside me. And heard, all of a sudden, an unco noise in the
200            MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.   eiur. iv.

Ibed, and when looked, sir, my sister (that was dead and gane)

was sitting up in her coffin looking about her. Aweel, sir, she

got out o' her coffin, and cam ower the bedside, and went to the

tapmost lang drawer, and took out a cambric pocket napkin,

and wiped her nose, and then she went and put it in the bag for

the dirty claes that hung upon a nail in a corner. And after

that, sir, she climbed into the bed, and got into her coffin, and

straighted hersel' in and pu'd the lid ower her, and laid down
                        it,

                          I
quietly. Weel, you see, was in an unco fright, and ran and
                                          a

                                               I
got the undertaker, tell't him what had happened, and asked
him what was to be done. And he says to me, " We'll no let
her rise up for that again " so he asked me for white cambric
                      is ! ' I
pocket napkin, and he pit in the coffin and nailed down the;
                               it
lid. Weel, Sir, when was sitting next night at the fireside,is

didn't hear my sister that was dead (honest woman), Hawing
aher nose in the coffin
                        That              the most extraordinary story
    II                                    I

                                                   I
have heard for this long time, and long and loud laughed
when heard it. It gravely related and believed by the old

woman, whose mind was probably overthrown by the death of

  beloved sister.
   " For myself (for must have little egotism), the Philoso
phical Association gives no lectures of any kind next winter, so
               I
                           IIa            have promised, in the mean
my offer could not be accepted.

while, to assist Skae in the chemical part of his Medical Juris

prudence Lectures, and Jameson, hear, wants an assistant for

his journal."

   The much dreaded ordeal in anticipation being safely passed,
George announces the fact, with particulars, to several members
of the family absent from home --
           Ia
                 I
                      !) I

                                                                   :

                                  I
                                                             I
" My dear Daniel, -- shall never more, rightly or wrongly,

divide with you the title of Mr., for am now a physician (three

cheers and hurrah having passed the dreaded inquisition

yesterday, so that am not twenty- four hours old at the time

write you      did not intend or expect to go up to Physicians'

Hall for two weeks yet, and had made almost no preparation,

having been writing my Thesis, and writing letters and making
1838-3P.           EXAMINATION FOR M.D.                                                                            201

out abstracts for Samuel Brown, and procrastinating in the ex

Ipectation of getting John Niven's assistance. Now can offer
assistance to him, and help him in his difficulties. It was a

Imuch more simple thing than expected, and it had need to
Ihave been, for only studied a week for but that was very
          I

                      I

                                             a

                                        I

                                                                  ' it,

                                                 I
                                                                                                                a
hard week's work.      began Thursday before last in the after

noon, and worked on that day and every succeeding one up to

yesterday, thirteen hours day, beginning at nine o'clock, and

getting to bed at one o'clock am.    contrived to go twice

through a huge octavo of 600 pages, of Practice of Physic,'

another of 700, besides smaller books innumerable. On the

Sunday, went through the morning service of the Prayer Book
at home, and then took to the Surgery, which nearly finished

that night.
   " The only one of the examinators who bothered me much

was Hamilton but he smiled, told stories, and answered his
               I;
own questions, and declared himself quite satisfied, the which

I II  did not contradict, although, when the examination was over,
      apologized for having answered so ill, as had been working
    at chemistry all winter. He would not, however, hear me said

      had answered quite well so that must fain lay that unction
                       ;             I                 ;
to my wounded pride, which does not, however, suffer much on;I;
                        I
                                  a                 ;      I
                              I
this subject.      was more fortunate with Home, who took me

on the very subject had made particular revision of on the
                   aI
    morning of the examination, viz., measles, smallpox, scarlet
    fever, and the like, in which perfectly succeeded in satisfying

the gentleman, as far as his deafness would allow him there
are worse faults than that last in an examinator and when he

    asked me some inconvenient questions about skin diseases,

    led him away to more familiar subject. Dr. Traill ques

    tioned me regarding the differences between the appearances

    when men are hanged by the neck till dead, and when they

    are strangled on the ground by rope twisted round their
                       a

    throats --in short, on the philosophy of burking   amply satis

    fied him on all these pleasing topics, and was sent from him

    with high commendations. Dr. Christison let me very easily
    off, with few words about creosote and prussic acid. Sir
          a
                a
    Charles Bell, most gentlemanly, kind examinator, gave me                                                       a
                     202                    MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                      CHAP. IV.

'I                   Ifew questions regarding the diseases for which legs are cut off.
  I a iIs,
                     And here am waiting only for the mystic touch of the medi
           is a is, acating cap to stand forth to the world-- a physician ! "What the
                     exact etiquette as to the assumption of the title before capping

                           don't know, but as have paid the fees, make no scruple
                     of fully doctorating myself Tell any ladies who are about to
                     write me, that any epistles addressed Mr. Geo. Wilson, will be

                     sent elsewhere."
                                            !)                       I
                                                                             I
                                             I
                                                    aI                                             !

                                                               is,                 I
                                                                  a                    I
                     " My dear Sister Mary, --When last wrote you, told you

                     was physician grub, a caterpillar eating of the coarse food

                     which suits the palate    of an imperfect animal.                                    am nowIa
                     winged butterfly, that
                     and hurrah                                      passed physician  (Three cheers

                        " Yesterday, between   the hours of one and three o'clock,

underwent the transformation, and emerged from my chrysalis

                     state, leaving my case (i.e., £21) behind me, and soared aloft
                     (that walked, did not very well know how) into the blue
                     empyrean (i.e., along the pavement leading from the College to
                     Gayfield Square), in mood of mind which only those who

have tasted of the horrors of an eternal caterpillarity (i.e., of

being sticked doctor) hovering before them, can appreciate.
                     But will close my wings, as yet unsoiled and unfeathered, and

                     come down to the earth, that                    to say, will remember that
                                                                     is is

                                                                              I
                                                                                    II
                     this my right hand, and that my left,' that am sitting in

                     an arm-chair, writing my dearly beloved sister Mary, who                             ;

recovering her health among the breezes that float over the                                                   is

rugged Ochils.                                                                          am now an
   " Well, then, in calm and sober seriousness,

                     M.D., with bright and beautiful visions of gold-headed canes

                     held out to my grasp of long, tapering fingers, put past muslin
                                            ;

                     curtains, that the doctor may feel the fair invalid's pulse of

                     tendered guineas, and received bank notes, besides honours

                     showered on my laurelled head and tale of names added to
                                                                     ;

                                                                                a
                                                                                                       a
                     my Christian cognomen, sufficiently long to draw saint from

                     heaven,    he got entangled among the A's, and B's, and Q's,
                     I

                            if
                     and S.S.S.
                        " am overflowing with the milk of human kindness to every
1838-39.  A. PHYSICIAN GRUB.                                                                   203

one, and prodigal of good words and benefits to all around me.

I am in an ocean of self-contentment, swayed about by every

Ichanging impulse ; am a fettered slave with my limbs set free,

and my ears undoomed to listen to the music of my chains. In

short, though the ' world is all before me where to choose,' and

I am rudderless, compassless, unprovided with ammunition, and

about to taste of ' the fever, and the strife here, where men sit

Iand hear each other groan,' am as light-hearted and as gay as
Iif ' heaven had opened on my view,' and had left ' earth and

its dull cares behind me.'
   " Like the thirsty convalescent from a malignant distemper,

who declared, as he drank his invigorating wine draught, that

Ithe gods knew not what nectar was, for they never had the

' yellow fever,' so say, that you must try the tortures of a

medico's fortnight before his examination, before you can revel,

like a summer fly, in the feeling of perfect liberty.

  I" By working devouringly in gulps at my cabbage leaves,

Imanaged to go over a great deal; and though very nearly
I Iknocked myself up with this sort of work, now that it is over

  am perfectly well satisfied, glad that have the power to work

double tides when there is a need for it."

    From his cousin James, the following congratulatory letter

was received :--

                                                                   "Glasgow, 5th July 1839.

  I" My dear George, -- received the news of your distinc

Ition with very great pleasure, which was the more enhanced as

it relieved me of certain doubts and fears had begun to en

tertain about your success, for Miss Mackay had not heard of

and you know did not hear from home for long while.
I it,
                  I

                                   it

                                              a

                                       aI
                                                                                            a
expected you would have let us know, and the only event of

sufficient importance to have prevented you from doing so,

that occurred to me, was that perhaps, by your close applica

tion, you had so etherealized yourself, that you had evanished

through your window in flash of genius, and were perhaps at

the moment, when my cogitations were employed about you,

twinkling on the tail of the Great Bear.  was debating with

myself whether to put beyond doubt, by personal examina
204  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.   CHAP. IV.

tion of the heavens, when aunt's letter arrived, and certified me

that you had at last been put in possession of the great object

of your ambition. And what was that ? Two letters of the

alphabet ! Nor would this reward which you proposed to your

self have been so contemptible, if those said letters had been

out-of-the-way ones, an A and a Q, two q's, etc., but as for an

M and a D, two of the most commonplace members of the A B c,

I--to think that they should have been so desired, should say
Iyou were the victim of monomania, though could scarcely de

signate by the term monomania what is equalled in its melan

choly nature only by its universality. But when we pass from

the mere letters to what they may imply, how much truth do

we find contained in them ! Passing over the common explica

tion, Doctor of Medicine, we have firstly (synonymous with it),

Man of Decoctions ; secondly, Dedicated to Manslaughter, De

liverer of Many, Deluder of More, Death of Most, and lastly a

Imore agreeable truth, that being a Doctor you are Marriageable.

These, especially those preceding the last, would present to

your attention, hoping that the consciousness of what is thus

implied in the Degree you have obtained may, like oil upon the

waters, serve to moderate the feelings of your joy, and ever, like
the aforesaid oil, remain uppermost in your mind. You will

now be able, nay, in a manner be compelled to take to other

and more congenial studies, for the moment you are struck with

the black cap, it is signified that this is the last step you can

mount in this department of the Temple of Fame; and the

buffet is a gentle hint to move off to some other staircase, where

     is unimpeded by any such restrictions.
     you all possible joy of your pair of letters,
Iyou"rWpirsohgirnesgs                               re
                                J. R"
main your affectionate cousin,

    To which George sends in reply an epistle " hazy, because his
tobacco is all done," in which he dilates on the troubles of the

intermediate state between passing the last examination and
obtaining the title of doctor. Of smoking he was very fond,
and only abandoned its pleasures when compelled by his broken

health so to do. It was no uncommon thing to find the room

in which he and a friend or two were assembled so densely filled
1838-39.     INTERMEDIATE STATE.               205

with smoke, that only the sound of merry voices and shouts of
laughter showed that it was inhabited.

  I" am now, as you know, in my chrysalis state ; while you
Iwere here was a caterpillar, feeding on the docken leaves and
Inettle stalks of physic and surgery ; and now am in the

I Itransition state between the obscure worm and the brilliant
butterfly.   am, as it were, nobody.   doubt momently of

my identity, and hold conversations between myself and my

Inon-self; my Master-ship and my Doctor- ship. Doctor am

I Inot yet, for the mystic medicating cap has not yet physicianed

me. Mr. am not, for have paid out the goodly gold, and

Irun the gauntlet of the searching queries demanded at the hands
of aspirants by the doctor-makers.     am neither fish nor fowl,

but some strange hybrid, a human bat (vampire is no bad name

after all for a blood-sucking medico) a two-legged ornithoryn-
chus, a terrestrial merman, a griffin, a centaur, a hippogriff, or
some other ' half-made-up ' piece of vitality, disclaimed by per

fect creatures of all kinds, and only allowed to hover about the

confines, the neutral ground, which belongs to none or to all.

I can get on at home tolerably well, for they call me George ;
Ibut fear to answer the calls of Mr. or Dr. Wilson, and those
who address me seem equally perplexed, -- they beckon me with
I I IDr., and when approach am saluted as Mr.
                                               am a species
Iof chameleon ; change visibly before those who gaze on me.
IIt is an awful state to be in.
                                    have been combating my
Iexistential non-existence with every weapon in my power.
Ihave had my card engraved Dr. G. Wilson, and gaze on it
Ibetimes, when the ignorance of who am comes over me ; the

servant is instructed to cry Doctor to me, whenever she sees me

Imusing ; and this last recipe feel the most effectual of the
I I Iwhole. For a few days after was changed, thought was
I Ifully fledged, and fluttered away, thinking was flying ; but

I Iwas soon brought to my senses, and crammed into my chrysalis
case again.  daily become graver and graver.   see myself

equipped in professional black, gliding about on noiseless tip

toe, bland and courteous, smiling and hoping and fearing, like
Ithe most ancient doctor of them all.
                                       have got a silver- headed
206  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

Icane by way of preparing myself gradually for the solemn grasp

of the gold-headed wand, and find it very useful. On the

Ifirst of August, chosen doubtless because the slaves were set

free then, shall be liberated from bondage, and along with
some hundred more fledglings, for ever resign the dubious title

of medical student, for the dignified one of doctor."

   To a young sister he says --

   " You will have by this time sufficiently gone over the novel

Ities of Paisley, to feel anxious to hear from home, and as
Ifaithfully promised, am here faithfully fulfilling my promise

of writing you. You tell in your very welcome letter that you
dig assiduously in the garden : well, Jessie, dig diligently, you
may chance to alight on some hidden treasure, some ancient
clay vase full of gold coins, and ancient utensils, and moulder
ing bones, such as we saw in the Antiquarian Museum. Or
you may only disinherit a mole of his paternal estate, and oblige
him to emigrate to some Australia, some less crowded and
more genial country ; or you may interrupt a pleasant party of
earthworms, invited to feast on a cabbage stock or a turnip
root ; or break in on the festivities of a nation of ants, cele

Ibrating the birthday of their patriarch, whose name will pro

bably be Antipater (you see write you as a learned lady).

Anyhow, by digging, you will find a treasure, which will be of
more value to yourself, and be more highly thought of by all of
us, than if you stumbled on the seal of old King Solomon which
would give you power over all the genii, and turn the wonders
of Aladdin's wonderful lamp into baby rhymes. By digging,
you will get what we doctors are said not to like in others, a
stock of robust health, which will carry you through the French

lessons, and piano playings, and worsted work, of the succeeding
winter, and perhaps add a whole year to your existence, by
strengthening your bones, and nerves, and muscles. Remember
then, my dear Jessie, there's to be no sewing of ladies' fooleries,
no showing to strangers of new purse stitches, or novel patterns
for footstool covers ; but plenty out- door work, walking and
sunning and working, delving and digging, hoeing and spading ;
in short, you must just take and merit the title of one of the
1838-39.         A TRANSFORMING CAP.                         207

Istrange beauties, whose portrait, daresay, you have seen on

the playing cards, ' the Queen of Spades.'
   " Lady Othello looketh ill ; perhaps she misses you ; anyhow,

she visits me very often, and endangers the safety of my bottles
Iat the window.
                 rather fear she is in love ; but she won't tell

the name of her sweetheart, unless it be ' Miau,' a name which

she cries aloud till the walls ring with her lover's name."

" A great many folks are going to see us capped, especially

young ladies, who desire to behold the wonderful powers of

the velvet cap, which by a single touch can transform a

thoughtless, foolish, wild, and ill-behaved medical student, into

a grave and trustworthy dignified physician, whom mothers
Iand fathers are equally ready to put confidence in.
                                                             doubt

not, Jessie, that though you greatly enjoyed your visit to the

Shows, and now wish yourself joy of the many acquaintances

you made among giants and giantesses, dwarfs and fat boys,

people with white hair and strange eyes, and the like, that you

would wish, notwithstanding, to be here, so as to attend our

capping, and see us give to the winds the empty, foolish, and

useless title of Mr., now far beneath our dignity.

  I" But must not strive to paint in too glowing colours the

delights of sights at home, or you will weary of your present

stay in a place where a great many things may be seen, scarcely

less interesting than many we have here, some of them much

Imore so. Mr. T--, or one of his sons, will take you, doubt

not, to see the looms, those especially set in motion by steam ;

in which, to judge from the interest you always took in our

Iafter-dinner disquisitions anent guns and engines, and clocks

and sun-dials, believe you will be much interested. Indeed,

you should let no opportunity slip of watching the ingenious

mechanical contrivances which abound in a city like Paisley,
Iwhere so many fabrics are woven.
                                   look back with pleasure
I Ion the time spent when was your age, and for years after

Ithat epoch, in becoming acquainted with the construction and

purposes of machinery. For found it then, not only an in

nocent amusement and a profitable occupation of hours spent

idly by others ; but now, when for the latter years of my life
208  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

Imy time has been given almost entirely to other things, have

 still more felt the value of such occupations of time ; for the
 observation of machinery in motion, the mental struggles before

 the mode of action is quite understood, the admiration of the
ingenuity shown in devising beautiful contrivances to effect
desired ends, and still more the endeavour to imitate such or

 similar mechanical adaptations, develops the imagination and
the powers of reflection, it fosters and ripens ingenuity, and all
the while exercises on the mind a silent but salutary dominion,
which quickens its most useful powers. Do then, my dear
Jessie, try to fathom the mysteries of wheels and cranks, and
rods and pinions, and strive to acquaint yourself with the object

for which the wheels move at all, and then the means by which

the desired motion is effected."

    The following description of the capping is from George
Wilson's own pen, and may be new to many of our readers :--

    " The ceremony, which goes among the students of Edinburgh
by the name of 'capping,' is always looked forward to with

great interest, and is the only occasion on which the general
public, including ladies, take part in academical proceedings.
Students of the University of Edinburgh do not wear any aca

demical costume; but on the 1st of August the medical gra
duates of the year, attired in black gowns, resembling generally
those of Oxford and Cambridge, assemble in one of the largest
class-rooms in presence of the principal and professors of the
University, the magistrates of the city, and a large concourse of

spectators of both sexes. The more important parts of the
ceremony, are the administration of a solemn oath to the gra

duates, and the offering up of prayers by the Principal, but as
they are couched in Latin, only a small portion of the audience
can intelligently follow them. An address in English from one

of the medical professors, which is often the occasion of eloquent
appeal and important advice, is always listened to with atten
tion. But in the eyes of the students, the chief and indeed only
essential part of the process is the ' capping,' which is performed

by the Principal, who, as the graduates one by one pass before

him, lays on the head of each for a moment, a velvet cap and
1836-39.  TE MEDICINE DOCTOREM CREO.               209

Iutters the words ' Te mcdicinm doctarem creo!' -- create thee

Idoctor of medicine." A foot-note says in addition : " The cere

mony referred to above, should, believe, in strictness of lan

guage be termed the hatting rather than the capping ; the hat

being the academic symbol of the doctorate ; the cap the sign of
the status papillaris. Each doctor, also, should have a hat for

himself, instead of one serving for all. To modern unacademic
eyes, however, accustomed to the stiff material and towering
dimensions of our awkward hats, the soft and pliant velvet hat

of an older period passes for a cap. Hence the name by which
the graduates of Edinburgh, unversed in the mysteries of the

diversified graceful caps, hoods, and gowns, of the English Uni
versities, distinguish the solitary ceremony at which once in his
college-life, an Edinburgh student of medicine wears for some

two hours a gown ; and for a moment a doctor's hat."1

   On the day following he hastens to share the news with the
" dear and only brother," who so fully sympathized with every
incident in George's career.

   " My last letter was very hurried, ill-arranged, and ill- written ;
the present will be written more leisurely, and will be the more

pleasing to you, as it is likely to contain more that will interest
you than the former did. Yesterday, the 1st of August, I, and

Ia hundred and eighteen more young graduates, were created
doctors of medicine.  send you a list of our names, which you

will find to contain the cognomens of several of your friends

and acquaintances. You will see that Samuel Brown has got

one of the medals ; he is the most deserving of the whole four

who have been thus crowned. The others were all of them

above thirty.

   " You will see that my Thesis and John Niven's were among

the seven given in (by the professors) as worthy of the prize ;

from these Samuel Brown's and Carpenter's were chosen, and

I Iwe must be content with the two stars which flourish at our
names.    never expected a prize, because was soon aware

that S. B.'s was a more valuable chemical essay than mine, and

          i ' Life of Dr. John Reid,' pp. 15, 16.

                      0
210               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IV.

II knew they would not give two chemical prizes. It is some

reward for our three days' work, that was chosen among the

few severed from the 119 as worthy of special regard. Chris-
tison said of my Thesis, that it was ' very ingenious ; ' this he

Isaid to some friend, for he never expressed an opinion to me,

and have no thought of asking him for praise. Hope criti

cised it in public the day before, very cautiously, without com

mitting himself as to its value, but seasoned it with a wholesome

advice about the delicacy of the experiments, and the propriety
Iof their frequent repetition ; but have no thought of taking his
Iadvice, as am quite satisfied with my experiments and my
Iconclusions.
                  have to thank him, however, for making a

groundless objection to one portion, which will induce me to

add another portion to my Thesis, so as to take away the last

prop of the false theory. It will be published soon, i.e., in a

month or two, in the volume to be issued by the University

Club, but separate copies will also be printed ; in truth, it is a
College law, that if a Thesis be printed, so many copies (forty

or seventy) must be sent to the University.

  " It is not every author who is provided with readers in this

I Iway, and spared the necessity of invoking gentle readers and a
generous public.  shall probably (for am restricted as to

Iroom in the Club volume) incorporate a portion of the supple

ment into the text of the Thesis, which begin to-morrow to

remodel, and leave the rest for a separate paper. By publishing

Imy result in two papers, shall have the first and most im
Iportant part, perfect as hope to make it in itself, free from the

objections which may be raised against the second, and might

thus draw down undeserved condemnation on the first. Samuel,

my kind, estimable friend, will probably go to Birmingham ; if

Ihe does, he will read my essay to them, as have no thought of

going thither."

    Thus were the dreams of youthful years to a great extent
realized. Steadily upwards had been the course; unflinching
diligence and sturdy perseverance, surmounting difficulties at
which a less courageous spirit would have quailed. And often,

when looking back on student days, has he in later life ex
1S38 39.  THE SOURCE OF STRENGTH.  211

pressed wonder that he passed unscathed through the tempta

tions thickly besetting a medical student's life, and by means of
which many who shared with him a brilliant noon-day, have
brought an eclipse on their after years, or have sunk in dark
and gloomy clouds below the horizon. Much of George's safety
may be attributed to early training and pleasant home influ
ences ; much also to the happy buoyancy of spirit that never

forsook him, while the eager craving after knowledge left no
room for baser tastes to develop themselves. Had he been
asked to say what shield had proved so efficacious in warding

off evil influences, he would doubtless have reminded us of the
cradle prayer, for him answered as for Joseph, so that " his bow
abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong
by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob." " Have not we

realized," he said to a sister many years later, "in spite of all

our sorrows, and cares, and trials, that we are the children of

many prayers V
212  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                              CHAP. V.

     CHAPTER V.

     WORKING IN HOPE.

     " The subtile chymic can divest
     And strip the creature naked, till he find

     The callow principles within their nest :

     There he imparts to them his mind,

     Admitted to their bed-chamber, before

     They appear trim and drest

     To ordinary suitors at the door."           Herbert.

   When the weary climber of Alpine steeps has reached the
summit to which his toilsome efforts have long been directed, it

is often but to see before him heights still more inaccessible,

defying, yet tempting him to scale them. The past is as nothing
compared with what is to be accomplished, and only a stout

heart and manly purpose will avail. So with the student when
the labours of years are crowned with success ; the end is but a
new beginning, and the goal is harder to be won than in his
first career. But, happily, all looks bright in the future to youth
ful eyes, and hope gives strength to do what to faint hearts would
be impossible. In the ' Life' of Dr. Reid we find George Wilson's
own experience of this time :-- " There are few periods," he says,
" more happy in a young doctor's life than those which imme

diately succeed his graduation. The most diligent student is
thankful to escape from the irksomeness of a round of college,

hospital, or dispensary duties, which occupy nearly the whole

day, during an almost unbroken session of ten months. It can

rarely happen that each of the sciences which occupy the atten
tion of the medical student is equally interesting to him, and
there must always, in a large school of medicine, be some.
1833-40.            A MINISTER'S DREAM.                213

teachers who, more or less, try the patience of their reluctant

listeners. A natural reaction, also, from the exhaustion of pro

tracted study, and the suspense and anxiety which even in the

best prepared, the boldest, and the most hopeful pupils, attend

the anticipation of the dreaded ordeal of examination, arrays the

future in rainbow colours." The necessity, however, of making
his way in the world permitted no rest on the summit of this

Hill Difficulty, but compelled him to scan the horizon in search

of some field for his exertions. The day after graduation, he

tells Daniel of various openings in prospect, such as a promise

of lecturing in the approaching winter to a provincial associa

tion at St. Andrews, an offer made to the Secretary of the Board

of Arts and Manufactures to teach chemistry to the young

artists, and an invitation to lecture at the School of Arts, Had
dington. These schemes all proved visionary, but, " for the

sake of practice, and to be doing something," he hopes to ap

pear as a lecturer on some provincial arena in winter. The

Iletter mentioning those details thus winds up :-- " shall here,

for your amusement, record a story told us by a dissenting
minister. Rowland Hill, once preaching on the necessity of

unity among Christians, told his people that he had a dream the

night before, and thought he had gone to heaven. When he had
arrived there, he asked the angel to show him where the Epis

copalians were, as  he should like to see them first.   The angel
replied that there  were no Episcopalians there. "     Well," said
IRowland, " know a great many who intended and expected to

be here." However, as there were none of them, he asked for

the Presbyterians. There were none of them either ; then for

the Independents, there were none ; then for the Baptists, --

" There are none," was the answer. " Where, then, are the
Christians ?" " Oh, the Christians," quoth the angel, " they

are all here !"

Towards the close of the month, George, in accomplishment

of a cherished desire, attended the meeting of the British Asso
ciation for the Advancement of Science, held that year in Bir

mingham. His friend and fellow-graduate, Samuel Brown,

accompanied him. He had the good fortune, on his arrival,

to be introduced to the well-known philanthropist, Mr. Joseph
214  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

Sturge, and resided under his hospitable roof during his stay
there. The recollections of this visit were always associated

Iwith pleasant thoughts of his host, -- " As amiable, gentle, and

intelligent a man as ever met." Mr Sturge's kindly thought-

fulness for his guests, and the graceful manners of his family
circle, left a peculiarly pleasant impression on George's mind.
He could not fail to enjoy himself, where all conspired to give
pleasure. His joyous letters, written near the door of a con
servatory, seem redolent of the rich and rare flowers beside him ;
while the kindly reception he and Dr. Brown met with from the
members of the Association, left little wanting to the comple
tion of their most sanguine hopes. The only disappointment
arose from finding the men of whose writings he had been a de
voted admirer, fall in some instances so far short of his ideal as
to cause a revulsion of feeling that hastened his departure. Who
can tell what influences for life were then acting on his suscep
tible nature ?

   So deep was the impression left by contact with Mr. Sturge,
that his death, in 1859, seemed the loss of a friend, though they
had never met or held any intercourse in those intervening

twenty years. Lines to his memory, by J. Whittier, gave

George much pleasure by their beauty and their truthfulness.
The length of the poem permits only a slight quotation from

them.

             " The very gentlest of all human natures

                        He joined to courage strong,
                    And love outreaching unto all God's creatures,

                        With sturdy hate of wrong.

               " Tender as woman ; manliness and meekness
                     In him were so allied, .

                    That they who judged him by his strength or weakness
                           Saw but a single side.

              " Men failed, betrayed him : but his zeal seemed nourished

                       By failure and by fall ;
                  Still a large faith in human kind he cherished,

                        And in God's love for all.

              " And now he rests : his greatness and his sweetness

                        No more shall seem at strife ;
                    And death has moulded into calm completeness

                        The statue of his life."
1S39 40.  READS ABSTRACT OF THESIS.                  215

To those who knew George Wilson best, those lines will

seem as applicable to him as to the noble man by whose death

they were called forth.

   In writing home, particulars are given of the appearance at
the Chemical Section of the two friends :-- " We were received

as courteously as we could have wished, and attended to with

Iinterest and patience. You know that spent my time up to

the last moment of leaving, in writing out an abstract of my

Thesis for the Association ; but, after reaching Birmingham, we
found that long papers were in bad odour, and they admitted so

many ladies to the section meetings, that we gave up the idea

Iof reading, and resolved to speak our papers to the people. This

idea was only formed the night before, and had no time to ar

range my thoughts ; but we were fortunately driven desperate,
and so achieved wonders. Our names were read out last, the

day before we were appointed to read ; accordingly, Samuel and

I were sitting together after the section had begun, talking about

our matters, when in came Playfair bounce from the section to

say that my name had been read out, and they were waiting for

I I I Ime. Away ran, and before very well knew where was,

was mounted on a rostrum before some hundred strangers.

IThough somewhat flurried at first, speedily acquired courage

Iand coolness enough to progress satisfactorily, in which com

fortable progression was greatly aided by the attentive, watch

ful looks of some of the more intelligent among them. When
I I If Icame down, Playfair said had done ' nobly.'
                                                     were not
Iwriting for a fond mother's eye, should be ashamed to say all
Ithis ; but know you will be anxious to know everything about
this journey. Professor Graham, Dr. R D. Thomson, the Bir

mingham secretary, and Professor Clark of Aberdeen, all ex
pressed their interest in the paper, and their satisfaction with

its proofs. We both of us intended to have read or spoken be

fore them other communications, but business increased on our

          is,
                                         a

                                    J.
hands (that section business), and we could not obtain an op

portunity of addressing them second time." To George Wil

son's friend and fellow-chemist, Dr. H. Gladstone, London, we

are indebted for detailed notices of many of his scientific inves
216                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                    CHAP. V.

tigations. To these we refer the reader for further mention of

this paper.1

   It was at this meeting that the difficulty experienced by the

younger scientific men in gaining the access they desired to the

society of those whose fame was already established, together
with the expense of hotel charges, led to their dining together

daily at a small tavern where Edward Forbes had established
himself. The tavern happened to be named the "Red Lion,"

and so pleasant was this arrangement found to be, that, before

leaving Birmingham, it was decided that at every future meeting
of the British Association, there should be a Red Lion dinner.

At this dinner George Wilson never failed to be present when it

was in his power, though with the club afterwards formed in

London, and bearing the same name, he had no connexion.

   From Birmingham, George went to pay a short visit to his
brother, not without a faint hope that in the great metropolis a

sphere might be found for his energies, leading to advancement
for the future. " Now for London," is the close of his first letter
after reaching it ; " it is the old place, as noisy and as busy as
Iever : its streets crowded, as when left
                                           with handsome men
                                         : it,I
                                                   I

                                                              is
and beautiful women, and idlers like me, and busy people like
                                     but I'll not say who.
Daniel, and fools like  ;                                                      wonder to
                                  ,
find so little changed, forgetting that have only been fourit
months absent." Daniel reports of him -- " George certainly

very much improved his successful passing, and all other

agreeable circumstances, have combined to produce perfect health
and excellent spirits. He came upon me without the previous

notice he had promised to give, and startled and delighted me

with his company.  I    hope his visit will be productive of good

in every way, and that you will get him home in very, very dif

ferent health and spirits from those in which he returned after

the very uncomfortable winter we shared together before."
   During the three weeks of this visit the brothers spent as

much as possible of the time together, George going out " only
to look after something to do, striving to get wriggled into some
corner, however small, with the hopes of getting bigger hole
                        i
thereafter."                                                                a

                        See Appendix.
1839-40.  INTRODUCTION TO FARADAY.                                                                    217

   Having learned at Birmingham that a college of civil engineers
was about to be formed in London, he made inquiries about
                                                                                                  ;
but found offered no post suitable for him. Other attempts
a                                                                                                             it,
          a

         ; it

                                                           a

                                                                                   ;

                                                   0
fared no better. Wandering for three days in search of Professor

Daniel of King's College, to whom he had an introduction, was

at last repaid by the pleasure of warm and courteous reception.

The long desired introduction to Faraday was also enjoyed, and
of visit by appointment to him George says, -- "Faraday was
very kind showed me his whole laboratory with labours going

on, and talked frankly and kindly but to the usual question of

something to do, gave the usual round                                                 answer, and treated

me to just, but not very cheering animadversion on the

Government of this country, which, unlike that of every other
civilized country, will give no help to scientific inquiry, and will

afford no aid or means of study for young chemists all my

efforts, therefore, have been unsuccessful.                                           This Fog-Babylon

will have none of me, casts me out of her bosom and drives me

home again so am not only attracted to you by ties innumer
          I
                   ;
                 I

                        I
able, but am impelled towards you by repulsions innumerable,

and with the best grace can put on the matter, will be quickly

back among you." Of his return home by steamer he tells
Daniel, -- " The weather was very pleasant all the way, bright

and sunny, and the wind light and in our favour. The company,

moreover, was very pleasant as stalked along the quarter
I

           it a

                          a

                     I
                                                                 ;

                           II

                                                     it

                                                                                                   a
deck was little surprised to hear the names of Carlyle,

Goethe, and Richter, passing from mouth to mouth of group of

gentlemen walking there.   drew nearer and heard the French

Revolution talked of, on which requested leave to join the

conversation, and most interesting one was. The two chief

speakers in turned out to be Mr. Terrot, the Episcopalian

minister of St Paul's, Edinburgh, and Mr. MacDougall, one of the

candidates for the Logic Chair, and two very clever fellows they

are Terrot very intelligent and interesting, and exceed
a
                       a

                             is

                             I

                                                                                               a
ingly frank and free, so that was happily situated. He told us

college incident of English discipline, which may amuse you.

The Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, of which he was                                               a

fellow, was great stickler for every point of etiquette, college

salutation, and the like. One of the graduates, Yorkshireman,
218                                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.              CHAP. V.

famed for his awkward simplicity, chanced to walk up one side

of the College quadrangle as the Master crossed the court
obliquely. The Yorkshireman, with unbent head and unlifted

cap, walked on, whereupon the ceremonious Master addressed
him, ' Sir, have you no salutation to give me ? Are you not

aware that such is required from every student to his college

Isuperior when he meets him ? ' Oh, yes,' said the Yorkshire-

man ; ' but did not meet you ; you were coming diagonally!!!'
The Master added, by way of comment, the declaration, ' You

Iknow that don't care particularly for these things, but College
Irules must be attended to.' ' Awell, my Lord, think very little

o' them mysel,' an answer which fairly overset the Master's

gravity, and he laughed outright." The next letter to Daniel is
given almost entire : --

                                                                               " October 7, 1839.

  I" was most unexpectedly summoned away to Penicuik1 as
I Isoon as reached Edinburgh, so that could not write you

before this time, when Dr. Williamson's departure for London

gives me a welcome opportunity.

  I" did not intend to have gone to the country after coming

home from London, being unwilling to devote more time to

leisure. But John [Niven] was just waiting with an earnest
repetition of the previously-made invitation to go to Penicuik ;

and when he met my attempted refusal with the declaration
that it was a long-made promise, I, who have been to go out
Ievery season for the last four years, could not refuse, and so
Iwent.  stayed till last night (Sunday), when John and I walked
Iin together ; and should very shamefully repay the great
Ikindness shown me, if did not heartily confess that I enjoyed

myself very much.
   " As it moreover, you must make the most of this preface
        it                                                                               ;

             is is,

                              I,

                                                                      '
for as            declared that dealers in oxen, when they dream,

dream of oxen, so must lately of Penicuik, write Penicuikly,

and be content to dilate on things unattempted yet in prose or
rhyme,' which, whatever else they may want, will yet be rife in

hearty, life-like reality, and the description of marked indivi-

        Penicuik                   small country town, about nine miles from Edinburgh.
     i
                         is
                                a
1S38-40.  A VISIT TO PENICUIK.  219

Iduality. As had the arm and the society of Dr. John Niven,
Ithe use of his pony whenever wished, the society of his aunt,

sisters, and nieces, over and above his good uncle, the trust
worthy servants, and the old and young dogs, it would have

Ibeen my own fault if had not evolved from these elements
Iboth profit and amusement ; and seeing was a guest (however

unworthy) whom they all ' delighted to honour,' from Miss
Abernethy to the old servant, who came to shake hands with

me, and congratulate me on my doctorate, you may imagine

that an accommodating passivity would have served to secure
my happiness. As it was, what with a grand tea-party of auld
Scotch farmer folks from the hills, whose conversation was sin

gularly broad and racy, and startling, too, after a southern

Iabsence, --it completely knocked out of my ears every English

accent had got hold of. Oh, to have had H. G. there, listening

to the strange Babylonish dialect of old and young ; how his

ears would have tingled had he heard a song of Gala (pro
nounced Gaulay) Water, or another of a fox stealing a goose,
which ended in one line, with the detail of the goose being car

ried to foxdom, and ' the young ones pyked the banes o'. --What

Iwith pony rides, -- still more, what with country walks through

the grounds around with the young ladies, from whom always
chose my kind, accomplished, and lady-like friend, Miss Niven,
as my companion, ' time, as he passed us, had a dove's wing,
unsoiled and swift, and of a silken sound;' and at night we

Inestled round a fire, and read the last number of ' Nickleby'

aloud, or we played at whist, or chatted together ; and so the
time wore swiftly away, helped to a swifter conclusion by the

occurrence of a fair on the Friday, where, if there were no very

huge shows or Thespian booths, there was the ancient merry-
go-round, and a game which is called, in the elegant language
of Penicuik, the Roly-Poly, a game like nine-pins, superintended

by most blackguard-looking fellows, where sturdy ploughmen
played for cakes of gingerbread. The evening was ended by a
 grand dance in the barn or Gardener's Lodge, where by the pay

 ment of a penny you obtained the right to stand on the floor,

 and by the possession of good looks, good manners, or enticing
 speech, the claim to the rosy hand of some Pamela, radiant with
220  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

the blushes, the sempiternal blushes, which the duties of the

dairy and the kitchen imprint on Scottish maidens' cheeks.

IWhether took my place on the floor, enchanted by the tones

of two unrosined fiddles, and footed nimbly with un-Cinder-

ella-footed dames, and was envied by the rustics for carrying off
their sweethearts, and offered to fight them all round, and would

have done it (with John Niven's assistance) had not the weep

Iing wenches clustered round me and forbade it ; whether did

this or no, modesty and brevity forbid me to mention; and
history reminds me, that when the chronicles of Penicuik come

Ito be written, and the names of her illustrious natives or visi

tors to be marshalled in order, ' shall strike the stars with my

sublime head.' So much for an idle week. Will you, Daniel,
at some early time, send me Whately's ' Logic,' which will be

Iof service, and ' Ingram' or any other book on algebra have
Ileft behind me ; they would be of great service, as have taken

out a mathematical class, and begin logic very speedily."

   In the close of October, after alluding to troubles pressing
heavily on the family circle, in reference to which he says, --
" We are men, and will strive to look things in the face ; to bear

"Iis to conquer our fate," he goes on to tell Daniel of his imme
diate plans and prospects :  am sure you will approve of my

continuing to study this winter, on the plea of better fitting

myself thereby for fruitful work. You may be certain I have
Iconvinced myself of this before thought of classes. Further,
Iyou know that have striven to get a situation and have failed,
I Iand at present would gladly take one could get it. Limiting

that gladness, however, by two conditions, the one that it should

not take me from Edinburgh, for the sake of Mary, who is still

in a very precarious state of health, and, now that Catherine and

B. are gone, has no friend near her with whom to commune ;

the other, that it should be worth taking, in the sense of lead

ing to something better, for it would be folly for me to take a

post which should be trifling, and by consuming my time, pre

Ivent me from qualifying myself for another and better. But

Imay perhaps get some Saturday lecturing in the provincial

towns about. This intend, if possible, to obtain.
1839-40.        PAPER AT PHYSICAL SOCIETY.        221

I*' Meanwhile,  have been working at mathematics and al

gebra, attending a class, and making some progress ; in mathe

matics, getting on sufficiently well, but a good deal stumbled in

Ialgebra by my sheer ignorance of common arithmetic. But

being engaged at home in the revision of that, look to quickly

...making up all lee-way, and succeeding in algebraic computation
fully.    I shall have little time for letters this winter, and

only on short paper."

Notwithstanding this prudent warning, a letter on foolscap

was not long in following, with no lack of interesting informa

tion, and fun in addition :---

" That penny postage bill, when will it come into operation, and

save poor men like you and me the dreadful thought that before

one can fulfil brotherly duties, one must either disburse coins

ourselves, or make a demand on the purse of another ? Such

Ithought working in my brain, as it has been likewise, doubt
Inot, in yours, has hitherto delayed my writing ; and now am

not altogether hopeless of a letter coming from you to-day,

Ibefore this is put in the Post-Office.

   " have been very busy, writing till my side was stiff and

Icramped with stooping, otherwise should have written you

Ilong ago, the mere consumption of time being not so complete,

that could not have cut off half an hour to write you, but the

way in which the time was taken up left me little ability or
Iwish for further scribbling.
                                have finished and read at the
IPhysical Society the Introductory Discourse spoke of, to the
I Igreat delight of all present.
                                shall send it to you as soon as
Ican get a copy made by John M'Lure.
                                      am satisfied with it
Imyself, and think you will like many parts of it. have striven

in it above all things to be earnest, to have something to teach

whereon to expend words ; not words built up like ice palaces

or frostwork, to which here and there one may tag a thought or
Itwo. have neither been a quack nor a hypocrite, laying claims
Ito no virtues or talents did not possess, but have been anxious
I Ito be taken and estimated as am.  think you will be pleased

with the consideration of ' The Desire of Fame    but of this

Imore hereafter, when send you the paper itself.  Besides the
222  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                CHAP. V.

ISnowdrop verses (which shall send to you by the first parcel),
those on ' The Skull, ' A Song on the Seasons,' and ' Chalybeate
IRhymes' for Miss S.'s birthday, have written a Song to the Ibis
Ion its landing in Egypt, which hope to recover from its present
Idarkness, it having gone mysteriously amissing.
                                                  shall also, at

I Isome early period, send you the ' Sleep of the Hyacinth,' which
   shall next labour at. But in the meanwhile, have for

sworn all rhyming, and in proof thereof have issued the follow
ing advertisement :--

                            " ' (Sign of the Winged Ass.)
   " ' George Wilson returns thanks to his friends and the public
in general for the encouragement he has received since he began

the rhyming business on his own account ; at the same time he

takes this opportunity of informing them that he has just
returned from a professional tour to the cities of London, Bir

mingham, and Penicuik, from which he has brought a large
stock of new ideas, so that he is prepared to execute orders to
any amount. Every article sent from the house of G. W. gua
ranteed perfect, and warranted to jingle well. The strictest

attention paid to points and commas ; likewise to morality and

grammar.

   " ' At the same time, G. W. thinks it proper to inform his

friends, that he is about entirely to abandon the rhyming line,
and open premises in logic and mathematics ; so that an early

application will be necessary to prevent disappointment.
   " ' In consequence of retiring from business, G. W. has on

hand a large stock of love-letters, consisting of proposals, refusals,
acceptances, and juste milieu, milk-and-water epistles, written

in the most approved style, which will be sold in lots to suit
intending purchasers. At the same time, a quantity of acros

tics, including Christian and surname, odes to love-locks, and

sonnets to mistresses' eyebrows, will be disposed of at reduced

prices.
                 " ' Country orders punctually attended to.

                   " ' No connexion with any other house.

  " ' Hil"l 'oHf OPaOrtnhasOsulysm, pHiiagdh.e' st Cliff,
1830- 40.   BECOMES A RED RIBBON.                       223

I" So much for the non-rhyming and what am not to do.
I IAs to what am to do, that may be speedily told.
                                                        have

begun German with a very intelligent teacher, Mr. Kombst ;
James Russell, John Niven, Mr. Skae, and another, are in the

Iclass, and we get on very nicely ; we have just begun, so that

as to work to be done cannot speak. Meanwhile, we find our

method of proceeding very pleasant, and the sounds of the

German are melodious and pleasing to my Scotch ears. We

have fairly settled at once to Schiller's Wilhelm Tell, learning

away at the knotty grammar, which is puzzling enough ; but

the striking similarity between the German phrases and our

own Saxon words and broad Scotch, is a great help to the ren

dering of sentences ; indeed the construction is often almost
Iidentical with English, and never, so far as have yet gone,
Ivery anomalous. At all events, love the language, and will
Ilearn it.
            hated French, a poor, pingling, crack -voiced, mon
Ikey-like dialect, which never had patience to acquire ; though

the foolishness of not studying so valuable a key to knowledge is

I Igreat ; but can use it at least as a picklock, and shall fall to the
Igrammar sturdily soon ; at present have quite enough on hand.

    " They have sent me the red ribbon, and so constituted me

Ione of the friends of the Brotherhood of Truth. The ribbon

now wear, to the great wonderment and offence of many of my

well-wishers, who see damage to my character from any con

Inexion with the dubious persons composing it ; but my cha

racter does not hang on a ribbon, and when called on Forbes,

he spoke to me in the kindest manner, explained the helping,
unselfish character of the Society, its freedom from forms and

vices ; and wound it up by offering and promising to do every
thing to help me, especially towards getting a lectureship in

the provincial towns, perhaps Liverpool. At present there are

unions in France, Germany, England, and India, so that the

craft thrives. Some of the best fellows about College are in
            a
                      a

                                      ; is

                                         I
                                           it,I
to know whom were reward enough.           not better,  am
   " Mary sends you her kindest love. She

sorry to say, but confined to bed large portion of the day.
fear you will come home to sad household but we will hope

the best, and we shall all be very glad to see you."
224  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

   The essay on " The Desire of Fame " remains in an imperfect
state amongst George Wilson's papers. His penmanship was

very different in those days from the round clear writing of
later years, when repeated attacks of inflammation in the eyes
made larger characters more pleasing to himself ; and when the

impetuosity of youth being calmed down, thoughts did not so
vehemently outstrip the pen. Of the copyist mentioned, Daniel

Igiv"esJoshonmeMa'Lcucoreu,ntre:f--erred to in this letter, was a pensioner of

George's and mine years before left Edinburgh. He was a
worthy, pious old man with a cork leg, and his eyesight fast
failing him ; a most patient, contented creature. He had been

a lawyer's clerk, and wrote a neat, formal hand, which was the
very opposite of the scrawly penmanship our own everlasting
scribblements had begot of our hands. Our first introduction
to the old man was in the capacity here referred to, as con

verter into readable MS. of some of our competing essays. It

occurred to us one Saturday night over our late cup of tea

(time probably near twelve, midnight), that a remark of old
John's had looked forward to the small modicum of money that
would be due him for a bit of work then in hand. Acting on

the thought, we hunted out the old man on the Sunday morning
in his garret, at General's Entry,1 Bristo Street, carrying with

us certain supplies begged from mother for improvising a break

fast ; and to our sorrow and pleasure we found John reading
his Bible, without a morsel in the house, or the prospect of

breaking his fast that day.

   " Old John M'Lure rises before my mind. He was a source
of great amusement to us. His under lip projected con

siderably, and he had acquired a habit, from his mode of
walking with his cork -leg, of compressing his lips, with a
smack, between every few words. His ideas were as few as his

   1 General's Entry received its name from a very old and interesting house, which
was the town residence of General Monk, while his head-quarters were at Dalkeith
Palace. For a long time it was the residence of the Stair family, and afterwards
was notorious for containing the first billiard table in Edinburgh. Here, too, was
born Dr. Woodrow, the African traveller, before its rooms and attics came into use

by such inhabitants as poor John M'Lure. It has now been removed to make way

for tradesmen's houses.
1839-40.  THE BROTHERHOOD OF TRUTH.                                        225

,wants ; and his utterances were compressed into sententious

commonplaces of an exceedingly matter-of-fact and simple cha

racter, always wound up with a smack of his lips and a slap on

his cork-leg. When he had nothing else to do, he diligently

employed some mechanical genius he was persuaded he pos

sessed, in effecting improvements on his cork-leg, whereby he
gradually converted it into a mass of timber and iron hoops,

fitter to have served as an anchor than a help to locomotion !
Many a laughing argument we had with John about his ' im

provements,' the chief object of which was to draw forth one of
his grave matter-of-fact aphorisms ; for John never laughed, or

perceived that anybody else did. He remained an object of in

terest and kindly help on George's part as long as he lived."

The brotherhood referred to in this letter was an object of

deep interest to George Wilson, and exercised an influence over

him so beneficial in many respects, that we cannot pass it over

without special notice. It arose out of the association of stu

dents who edited the ' Maga,' spoken of in the preceding chapter.

Various records of its commencement exist among the private

papers of the Society. In an address to its members, by the

chief office-bearer in 1838, its formation is thus mentioned :--
" Established by a few congenial souls to commune together, it

was first called the Maga Club ; its objects were literature and

good fellowship. The principles which regulated               it,however,

                                                                        ;

                                                                      it,
were so excellent that many craved an admittance into and

its objects became enlarged, its aim more pretending from

  club rose to brotherhood,-- brotherhood devoted to the
a

        it

                             a
                                              a

                                                           a
search of truth in every department of knowledge."

Though thus called club, there was no institution of any

kind formed until the Order was founded. The contributors to

the 'Maga' in 1834 and 1835 were accustomed to meet weekly

for the editing of this publication, and one evening after they

had left, Forbes drew up paper which proved the germ of the
Order, embodying its first principles. Dr. Bennett, in his Memoir
          i
            '

                  Ja
                                   a

                               r
of Edward Forbes,1 says of the students composing his circle of
friends, " There was
                      geniality and good fellowship thrown

over their scientific, literary, and professional discussions an
                                                              ;

          Monthly ournal of Medicine," January 1855.
226      MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

intermingling of wit, poetry, song, and good sense at their con

vivial meetings ; a total absence of jealousy, and a strong desire

for one another's advancement, which not only cemented their

....friendship, but exercised a great influence on their subsequent
career.  Such, indeed, were the strong feelings of friend

ship and unity of sentiment which existed in this group of

students, that a Society or Order was at length formed."

   In the second volume of the ' Maga' there are frequent refer
ences to this Society, its motto, and insignia. The former 0IN02,
EP2S, MA0H2I2, --Wine, Love, and Learning, caused it to be

called occasionally the " Oineromathic Brotherhood," but this

name its members speedily disclaimed, announcing themselves
as " The Universal Brotherhood of Friends of Truth." Its aims,

so far from being selfish, were the regeneration of the world, by
means of the " wisdom of heaven shrined in matter," being un

folded and interpreted by each brother. They are expressed in
the following manifesto, afterwards published :-- " The highest

aim of man is the discovery of the truth ; the search after truth

is his noblest occupation. It is more -- it is his duty. Every

step onwards we take in science and learning tells us how nearly

all sciences are connected. There is a deep philosophy in that

connexion yet undeveloped-- a philosophy of the utmost moment

to man ; let us seek it out. The world in which we live is a

beautiful world, and the Spirit of Omnipotence has given us

many pleasures and blessings ; shall we not enjoy them ? Let
us refresh ourselves with them thankfully, whilst we go forth

in our search after truth. We are all brethren, but it has pleased

God variously to endow our minds. Some delight in one thing,

some in another : some work for the good of the body, and some

for the good of the soul. Let us all work together in fellowship

for our mutual happiness and joy. Wherefore should men

quarrel one with another, because they hold different doctrines ?

Such as seek for truth in the right spirit sympathize with each

other, and however opposite may be their present opinions, revile

them not, but assist in their development, knowing, however

wide apart may seem the paths they have chosen, one goal is

aimed at, and if persevering, both must meet in the one wished-

for temple. Let those who feel the spirit to develop the wisdom
1839--10.  THE ROSEATE BAND.                                           227

of creation, and to act for the good of their fellow-men, strong
within them, unite together in a bond of fellowship, each brother

devoting his time and his energies to the department for which

he feels and proves himself best fitted, communicating his
knowledge to all, so that all may benefit thereby, casting away

selfishness and enforcing precepts of love. By such means glory
shall accrue to his Order, so that it may wax powerful in intel

lectual strength, and become a mental and a moral safeguard to
the world, and a bond of union among all nations. Such is our
Brotherhood."

   The chief dignitary was entitled Archimagus, or Grand Master ;
under him were three Grand Masters to aid in directing the
affairs of the brotherhood. The " Roseate Band" was a rose-

coloured ribbon, three-quarters of an inch in breadth, made

expressly for them at St. Etienne, and having woven into its
texture the mystic letters, M. E. o. in black, surrounded by a

holly wreath in green. A star in black, with red triangle in

the centre, and a black shield, with red band crossing it

diagonally, were placed alternately between each group of letters.

The ribbon is beautiful as a work of art, and was worn by each

member of the society.            men whose    talents gave them
   As its original founders were  University,   entrance to their

a high place in the Edinburgh

circle was eagerly desired by their fellow-students. Great care,
however, was exercised in admitting brethren, and the indis

pensable qualifications were not only evidences of mental power

and acquirements, but high moral character.
   After all preliminary investigations had been satisfactorily

settled, the applicant was admitted to the possession of a ribbon,
and the title " Associate." This was a state of probation, longer

or shorter, as the case might be, and when proofs of talent,

energy, and interest in promoting the designs of the fraternity,

united to blameless moral conduct, had been evinced, the title
of " Triangle" was reached, constituting the happy recipient of a

a                                                                      with clasp (to
                              a
                                                                  it,
silver triangle, having the motto engraved on

be worn pendant from short red ribbon on the left side of the

coat), bona fide brother, entitled to take part in all proceedings.
In April 1838, Edward Forbes counsels the aspirants to the
228                    MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                   CHAP. V.

Triangle " to occupy themselves during the summer, so that the

glory of the Order may be increased, and the principles take

root in the hearts of men. Except in very rare and peculiar

circumstances, positive distinction and public reputation con

stitute the only test by which the claim to that honour can be

tried." The ribbon was worn on all occasions, crossing the

bosom conspicuously, and attracting remarks of wonder not un

mixed with suspicion, towards the wearer. The triangle was

reserved for state occasions, and in addition to the originalit,
                                                                               a
members had silver star to be worn below it.
               a
    The high tone of morality exhibited in the addresses delivered
                          it
from time to time by the grand masters, and the true chivalry

pervading all their aims, call for our admiration, and show how

strong was the stimulant to youthful effort afforded by such

fellowship. Two extracts will best illustrate this. Both are from

addresses by Edward Forbes, who was the soul of the Brother

hood, his interest in being apparently so truly heartfelt, that

the absence of years caused no diminution in the loving care
and watchfulness shown by him in its early existence. In 1838,

on the 9th day of the third month, the day selected for their
yearly meeting, he says, " The brethren are earnestly exhorted

to follow out the principles of the Order, to exert their abilities

to the utmost of their power for its honour and the good of

mankind, and to set such moral example that the world may
                                                     a

respect and honour the Brotherhood to which they belong and
                                                                  ;"
               of the
               always                                                           :
at  the close          third year, he winds up an address as follows
                        so conduct ourselves that the intellectually
--  " Let us

good, whose good opinion we should ever strive to gain, may have

nothing to complain against us, being ever mindful of that        '
canon of our Order, which bids every one of the brethren dis

countenance vice, and act according to his conscience.'
   " Paul, Romans 20, For the invisible things of him from the
     a'
                                  i.
                                                  '
creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the

things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead xii.
                                                                  : ;'
10, Be kindly affectioned one to another in brotherly love in
honour preferring one another.' "

    Meetings were held frequently by the brethren and not only
                                                        ;

                                                               a
was kindly care shown by them to one another, but watchful
1839-40.  ILLUSTRIOUS BRETHREN.                            229

discipline exercised towards any deflections from right conduct
and the " true philosophy." Edinburgh was the head-quarters,

but its realm was the world, without distinction of rank or

nation. Before long, branches were formed in many parts, on

each member the duty devolving of kindness, to the utmost

extent of his power, to every wearer of the roseate band.

To George Wilson it was a great pleasure to be one of this

fraternity. He was proposed for admission by his friend Samuel

Brown,    and his qualifications  stand on  the  minutes of the Society
thus :    " Distinguished as a     chemist   in  the higher ranks of

chemistry, distinguished himself highly at the British Associa

tion 1839, expresses a desire to enter, and is known to under

stand the principles." On these grounds was he welcomed as

an Associate, receiving before long the coveted Triangle. The

maximum as to numbers seems to have approached one hundred;

and of the youthful band composing this union, the greater

number have amply fulfilled the purposes to which they were

pledged. Sufficient proof of this may be found in the fact, that

six of them have been chosen to fill chairs in the University in

which they were students. Professors Goodsir, Bennett, Blackie,

Edward Forbes, Lyon Playfair, and George Wilson, need no one

to claim merit for them ; while elsewhere the brethren have not

less distinguished themselves. Amongst them we find the names

of Professor Day, St. Andrews ; Professor Ramsay of the
Geological Survey ; Dr. Nicholas Tyacke of Chichester ; the

Rev. Joseph Goodsir, and his brother Henry Goodsir, who went
out as Naturalist in the fatal Arctic Expedition under Sir John

Franklin ; Dr. Giraud, professor of Botany and Chemistry in
Bombay ; Dr. John Percy, London ; Dr. Falconer of Bath ; Dr.

Stanger, of the Niger Expedition in 1841 ; Dr. Wright of
Birmingham ; Dr. Embleton of Newcastle ; Dr. Samuel Brown;

and Professor Daniel Wilson, Toronto. In such a union of

genius, wit, and fancy, each adding to the general store by con

tributions from his special science, it may readily be supposed

how iron would sharpen iron, and love beget love ; while the
discoveries in science, and the aims of each one, would rouse all

to vigour in their various departments. Their social enjoyments

were also pleasant features of the union. Some of the brethren
230  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

were possessed of high musical attainments, of which a record
remains in a song, of which we give a few verses, the words
composed by Edward Forbes, and the music, with arrangements

for pianoforte, by John Hughes Bennett, dedicated by them to
the brothers in 0. E. M., and sung for the first time at the yearly
festival of 1836 :--

                              " Fill ye up a brimming glass,
                                          Jolly brother students,

                                        Ere you let the bottle pass,

                                           Jolly brother students !

                         " To the King, with three times three !

                                 To the monarch of the free !
                                      Supernaculum to be,

                                           Jolly brother students !
                                   Fill ye up, etc.

                      " Alma Mater, if you please,

                                 Her professors and degrees,
                                  And our rights and liberties,

                                           Jolly brother students !
                                   Fill ye up, etc.

                        " To the maids whose love we prize,
                              In the sunshine of whose eyes

                                  Earth again is Paradise,

                                           Jolly brother students I
                                   Fill ye up, etc.

                        " Here's our sacred triune sign,

                                  And the words that on it shine,
                              ' Learning), love, and rosy wine,'

                                           Jolly brother students !
                                   Fill ye up," etc.

    How often might George Wilson have been heard in those
 days humming the beautiful air of this song, while carrying on

experiments. It was a great favourite, while he himself was
wont to contribute " Old King Cole," as his share in the musical

 department, acquiring a wonderful reputation on the strength of
 this one song. Edward Forbes's inimitable comic ditties, given
 in a manner peculiar to himself, were a rich and ever-varying
 treat, which none failed to enjoy. George filled the post of
joint-secretary for some time ; and after the Rev. Joseph Good-
 sir left town, he continued the duties they had conjointly per

 formed.
1839-40.  INTIMATE FRIENDS.                   231

The original members of this Society being speedily scattered

far and wide, and its members sorely thinned by death, its

pristine glory and vigour gradually faded. Edward Forbes,

through years of absence, watched over its interests with paren

tal solicitude; and even so late as 1855, after his return to

Edinburgh, meetings were held of the brethren. In name it

still lives, but its Utopian aims having no essence of true life in

them, can only be considered as scaffolding, helpful in building

up wise and noble men, but to be put aside as relics of the past

when that end is accomplished.

   The comparative leisure of this winter permitted George to

cultivate the society of a few choice friends. In addition to
those already named as on intimate terms, there were John

Goodsir, George Day, now of St. Andrews, David Skae (Dr.
Skae, Morningside, Edinburgh), Edward Forbes, and one or two

more, with whom much joyous and profitable fellowship was
maintained. His cousin, James Russell, was now one of Sir

William Hamilton's most distinguished pupils, and through his

introduction a valuable acquisition was gained to the circle of

friends. A student from the country --a year or two James

Russell's senior, first known to him as a competitor in the

Humanity Class of 1837-8- -had become his almost daily com

panion ; and the introduction of John Cairns (the Rev. Dr.

Cairns, Berwick) to the rest of the family circle was welcomed

with pleasure by each of its members. In the subsequent years
to fall under our notice it will be seen how powerfully inter

course with their common friend influenced the character of the

two cousins.

   In November George tells his brother that -- " The having a
winter of peaceful study is a great boon, which would atone for

Imany discomforts. And as continue to make progress, slowly,
I Iyet surely, in what am studying, am quite contented and

happy. The Introductory Discourse [that on the Desire of

IFame] is making the round of a few friends here of both sexes,

so that cannot send it at this time, but it shall be despatched

very soon. Meanwhile, besides praise from many quarters, it

has procured me the Presidentship of the Physical Society.
I IThere are four presidents ; am the third.
                                              was equal in
232                         MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.        CHAP. V.

votes with the second, and above the fourth, an older member.

IIn truth, as was almost the youngest member, and received

I Ithe chair without request or canvassing in the least, altogether

unexpectedly, value the honour, and expect to derive from

my place many benefits in my prosecution of science. In

Ivirtue of my office, which is no sinecure, have got the pleasant

task of drawing up a report of the recent progress of chemistry

and geology, besides inaugural addresses and such like. As the

Physical is a Royal Chartered Society, including an elder and a

superior class of students, and as it reports its Transactions in

the public newspapers, there is more good to be gained from it

than from any other of the junior societies.1

  I" There is some prospect afar off, but not uncertain, of lecturing

being got, so that work hopefully onwards. The Snowdrop

piece, my farewell rhyme, has greatly delighted the ladies who

have read it ; and two young friends, Messrs. Giraud and

Shaw, amiable, kind-hearted, accomplished fellows, have been

Ifighting for the autograph scrawl, so that hope to please you

with it                                      that the Hampshire ladies are

  I" am assured by Miss

not of the sort we have found most of the English girls. But a

story she tells with great glee against her brother may show,

unsentimental and equestrian though they are, that they are

somewhat of the same cast. It appears that, on some occasion,
N-- and his sister, and some of their English friends, had been

coming home late in the evening, in a close covered waggon.

One young lady, with whom N-- had been very gracious, sud

denly put out her hand, and, grasping Miss
                                             ;'       was proceed
                                                  a'

                                                           a
                                                                                 'a

                                                                               's,

                                                                                                  ;'
                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                    ;'
ing to give                 very loving hieroglyphic squeeze, when, feeling
1

              it

                         a
The work of this session comprised six papers read to the Royal Physical Society
on the following subjects -- The Motives which prompt to the Study of Science
                            :
                                  '

"The Photogenic Decomposition of Water by Chlorine, Bromine, and Iodine;'

The Value of Balard's Hypochlorous Acid as Bleaching Agent  Report on
'
         ;
                  ;'
the Progress of Chemistry, in Two Parts-- Part I., On its Recent Application to the
Arts Part II., On its Recent Application to the Production of Light for Economical

Purposes              'On the Decomposing Powers of Hydrogen as Metal, and its Rela

tions to the Constitution of Haloid Salts    On the Solution of Gases in Water,

and its Relation to Pneumatic Inquiries.' -

To the Royal Medical Society he also read paper on the Non-electric Character

of the Light of the Pennatula Phosphorea.'
    1833-40.            THE HORIZON BRIGHTENS.                                233

    it to be a lady's, she drew back her hand with a scream. The
                                                                   that N-- had been
    only explanation Miss
                        .      can give
                                .

                                                              is,
    squeezing her hand, and that she was striving to return the

    shake. From N-- nothing can be got, but he confesses that

    papa, fearing something, would not allow him to walk alone

    with his daughter. .   Let us take off our gossamers                      have
                                                                          (I
    four-and-sixpenny one) and hurrah for the 5th of December
a                                                                             II I;
    and the fourpenny letters."        receipt                     of your kind and
  II
       On December 13th he says --

        " have not acknowledged the

    most welcome fourpenny letter in the way should have done
              I
                          ahave but
                                     it
                                           I
    and                   sorry apology to make for myself.

    expected to have answered          long before this, but this whole

    week my time has been taken up in the most unsatisfactory

    way, so that have little pleasure in looking back on it.

    went out to supper on Monday night, to meet an unfortunate

    could serve in some way; on Tuesday the Physical Society

    took me away from home on Wednesday refused an invita
              I
                                                        ;
                                I
                                           aI

                                                                      is
tion to tea, and prepared for study, was sitting down to read,

when in came Macgillivray.             had scarcely shown him the

courtesies of friendship, when there arrived note asking me to

sup with the Presidents of the other Societies, at Mrs. Shaw's
              went--sang King
house. Off    here) --got home          Cole (which                     much admired
                                       at two, and                 next evening the
and encored

    Unfortunate came to take tea with me, and left at half-past ten
--with barely time to learn proposition in Euclid, and make
                          I
                               is
                                    a
up for lost time. So here Friday night, and having got home

from my German class, sit down to begin the first rational
performance of the week. The above description will satisfy

your request that should write of myself. Let me now write
              I

of you and your affairs."                is I abright spot becomes
                                                heard from young
   In the beginning of the year 1840                                      Ia
visible in the horizon. " Two days ago

friend that Dr. D. B. Reid, the chemist, to leave Edinburgh

for London at the end of this winter. This has set me seriously

thinking about beginning to teach chemistry here next winter.

                           it,

                                 a iIf
Many friends urge me to and             had the capital would

risk my reputation on it." About week later he asks Daniel,
231                  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

-- "Do you remember my poor old friend the sweep? He is
dead --fell from a ladder and hurt his side. His case was ne
Iglected, and when he sent for me he was past remedy.
                                                       sent

Ihim to the Infirmary, where he lived only two days. He was
buried on Christmas day.    sold my Koran to buy him a coffin."

This poor man was one of the Infirmary patients in whom

George had become interested while attending the hospital.
Since then he had received help in many ways, being considered

a pensioner of the house, his broken health unfitting him for

active labour. No small amount of self-denial was shown in

parting with his beautifully-bound and much-prized Koran to
afford his poor friend decent burial. The same letter says :--

I" have had an oppressive bilious attack for the last month,

which has damped my energy and kept me very quiet, circum

Istances not being of a kind to give one the elasticity with which
to meet depression.  am getting well again, and Mary is a

good deal better. Mother is pretty well, and otherwise we are

as we were. They talk of writing to you by this penny post,

and they certainly will soon. Meanwhile we are all glad of this
... Ireduction in postage.
                            have now made up my mind to
Ibegin lecturing next winter in Edinburgh. In the meantime
Ihave learned that shall not require to take out a fellowship,

but only a license, which may be had for the asking. Dr. D. B.
Reid will certainly go to London, and his brother come here to

lecture for him, but there will still be a vacancy, which I shall

Istrive to fill. All my friends urge me on, and see no oppor
Itunity so promising. . . . Dr. Reid's brother will have his fine

rooms, and cannot vie with him as a teacher of practical

Ichemistry, but as a lecturer may."
  "I am now (February 13th) spending most of my time in

Iworking for my lectures, not forgetting, however, mathematics
and German, in both of which  make satisfactory progress.

Well, we must hope that the future will belie the past, and

bring us the freedom from corroding anxiety which we have

Inever yet known. What a moral lesson am teaching you !

Meanwhile our hearts will not burn the less warmly than they

Iwould do if gold were ours to command. In proof whereof

Ishall give an example of my benevolence. While was reading
1839-40.  AN AULD HAT.                                       235

Iaway at electricity heard the sound of a flute on the steps,
Iand thereafter the voice of an Irishman singing. went to the

door to give him a penny, and found a poor, but happy-like
blind man, who, taking the coin as his due, accosted me, ' Och,

Iyer honor, and couldn't ye spare a bit ould hat, for mine was

druv off by the wind when was playing yesterday in the

IKirkcaldy boat, and they wouldn't wait for me, nor for yer honor

naither.' Pitying the poor bare-headed man, tried to get hold

of some other body's hat, and failing, gave him my own old one.

My four-and-sixpenny gossamer must do night as well as day-

work now, thanks to the blind Irishman."

   As letters in the two following months are the only sources
of information, we give several to his brother almost entire.

                        " March 12, 1840.

I" Whether do you like best to get a letter on Saturday or
Monday?   like the former best, and suppose you do. It

seems to me to cast a pleasant shadow, when the news are good,

over the week's labours, to suit well with the lay-the-oar-by
feeling, which slowly increases through the last week-day, till

towards evening, or you will say towards midnight, the feeling

gains its maximum, and the repose of the Sunday is pleasantly

anticipated by a silent comforting read of a home letter. If the
news are bad, why then let them come on the Monday, if they

please ; they won't cheat us out of Sunday's peace, and pervert

the day of rest into a time of brooding over the incurable.

"This letter, heralded by the preceding waste of ink and

paper, is neither good nor bad in its tendency, being a letter of

love, dictated by conviction of its being owing you, and likely

Ito contain what floats uppermost in my brain between this and

post time. The time had set apart for writing you has been

somewhat intruded on by the young folks wishing to see some

electrical experiments in the dark ; and as we had puss to give

a shock to, the gas to set on fire, ourselves to illuminate, and all
to astonish, time slipped away unheeded, till the clock striking

made me throw down my electrical rods, and snatch up the

/paper.
236                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.     CHAP. V.

  " Of business I have nothing to tell --things are as they were.

I have been foiled in another attempt to get something to do,

and am writing away at electrical lectures.     Our sparrows, like
    " The weather here has been of the finest.

yours, have put off their flannels, morning gowns, and slippers,
and walk about in innocent nakedness, to enjoy the sunshine

and pick up the crumbs. There is plenty of sunshine going ;

Ino rain for a month ; but the supply of crumbs is rather scarce
here as with you.  have found it more than once befitting my

complexion to wear Raphael-like hair ; it saves a sixpence.
IAnd can now understand your delight in finding in an unknown
Ihole in your waistcoat, an unsuspected coin.
                                                collect pennies

Itogether, and hide them in a corner for letters ; and except in

the article of tobacco, am a very economical man. As regards
that latter necessary, indeed, as it only costs threepence half

Ipenny an ounce, do not upbraid myself much for it ; the less
Ithat have found a decent woman who gives me a pipe in to
Ithe bargain. Except a visit to the Exhibition, to which treated
I I Imyself, am innocent of expenses, which need to be, seeing

am already in debt."

                                                "3d April 1840.

"We received your welcome letter this morning, telling of

your exceeding business, and freely admitting the propriety of
Iyour not writing us.
                       am about, as the voice or oracle of the
Ihousehold, to send you what comfort can in the shape of a
Iletter, -- all the comfort, mean, that a kind letter from a brother
Ican give, whatever its subject be. Had known how very busy
I Iyou were, should have thought twice before sent you such a

shameful affair as that epistle you got this morning was. But,

in truth, mother did not put the idea of writing into my head

till late in the day, when the available hours were mostly past,

Iand had to scrawl away after dinner, when half my energies

were away on duty at the central citadel of the stomach, helping

to digest an indigestible Scotch mess. In these circumstances,
spite of fuming away at my pipe, the brain was in a minority,

and the house being counted, so few idea-members were at their

places, that the business had to be abandoned, especially as the v
1839-40.  MARVELLOUS PROCESSION.                   237

Isergeant-at-arms could catch none of the members, or tell
whither they had gone. In these circumstances,     contented

myself with sending you the proceeds of another night's business,
Iin the ' bill for the better regulation of time.'

   "You will not, however, think that have forgotten you.

IMy thoughts at present move round in a narrow circle, of which

you are one of the great elements. Since January have been

out nowhere, except at considerable intervals to see Miss

IAbernethy, so that no foreign affections have come in to invade
the sanctity and integrity of home-love.  have abstained from

writing, very much with the hope of seeing you very soon. For

Iexample, read the other day expressly for your sake, a work on
Ithe use of artificial light, from which would have copied out
Ipassages for your benefit, had not looked to see you very soon.

But we soon shall see each other 'face to face,' and this and

other matters thought about for your sake will come out one by

one as occasion serves.

   " Do you remember a certain production of your schoolboy

days, a painted procession of men of all nations, journeying to
wards some central goal, some mysterious and unpainted limit,

which was left for the imagination to scheme out for itself, be

ing too great to be squeezed into the narrow space of pasteboard
Idedicated to the marching of the wondrous host ?
                                                   remember
Iwell the delight used to feel in watching your deft (not daft)
pencil designing, with a curiosa felicitas, the assembled hordes

of all nations, and peoples, and kindreds, and tongues. No Mil-

tonic pageant of warrior angels marching to battle, or school-read

history of the 10,000 Greeks retreating from treacherous foes to
their native land, or Elgin marbles, with their noble men figures,

Iand wild, unearthly, snorting horses, nor anything else have

read or seen of mock or solemn procession, ever affected me more

than that same strange pilgriming host of yours. Marry ! history,

grave and gay, waxes dim, when compared with that hieroglyphic
chronicle. The strange men, with uncouth dresses and wild

looks, who bestrode great serpents ; the cars of victory, drawn
by wild antelopes ; the wild boars tamed down into beasts of

burden ; the bloody panthers chained, as of old, to Bacchus's

chariot,-- all these, and a thousand other forms, come back on me
238             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. V.

as a chance occurrence has turned my thoughts to that long-

forgotten panorama. Whither has that marching host wended ?

One may ask in answer, whither Alexander and his Greeks are

gone; Xenophon and his 10,000 ; Xerxes, or Caesar, or Charle

magne --whither? All gone back to nothingness and night,

mouldered into dust, ay, and made up again, mayhap, and that

over and over again, into men and women. So has your great

Iarmy vanished, and of its existence seemingly no vestige now

remains. So thought I, so daresay did you ; and yet, strange,

strange to say, one solitary waif has survived the destruction of

his brethren, a single pilgrim, untouched by time, but dumb as

I Ito the fate of his fellows ! You will see some meaning in my

raving when tell you, that last night found lying on my

Itable (arrived there know not how) one of the figures that

once filled a place in the procession. There he lay, right before

my amazed eyes, a Turco-Persian, by the look of him, a jagged

Icrown upon his head, and in his clenched fist a long sabre, suit
ing well with the swashing look of the fellow.  cannot think

how he got to my table ; perhaps he fell out of the leaves of a

I Ibook, where he had been imprisoned, like Ariel in the cleft pine,
for some ages.  do not know, but so soon as recognised him
I caught him, and stowed him away carefully in a sly drawer of
Ithe curiously-devised desk inherited from you. There he
                a

                     II

                                                                    a
                                                                                                  is,
very precious as memorial of you, and of old, old days, when

we and others were young. There he shall lie near your astro

nomical devices, which consider my property, and shall keep
till you are married.
                        shall then make present of them to

your lady, as an heirloom of the family, and an evidence of the

superior powers of the boys of the olden time.
" There have
I               cheated you out of much clean, serviceable
           I
paper, by getting involved and hurried along further than in
                        Ia
                               I

                                             it
                                                   is

                                           I

                                                                      a

                                                            it

                                                          I
...tended, among that processional throng. Extricating myself at
last, have to tell you of home affairs.         lately sent copies

of my essay to Paris by friend, with letters to three of the

chief French chemists.  assure you       far easier to write in

English than in French. John Niven was out of town, and

Harry Giles in London, so that had nothing for but to fall

to myself.  I   made one letter serve them all as staple docu
1830-10.         WHENCE CAME THE BALL.                                239

Iment, adding, however, to each a special piece of choice flattery,
such as might suit a Frenchman's vanity.                  got Miss Niven to

look over my letter, and correct it. Without her correction, it

would have been a very sorry piece of French."

                                                                                  " April 28.

I" am writing on the evening of a day about which you will

have ceased to think in England; that                 is, the day misnamed

Fast-day, because the slowest in the year. The dull, sepulchralit

clanging of the bells, and the silence of the street, made the

day dull, and the exceedingly sunny brightness of the air drew

me forth from my books.  wandered down to the sea-shore
             I
                      I
near Granton, and loitered along the verge of the sea, singing

and picking up shells and sea-weeds, and now and then strange
                                                                  ?a
stone, with which loaded my hat and pockets. There, among

strange crab-fish, and cuttle-fish, and creeping things, what

should find thrown by the waves at my feet, but little round
          I                                                 a

leather play-ball. The question arises, whence came            it     It was

small enough to suit the delicate fingers of the most fragile mer

maid or sea-nymph, who may have tossed                      in excess of glee

too far, so that came to the surface of the great water.                  had
             it                                                       ?I

been amusing myself skimming oyster-shells in duck-and-drake
fashion over the surface of the water--this being great occupa
                                                            a

tion of mine at the sea-side. Mayhap this pleased the sea ladies,

and they responded by sending me the ball. Who knows The

voice of the waters spoke in full diapason tone, some stout hand

being at the bellows. And doth not St Paul say, That every     '

voice in nature has significance                      Doubtless, but our closed
             it

                      a
                                                  ?'
ears understand as little as the music of the spheres. It may

have been that some too frolicsome nymph broke one of the

mother-of-pearl panes of Neptune's sitting-room with the mis

directed ball, whereupon the angry god, snatching the offending

missile, hurled with his mighty arm sheer through the oppos
             it
                                 it
ing waters, to perpetuate its future assaults on brother Pluto's

round earth (as Jove tossed grim Mulciber over the crystal
battlement). Whether or no, has led me, in vain attempt to
trace its parabolic and altogether hyperbolic course over earth

and sea, far away from my object in snatching my pen to
240             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.      CHAP. V.

write gravely to my grave brother. Wait a bit, the gravity is

coming.
I" James has got a prize from Sir W. Hamilton for translation,
but otherwise has not done much this winter.  am as before ;

but now done with classes. Dr. Kombst, who has highly eulo

gized my progress in German, especially my quickness in learn

Iing to speak (after a fashion) ! has sent me a perpetual ticket to

his lectures and classes, so that may take my own time of at

tending. . . .
I" Forbes and have visited some class-rooms, and will look
... Iover more before fixing.
                               have many kind friends here, and

keep a good heart in me."

                                                                " Wednesday, May 1840.

I" shall just write you here a desperately swift letter, having

too little leisure to take much pains about the perplexing little

Icommas and stops that stand in the way of composition.
I I Iwould were beside you in your busy working, think could

Ihelp you more (indirectly) than some better-hearted people.

Whenever you come, we shall be glad to have you, and can tell

you that you will find your old friends as loving as before ; and

II can promise you some desirable new ones. Although you

are so very busy, am going to introduce to you by letter a

gentleman leaving this for a short stay in London, Edward For

Ibes, the celebrated editor of the ' Maga,' a real good-hearted,

clever fellow, and one am sure you will like. He was a

painter before he took to natural history, and is still a fine

sketcher ; he has seen your work, spoke of it in very high (but
honest) terms, and wished to know you. He is about twenty-five
years old, and now destined for a scientific career.

   " He is a very amiable, obliging fellow ; at the same time

exceedingly well read in all sorts of books, and fond of litera
Iture.
         need not tell you he is a wit, or a good song writer ;

but you may not know that spite of all the quips and cranks

that gave the ' Maga' so much interest, he is a fellow of great

good sense, and fine taste as to literary or artistic merit. In

Ideed, do not know among my friends any one on whose judg
Iment would put more reliance in any disputed matter.
1839 -40.  SEARCH FOR LECTURE-ROOM.  241

  I I" hope you will like him ; am sure you have a great deal

in common, and you may find him a pleasant and useful compa

nion. We want to give you the red ribbon, as soon as your

paper is done. It was he proposed you, for great was my sur

Iprise when heard read out among the names of the candidates,
one David Wilson. ' May I ask,' said I, ' who this namesake of

mine is V ' Oh ! that's your brother.' ' Oh ! said I, ' then Daniel

is the name he rejoices in,' and so you were un-Davided.
   " Forbes is bringing out a book on the star-fish, for Van

Voorst, in the style of the Zoological Gardens, with head and

tail-pieces, which he is at present drawing here on wood. One

of the tail-pieces, illustrating the class of sea-urchins, is very

good. It represents a hedgehog, a sea-urchin, and two little
knavish rascals, admiring each other on the sea-shore. In this

way, all the kinds of urchins are most oddly brought together.

I'll give Forbes a letter to you ; he knows how busy you are,

Iand will not waste your time.

   " have been seeking for a room to lecture in all over the

town, but have not yet found one, and am induced to delay, as

there is some prospect of a better room turning up than any yet

proposed to me. One trump card has turned up among the many

blanks that have been coming to my share, with a goodly set of

Iknave cards too among them. This is Christison letting me
work in his laboratory.  shall thus get something ready for

Ithe Association at Glasgow this autumn. You must get your

visit over by the end of August at least, as am engaged for

September there.

   " Do you remember Mrs. Goldsmith, the old English widow

lady ? A daughter of hers, Mrs. Lillie, a widow, and a young

Ilady friend, visited Scotland last summer, and was out a day
Iwith them at Roslin. The talk turning on verses, was asked
Ifor some, and promised them ; the next day called with a copy,
Ibut the lady was gone. Guess my surprise when received a

note from London yesterday, saying that Mrs. Lillie feared Dr.

IWilson had forgotten his promise, or lost her address, so

Imust send them off : that's the way grave studies are stopped."
    Speaking of this lady, he tells his sister Mary, " have sent
her copies of the ' Snowdrop' and Music piece, and by way of
242  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

atonement, added the following rude rhymes on her own name,

not knowing what subject to choose as likely to please her.

IHad Lillie been her maiden name, or her husband been living,
   could have called her bride or daughter, which would have

been more poetical; the first line is necessarily lame in conse

Iquence of her being a widow. Perhaps chose a painful sub
I Iject, as have since thought, but hope not."

                              RHYMES FOR MRS. LILLIE.

                  " Thou art a fair flower grafted among the lilies,
                       Sister or near friend of the rich amaryllis,
                       And the golden-crested tall daffodillies,

                                      Spring's early flowers ;
                       The narcissus is of kin to thee

                                      Bending his proud stem

                                      Crowned by a diadem :
                       Children love to see

                                 Round the calyx cup, the rosy ring,
                                 And kings in vain might bring,
                                 As an equal offering,

                                      Then- costly crowns.

                          The floating lotus on the face
                                 Of some Egyptian lake,
                                 Trailing glories in her wake,

                       As the Princess of thy race
                                 Hath of old renowned been ;
                                 The poet dreameth to have seen
                                 Her enthroned as the queen
                             Of the Lily flowers.

                    The lily of the valley is a modest thing,
                                 And dares not to look up
                                 From her tiny flowercup

                       When the sun is shining ;
                                 But the water-lily is a brave flower,
                                 And feareth neither wind nor shower,
                                 But owneth the eagle's power
                                To look at the sun.

                More I'd sing of, were I dutiful,

                                To name thy sister flowers,
                                 But this transcends my powers.
                       Some are grander, none more beautiful
                                 Than the water-lily, all night bathing
                                 Her petals, hidden in the swathing

                                     Leaves, that keep from scathing
                                 Its every charm.

                          May such a fate be thine, to find
                                 In darkness and the hour of sorrow

                             A hiding-place until the morrow,

                          Casting the shadows far behind,
1839-4&  THE VIRGIN CHEMIA.              243

         Invade the twilight grey,
         And dawning on to perfect day,

         Drive grief and care away
         And the heart's sadness I"

I I" have not heard from Daniel since    wrote to you," he
Itells his sister a few days later. " got letter after letter from

him the week before, concerning a chemical lectureship in one

of the small London schools, which was offered by its pro

prietors. Daniel would have liked well to get me up beside him,

Iand made out a fine picture of the advantages of the place. But

  saw from the first that it was a shabby affair, both in respect

I Iability and pecuniary value, and all my friends here advised me
to have nothing to do with it.  suspect, however, got the

credit among the London folks of being knit to Edinburgh by

stronger ties than professional esprit. Daniel Macmillan sent

me a letter to-day, in which he refers, with evident surprise, to

my refusing a London lectureship, and puts the query, if the
great attraction here be not a heroine ? Marry ! they will have

me entangled in some love scrape or other to give a colour of

Irationality to their own fancies ; and Daniel, though saying

nothing, has, daresay, had a laugh with his namesake at my

sudden conviction of the great advantages of a residence in

IEdinburgh. Nevertheless, in spite of these sly insinuations,

you know and know, that the ' Virgin Chemia,' as certain of

the old alchemists call her, is my only love and object of wor

ship. Her ladyship may be adored in a very quiet way ; a

little expense for glasses is all (and does not every lady need
her glasses --tumblers, spectacles, mirrors, and so forth ?) Flesh-
and- blood ladies need on the part of their adorers lots of wealth

Iand wisdom, and my share of both is so very slender, that must
Itarry a long while before get the right to address them."

   To the lectureship spoken of the following letter chiefly

refers :--

                        I " 21st May 1840.

    " My dear Daniel, -- know not what to say to you in return
for your great trouble in looking after this vacant place for me,

Iand if thanks were things to be sent between brothers, should
244          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WII.SON.                                             CHAP. V.

make my letter so heavy with them, that it would need two or

three of Mulready's nonsensical envelopes, stuck all over with
Her Majesty's penny heads, to get it through the Post- Office.
As it however, fear the place not worth my taking, even

in its best view. The school must be very small and humble
     I is,                                   is
                                                  a
                         ;

                I
one, for never heard of its competition with University College

all last winter and no exertions on my part could make much

difference on the small income               must yield its chemist.
                                             ,                                     it
                                                                                      is
                                              it
                                                                                        I
                                                      I
never heard of Mr.                           B.A, nor do the Cambridge

men here know about him and from what know of the London
                                         a;
students,  can assure               you      very, very slender  stock of chemical
knowledge                           great    way among them.
           will go                                                As to Mr. ----
         I

                                 a

going to the College of Engineers, he can only be going as

assistant, for Everett, formerly of Middlesex Hospital,                            the

chemist of that institution.                 could have stood with the best
             's

                       I
                          I

                                    I it
chance of    place, for knew of when inquiring about

the Engineer's College last autumn, but did not think worth

my while.
    " The London students are notoriously the most unscientific

students on the face of the earth. My English friends need not

take offence at this, for the Englishmen who come here are

abundantly characterized by scientific enthusiasm but the
                                             I
                                                               is
                                                                                ;
professional business spirit of the London schools alien to the

true study of their subjects, and on such things as chemistry

they only ask what will pass the halls.              had full opportunity

of seeing this, last winter, in the practical class of Griffith of St.

Bartholomew's Hospital. An experienced and popular teacher

told me was useless to discuss law or theory before them
         it                                                      a

                                                                     I
                                                                             I;
they did not care for it. Although, therefore, last winter

would gladly have caught at what you have indicated, should
be loath now to land myself among strangers, in place where
my love of science would be damped down by the want of

enthusiasm in my pupils, and my pecuniary income would at

the best be barely sufficient to keep life in. Further, should
                                             ;I

                                                   is

                                                                     a

                                                                  I
                                                                         I
not like to come in opposition to Graham, as rival teacher.

have spoken to Forbes and other wise men, and they dissuade

me from it. And now, indeed, there an opening in Edinburgh

such as will not soon occur again            have the kindest assistance
1839-10.  EDINBURGH Versw LONDON.                        245

Ifrom all about me, even from those thought coldly inclined
I Itowards me.
          have the good-will of all the professors, may

say, and the promise of their votes  (those who have them), when

I apply to the College of Surgeons   for license. All the Univer

sity men are on my side, and all the influential Queen's College

Imen. Both Dr. and Mr. Lizars have promised to help me, and

recommend pupils, and am pretty certain of getting the Cam

bridge men, one and all. All the red ribbons, of course, stand

by me, and many private friends (ladies especially) are beating
about for pupils.

  I" In these circumstances, reconcile myself to the additional
Iexpense in beginning here (though am certain Lucas underrates
Ithe London prices), because I am sure should have just to do
Iin a few years what am doing now, and with no greater, but

in truth with fewer advantages. London is not the place for

me at present ; Edinburgh is better ; this has been impressed

on me by Samuel Brown, Forbes, Professor Syme, Young,

Iand others, long ago, before this matter turned up, and

should prefer remaining here to going anywhere else for some

time.

  I" mourn to think how your precious time has been taken
up about this ; and along with this, I see with sorrow how little
likely it is that you and I will get together for a long while ;

but the same professional necessity that took you to London

will keep me here, and for a while we must ' dree our weird'

Iseparately.
   " have in hand at present a very interesting inquiry regard

ing the phosphorescence of sea animals, and its possible connexion

with electricity. It was begun at Forbes's request, and is likely

to yield an excellent paper for the British Association. I work

some hours a day at purely chemical labour at Christison's, and

Ihope to get something in that way ready also ; so that shall

probably read papers at two different sections.
    " Regarding the Brotherhood, there is no secrecy as to its

character, but the opposite, enjoined on all men. Nevertheless
I never talk of it before people, for they cannot be got to under-
Ietand its true character.
                            advise you to do the same."
246          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. V.

                                                                             " -im May 1840.

  I" The bearer of this letter is Mr. Edward Forbes, triangle-

bearer, painter, song-writer, naturalist, and know not how
many other excellent and admirable things besides. He is at
present in London, to superintend the printing of his book on

Ithe star-fish, and will stay some time there. As have told you
Iconcerning his talents and amiability before, shall leave you

to discover his merits yourself, and close this introductory por

Ition of my letter ; the rest you can read at another time.

   " For my part, expect to be married about the year
of our Lord 1860 ; all thought of the ceremony being celebrated
sooner, has clean gone out of my mind for a long while back,

Iand have banished all love ideas. It is different, however,
Iwith you ; and hope sincerely to see you soon, as that wild,

strange, powerful man, the author of the Chartist Epic, says,

Ifinding 'expectation substanced into bliss.' With every fond

wish for your happiness, Iconclude here, for have got strange

beasts to analyse, sent me from the sea-caves of Fife, and they

are beginning to decay. Hoping you have not kept Edward

IForbes waiting all this time, remain your affectionate brother,

                                                                                " George."

The allusions in the close of this letter are in consequence of

Daniel's approaching marriage, and how touchingly prophetic

does that to himself now appear on having reached the year he

names !                                " June 6, 1840.

I" work steadily at my lectures, writing and reading often
Ifor eight or ten hours a day.
                                find that the undertaking is a
Imore serious one than it seemed at first. But don't flinch,

and hope to get on bravely."           "JtdylS.

I" I shall write you at present a very short letter, for have

not much to say, and am not in the humour for saying that

little same. The weather here has been of the worst, --rain,

rain, such an eternal shower-bath of rain that no Murphy

Ifwould have dared to foretell it had he possessed the power to
foresee it.  he had chalked out such an umbrella July, he
1839-40.        PEDESTRIAN EXCURSION.             247

would have been seized by the enraged people, and burned
Ialive,-- roasted, as all unboiled murphies should be. In con
sequence,  have never got out to walk, and the excess of

Ivapours without has begotten dyspeptic, blue-devil vapours

within, of which have not yet got a clear riddance, though a

clamber up Arthur Seat with Professor Blackie has expelled

most, and given notice of leave to all of them."

The next letter speaks of a pedestrian excursion in prospect,

in which George was to have his cousin James as companion.

How this plan was carried out, and what were its effects, suc

ceeding chapters will show,

                                                                         " September 5th.

  I" was away at the country when your letter arrived, having

Igone for two days to Penicuik with John Niven, and since I

came back have been making preparations for setting off to
IStirling to-day, if possible. The weather, however, is at present

very stormy, and unless it improve shall not leave till to-mor
Irow.
          intend to walk about the country there for a few days,
Iand then set off for Glasgow, when the Association meets.

shall return as soon as the Meeting is over.
I I" go to the country without much desire to be there, have
Iso much to do ; but feel the need of some relaxation, and it
Iwill gain time in the end.
... Ianything.               have nothing to tell about almost

                have not yet written to Glasgow, but they
Iknow my intention of coming.
                               shall be there a week, and

leave the moment the business is over. Meanwhile the sun
                                                  I'll write you
Ihas come out, and it prompts me to pack up.

either from Glasgow, or as soon as return."

   With this glimpse of sunlight we close the chapter, having
before us many days like those St. Paul speaks of, in which

neither sun nor stars appeared.
248  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VI.

                    CHAPTEK VI.

        LOSS OF HEALTH -PUBLIC LECTURES ON CHEMISTRY --

                                              INVALID LIFE.

                      I" As many as love, I rebuke and chasten."

   Mercifully is the future hidden from human eyes, else

would the few days of country life by which George Wilson
expected to " gain time in the end " have been very differently

anticipated. It may be that compassionating angels watched

with wistful eyes his departure from home, but love infinitely
more deep and tender than theirs was even now preparing the
furnace, by means of which the process of refinement was to be
carried on. Half of his life is now past ; in almost unbroken
health have the years fled, while his soul has been clothing
itself with the beautiful garments of wisdom and knowledge.
Hitherto all has been preparatory, and friends look forward
with abounding hope to his opening career.

   If" God grant me health and leisure, my most urgent needs,
I shall not despair :" thus have we seen the desires of his heart

expressed ; yet these were the very things to be denied, while
many other precious gifts could only, from the absence of these,
be partially turned to account.

   In allusion to this period of his life, Dr. Cairns says i1 --
" Ardent in temperament, buoyant with youth, and elastic in
body as in mind, with gay humour, keen repartee, flashing
fancy, and profuse literary as well as scientific faculty, under
the presidency of a clear judgment and a strong will, he seemed

                                 1 ' Macmillan's Magazine,' January 1660.
1840-41.  STIRLING AND ITS ENVIRONS.      249

formed to cut his way to the rapid eminence and brilliant

success, after which he eagerly panted. A totally different

path was marked out for him ; and in this contrast lies the

moral interest and pathos of his life."

Stirling was the head-quarters of the cousins in their pedes

trian tour, a much-valued friend being their hostess there. On

Ithe 10th of September he writes home, " should have written
Iyesterday had not been away up in the country, spending the

night in a farm among the highland moors, about eight miles

above Stirling. Hitherto things have gone on most excellently

in all respects ; Mrs. M.'s children being in the country, she

has devoted her whole attention to making us happy, and we

have received every kindness from her. A brief record of

what we have been doing will best show you how we have been

occupied, and prove to you that we have not misspent our

time. Saturday was devoted to a nine miles' walk over the

carse of Stirling to Bannockburn, to the site of the stone where

Brace's standard was placed on the day of battle. With the

Ihelp of two gentlemen, got a somewhat good idea of the forces

in the affair.
   " Then on Sunday, after hearing two tremendously long ser

mons in the Established Kirk, it was proposed to walk out to
Bridge of Allan in the evening, and hear a third discourse.

IWe walked out, but as the sermon was in a Wright's shed which

was crammed, James and walked farther to learn if there was

evening service in the parish church of Lecropt, a beautiful

place on the Perth road. Singularly enough, there was no ser

mon, and we had to occupy ourselves admiring and asking

Iquestions of the myriads of bonnie bairns we saw about us.

Of these there were so many that can conscientiously say that

Stirling and Perthshire beat all places hollow for beautiful
....children, and as sharp as beautiful.  I am out every day
Iwalking till nine o'clock.
                             tried last night to finish this letter,
I I Ibut this is all the length got. This morning add that was

Iaway on Monday walking to Doune, which with the return

makes a distance of sixteen miles. Tuesday, as have said,

we spent at a farm seven miles off, and now we are just starting

for a twenty miles' walk into Perthshire. We shall rest there
250               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                            CHAP. VI.

a day, and come back on Saturday. I leave this on Tuesday

I Iat the furthest, so that time presses, and as the period is less

than thought it would have been, am anxious to make the
most of it."

                                                " Stirling, Saturday, September 12, 1840.

  I I"My dear Mother, -- promised to write you, when returned
Ifrom our Perthshire excursion ; have just come back from our

twenty miles' walk, and sit down to send you a few lines, but as

I have been a good deal knocked about, and have a very bad
Ipen, you will excuse the scrawl send you. On Thursday,
IJames and set off for Balloch, a farm in Perthshire, about

Itthree miles from Muthil, where Mrs. M.'s children are staying
with their aunt.     was a very wild day, the rain falling almost

incessantly, but as there was no help for we buttoned our
                                                         a it,/
surtouts about us, and, staff in hand, set off, Mrs M. accompany

ing us four miles out of town. As we passed through the

Bridge of Allan, was surprised by some one tapping at the
                  it I
glass of window, and looking round recognised John Niven'sI
     aa                           a
                               a    a

                                       I
goodly countenance.             stayed few minutes with them, and

set off again, leaving Mrs. M. little past the Bridge of Allan.

We trudged on manfully, through rain and wind, walking four
miles an hour without flinching for the first thirteen miles. In

this we were greatly assisted by small drop of brandy which
                                  I I it a
our kind hostess insisted on our taking and by the fact that
                                          a
James was carrying out quantity of tobacco to Jean Scott [an
old servant of the Russells]. As was not at all unlikely that;
                                                                 a                    in the
the tobacco had been smuggled, exacted tax on                            it,

shape of few inches off the pigtail, and getting light at the

cottages we passed on the road, kept up my steam bravely.

After reaching the thirteenth milestone we stopped at an inn at

Ardoch, and as was threatening very heavy shower, we

waited and refreshed ourselves for nearly an hour. Thereafter

all went wrong. We left the turnpike road to take short cut                        a
by an old road over the moors. We got directions how to

proceed at the tollgate, and James, who professed to know the

country, learned the route from the man. But, alas his memory
                                  ;
                                                                                !
failed him at the critical place and after we had proceeded
1840-41.  A TWENTY MILES' WALK.                  251

about two miles we came to a place where two roads crossed,

leaving us three routes to choose among. No effort of remem

brance could enable either of us to recollect the right way ; and

after reproaching James, we agreed to take what turned out to

be by far the longest road, by at least three miles. There was

no house or person near to ask at, and we had the mortification

this morning to find that, had we asked at the first farm-house

we came to after our dilemma, we might have got across a field

into the right road, and saved our legs a weary stretch ; as it

was, we wandered through fields and over farms, and at last

reached our destination, having been on the road from eleven

till six o'clock. We were most warmly welcomed at a beautiful

farm -house ; got a most hearty dinner- tea, and, as the folks had

not seen candles for several months, after a dose of the ever

lasting toddy, we got off to bed at nine o'clock. Here, however,

our troubles did not end, for though they swore that the bed had

once held two Stirling bailies, we found it too small for us.

The whole night was spent in a battle between us and the bed

I Iclothes ; the clothes determined to be down on the floor, and we
as determined to have them lying on us.  am sure awoke

a dozen times, it being my office as occupant of the front of the

Ibed to pull the sheets and blankets up, and James instinctively
gave a grunt, and pulled them over to his side.  slept little,

but as we lay nearly twelve hours in bed, we were quite re

freshed and nimble next morning, though we did not know

what lee to tell, when we were asked whether we had slept

soundly or not. Last night was a repetition of the same

manoeuvre, but as we employed ourselves speculating on the
way in which two famously fat bailies had lain there, the time

Ipassed away pleasantly enough. My pen wearies to be done,

ashamed of its performance, else would tell you how we went

Ito Muthil, and visited R T, and how we saw old Jean Scott,

and smoked a pipe with the ancient, witch-like, doited body,
and how in the evening we took tea with Minister Walker.

This morning we walked home again in a bright beautiful sunny

day, and did not lose our way. We looked in at Mr. Abernethy
at the Bridge of Allan, and as he was at dinner, he insisted on

our staying, which we did."
252  MEMOIH OF GEORGE WILSOX.  CHAP. VI.

   The troubles of this excursion were increased by James Rus

sell, with characteristic heedlessness, having left home with shoes
so worn, that it was found necessary to have a pair made by a

country workman. These, being strong and heavy, so blistered

his feet that he was thankful to take them off, and limp along

shoeless in the quiet roads. The result of the unwonted exertion

to George was a sprain, which might have yielded readily to
simple appliances ; but a dislike to give trouble, combined with
a child-like forgetfulness of pain not immediately pressing, led
to concealment from his kind hostess that he had suffered aught.

It was a cloud no bigger than a man's hand, yet it was to

darken all his life. Passing over the same ground fifteen years
later, he spoke almost shudderingly to a sister of this walk and
all it recalled to mind.

   Three days later than the letter just given, he went to Glas

gow, to attend the meeting of the British Association. A week

of exertion and excitement, almost inseparable from such assem
blies, caused further injury to health, and he returned home

seriously ill. His friend, Dr. Skae, was his medical attendant ;

and now began that deep debt of obligation which his friends

of the medical profession laid him under throughout the rest of
his life. Their aid was in most cases given unasked, prompted
by a loving regard, and with the tenderness of brothers did more
than one watch the ebb and flow of his strength, prolonging by

affectionate care the years of his earthly sojourn.

  A letter to Daniel, of October 2d, speaks of his health :-- " I

shall not apologize for taking a small sheet in answer to your

I Ikind, candid letter of this morning, for am still an invalid.

have been confined to bed all day for the last week, and have to

look forward to an imprisonment to the house, at least for the

next fortnight. Leeching and poulticing were of no avail, and

the end was an abscess, which was opened two days ago, leav

Iing a gash more than an inch long to heal up before am sound
Ion my pins again. If could have looked to the thing in the
Icountry, might have prevented all this, but that was impos
Isible ; and my hurried departure, the very day the Association

was over, feared might be thought a sign of extravagant

Ianxiety to be home again. . . . And now must finish this
                LECTUKKR ON CHEMISTRY.                                                             253

scrawl, and get back to bed, and try to get better in time for

your coming."

  It was while laid aside by this illness that his first course

of lectures was arranged, under many disadvantages. He had

received license as a lecturer on chemistry from the Royal

College of Surgeons,- -a privilege at first confined to the Fellows

of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons and Physicians, but afterwards

granted by them to others qualified to teach natural philosophy
and chemistry. George Wilson was their first lecturer on che

mistry, and his tickets qualified for their diplomas, though not
for that of the University. For the field of teaching thus opened

to him he was ever deeply grateful, as, nameless and with little

influence, no other opening could have offered similar advan

tages. The title given to the teachers of medicine not professors
    " Extra- Academical Medical School," and of this body he now
is,
                                        a
                                                      a
                                                                        a

                                                                                    it
formed one. After time, the students of those extra-mural

classes were permitted to share the rights of the University stu

dents in competing for degrees. The several schools ha nited
under the name of " Queen's College," and with that in Brown
Square he became associated, sharing the lecture-room with

other teachers, and having small laboratory fitted up. After

this Association was dissolved two years later, he retained sole

possession of the house they occupied, and did not leave till

twelve years afterwards. It was within few minutes' walk of

the University, and thus easy of access to students attending

other classes.

   Scarcely convalescent, he entered on the laborious duties of
an opening session with the ardour characteristic of all his ac

tions. To spare himself, when professional duty was concerned,

was for him an impossibility. A letter to his brother, after the

first month was over, gives  glimpse at his labours and pro

spects --
:
                                        " December 6th, Sunday.
     I
                                             a

                             II
                                                                                                a
" Nothing but the most overwhelming occupation of my time,

to an extent never knew before, has kept me so long from

writing to you. For the last fortnight have not had moment

to give to anything but my lectures.  have lectured six days
254     MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                      CHAP. VI.

every week, besides teaching a practical class and instructing

private pupils. This excess of labour has compelled me to sit

I I Iup every night till two o'clock, and rise at seven ; and so tired

am when come home at four o'clock, that often fall asleep

Ion the sofa while dinner is being served.
   " The worst is over now, and shall have more leisure for
some time to come ; but till my class had been fairly begun, I
Ihad not one moment of repose.
                                have now some thirty-one
Ipupils, a most unexpected and cheering number, and am, of

Icourse, most anxious to keep up the good opinion they entertain
of me. Many of them are older and wiser than myself.  have

no fewer than four Cambridge men fresh from their college, be

sides prize mathematicians from our own University, and other

shrewd fellows who have sharp eyes to blunders, and could

Iquickly detect them in my present subject of Heat, which they
have all studied more or less before.  have, however, given
Isupplementary Saturday lectures, that might bring before

them new doctrines never taught here, at least in chemistry

classes.

   " In my week-day ordinary discourses, for the sake of my

Iyoungest pupils, have made everything as simple as possible.
IOne of my pupils, however, came up one day to inform me was

Imaking things too simple (!); as it were, wasting my students'
time, ' gilding refined gold.'  said to him at the time, that if

Ihe would wait till the examinations began, he would see whether

or not had simplified too much, determined to give him if he

came, a knock-down question. However, last week we were on
a subject difficult enough in its simplest form ; and the crest

I Ifallen genius announced to me mournfully that he could not fol
low one word of what had been saying.  laughed, and told

I Ihim never to mind. He is settled.            have just got
   " shall only add further about myself, that

out of bed, having been sleeping there after the excessive labour

of last week. It was knocking me up, and my wound, after

healing, opened afresh and began to inflame : to prevent the

Iserious results that might follow rested yesterday and all to
Iday. And shall have much more leisure in the week to

come."
1840-41.  EBWAKD FOKBES'S ESTIMATE.  255

   He at once became a favourite lecturer. It was a delight to

him to impart to others the knowledge he possessed, and by the
wondrous law of sympathy, this delight communicated itself to
his audience. And even while with patient care unfolding the
deeper laws of his favourite science, flashes of wit and fancy

lighted up the subject, and made the dullest feel enamoured of
it. Some of those early lectures are still vividly remembered,

notwithstanding the lapse of time. A sweet clear voice added

to the charm ; and foreign students, with an imperfect know
ledge of English, were often advised to attend him in preference
to other teachers, as being more easily followed. As the judg
ment of contemporaries is more to be relied on than that

supplied from memory, and perhaps tinged by influences of

later years, we shall give Edward Forbes's opinion in 1844, as

Icommunicated in a letter to his friend Dr. Percy :-- " Wilson is

one of the best lecturers ever heard, reminding me more of
the French school than our humdrum English, and is a man of

Ihigh literary taste, and great general knowledge. Of his che

mical views know that Graham here [London] speaks in
the highest terms, which he does not bestow on any other
Edinburgh man." Had his health and strength enabled him,

he would have long been a most successful teacher ; but general
feeble health, a friend has truly said, " made his life of public
teaching one long and sad trial. How nobly, how sweetly, how
cheerily he bore all those long baffling years ; how his bright,
active, ardent, unsparing soul lorded it over his frail but willing
body, making it do more than seemed possible, and as it were by

sheer force of will ordering it to live longer than was in it to
 do, those who lived with him and witnessed this triumph of
spirit over matter, will not soon forget. It was a lesson to every
one of what true goodness of nature, elevated and cheered by
 the highest and happiest of all motives, can make a man endure,

 achieve, and enjoy."1

    Of the relaxation obtained in some degree by the return of
 summer, we have specimens in one or two letters, forming plea
 sant episodes in his outer life. One to his cousin James, now a
 divinity student in Glasgow under the Rev. Dr. Wardlaw, refers

                             i ' Horse Subseciva;,' Second Series, p. 105.
256        MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.         CHAP. VL

to the opening of the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, and the
excitement it caused in the minds of many from a fear of Sun

day trains. It will be remembered how petitions were circu

lated by which the subscribers bound themselves never to

travel by this line, and how conscientious people continued to

take instead the canal boat --the Jly-boat as it was called--
which was seven hours on the way :--

                                                                     " 5th February 1841.

" I suppose the Glasgow people are as much distracted about

the Sunday travelling question as we are here, where beggars,

petition in hand, wander from door to door, craving your signa

Iture to a promise which no conscientious man can hope to fulfil.

The following anecdote, which had at secondhand, will con

vey to you an opinion entertained on this serious subject by no

inconsiderable portion of Her Majesty's subjects. The Rev. T.

Guthrie was lately entertained by his Sunday-school teachers

to a soiree, at which the reverend gentleman unbended himself

most graciously, and, among other sayings,  uttered the follow
ing :-- On a recent Sunday some juvenile
making a slide before the minister's door.  desecrators fell to

                                            At sight of which,

anxious to save both the Sunday and his legs from being broken,

he despatched the servant with a dish of salt, and followed him

self, as the most formidable inmate, to scare away the sliders.

To his harangue on the wickedness of their conduct, the little

boys, to his great wonder and amusement, gravely and sorrow
fully replied, ' Eh man ! it would be far better to gie us the

saut for our parridge, than gang and spile our gude slide wi't.'
There was eloquence from the ' great fire bosom' of nature

herself !
I I" have another thing to tell you, which
                                            read with very

great pleasure some time ago, and have always resolved but

forgotten to communicate. You remember, in relation to Mr.

IMoffat and his Bechuanas, we both believed, from a mere

' theopathetic' instinct, you from a clearly-perceived and ana

lysed necessity of thinking, that no people or tribe could be

found altogether destitute of the idea of a God. Well ! it has

been again and again declared that the New Hollanders have no
1840-42.            TRANSMIGRATION OF SOULS.      257

idea of a God, and the phrenologists were able to show that

their brains had no cranny or crevice in which such a thought

could by possibility lurk. Very good ! and yet a recent traveller
who has visited the tribes in the interior --where little commu

nication with Europeans has left them in their unsophisticated
state --finds that these poor brainless people have minds subtle

enough to conceive the idea of a future state, and do actually

believe in a metempsychosis of souls. It appears that the first

white strangers were supposed to be transmigrated beings of

their own tribe, come back in a new incarnation.
" A most affecting proof of the depth and reality of the belief
Iis afforded by the traveller, whose name
                                                  have forgotten.

Wandering one day into the village of a secluded tribe, an old

woman walked up and looked at him with evident signs of
agitation and pleasure. After gazing a while anxiously, she
said, ' Yes, it is he,' and clasped the stranger in her arms. He

learned, by and by, that she looked on him as the fleshly ghost

or avatar of a lost son, and he was introduced to sisters, uncles,

and others, as their long lost relation, returned to dwell with

them."

                    To His Sister-in-Law.

                                                                                " May 28, 1841.

  I" My dear Maggie,-- have not been delighted with any

I Ithing this long, long time so much as with your kind, sisterly

letter. let my class wait till had read it ; and over and over

Iagain, on the day of its reception, hauled it out of its cover
Iand took another spell at it. As to its various topics shall do

I Imy best to profit by them, though cannot say that un

derstand the interest of the Exeter Hall meetings. Society

meetings, whether to convert Jews or to supply chimney-sweeps

with weekly rations of soap and soda, have long been to me

utter abominations. Yet, after all, it may be that the yearly

May explosion of all the froth-bubbles that have been sim

mering and fermenting themselves into existence, during the

Ipreceding twelve months, keeps ' the brains of men clear for the
rest of the year.'  don't like the trumpet-sounding spirit of

                    K
25S                 MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. VI.

this noisy generation ; it is one of the virtues of our Ribbon

IOrder that we eschew all but the most necessary talk. How

ever, Maggie, doubt not the listeners, who, like your own good

self, with the best of motives, attend such places. Yesterday,
the red-hot General Assembly of your kirk deposed the seven

poor rogues who have been hanged, or suspended so long ; and

young ladies sat from nine in the morning till three o'clock

Ithis morning, without shifting their places the whole while.
Iwas advised to go, but, as it costs a shilling to get in, reflected

on the price, and resolved, in preference, to dedicate the shilling

to hearing a splendid military band perform in our Zoological
Garden. That will be greatly more pleasing to my ears than

If Ipolemics of any sort are.                         could

   " you had been at a lecture of Faraday's-- ahem !
have excused you, or listening to what Exeter Hall was built
for-- an Oratorio, --it would have been well. But the yearly

Imeetings ! 0 Maggie, Maggie ! you see what a grave, censorious

rogue am grown.
                                                    will rightly
   "From the preceding part of this letter you
gather that any little amiability you once thought   I had, has
                    I am afraid it has, and how can it be
fairly evaporated.

otherwise with a poor bachelor who spends the whole day in

making and discoursing on sulphureous, phosphoreous, and

other notorious, sour, acidifying substances ? The heart of me is

clean dried up, and serves no other purpose than to propel blood

Ifor digestive purposes. The whole tone of this epistle, am
Ipersuaded, will show you (what have not courage to confess

honestly) the melancholy, stunted state of my moral being, and

will enable you to understand how welcome was that proposal

of yours concerning the procuring a wife for me. Nevertheless

there are difficulties in the way, lions in the path, and the thing

Imust be thought over. . . . Meanwhile, this much will say,
Ithat provided you can clear away these difficulties, see no

person half so well fitted as yourself to pick out a wife for me.
                               I? have nobody picked
And why should it not be Miss

out for myself here or elsewhere. So that for that matter you

are perfectly free to speculate on my account, in any quarter

you please. You may make any use of my name you think fit ;
1840-42.   DELIGHTS OF BACHELORHOOD.               259

Imake proposals wherever and whenever you see they will be ac
ceptable.  leave the matter entirely in your hands, with im

plicit faith in your good intentions, prudence, and discernment.

If an acrostic or a sonnet would help the affair on, it need not

be wanted; or a bottle of marking-ink, or bleaching powder
Imight, in this practical age, do more powerful execution.
Ibegin to see no refuge for myself but in a wife.
                                                   am at present
in love with so many ladies that I can never, by any act of free
Iwill, single out one, and even if could it would be at the risk
of offending a score. But if you were quietly to get me engaged

Iin London, some quiet morning would be found missing, and

reaching London in a noiseless way, could get married, and
Ifreturn.  any lady accused me of ' trifling with her affections '
I Iwhen returned with my bride, why, look you, should assure
Iher she was the lady wished to marry, but circumstances,
Iwhich was under oath not to repeat, had brought about my

sad catastrophe.

  I" 0 Maggie, Maggie ! see how rave away at all the old non
Isense, as if were still eighteen. Will marriage, with all its

sweets, be half so free and pleasant as dear, delightful bachelor

Ihood, and no claims, duties, or worldly requirements ? Can

love any woman better, if she made coffee for me every morn

ing, darned my stockings, and knitted me night-caps, than at

Ipresent adore more than one wingless angel who does nothing
Ifor me, but play and sing to me as long as desire.
I I" I am beginning to discern the goodliness and desirableness
of marriage, but still fear afar off.  confess there seems no

Iother hope for a man than finally getting married. Sometimes,

through cloud-curtains of smoke, see visions of myself and a

Idecent little body of a wife, now boxing my ears, now kissing

me, in the meanwhile submitting patiently to both inflictions.

Again, a stately lady, member of the Six Feet Club, passes in

Iawful vision before me, her reticule hanging on one arm and

on the other, looking exceedingly meek. Oh, dear Maggie !
                                             I awake up from
think of that latter dreadful consummation.

such thoughts in a cold trembling, and determine for the nonce

to wash myself free of all womankind, except relations and ser
vants (the latter to be chosen of small dimensions and as ill
260              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAr. VI.

Ifavoured as possible). But have ceased to make vows of re
Inunciation of the love of ladies.
                                    find they are followed by the
same consequences as vows to abandon smoking. It would be
shabby to give up smoking when your tobacco is done, as if

Ipoverty or avarice were the motives. So get some of the

dearest, such as shall be worth giving up ; but, alas ! it takes so

long to smoke a farewell that the weed gets done, and the old

Iobjection is as strong as ever.  clothe myself with my vow as
    " So with the dear damsels,

with a brow of brass, and away to show the flintiness of my

heart. But, alas ! what can the old Adam do against the young

Eves ? (By-the-by, how curiously that word rhymes with

      An ignominious defeat is the end of both attempts.
     night spent in the company of my very dearly be
Ithie"vLeas.s)t
--loved and bonnie
                    --, a young lady of some twelve years'
Iacquaintance with the world, who, had my will, should never

grow a day older or an inch higher. The dear lassie sings like

an angel, and is as graceful as a young fawn and as artless as

the first Eve was. Why must she outgrow her present perfec
I Ition, and become a grave woman ?
Inecessity. Good night, Maggie.     see not, though feel the

                                    have set my brain on fire

thinking of the lassies."

    During the winter he had suffered a good deal from rheu
matism ; and in the hope of regaining strength, he paid a visit
in autumn to his brother in London. Travelling by Glasgow
and Liverpool, he, as usual, met with much courtesy from unex

pected quarters. Alexander Russell, the youngest of the cousins
already frequently mentioned, resided at that time in Liverpool.

In his first letter from London, George says, " I was very kindly
I Itreated at Liverpool. When arrived found that Alick had
Inot got my letter. Accordingly, went with a cab straight on

to his lodgings, and found there his landlady, a very kindly

Iand superior person, young and ladylike, who, finding had

come off a journey and was alone, made me tea, brought out
her own pleasant home-made brown bread, and sat and chatted

Iwith me. All this and other kindnesses, am sure, will never

be charged to Alick's account ; for the secret came out after
1R40-42.  DISAPPOINTED HOPES.                   261

Iwards in her own statement, that was very like a brother of

hers, a young priest of the Jesuits, and that she knew what it

Iwas for a stranger to be away from home, travel worn and weary.

Alick was very pressing that should stay longer with him.
It will amuse you to hear that K. is the old fellow about
Idress, -- showed a waistcoat which, so far as
                                                could make

out the calculation, cost less than nothing to the purchaser,

and was, as it were, when washings were included, a clear

source of gain.

  I" have stood my journey well ; my general health and
Irheumatism are improving, and hope to continue making pro

gress." This hope was unfortunately not to be fulfilled, for

almost immediately on reaching London he suffered from severe

inflammation of one eye. The first doctor who visited him ad

vised simple remedies, and thus time was lost, and the eyesight

only saved by the use of the strongest measures. A medical

friend who happened to call was the first to perceive the dan

ger, and, being a skilful oculist, averted the evil by most anxious

care ; so that in eleven days he was able to write home, and to

Isay, " My eye is now better, my general health much the same,

and my rheumatism no worse. Two doctors have met here,

reckoned skilful, give promise of rapidly recovering strength,

there being nothing radically wrong with me ; at present, how

ever, progress is slow." Expressions of anxiety in home letters

I Ilead to assurances a few days later : " So far as my eye is con

cerned, believe am honest when say it is quite better, at

least only retains a little weakness, which obliges me to avoid

Iglaring lights or exposure to currents of air. You will, there

fore, understand that am now quite out of doctors' hands, and

I Iabsolved from medicine, recommended to good diet and care,

but otherwise just as was when left you. As to coming

Ihome, shall not do so immediately ; it would not be safe,

indeed, to travel at present, from the risk of a return of my late

inflammation. London has not had a fair trial ; but, at all

Ievents, shall not remain here long. The weather is extremely
Ifine, and walk out in the afternoon when the sun is down,
Iand think shall make progress now day by day. Being for

bidden to walk much on pavements, owing to the reflection
262  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VI.

from the hot stones, you must not look for city news, or think

I am ill because 1 have not visited friends there."
   Before leaving London, however, he can say, " The sun shines
on me with a brightness, and the wind blows on me with a

balminess, which they seem to have lost through this gloomy

summer. The weather here has been of the finest ; clear,

unbroken sunshine, for the last fortnight. But yesterday a

thunderstorm brought deluges of rain, and to-day we have one
Ievendown pour, with the temperature much lowered.
                                                    hold it
Ione of the surest symptoms of improvement, that have lost

that sensitiveness to changes in weather, which made me shiver

in July, and cower by my laboratory fire. You must not expect

Ito find me fattened up, or very much stronger than when I

left, but more active and more healthy certainly am."

  IShortly after this visit, his first little niece appeared in the

home he had just left ; and he informs Daniel--" could give

Iyou and Maggie many advices about the bringing up of the

young lady -- ahem ! But am afraid neither of you would

Iappreciate the fruit of many meditations. One little hint, how

ever, throw out, as a small endeavour to assist you in your
new and strange duty --this, namely, that when baby begins to

speak, which she is likely to do very soon, both in respect of

her sex and her relationship, you ought not to try her with such
words as papa and mamma, --these are poor sounding vocables,
the half of them vowels which she could already articulate if

she saw any occasion for it. No, no ; give her some hard word

Ifull of consonants for a gumstick, to help her teeth through.

don't know a better than uncle, the three consonants come so
nicely together, with a vowel satellite on either side." Alas !

the little lips never achieved this triumph ; a year later found
her in the heavenly fold.

   It was now within three weeks of the winter session of

1841-42, which promised to begin in greater physical strength

than the preceding one. How this hope was again snatched
away he tells Daniel :--

                                                                 " November 6, 1841.

" My dear Brother,-- You will be glad, I am sure, to receive
     1S40-42.               SEVERE ILLNESS.           263

     Ia letter in my handwriting ; the best evidence can send you
     I Ithat am better.
                            had a very severe attack of illness, much

     worse than in London, and the treatment was proportionally

     rigorous. What was most annoying in the whole matter was,

     that a week before I Itook to bed, showed my eye to Dr R,

     Ithe oculist, and requested his advice ; by some strange mistake

     he thought complained of my eyelid, and said there was
     nothing the matter. In this way precious time was sacrificed,
     Iand my eye nearly lost.
     Iof misery.               never in truth spent such a fortnight

                    was twice cupped, blistered five times behind the

     Iear, horribly sickened with colchicum, and severely saturated
     with mercury.  got worse and worse, till within three days of

     lecture-time, when things fortunately took a turn for the better,

     Iand my eye rapidly recovered. My first two lectures dictated

     Iin bed or on the sofa to Mary ; and my third was made up out
     of an old production.  have been left by the medical treatment

     very weak, but in the meanwhile my rheumatism is gone, and

     my appetite and spirits are good. Things here, however, are

     looking very ill ; the classes are very thin ; my own is like to

     be exceedingly small. We all looked for a diminution in

     numbers this winter ; but the amount of decrease makes us
     Ifeel rather awkward.
                            hope, however, to weather the winter,
     Iand have at least the consolation of feeling that shall have

     leisure to recruit my health, and some time for original

     research.
       I" am obliged to take a coach up and down, which will prove
     Irather an expensive thing as we now are.
                                                      am so rapidly
     Irecruiting, however, that shall soon be able to dispense with
       and take to walking again -- mode of conveyance for many
I it,                           a
     reasons prefer.                        a

        " Along with this you will receive           I

                                                                              is
                                              note from Mary, saying

     would not write you, which will show what dependence to

     be placed on that lady's veracity. Indeed in writing my lectures

     she made many  (I  am sure) wilful mistakes, and tried to put

     me out by placing the stops at wrong places.  I  shall place the

     stop at the right place, and end here."

     A  month later he says --
                            :
264              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.          CHAP. VI.

                               "Saturday, December 5, 1841.

" My dear Daniel, -- My own affairs look a little brighter ; a

few more pupils drop in, and with a desperate effort the year
may be got over. At present it is unpaid, thankless drudgery,

which makes me at times seriously contemplate the necessity of

packing off to some other corner of the globe.

   " A ray of golden light stole into my dark den the other day,

which may prove a present help, and earnest of something better

Iin store. As was discoursing to my practical students on

some edifying subject, there walked into my laboratory a grave,

business-looking, middle-aged man, who, seeing me engaged,

made a courteous bow, and took a seat in an easy way at the

Ifireside. My back was to him, so that it was only when
Iwhisked round to chalk upon the board that could catch a

Iglimpse of him ; and, from the quiet, determined look of the

man, set him down as agent for the gas company, or else the

I Iwater-bailiff, or some other of the account-presenting gentry
whom abominate.  bundled the class away as fast as possible,

and proclaimed myself at his service. Very good ! The rogue
was a lawyer, his client was landlord of certain houses in Leith,

near which a soap manufactory is carried on, and the soap-
refuse being laid before the house -windows, annoyed the in-

Idwellers by its noisome smell. Would analyse the said stuff,

and substantiate by chemic proof that it might, could, would,

Iand should have an odour ? Certainly ; but at the same time

was given to understand that some of the chemists in town

employed by the soap-maker had sworn that the stuff had no
smell. Christison, however, was retained on the same side as I,
Iand so that went for little.
                               told the lawyer to send the stuff,
Iand would soon tell him whether my art and my conscience
Iwould allow me to say it was odoriferous. The stuff arrived ;
Igazed on it doubting, for had a ' cold in my head,' and my
Isense of smell was as good as gone. Moreover, never cared
Imuch about bad odours, as daresay you remember : --

     " For you must know that to chemists' noses,

     Little accustomed to smelling of posies,

     Assa-faetitla is quite the same
     A s the finest oil of roses.
1540-42.                     DAILY WORK.                                                                          265

  " I sent out for some ells of pocket-handkerchief, and blew
Iand blew till nearly blew both nose and brains away, then
Iwith great circumspection inserted my neb into the paper bag

with the stuff. Praised be the gods, a noisome odour was dis

cernible ; by and by, according to Scott [an assistant], it tainted

the whole place. Such plenitude of perception was not vouch
I I Isafed to me, but was grateful for what got.
                                                                                                  distilled from
Ithe stuff a liquid having a formidable odour, which gave the

lawyer to sniff. ' That's sir,' said he, put the bottle in your
     I
                               a
                          it
                                          it,
                                                               ;'
                                                                                            '
pocket, and bring to court lawyers know nothing of chemistry,

but    they know         bad smell when  they                                                feel it.    out  of  the
    "     hope, like      Vespasian, to  coin                                                some money

noisome odour."

     In January, James Russell  ; is     informed, "All your friends

is  that see are well and thriving Cairns grows taller every day,
    and will require to be stopped by Act of Parliament. My life
   I
       the most dull and monotonous possible, and bears no fruit by

    way of thought or work.     work little in the laboratory
                         (?)                                                                                      ;

                                I

                                                       a
analyse delightful       things and make some little discoveries.

    But am easily knocked up, and after standing on my feet fromI
    nine till four, am fit for very little when the evening comes."

     To his brother, who had been indisposed, the following letter
     addressed --
a is
                                                                                               " February 1842.
  aI                                                                                                     4,I
     " have just read your letter to mother received this morning,
                     a:
    and mourned over the sad news.             have suffered myself this
                             is

                                 I
    winter much from cold and cough, and others have done so, to

    much greater extent than common even in winter. The

    great variableness of the weather has occasioned such illnesses

    to much greater extent than ordinary and you must take
                                ;

                                        is
                                              a
                                              it ;
    hope from this, and believe you have not fared worse than your

    neighbours. Rheumatic headache                                                             sore thing, as know,

    having had taste of lately at present, however, my rheu
                         it

    matics are quite aristocratic, setting up would seem for gout,

    and have, besides various outposts for desultory skirmishing

    about shoulder joints and elbows, established strong position
                                                                                               a
266              ME.MOIH OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VI.

in my ankles, where they manoeuvred last night to an extent

that put sleep for a long while out of the question. My ankles,

therefore, to your head, tie us neck and heel together, and we

would sympathize famously; as that cannot be very conve

niently done at present, you must take the heart's sympathy in

lieu thereof.
I" have at last seen in the ' Athenaeum' your work an
Inounced, and shall look out for it.
                                        hope things mend a little,
Iand the clouds break up ; still fear you are like myself trad
Iing on the future.
                     have begun new classes ; have got six

pupils, one of whom, poor soul. begged a ticket, a deserving

widow's son ; it did me good in my present dreariness to be able

to give him one. Of the remaining five one has paid me, the

others have requested to be excused doing so for some time to
Icome, which is a very pleasant thing for a poor debtor.
                                                          do
Ibelieve have got two of them solely because they were con
Ivinced that was more likely to give credit than the other men.

However, they are gentlemen, and will pay. The present dul-

Iness of my life was most delightfully interrupted last night in a
rather odd way.  have a friend and pupil, a Mr. Da Costa,

Ia Portuguese from Madeira, who has often begged me to accom

pany him to evening concerts. This always declined, having

been positively forbidden to go out at night. Some days ago

he came to tell me of a famous concert, and very earnestly

Ibegged me to go with him. This declined again, on the old
Iplea, adding, that was too poor, moreover, and could not afford
the sum. ' Oh then,' said he, ' I'll go for you.' ' Very well,'
Iquoth I, and so the matter was left.
                                        could not understand

why he always kept talking about the concert, till last night it
came out. At seven o'clock Signor Da Costa makes his ap
pearance, dressed, and acquaints me that if we wanted good seats
we must set off immediately. A great deal of confusion and
Ienlightenment succeeded ; in the course of which said, ' My
I Idear Signor, told you could not
I Iplied he, ' " very well," when said  go.' ' But you said,' re
                                         should go for you.' The
Imurder was out ; the Signor intended to say will come or call
I Ifor you ; his phrase
                     interpreted as meaning will go instead

of you. After the kind, good soul had done so much, it behoved
AN UNEXPECTED PLEASURE.               267

me to make an effort. In spite of medical prohibition and well-

Igrounded fears, ventured (well cloaked and muffled) to accom
Ipany him. Andasmy health appears to-day none the worse, feel
Ivery glad did go. Delicious music of the best sort, rich full

melodies played and sung by no common performers, poured

through the ears into the parched soul of a man, hungering

and yearning for sweet sounds and ennobling emotions; all

Ithis was something, and refreshed me greatly. At first was
Iill at ease ; the penalty had paid for my former night visit

Iwas too recent and too severe to be easily forgotten. But the
first overture dissolved all fears ;  began to calculate how

many days in bed the overture would stand, and soon all pain

ful sensation vanished, the middle neutral point was reached

Iand passed, and yielded myself up to the full influence of the

glorious art.

   I" Da Costa and laughed like children at the feats of a man

with fingers made of putty or dough, who did what he called

playing on the piano. Such a sumph presiding over a piano out
of tune, and listening with stolid satisfaction to the dull discords

he made to drone out of the instrument, was like the fool in

Shakspere's plays, he relieved the strained faculties, and whetted

I Ithe senses and faculties for the good stuff that was coming. And

good stuff it was ; had arranged the pieces could not have

selected things more entirely suited to my taste than the per

Iformances were. Old half-known melodies, bits of which

could whistle, came out, startling me with the unexpected plea

sure, and the ultimate effect was such, that instead of walking
rapidly and quietly home, when all was over, I, who have not
whistled or sung for months, fell to trying with Da Costa who

remembered best what we had heard. There we were like two

fools, stopping at every second lamppost to hum or whistle, or

I Itry to recall something we had heard ; he has a much finer ear
than I, but did wonders !  need not say that the main

object of my writing this, is the selfish one of having the

Ipleasure a second time. But you mingled in my feelings.
   " have been thinking a great deal about my godfathership,

Iand after reading carefully what the Prayer-Book says, have

come to the conclusion that its spiritual duties cannot dis
268            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                       CIIAP. VI.

Icharge. These you must take on yourself.       cannot get clear
Ilight for myself, and how can help another to find it ? But
my dear little Ann will be much in my thoughts, and most

Ifervently shall strive to work out good for her. At present
I I Ioften think, as did last night, that could at least sing
Ito her, and sing shall, please God, to the little lady, some time
soon, till her hazel eyes are like to be gazed away in wonder

and delight."

                   To James Russell, Esq.

                                                                           " February 20, 1842.

  I" My dear James, --I do not think you will accuse me of

Sabbath desecration because spend a portion of this Sunday

evening in writing you. Your letter to Mary, and a state

ment from Mr. Cairns, lead me to lose no delay in assuring you

I Ithat the evils of our present sickness have been exaggerated to
you, especially in so far as am concerned.      have, indeed, for

the last fortnight, been lamed by my rheumatism settling in my

ankles and knees, and making locomotion irksome and even

painful; but, on the whole, my general health is decidedly

better, and my energy and cheerfulness greatly superior to what

they were at Christmas. The old gentleman had seen me limp

ing, which in part resulted from my having leeched and bandaged

my ankle that morning ; but he also saw me eat a hearty dinner,

and might have mentioned that good symptom, which he did
Inot, fear. Although 1 walk with difficulty, and lose some
Isleep at night with pain, can talk three hours, and stand on
Imy feet all day.
                   do not indeed complain, and have no claim

on your sympathy to the extent to which you have given              is it,

but am none the less grateful for ;;       assure you. . . .
I
                                     iIt,
                         ;

                              is
" At present Mary living very low [she had burst blood
                                                          Ia
vessel], confined to bed, and suffering (but not much) from pain
in the chest she has no cough altogether, she             as well as
                                                is
                                                      is
could be expected, and all immediate danger past.             think

she will recover well, but slowly but the greatest caution

necessary in all exertion. You can believe has caused us all
                                            it
1840-42.          ILLNESS OF A SISTER.  2G9

Imuch anxiety aud alarm.'which are now, however, somewhat

abated. From the doctor have not learned anything precise
concerning the nature and extent of the heart-affection.

   " Mary is as contented, calm, and even cheerful a sufferer as
could be seen ; it is the pain it gives others, not her own sense

of suffering, that afflicts her. Poor thing, she has been sorely

Itried by illness and sorrow all her days. Pray to God to restore

and watch over her, for fear anything like complete restora

Ition to health is hopeless for her. Nevertheless, be not over

much cast down ; believe this attack, which is a symptom,
not a disease, may prove beneficial to her ; and, at all events, it

is to me a great relief and consolation to know that she is under
the medical care of a very kind and skilful person."

                  " Sabbath Mobnino, March 20, 1842.
I" am constrained by necessity to devote a portion of to-day
Ito writing you.
                  have engaged to deliver several lectures to
IDr. Robertson's surgical class.
                                  have been occupied all this

week with preparation, and shall not be free to write a letter
till Friday next, so that this deed must be forgiven.

  " I am greatly pleased to read in your letter of the delight

you feel in your studies ; it is a sure proof you are in good
health, whether your peptic mill be going right or no. It is a

delicious feeling that sober exultation which successful, pleasur

able study brings ; the ' exulting and abounding' emotion with
which some long and rugged hill of difficulty being at last

clomb, and every let or hindrance overcome, behold a Pisgah

point from which a Canaan of promise can be seen. Such a

Ifeeling have known ;-- ' Tis gone ! 'tis gone !' as old Capulet

says of his cornless feet and young dancing days ; but it will

come back with the swallow and the summer flowers, and they

Iwill be here one of these days. At present creep along on a

Ipair of crutches, literally and metaphorically a lame, blind

man. Nevertheless, you will be glad to hear am mending,

general health much improved, lame legs at least no lamer,

much profitable and promising work chalked out for immediate

and future performance; on the whole, quiet contentment, some

times cheerfulness overflowing in its old channels, and gladden
270  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                    CHAP. VI.

ing the hearts of the much enduring, dear sharers of our little

fireside circle.
   " We shall compare plans, and cheer on each other in our

widely differing pursuits when we meet face to face, which I
hope will be soon after that most appropriate and beloved of

the days of the year, the 1st of April. . . .
" This is a pretty story about
                                ; young man, go on as you
Iare doing, and you'll have much to answer for.
                                                 remember

once being told by a stage struck haverel, of a certain young

actor, yet innocent of public performance, who, even in plain

clothes, and in a room, could make the looker-on weep with

emotion. What, then, might be expected when he trod the

stage in shammy (not shabby) leather boots, with tin hel
met, or tinsel crown and corked mustachios ? Surely nothing

less than that the pit would require Mackintoshes and umbrellas

to ward off the briny torrents from the boxes and galleries.

Take warning ; if you, in plain clothes, and in a quiet domestic

parlour, have made such an auger hole through a young lady's

chief organ of circulation, what will occur when your reverence

is mounted in the pulpit ? The high, white forehead, the long

brown hair, the dark eye, with its Edward Irving glance to

wards the sky (or, in default of that, at the ventilator), the silk

gown, the white bands, the cambric handkerchief! All this

may only make the little hearts go pit-a-pat, but when the

' Chrysostom' is opened, and the floods pour forth, the thunder

rolls of eloquence, the platoon volleys of rarely-imagined illus

trations, the knock-down, smiting blows (prompted by the

'absolute' and 'righteous indignation'), the imagination reels

drunken, and cannot attempt to calculate the number of coro

ner's inquests which next week's paper will reveal.

  I" Seriously speaking, acquit you of blame, of all blame ;

these sentimental, pseudo-sesthetical young ladies are the most

foolish and unprofitable of nature's productions. They are always

in mischief, and hauling other people into it ; a restless, anoma

lous, and most troublesome species of bipeds."

                                                                                  "March 20, 1812.

" My dear Daniel, I- received your kind and welcome letter
1840-42.               PLANS FOR THE SUMMER.                       271

at the laboratory, and was much comforted, and grieved too,

therewith.

   " It seems at present dreary enough to look about and con

Itemplate the state of business, and you, fear, are still engaged
Iin a desperate struggle with the world. Now, need not offer

you sympathy, you have heartsful of that already ; indeed, that

same sympathy is a wonderfully useless sort of thing, and, like

Falstaff s honour, pays no debts, purchases no commodities.
   "We shall therefore waive the subject, and talk of other

matters. You are glad to think my old spirits are returning,

Iand health and ability with them, and wish to know my plans

and projects. Now am so famous at castle-building, and have

I Iso often been totally disappointed in the realization of them,

that seldom talk now of what am about to do ; moreover,

Ieverything so completely depends on my health improving,

that, quite unable to foresee the issue of that, am the more
Iinclined to ' sit still and keep silence.'
                                              propose, however, in

summer, to give a special course, addressed chiefly to the senior

students and medical men, on animal chemistry, a subject of
Igreat importance, at which have been diligently labouring
Iall the winter.
                   shall bring before them a new and highly

important branch of chemistry, never properly studied in this

country. The medical men themselves are very anxious about

it,  and was the solicitation of others that first urged me to it.
     I a it
My own tastes lead me to other departments, but poverty pre

cludes their prosecution at present, and this really as rich and
                                        I
                                          I

                                                 is

                                                    Ia
noble field as any, and grows every day more interesting to

me. have been analysing all winter, and have not few ori

ginal observations collected together.        am sure shall be

able to give very interesting course, and shall only lecture
             a
                a
three days week, so as not to overtask myself. Many of the

most intelligent medical men have expressed their delight at
Ifthe proposal, and have promised to attend.
                                              possible, one of

the brethren will lecture with me on alternate days on physi
     A

         ;
ology our courses being illustrative and complementary of

each other. This John Goodsir, very noble fellow, most
                   is  a
                                                                a

excellent and original inquirer, and one of the most amiable

and lovable of men. We are working together at various
272  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON'.                                 CHAP. VI.

Itopics of a chemico-physiological character.  shall send you

the first-fruits of our labour as soon as it is published, which
will be on the auspicious 1st of April. John Goodsir will be

I Ihampered by circumstances which may prevent him lecturing ;
shall whether he does or no.1       do not expect pecuniary
Ireturn from these lectures ; shall have to give away a number
Iof tickets, and only the senior students will attend. But have
I Ino doubt shall clear all expenses, and shall raise up a host
of friends who will tell upon my winter course, besides making
Ifmyself better known.
                        my health only improves, with God's
Iblessing, shall do bravely.
  I" In the meanwhile have engaged to deliver, next week,

three lectures to one of the surgery classes, on the composition

and mode of analysing calculi. The preparation for this has

prevented me writing you sooner. These lectures are intended

as prefatory and introductory to the summer course, and are de

livered at Dr. Robertson's suggestion and request.

  I" As to myself and my state of health, am much better, and
Ihope soon to bid farewell to my present aches. That have

often written you in another than the old merry mood will not

Isurprise you ; you know with all my faults am not a hypo
Icrite, and never conceal, or seek to conceal, the mood am in.
I I IBut if have been grave, have never been melancholy ;

have neither desponded nor repined, but have struggled through
Iout to bear patiently every pang.
                                    bow myself with the most
Isincere resignation to God's will, and pray that may in all

respects be strengthened and bettered through affliction. And

yet overflowing mirth which could disport itself in letters, I
Icould rarely boast of. For the last five weeks have not had a

night's unbroken sleep through pain, and even the repose, such

as it was, has been procured only by the nightly use of mor

Iphia. Even so late as a week ago, had to stop in the middle

of a lecture overcome with a severe paroxysm, and go straight

home. And what has stood even more in the way of writing,

Ihas been the weakness of my eyes, which are easily irritated,

and scarcely stand even shaded gaslight, so that have written

Igenerally very hastily, not revelled in my thoughts as used to

     i Mr. Goodsir was unable to carry out this arraugeinent.
1840-42.           A SERVICEABLE TONGUE.  273

do. Nevertheless, if you were to stumble in some night at tea

Itime on us here, you might find me at my old tricks, retailing

some jest picked up through the day or --,-- ; but need say

no more, you would find me the old fellow, with the old non

sense in my head, cheering the hearts of our much-tried and

Ioften sad home-circle. Mary is no worse, and hope will amend

Istill more ; the rest of us are well.

   " P.S. -- hope you are not swallowed up by the earthquake.
--Your loving brother,
                                          George."

                                                                                       "March 26, 1842.

  I" Yesterday, which was Good Friday, religiously observed
Iby eating a hot cross bun, and enjoyed a holiday from my labours.

  had been working double tides all the week with the lectures

I spoke of on the calculi, and was fairly worn out with four

Ihours' speaking per diem, not to mention the preparation, etc.

But you will be glad to learn that had an audience overflow

ing, crammed to the door, and scarcely even standing room to

be had, and this for three days consecutively. Several elderly

gentlemen attended, and said very polite things to me after lec

ture. The class was most attentive, gave me abundant applause,

Iand through side channels have communicated their great satis
faction.  knew the subject, had a sufficiency of well-contrived

experiments, which, as they say of fireworks, went off well,

Iplenty of specimens from the surgical museums, diagrams, and
other appliances.  was very stupid, bad headache, and no ap

petite, took no dinner for the three days, and had to lecture at

the unpleasant hour of 4 P.M. ; but that nature which has given

Ihorns to bulls, has given me a tongue which nothing but death

will keep from wagging ; and as was alive, or semi-alive, wag

it did, and to some purpose. The great object of this seemingly

Iconceited prologue is to let you (whose interest in my welfare

do heartily acknowledge) see that there is the best hope for the

proposed summer class, for which John Goodsir and I will now

with undivided attention work.
   " Mary is neither worse nor better, still a complete invalid,

and requiring the utmost care. We are all otherwise well.

The first blink of sunshine that reaches my hazy soul shall give

                        s
274                        MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. VI.

rise to an epistle to Maggie ; meanwhile excuse this scrawl, my
eyes oblige me to write little."

                                                     "May 4, 1842.

I" could not answer your kind note sooner, having been en
Igaged for the last week in preparing lectures for a course
Ibegan to-day on animal chemistry.
                                    delivered my introduc

tory lecture to a good audience, who were pleased to think

highly of it ; and being freed from the burden of
           is                                              can peace

                      a

                                      I
                                                    iIt,

                                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                         it

                                                                                           is

                                                                                                                    a
fully write you few lines.          last wrote, and able to
   " Mary better than she was when

be out of bed some hours daily. She cannot write, or she would

tell you how much she was refreshed by your letter

most difficult thing, as you say, to write to invalids, whose

moods are ever changing, without the nature of their change

appearing outwardly, or being always susceptible of communi

cation by letter. But hope we shall see her improve in the
a

   I

                  a is
                             it

                    is I
course of the summer. For myself, have not crossed the
                                 I
                                        ;I

                                                        a
threshold till to-day for the last three weeks       am so lame as

to be unable to cross the room without the help of stout stick,

and there       no immediate hope of betterness. The doctors

forbid me attempting to walk, and gravely, seriously recommend

crutch, or wooden leg (the latter not being intended to sup

plant,  but to  complement the living limb).         improved  under
    "   am in   the best hands, and have certainly

the treatment, but               weary work lying on the sofa when in

the house, and still wearier to have to employ coach (eating
                                    aI
                                            a
                                              I
                                                                       a
sore hole into my small earnings) whenever go out.             pay no

visits, thinking none of my friends worth coach fare. And

they manifestly rate me at the same value, or they would occa

sionally despatch vehicle for my worship.
   " have made contract with coachman who carries me up
I                                I
                                      a
                             aa
                                        I

                                                              ;

                                               I
                                                          is I

                                                                                                   a
and down at stated hours, and find all the consolation can

in lying all my length on the cushions, and gazing with

majestic air on the pedestrians broiling in the sun. It's a fine

thing coach, very fine thing, and am the only chemist,
        a
                 is

                        a
except the Professor, who can afford one and am inclined to

think mine the handsomer turn-out of the two. It rather
1S40-42.  HOW TO BEAR SORROW.                                    275

Icostly, however, and a project have set (instead of myself) on

foot, of paying my way (literally paying my way) by offering my

I Ifriends sixpenny or threepenny rides according to the distance,
has not been so successful as could have wished.  observed
to the coachman to-day, that if it was not for lame people like
Ime, he would often want a job, and that need not expect much
Icompassion from him.
                         am not sure that he knew what the

word compassion meant, but he was not destitute of the reality,

for he insisted on helping me up stairs, and as good as carried

me to the top. One great consolation, however, still remains,

in thinking of the vexation the bootmaker must feel in knowing
that my shoe-soles will not be thinned by the depth of a wafer

by all my locomotions.
   " ' God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb,'-- is not that a

beautiful thought ? To me that expression so fully conveys the

Iidea of the kind way in which God moulds our state of mind to

our condition, that for these words alone, can reverence their

Iauthor Sterne, a man not otherwise ranked among my idols.

And among the things have lately been most thankful for,

was the power at times to turn away a dark or sorrowful thought
by some perception of the ludicrous in things around. Our

great sources of consolation are not to be wasted on everyday

Igriefs ; but these, little as they singly are, may, by oft repetition,
devour a man piecemeal.  have a friend, a solemn serious

pious man, who thinks he will be allowed to laugh in heaven.

I daresay he will, but if he laughs as loudly as he does upon
earth (like to the neighing of a troop of wild horses), he will
get a box on the ear now and then from the angel Gabriel, for

drowning the melody of their harp-music.

  I I" At this rate don't know where I'll land next, so shall be

warned and stay my mad pen. This is a love-letter to yourself,

I only send the love at present to Maggie, and bid her give the

same to my dear god-daughter, who is often in my thoughts."

In a letter of this period, Dr. Cairns tells James Russell of
the introductory lecture spoken of in the letter just given :--
I" never," he says, " admired anything more than your cousin's
Ifirmness in writing down the agonies of pain.
                                                  heard his
27G  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VI.

opening lecture on Animal Chemistry with great interest and
instruction. He has a very fine and penetrating mind, and is
marked out for eminence. We are getting wonderfully intimate,

Iand enjoy nobody's society more."

  IOn May 9, George says to his sister-in-law, "Daniel will be

greatly grieved, am sure, to learn of Sir Charles Bell's death,
and still more when he hears the circumstances : Sir Charles
was on a visit to a friend, and during the night was seized with
spasm in the stomach, to which he was subject. Lady Bell
arose to get him some laudanum, but he hastily recalled her to
his side, and leaned his head on her shoulder. She thought he
was merely squeamish, and supported him in this position for
three-quarters of an hour, till the doctor came. When the
doctor looked, he found he was dead, quite cold ; his poor wife
had mistaken her own breathing for his, and had been uncon
sciously supporting his corpse all the while. He must have
died in a moment ; his death resulted from ossification of the

large arteries near the heart, which were found extensively
diseased. One of his last acts on the evening before was to
make a sketch of a yew in an old churchyard in the neighbour
hood. He had been struck with the beauty of this churchyard,

and had said, that if asked to say where he should like to be
laid, it would be there. There he now slumbers."1

   A few weeks more, and George's struggle to keep at his post,

in spite of physical suffering, was at an end. The facts are best

given in his own words to his cousin :--

                                                                                 "May 24, 1842.

  " My dear James, -- I have this morning received your kind

letter, which, if it has grown out of a root of sadness, bears blos
soms only of mirth and humour. But so it is always, --the

gravest, soberest people, by their own account, are the best com

Iforters of those they favour with their correspondence ; and

have need of all the comfort you can give me. You ask me to

Itell you about my lectures and pupils, and in return have to

                  1 See ' Life of Sir Charles Bell,' by Dr. Pichot, pp. 199, 200.
1810-4-2.                PROSTRATE IN BED.                   277

Ireply that am obliged to abandon both. My foot, which was

pretty well when you were here, has daily been growing worse ;

I Iand yesterday was informed by Professor Syme that must

Iabandon all active exertion, and prepare myself for the tender

mercies of the surgeon. Accordingly, am returning the pupils

I Itheir fees, and in ill health and debt retire from the struggle.

My only consolation is, that have done all could do, and
Ihave fought against difficulties till courage and patience would

avail no longer. Had known how seriously my foot was af

I Ifected, should never have begun, and have greatly aggravated
Imy complaint by persisting in working when should have been
Iprostrate in bed or on the sofa. To that am reduced now,

having yesterday concluded arrangements for relinquishing

teaching. Even had the doctors not insisted on  iIt,       could not

have carried on longer.    was perfectly helpless, could not put;
a

             II
                 ;I
                      I
my foot to the ground, and had to be carried up and down stairs

on every occasion.       lectured standing on one foot, and had to

use crutch when attempted locomotion unaided. Within

the last week, however, the pain has greatly increased become,

indeed, perfect torture and rest or sleep in one unchanging

and unchangeable position. When not in motion, however, the
pain lulls, and perfect rest, with surgical aid, hope will soon
                                            II
           it,

                 I
abate and lead to amendment.

   " At present, however, just struck down unexpectedly from

all my hopes, cannot look hopefully to the future, and must

recover the stun and shock of my fall before become alive to

all the comforts that yet surround me. But know this, at least,

for your consolation, that, though often despondent, do not re
                                                ;I
pine, and do never seek enviously to contrast my own positionI

with that of others. This much of peace of mind God has
granted me, and trust he will vouchsafe patience and courage
I
          is I             believe that, even for this world,
                       I
to bear all that sent me.

all noble characters are perfected through suffering and in that

spirit try to endure all things. But flesh weak, and knowis

this too well to vaunt anything at present.
   " Meanwhile excuse the sombreness of this letter, and do not

distress yourself for me. You cannot assist me but with your

sympathy, and on that count to the fullest already.
                    I
278       MEMOIR OF GEOKGK WILSON.           CHAP. VI.

   " Everybody is very kiud to me ; the brethren of the Order
have proved true brothers to me. The very surgeon looked con
cerned, as if he had no other patient to feel sympathy with.
But the surgeons are more kind-hearted men than they get

credit for.

  I" saw Inglis and Cairns on Saturday, but was too unwell to
Iget good of their society. Inglis, however, can see, is a very

fine fellow."

A fortnight later, additional gloom is added to the scene by

a return of inflammation in George's left eye. Mary reports
that, " though still a prisoner to bed, a very slight improvement

is visible in the foot. He is doomed to a dark room, and Jessie

spends every leisure minute reading aloud to him. Alison's
' History of Europe,' and Madame Junot's ' Memoirs,' are the
Ibooks at present in use.
                           should have added to my account of

the invalid life, that George is ordered to the country as soon as

he can bear removal."

   Written at such a time, the following letters may serve to
illustrate the genial kindliness of his nature :--

                           " Monday, June 18, 1842.
I" My dear Daniel, -- give the first moment of convalescence
Ito you.
          have written nobody for the last six weeks, inflam

Imation of the eyes having been added to my other ailments, and
putting it out of my power to handle a pen.  am now able to

lie on the sofa, and can use one eye ; but you must, nevertheless,

be satisfied with a brief letter, which, indeed, I should not have

written, were it not chiefly concerning yourself. But first let

me tell you how much pleasure the arrival of Ann and her

mamma has occasioned us all. When baby was first presented

to me, lying half blind, and very indifferent to almost everything,

I started in surprise, and could only find vent to my feelings in

exclaiming, What a beautiful child ! Truly she is beautiful,

I Imuch more so than expected, though cannot well say what ex
I Ipectations had formed concerning her. She is like nobody
Iknow, though daresay the lower part of her face will yet turn

out Wilsonic. Her forehead is certainly from mamma's side of
1840-42.  VACUOUS BRAIN-PANS.                            279

the house. But, after all, a child is a tertium quid, and has a

right to a new and perfectly original set of features. Her eyes
Iare, without exception, the most beautiful ever saw ; and time
I Iwill perfect her charms, not impair them, feel sure.
                                                         am
Ivery proud to have such a lovely god-daughter, but make little
Iprogress in her good esteem.
                               have crowed and chuckled, and

whistled and sung, but the only return she makes for my ad

Ivances is to put on a face like a Chimpanzee ; and have at

Ilength, from fear of marring her beauty, given up all active at
tempts at diverting her.  now content myself with handing

Iher a piece of paper, over which she smiles like an angel.

Nature, in truth, has been far kinder, can see, to little babies

than leave them dependent for their amusement on bachelor

uncles or anybody else ; and Ann manifestly only needs to be

left alone to develop abundant means of self-diversion.-- Yours,
                                                                                 " George."

                                                              " Monday, June 27, 1842.

  I" My dear James, -- have not used you well in the way of
Iwriting ; you should have heard from me before this. But for

the greater part of the last five weeks have not been in a con

dition favourable to scribbling, and my eyes inflaming not only
prevented me writing, but by occupying Jessie in reading to me,

Icut short your correspondents. It was on various occasions re

solved that Jessie should write you ; but was so unconscionable

I Iin my demands on her time, that the resolutions never became

realities. Now that am on the sofa, feel such shame at my

Ibehaviour, that begin an epistle, though with such a vacuum
Iin my brain-box that, unless hook up a thought or two out of
I Ithe ink-bottle, do not see how shall cover the blank paper
Ibefore me. But speaking of vacuous brain-pans, may record for

your edification the reply of a singularly stupid man, who hap
pening lately to visit Y. (who had been drinking the night be
fore), heard him complaining of feeling a vacuity in his head,

and was asked if ever he felt the same ? No, was his reply.

Did you never ? asked the sly rogue. No, never felt any vacuity.

I have suggested, as the only explanation, that his skull is so

very empty as to be devoid of even a grain of sensorium ; not
280             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.           CHAP. VI.

the finest spider-web filament of a nerve present to receive or

retain the impression of emptiness. The same individual was

lately met in one of these dog-days, brandishing a large cotton

umbrella. On an explanation being demanded of his motive in

flourishing so elegant and ornamental an appendage, he answered,
' that it looked medical.' There's some furniture in the head

piece after all ! Few would contest the originality of the idea.

  I" have not looked out at the window for five weeks, so of the
Iouter world can tell you nothing, and my inner world is not
Iworth the looking into.
                          am to be shipped off to the country,
I INewhaven or Seafield, as soon as can bear removal, and then
shall hope to see yourself among us. John Cairns has been

most kind, has called twice a week, and brought me books, and

in every way contributed more to my comfort than any other of

I Imy friends. His friendship is a debt owe to you, and give

you a mountain-load of thanks for it. He was with us last

night, and had been called on while absent by some individual,

whom he supposed to be you. Have you been somnambulizing,
Ior making spiritual progressions along the railway --the body
being left behind for the sake of coolness ?  did not think it

could be you, but would not be positive. Make a clean breast

in your next."

                                              " Wth June 1842.

  " My dear Daniel,-- I was prevented writing you last night
by S. Brown coming to spend the evening with me. To-night I
Iam alone, and may, in the first place, inform you that am

Iordered off to the country, and shall remove to the seaside on
Monday next.    am now nearly free from pain, except from an

Iabscess which has formed near the heel ; but as the doctors

think it will prove on the whole beneficial, don't mind the

trifling amount of suffering it entails. It makes a very great

difference on the feeling with which pain is borne, to know that

its issue will be favourable ; the same amount of  known to
                          I

                                                   it it,
                                                    if

                                                  I
be the index of formidable or incurable distemper, would seem

unbearable.

"You tell me in your last you still write verses.          have

entirely abandoned the task, as may truly call in my case.
1840-42.  SET ASIDE.                               281

Indeed, in the utterly prostrated state of mind in which for the

I Ilast year have been, have avoided even reading poetry. To
Irelish it--and the same remark applies to music-- find in my

case a certain elasticity and exhilaration of mind necessary.

I IWhen opened old favourites, was so pained to find the pas
I Isages used to thrill over become flat and unprofitable that

closed all of them, -- resolved that they should lie unopened till

restored health enabled me with the old emotions to read them

Iagain. With the solitary exception of Milton, accordingly,

have not read any poetry for the last twelvemonth. In addi

Ition, feel myself now obliged to devote all my thoughts to
Iscience, and blame myself for every moment which spend
Iaway from it. am like a stranded ship, lying powerless in the

sand, with sails idly flapping on the masts, while those who set

Isail with me, with like hopes and chances, are far ahead out in

the open sea. Every occasion, therefore, on which feel revisit-

Iings of my old energy, is spent in making such preparations as

may enable me to be ready for active service should get afloat

Iagain. Now, poetry was never with me a mere source of idle

amusement, to which could turn for relaxation, and listlessly

smile over, lying on a sofa ; but, on the other hand, a field for

as tough intellectual gymnastics as any scientific problem, and

the pleasure arose from the new thoughts struck out by the

conflict between the author and his reader. Now, however, in

relaxed seasons the battle is too hard work, and the idlest book
Ion the foolishest subject is the most agreeable.
                                                   am sure you
I Ican understand the feeling which lamely strive to portray.

think the great poets too worthy fellows to be handled with my
Iworn-down emaciated thoughts.
                                think the same of the musi
Icians, and listen to none of them.
                                     have felt the same towards

the greater scientifics ; but they are my ' daily bread,' and habit,

Iand a sort of shop instinct, make me keep munching at them,

though often out of a goodly loaf digest but a few crumbs." . . .

                                                                        " June 30, 1842.

   " My dear Daniel, -- A few words with you on whatever

comes uppermost. It's but a poor one-sided apology for con
versation this epistolizing, but pleasant too in its way, doing
282         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                CHAP. VI.

Ione's heart good. As           lay on the sofa this morning, ' fast
Ianchored' as usual, recalled in thought a most beautiful poem,

written by a young Edinburgh advocate, called Aytoun, and

which you will find in Blackwood for last year. The title is

' Harmotimus,' or some similar name, and should you stumble

         besides other points of interest, will make you
it,on read                            it
          it                                    is

                    ;

                         aa
acquainted with beautiful but difficult measure, borrowed

from the German, language which infinitely transcends ours
in its capabilities of modulation, and can, in fact, imitate the

measures of every nation under heaven. The poem founded

on an old Greek story of philosopher who possessed the power
                             a

of separating his soul from his body, and sending the former on

errands of its own. As his soul, to which time and space were

nothing, was often absent for days together, he gave strict

injunctions to his wife to take care of his body during its soul

less condition, and not to be alarmed though should seem
                             it

                                         aa

                                           I

                                                                 a

                                                                 it

                                                                                  a

                                                                            it
lifeless even for long periods. Secure in this arrangement, he
made many spiritual excursions in all safety, but at last, lin

gering away too long, his wife thought his body was fairly dead,

and burned it. Truly was dangerous power to put in the

hands of woman. We know wife or two who would be very
     aa
glad their husbands had the disembodying secret, and with

help of lucifer-match would effectually secure against their

revisiting the glimpses of the moon.  accuse not, however,

the old Grecian matron, though hers may have been Lucifer-

match, which she was thankful to burn to ashes as fast as she

could. But as process for getting rid of husband beats
         a

arsenic hollow. Your arsenic settles Mr. B.'s connexion with

this world, and once he's coffined, unless those prying wretches

the chemists dig him up to analyse him, you are done with him.
But there's another world, Mrs. B., and what will you say when

you have to face him there      Matron lone (please to observe
' is

                               '
                                                                          ?

                                                                               ;

                                          it
                                                                                           it
Ion/, no relation of either Jenny or widow Jones), however,

had fired the match at both ends, and philosopher Glaucus had
lost his vote in both worlds. In vain did the shivering soul
                                was dust and ashes. It could
come back for its body-coat

not sit down in its own mansion, though empty seats, with soft
cushions, were there in abundance, for the same reason that
1840-42.                    A DISEMBODIED SOUL.                                  283

keeps cherubs always on the wing. And then, poor soul, it had

no passport for the next world. Charon demands to see a pro
perly made out discharge from the upper world, and it did not
get so much as a notice to quit. The philosopher's soul wan
ders yet a pale ghost on the wrong side of the Styx, while lone

has long ago been safely ferried over.

  I" have been inquiring of a person lately come from Greece

Iif he had fallen in with the recipe for disembodiment, as, having

no wife to be afraid of, might, without apprehension, put it in

"Ipractice.

        should explain to my body, that it was a hard case it

must go wrong and require cuttings, and burnings, which made

me (the soul) agonize, while it was indifferent, feeling none of
them ; explain my intention of being an absentee till it saw fit

to mend matters ; and then, escaping through a pore in the skull,

come whizzing south, and alight upon the bridge of your spec
Itacles, perched astride of which could peer into your eyes and
Ifcommune with your spirit.
                                       you should feel any uneasy sen

sation about your nose, rub gently; souls are fragile things.

I IMeanwhile, have exchanged such communion with you as

can,      and sign myself,  soul  and  body,  your  loving  brother,
                                                              " George."

                                                            " July 2, 1842.

  " My dear Daniel, -- If I could only sit upon a chair, which,

Ilike the disembodied spirit spoke of in my last, though not
I Ifor the same reason, cannot do, should write you longer
I Iletters. But have to lie in a twisted position, which cannot
Ioccupy long, and last night took a holiday, there being no

post to carry you a letter. We are making preparations for

removal to the seaside on Monday ; we all go down ; and being
at Seafield, it will enable Jessie and Jeanie to go to school daily.

Seafield is no very inviting place, and there are no walks near

it,

    I
        I

                                a
                                                    a

                                                                  a

                                                                  it
                                                                             is

                                                I
but am obliged to take lodging near enough Edinburgh

to admit of the doctors being within call. Moreover, shall not

be able to cross the threshold for while, and then only to creep

about the door on pair of crutches, so that                 indifferent to

me where go, provided the sea and the sea-air are present.
284  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.            CHAP. VI.

IPortobello is such an abominably public place that should
Ifear to move about, and am not enticed by the attraction Mr.

ISyme held out of its possessing a circulating library.

   "We scientifics, can tell you, are very indignant at the

Irecent knighting of three painters and a musician, while not

one of us has, for don't know how long, partaken of any of

the smiles of royal favour. It is really too bad. We have men,
I make bold to say, of far higher deserts in their crafts than the
artists were in theirs. Half of Europe never heard of Bishop

the musician, and would laugh to scorn his claims as an original

composer. And who is Hayter, that he should carry off an

honour before men admired in Europe and America ? However,

if Her gracious Majesty would give us some hard cash, we

should not mind letting the artists pocket the stars and ribbons.

There is a petty German duke enabling Liebig to beat all the
IfEnglish chemists hollow.
                            a tithe of what is spent on mas

querades and trumpery, dogs and stables, were granted to some

school or university to fit up and keep in existence a well-

appointed laboratory, the whole country would be the gainer.

Liebig is a man of genius of the highest order, and would unfold

himself though he had not a sixpence ; but he could not have

reached the eminence he has done had not money in sufficiency

been supplied him. Here our very professors can scarcely keep
life in them. Chairs are not worth the having, even as sources

of income, and there is no surplus to spend on experiments. As

Ifor private teachers, no one is much better than myself. Teach

ing is at an absolute stand. am paying off Scott; he makes far

Itoo big a hole in a nominal income, nominal at least to me,
though to him real enough.  shall make shift with a boy.
"It is really disheartening to see the possibility of doing

something in a science you love and profess, almost annihilated
Iby the cost it takes being beyond you.
                                         have been urged to
Igo to Paris, where should be sure of practical chemistry

classes, like those here, succeeding, but it is a long step to

IParis ; and should require to know French, and a great many
Imore things before thought of it. Are not these fine dreams
Ifor a cripple ? But if went abroad it should be to Germany,

a quiet country, which would exactly suit a politics-hating man
1810-42.   Alison's history of Europe.                                                 285

like me. Government there has all the university patronage

Iin its hands, and young men of promise seldom fail to get on.

Did not meet a young fellow a little older than myself, who

was Professor in the Prague University, and had, in addition,

money and two years allowed him to travel where he listed ?

It would little vex me that there was censorship on the press,
unless it should go the length of the Russian one, which pre

vented a traveller bringing into the country a work entitled

' Revolutions of the Heavenly Bodies.' The inspector took

alarm at the first word, and objected to any revolutionary work

being admitted. In vain did the traveller assure him that it
was only an astronomical treatise. It did not matter, they did

not approve of revolutions of any sort. The fatherland has

many charms for me, which are likely delusive enough ; but

I Imy motherland has charms too, and believe shall live and
Idie in her much-loved arms. Now have had my grumble out,

and am a great deal the better for it. It's like a ' good cry' to a

young lady.

  I" have been reading the two concluding volumes of Alison's

' History of Europe.' He proves to demonstration that it's de

Imocracy is doing us all the mischief ; and can name the very

hour when we began to decline. All which neither believe
Inor disbelieve, knowing nothing about the matter.
                                                                                       am a sort

of aristocratical democrat, and abuse no abstract party, seeing

plenty of knaves in all of them, a slender sprinkling of men

with heads on their shoulders, and the great mass selfish rogues,

who strive to be as little dishonest as they can.

"As a literary performance Alison excited my unbounded
           A more wretched style, alternating between the
contempt.

flattest monotony and the most outrageous bombast, no histo

rian ever got hold of. In my literary circle he has caused us

the greatest diversion by his 'havers.' He is a very honest,

impartial writer, and deserving all praise for the pains he has

I                                                                                      fourteen in
               I

                                                                                  it,
taken. Twenty-eight years were spent upon

travel and study, and fourteen in composition. His battle de

scriptions are, suppose, excelled by those of no civilian, and

read many of them, for example the Moscow campaign, with

pleasure. But when he comes to moralize or generalize, he
28G  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.         CHAP. VI.

maunders in very dotage. Compared with Gibbon or Robertson,
or, as the scholars tell me, with the ancient writers, he sinks

into utter puerility. A century hence, where will his literary
reputation be ? It is a readable book, however, rails at no party,

enforces a doctrine of poetical justice, maintains that honesty is
the best policy, that virtue is rewarded in this world, and vice

punished, and will in consequence be relished by all ' respect

able' people, and read aloud in family parlours."

The following portion of a letter, though without date, may

justly find its place here. The remainder has not been pre

served ; it is addressed to Daniel. The veil which conceals his

sufferings so carefully from the loving eyes of friends is for

a moment lifted, and we see the strong, brave spirit in its
agony : --

  I I" With all your sorrows
     sympathize from my heart ; have

learned to do so through my own sufferings. The same feelings

which made you put your hand into your pocket to search

among the crumbs there for the wanting coin for the beggar,

lead me to search in my heart for some consolation for you, if

mayhap the dried up fountain may yield a drop of comfort.

IThe last two years have been fraught to me with such mournful

experience, that would gladly exchange my condition for a

peaceful grave. A bankrupt in health, hopes, and fortune, my

Iconstitution shattered frightfully, and the almost certain prospect

of being a cripple for life before me, can offer you as fervent

and unselfish a sympathy as ever one heart offered another. 1

have lain awake, alone, and in darkness, suffering sore agony

for hours, often thinking that the slightest aggravation must

make my condition unbearable, and finding my only consola

tion in murmuring to myself the words patience, courage, and

submission.
   " You have done the same, and God, who has supported both

of us through cruel trials, will not desert us in our great ueed.

I IMy religious faith is feeble, because my light is dim, and my
knowledge scanty, but pray for more.  have felt assured of

answers to prayer already.

  I" Even in this world, feel firmly convinced there is no
1840-42.  PERFECTED THROUGH SUFFERING.         287

worthy character, even for worldly work, who has not been
' perfected through suffering.' Affliction has not developed the
vices of my disposition ; it has pruned some and banished
others. My intellect is purified and ennobled, and many mists

which vanity spread before me are blown away. Take comfort,

my dear brother, we shall yet do well."

   From Seafield, letters to his matronly friend Miss Abernethy
give peeps at his invalid life, and show how every ray of sun
shine was turned to account :--

          To Miss Abernethy.

                               " Seafield, l&th July 1842.

   "My dearly beloved, unforgotten.and unforgetable Janet,
--I have now been a fortnight in this region of invalids, and

Ithink it due time to send you a bulletin of my well-doing.
Iam happy to say mend, though still unable to cross the thres

Ihold, and hope soon to be able to flourish my crutches with as
much grace as such untoward weapons admit of.  count some
Ifive cripples from my window, and propose, as soon as can

join, to suggest our having a race upon the sands. The prize to

be a handsome pair of crutches, and each candidate to be at
liberty to knock the stilts from his neighbour if he can. You

Imay expect a visit from an official asking your subscription, and

for my sake trust it will be liberal.

  I" In the meanwhile, by way of preparation, snuff the sea-

air at the open window, and am complimented by visitors on
Ithe improvement of my looks.
                               cannot say that, on consulting
I Ithe looking-glass, see therein a very pretty countenance, but

incline to think that my modesty and well-known humility

Istand in the way of my discernment, and that but for these

should observe that my former knobbed and twisted nose was

now moulded by the sea-breeze into a proboscis of Grecian
Ifform, and marble polish and whiteness.
                                          the sea-breeze alone
I Ihas produced so great a change, what may expect when am

able to tumble into the water, and enjoy the benefit of wind and

wave at the same time ? Meanwhile, till an end so desirable is
288             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.          CHAP. VI.

I Ibrought about, find my life so eventless that can record for

your edification nothing more wonderful than my removal from
the bed to the sofa, and back from the sofa to the bed again,
like the worthy Vicar of Wakefield, who chronicled the removals
from the blue bedroom to the yellow, and from the yellow to

the blue.

   " The monotony of my daily life is somewhat broken in upon

by the swarms of children who play about the door. They are,
for the most part, the ordinary set of sinful imps to be met
with here below, alternately kissing and fondling each other

like so many angels without wings, and then, when the devil or

' original sin' gets into their hearts, kicking and cuffing like

reprobates. There is one exception, however, to the foregoing

Idescription, in the person of a neat little lassie, with a sunburnt
pretty face, and long fair ringlets.         have learned this little

lady's first name, Aggy ; a lady's last name does not matter

Imuch, being only intended for temporary employment, till a
better name can be found for its proprietor.  of course exclude

from such remarks those exalted members of the sex, whom, as

patterns to mankind, Providence, for wise purposes, permits to

husband their names, instead of getting husbanded themselves.

  I"My attention was first attracted to this young lady by a

highly original observation heard her make one day. She was

lying all her length on the grassplot, kicking up her heels in the

air, and proclaiming that 'Johnnie Ritchie's name was not Johnnie

Ritchie.' Who Johnnie Ritchie
                       ;                     don't know, perhaps some

relation of your friend Daniel, who may be able to say what hisI iIs,

name I iIs is,though fear nobody born out of Ireland likely to
                II                            is

throw much light on the matter.              have inquired at Aggy

herself concerning Johnnie, but she preserves the profoundest

silence, and looks indignant so that what Johnnie Ritchie's

name            see no hope of discovering.
" Yesterday, had had any Samaritan to carry me out on his
back, might have seen something out of the way. It appears

that an unchristian man and woman, instead of going to church

and hearing sermon, made pilgrimage out to the Black Rocks,
                    a

and seated themselves thereon, whether to meditate or gather
mussels do not know. The tide, however, came in, and sur
      I
1840-42.  ALMOST DROWNED.                          289

rounded them, and for a while there were great hopes that they
would be drowned, which would have been highly satisfactory
to the lookers on, who had waited a while in expectation, and

would have liked to see something after standing so long. The

couple sat on the rocks, like two crows or sea-gulls, apparently
resigned to their fate, till on the church's dismission, and their

situation being discovered, a boat was launched, and, in addition,

three stout men stripped and swam off to save the Sabbath-

breakers.

   " Instead of sitting still till assistance came, they proceeded
now to try if they could not wade in. The first step took them

over the shoulders ; but nothing daunted they pushed on, and
fortunately found it no deeper, though, as the wind was up, the

waves came over their heads at every surge. On the whole,

however, the last occurrence might be beneficial, for their heads

could not be kept too cool in such a predicament. They finally

found their way to shore without help of boat or swimming-

men, looking, however, literally and metaphorically, a little

blue.
    " Such are the contents of my Seafield journal, barren enough ;

but I promised I would write, and you must forgive its empti
ness. -- Your ever affectionate,  George Wilson."

                                                                 " Seafield, August 17, 1842.

  I" My dearly beloved, -- How fares the world with you 1

Except in my dreams get no account of your ways and welfare,
for all the channels by which intelligence of you used to reach

Ime are dried up, and for anything know to the contrary, you

may be changed into Mrs. J. T. or Mrs. D. R ; and the arrival

of this epistle may be the cause of a dreadful domestic scene
and half-a-dozen duels. However, make up your mind to this,

Ithat the moment such intelligence, duly authenticated, reaches

me, shall commence an action for breach of promise, and make

a c"luItnchsuacthyaouprrehdoicaarmdinengts,. not knowing whether to address you

Ias miss or matron (though determined whatever betide, to claim

you as my Janet), am reduced to the painful necessity of either
speaking of myself, which is anything but pleasant to a man of

                                                        T
290         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VI.

my modesty, and may, moreover, not be so acceptable to you
as it once was -- hem ! or of seeking out some common topic

Iwhereon may enlarge for our mutual edification.
  I" Of myself, will only say this much, that whether you are

Ipleased to hear it or not, make daily invisible progress in
Iamendment ; though grieve to say that the classicality of
Ioutline, of which spoke in a former letter as developing in my

features, is not so apparent as it was, and my nose is as red as
Iever.
           now flourish upon my crutches and make daily excur
Isions to the seaside, where they plant a chair, on which sit

and meditate on the ladies bathing and the other wonders of

Ithe great deep.

   " But have got something better than the crutches to pro
gress with ; my good uncle (these uncles and, above all, aunts
are the great blessings of creation) has most kindly purchased a

Ilittle horse, which he sends down to us, along with a comfort

able gig, and go whisking over the country, to Dalkeith,
Musselburgh, Prestonpans, Cramond, and so forth, making all

sorts of geographical discoveries, especially concerning the

existence and site of turnpike gates and toll-bars, which have

now acquired an interest in my eyes equal to that they have in
Imy purse.
            shall be in town in a fortnight, and there is no
I Ifsaying whither may penetrate in my shandrydan.
                                                    you

have any interest in my welfare still remaining, you may keep

a sharp look-out for a little horse of a sort of ginger colour,

the lightest brown, cream-colour with a slight dash of brown

over it."

   The seaside residence, rest, and simpler appliances, all proved

ineffectual. Nature had not strength to work a cure where the

evil had become so deeply seated. George's father had suffered
much in the same way for years, rheumatism throughout the

body ultimately settling in the ankle joints. In his case it had

been thoroughly cured by care at an early stage, but the ten

dency was probably transmitted to his son.
   After returning to town, the kind and anxious medical attend

ants -- Professor Syme and Mr. Goodsir -- cauterized the foot

more than once, but all seemed in vain, and 'each day left less
                   A FOOLISH INCIDENT.       291

hope in the hearts of the home circle, as his strength visibly
decreased. In December a long letter to his cousin, "dear

Jeems," gives token of unquenched heartiness amidst the deep
ening shadows. Speaking of the death of Mr. Kenneth Kemp,
his fellow-teacher in chemistry, which had just occurred, he

says,--

  I" And now that the ground is clear, have to sit quietly by,

cultivating patience, and seeing some one else step into the

Ipoor fellow's shoes. Well, seeing that shoes are out of the ques

tion with me, and that could only at furthest step into another

Iman's shoe, won't be mulcted out of my patience by any man,

but bide my time.
I" Meanwhile, for our mutual gratification,
                                             shall tell you
Ia foolish enough incident, at which laughed very heartily
Iwhen heard of it. Y-- has returned to town, and is at his
old diverting tricks. A vacant chair at the Medical Society

has led to the ordinary amount of canvassing and crimping of

voters, Y-- , of course, as recruiting serjeant-major, taking the
Ylead in the business. Night before last, -- having parted

with me, found at N-- 's a certain young gentleman partaking of

supper, and in a state of considerable excitation. He was at

Ionce pounced upon for his vote, and by due management the
full pledge was obtained.  suppose they flattered the poor

rogue terribly, for he had opened his heart to them, and told

them of some lady of £30,000 who was dying for him ; besides
another worth some £15,000, who was in the same distressing

condition. He referred to this as the explanation of what had
surprised everybody, viz., his giving up a capital place, with the
certainty of an appointment in the army. Well, this Narcissus

carried on at this rate for some hours, drinking tumblers of

Istrong toddy all the while ; and finally, at three o'clock A.M.,

was handed out of N--'s place in, fear, a somewhat overtaken
condition. After he was gone, N-- thinking it highly possible
he might fail to find his way home, resolved to run after him

and keep a look-out on his movements. Y-- determined to

join him, and some little time was lost in getting ready. When
they reached the street they looked about in all directions for
their friend, and seeing some little way before them a gentleman
292  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VI.

engaged apparently in making trigonometrical surveys of the

pavement, and occasionally knocking up against lampposts, as

if to make certain that his base lines were properly measured,

they followed, nothing doubting, in his steps, keeping, however,

at a wary distance, as they did not wish to be detected playing

the spy. The road- surveyor resides somewhere near Lochrin

Distillery, so that they had a good long journey, greatly length
ened, doubtless, by their friend's eccentric mode of progression.
At last, however, he reached his own door, and they halted, ex
pecting to see him ring the bell. Not so, however; on he
stumbled, and as they saw no apparent limit to his journey, and
the probability of themselves finding, like Milton's metaphy

Ysical devils, ' no end in wandering mazes lost,' -- hid himself

in a corner, and N-- proceeded forward to come to close quar
ters with the straggler. After winding and turning about the
drunk man for nearly half-an-hour, at last he pushed close to
him, and behold, when he looked in his face, he found they had

been following the wrong man ! !

  I" asked Y-- if he was quite sure he did not need a fol

lower himself; but of course he did not. N-- thinks they

Imust have passed the fellow on their own staircase ; but when

I see N-- intend to ask him if he is quite sure of the direc

tion he took, and that he really went to Lochrin.

   "C dined here the other day, and we had a splendid

discourse on various high topics; on yourself among the rest.

It would have done you good to hear the generous, kindly way

Iin which he speaks of you, and augurs great things from you.

   was not behindhand in prophecy either. And we consoled

ourselves for our overflowing goodness, and counteracted the too
Christian mood into which we were falling, by judiciously point
ing out to each other such spots as we had seen in the sun of

your genius. A list of your faults will be forwarded by either

of us on a receipt of 500 queen's heads (for the parcel is rather
bulky), and a letter post-paid."
1842-43.  STRENGTH SINKING.                                                   293

          CHAPTER VII.

          CONVERSION : ITS PEACEABLE FRUITS : RETURN TO
                                 PROFESSIONAL LABOURS.

   " Deep calleth unto deep . . . ; all Thy waves and Thy billows are gone over
me."" Cast down, but not destroyed."

   A crisis was again approaching in George Wilson's life more
momentous than any hitherto considered. At the close of the

year 1842 it seemed evident that the contest with suffering
could not last much longer, rest being only attainable through
the use of opiates.

  IA record in his own words1 conveys forcibly a statement of

the facts : " was required to prepare, on very short warning,

for the loss of a limb by amputation. A painful disease, which

Ifor a time had seemed likely to yield to the remedies employed,

suddenly became greatly aggravated, and was informed by

Itwo surgeons of the highest skill, who were consulted on my

case, that must choose between death and the sacrifice of a

limb, and that my choice must be promptly made, for my

strength was fast sinking under pain, sleeplessness, and ex

haustion.

  "I at once agreed to submit to the operation, but asked a

week to prepare for not with the slightest expectation that
the disease would take favourable turn in the interval, or that

the anticipated horrors of the operation would become less

appalling by reflection upon them, but simply because was so
probable that the operation would be followed by fatal issue,
1                                                                    a
  '
                                                                          it
                                 a it,
       A Letter to Dr. Simpson on the Anaesthetics in Surgery, from  a  Patient's Point
of View.'-- Simpson's 'Obstetric Works,' voL ii.
294  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                        CHAP. VII.

Ithat wished to prepare for death and what lies beyond
     I
       I

                              a if

                                                                                         it,
whilst my faculties were clear and my emotions comparatively

undisturbed, for knew well that the operation were speedily

followed by death, should be in condition in the last degree

unfavourable to making preparation for the great change."

Being thus brought face to face with death, let us inquire

what fitness he had to meet it. From boyhood onwards evi

dences have not been wanting of his interest in religion
it,
                 a

                                                                                             ;

                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                                                                 :

                                                                                                                             a
sense of life in its higher developments being imperfect without

seems to have been felt even in his most ardent longings

after success in scientific pursuits while deep reverence for

God, and groping after Him in vagueness and darkness are
perceptible in early letters. So blameless was his youth in the

estimation of his fellows, that one of the most intimate friends

of his student-life has indignantly repelled the thought of con
version being needful, declaring that " he was always Chris
                                       I
                                             is
                                                              a
tian." Scarcely consistent with this estimate the compromise
with conscience when preparing for his last examination for
the degree of M.D. " On the Sunday went through the
     I
                        :
morning service of the prayer-book at home, and then took to

Surgery, which nearly finished that night."

Relatives younger than himself received kindly sympathy

and encouragement from him in their Christian profession,-- he

was too generous to cast stumbling-block in the path of

"little one,"-- yet with all this, one thing was lacking, and

Ifoften was said, " George were only Christian, what noble
     it                                a
                                                                      a
                     a
                              !"                                                       a
                                    a
character he would be                And this desire, transmuting itself

into fervent prayers, entered into the ear of the Lord of Sabaoth,
to be answered in way little anticipated, by " terrible things
in righteousness."

For some years previous to the time of which we now speak,

Dr. Cairns had visited the household as an intimate friend. To

him James Russell owed deliverance from many doubts and

difficulties, and clear perception of the method of salvation,

and this formed an endearing bond of union, so that John
Cairns became by degrees like one of the family. His influence
     a
                                                                  a
over George was of great power and immeasurable value,-- the

very difference in their casts of mind forming strong bond of
1842-43.           RELIGIOUS DIFFICULTIES.                     295

attraction. Reminiscences by Dr. Cairns confirm these re

marks : --" General conversation was often succeeded by dis

cussions such as might be expected from a student of divinity

visiting a pious family ; and though George took at first little
or no part in these, gradually he began to feel interested ; and

Iwe used to have long and earnest talks when others had with

drawn. cannot recall accurately his religious difficulties. He

had no sceptical tendency, beyond a general inability to recon

Icile the gospel as miraculous with the uniformity of nature ;

and think, too, that some misgivings disturbed him as to the

doctrine of the Atonement. But his great want was the power

to realize the value of the gospel remedy, from his heart having

been greatly set on literary and scientific eminence. God took
his own way to abate this hindrance by sending ill health, and
thwarting all his plans of rapid elevation. A very slow yet
...steady increase of interest in eternal things now set in ;
                                                               an

extraordinary change took place in his use of the Bible. The
phrase quoted in his ' Life of John lieid,' that he " had a sair

wark wi' his Bible," describes his own state exactly ; and we
Iused to discuss,
                   think in the company of his [elder] sister,
many passages. He was especially devoted to the Epistle to

the Hebrews, which he valued for its clear view of the Atone

ment and of the sympathy of Christ ; and no part of his Bible
Iis so much worn, this being indeed almost worn away.
                                                       used

to report to him the discourses of my late venerable friend, Dr.

John Brown, spending the interval of service every Lord's day,

Ias well as the Saturday afternoon, with him ; and rather
Ithink that, when his illness confined him to bed, was in the
Ihabit of offering up prayers.
                                remember, with vivid accuracy,
Ithe earnestness with which, on the last occasion
                                                    saw him

before the operation, he spoke of the danger before him, and of
the great anxiety, mingled with trembling hope in Christ,
which he showed as to his spiritual state. He took the Bible,

asked me to read and explain or enforce some passage, and then
pray. The remembrance of that day survives, while the multi

tude of other conversations have left only a vague impression of

progress and saving enlightenment."1

          i ' North British Review/ February 1860.
296  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                             mCHAP,

This gradual enlightenment of mind may clearly be traced

within the last two years. Step by step had God been leading

him into the wilderness, that there He might plead with him

face to face, and now he was not far from the kingdom of

heaven. In the estimation of some of his most devoted friends,

he was already a child of God ; so great was the change at hand,

however, that he always dated the dawn of the new life in his

soul, when, with death in view, he was enabled so to realize the

mercy of God in Christ Jesus, as to come to Him weary and

heavy laden, and enter into that peace which passeth all under

Istanding. In a letter to a friend not long after this period, he

says, "When was recently struggling in a 'great fight of

afflictions,' soul and body racked and anguished, my life hang

Iing in the balance, and eternity in prospect, prayed to God

for light and help, and my prayer was heard and answered."

The week of delay granted by the surgeons passed slowly yet

swiftly away. He concealed from the relatives around what

was at hand, partly from an unselfish desire to spare them the

grief it would cause, and partly from a fear that his resolution

might be shaken by witnessing their distress. A small Testa

ment was his constant companion, and every available moment

up to the coming of the surgeons was devoted to its perusal.
For very life he searched ; like Bunyan's pilgrim, for " life, life,

eternal life."
   On the morning of the operation, with a " trembling hope in

Christ" in his heart, he performed his toilet with unusual care,

in order to disarm the apprehensions of those beside him, in

whose hearts an instinctive fear lurked, knowing that the sur

geons were to come that day. However, the ruse was success

ful, and the truth was only revealed to them by the irrepressible

cries of agony from the sufferer. In an adjoining room the

little group was assembled, and to this very day the scene is as

vividly before the eyes of the survivors, and the cries ring as

loudly through their hearts, as in that hour of anguish.
I" During the operation," George says, " in spite of the pain
it occasioned, my senses were preternaturally acute.      watched

Iall that the surgeons did with a fascinated intensity. Of the
agony it occasioned,  will say nothing. Suffering so great as
1M2-43.  INTENSE ANGUISH.  297-

I underwent cannot be expressed in words, and thus fortunately

cannot be recalled. The particular pangs are now forgotten ;
but the black whirlwind of emotion, the horror of great dark
ness, and the sense of desertion by God and man, bordering
close upon despair, which swept through my mind and over

I Iwhelmed my heart, can never forget, however gladly would

do so."1

   The object in recalling such painful emotions was to make

them an argument for the use of anaesthetics, which, had they
been then in use, would have robbed this experience of the
greater part of its horrors.

  IThe operation was an interesting one in the annals of surgery.

He says to James Russell shortly afterwards, " do not wish to

Itrouble you with surgical details, but you will be glad to know

that the operation underwent was a novel one (tried on me
by Professor Syme for the second time only), which leaves me

the whole leg, depriving me only of the foot. It was more

protracted and painful than the ordinary one, but it leaves me

a more useful limb ; and the doctors hold out the hope of my
being able to limp about with a wooden foot, or stuffed high-
heeled boot, without betraying to every eye the amount of my

loss."

   A time of miserable suspense followed, from the fear that his

strength was too far gone to rally ; and quiet being enjoined, for
days there seemed not a sound in the house. The rather
secluded square in which he resided was a special haunt of
musicians, whose barrel organs, Irish bagpipes, and violins,
might have enabled one to tell the day of the week, had other
means of discovering it been wanting ; for each day failed not

to bring its own train, week by week. Strict watch was kept

over them, and they were induced, by bribes, to pass out of
hearing. And in this night of darkness, the devotion of friends

shone out like stars, in a way never to be forgotten. In one

family, when the sad news was announced, dinner was removed

untouched that day ; and whispered inquiries were made with
out ceasing at the house door. In a diary of James Russell's,

we find the following entry on the 16th of January, illustrative

                                             i Letter to Dr. Simpson.
298  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                                              CHAP. VII.

"of the state of things :-- Appalling yet comfortable news                                                      of
                                                                                                                of
George's amputation."

  A letter to him from Dr. Cairns remains as a photograph
those days of trouble :--

     To J. M'G. Russell, Esq.

                                                                                   "January 1", 1843.

   " My very dear Friend, -- You are no doubt discomposed, as

I myself have been for some days, by the operation performed
Ion Dr. Wilson. As happen to have been thinking of him

Iperforce for some time with peculiar interest, you will, have

no doubt, welcome every particular. Everything, by the

special blessing of God, has as yet gone admirably ; so much

strength of mind as to resolve to keep all to himself till the

crisis ; so much coolness and presence of mind as to impose on

all who saw him ; so great firmness during the operation and

composure after it ; such a comfortable wearing off of the first

rude shock produced in the family, without detriment to the

health and spirits of any ; and so favourable a progress hither

to of the wounded limb, all certainly are most striking and

consolatory ; and whether we suppose any supernatural1 grace

or not, call equally for gratitude to Him whose benignant pro

vidence is the only present help in trouble. After an absence
Iof three days, had the happiness of seeing them all to-day in
Icircumstances of peace and hope.
                                                 was also admitted for a

few minutes to the room of the doctor, and exchanged a few

words, and engaged for a very short time in prayer. He of                                                  is,

course, weakened but the expression of countenance, and look
I
                                       ;
                 I
                                             is
of self- oblivion, which never saw him lose in the worst days,

are the same. . . . All danger now, humanly speaking, over,

and trust our prayers and anxieties, which are already passing

into thanksgiving, may soon be for nothing but grace to im

prove past affliction and deliverance."

  It was on this visit that John Cairns, the ministering angel

of that sick-chamber, was able to come forth with an announce-

      Supernatural seems here used by the writer in sense akin to preternatural or
miraculous.
i
                                                                                                        a
1843-43.      ENTERS HALT INTO LIFE.                                                                299

ment that in the mind of the sufferer all was peace and joy.

To the sorrow-stricken mother this was an unspeakable com

Iffort. " that be the result," she said, " then all is well." An

expression of sympathy with his sufferings made by her, called

I Iforth the remark, " Don't regret them ; think how much better

off am than so many in the Infirmary. Besides, have learned

from them to look at things in a new light, which is worth them

all."

From letters of later years we gain further insight into the

mental struggles of this season, the more precious, that, being

averse to speak much of his inner life, a few earnest words

uttered when the deeper emotions were stirred, were all that

ever could be obtained. The first extract is from a letter to Dr.

Cairns on New Year's Day, 1854 :-- " There is no day so pain

ful to me to recall as the 1st of January, so far as suffering is
concerned. It was on
                      eleven years ago, that the disease in
                    I it,
                                  ;

                               ; if,I
                                            I

                                                                         a

                                                     iIf I
my foot reappeared, with the severity which, in few days

thereafter, compelled its loss, and the season always comes back

to me as very solemn one yet like Jacob, halt as walk,
  trust that, like him, came out of that awful wrestling with
aI
          Ia
blessing never received before and you know that                                                    were

to preach my own funeral sermon, should prefer to all texts,'

 It better to enter halt into life, than having two feet to beis

cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched.' "

   And to young friend he says, in 1847 -- " can profoundly
          a           :

                         I

sympathize with your feelings of agitation, agony, and alarm, at

finding your strength and health failing, and another world

looking closer at hand than did short while ago.                                                    have
          I
               I

                                      it

                                                        a

                                                               it

                                                                                                 a

                                                          I
been in this condition, and only passed out of after spiritual

struggle such as still feel appalled at gazing back upon.
   " When was recovering, you can well believe that there

were many weary, wretched, sleepless hours, especially during
darkness. Particularly dreary was the first waking in the dull

grey morning. Despair seemed ready to overwhelm me. It

was then fully realized the unspeakable preciousness of prayer,
          I

                                                              a

                                                                                                                                                             ;
and that not to an overwhelming mysterious agency such as elec

tricity or gravitation, but to an agent, person, and he not sepa

rated from me by all that intervenes between God and man
300  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                  CHAP. \TL

Ibut possessing, as possess, a human nature, though (unlike

mine) his nature is sinless, and is unspeakably glorious."
   Recovery proceeded favourably, so that in six weeks the

wound had closed --all but one small aperture, and he was able
to move about a little on crutches. " He came forth with a spirit

strengthened from heaven, to bear the life-long burden of a

feeble body, and to accept life on the most disadvantageous
terms as a blessed and divine ministry. The inward man had

gained infinitely more than the outward man had lost ; and,
with all his originally noble qualities exalted, there was found

a humility, a gentleness, a patience, a self-forgetfulness, and a
dedication of life to Christian ends and uses, which henceforth

made every place and work sacred."1
   What has been truly called "his unconquerable gaiety of

heart," is seen in one or two notes written in the first few

weeks after the amputation. The first two are addressed to

James Russell, who was giving expression to his sympathetic

love in all kinds of presents, to cheer or amuse the patient.

One of these was an accordion, which he fancied might help to

beguile the tedious hours of convalescence. The first letter is

merely dated "Friday," but it is evidently written about the
close of January :--

   " My dear James, --Your kind letter demands something

more than a mere statement in Jessie's bulletin concerning me.

I could write you a whole folio of news from the world of pain,

so far as intellectual capacity is concerned, or even physical

Istrength, but have to lie in such a constrained twisted posture,
Ipropped up by pillows, and what not, that can hold the pen
Ifor only a short period at a time. But can at least tell you,

Ithat my case proceeds steadily, to my own comfort and surprise,
and to the satisfaction of the doctors.  am now lifted out of

the region of acute suffering, into that of dogged endurance of

quite bearable pain, and am losing day by day the spectral
ghastliness which made me for days look, while sleeping, like a

I Icorpse.

    " have no repentance or repining at the step took, or the

Iloss sustained. It pleased God, who speaks to some with the

     1 ' Macmillan's Magazine,' January 1860.
1842-43.                WONDER AND GRATITUDE.                  301

still small voice of gentle persuasion, to address me in the

whirlwind and the storm, and to vouchsafe me, in the prospect

of sore trial, a calmness, even a serenity and patience which
Icould have been supplied me from no other source.
                                                               look

back on the last month with wonder and speechless gratitude,

and place my reliance for the future on the same mighty arm

which wrought my deliverance from past affliction.
   " When you pray to God, let thanksgiving mingle with ear

nest request that more light, and stronger faith, and greater self-
renunciation, and all other needful gifts, may be given to me,

still standing on the threshold of Christian experience.
   " It's a strange thought, the idea of your foot dying before the
Irest of you. Well, I'll find it at the resurrection, or, if not,
something better.       have likewise been thinking that my mind

or soul must be in a more concentrated condition than that of

bipeds, seeing that it has a foot less of matter to encumber it.
What thinks your lordship ? The receipt for concentration ad

Imits of extension ; am contented with the amount in my case.
I have no feeling of the want of a foot, and seem still to feel

toes, great and small. John Cairns thinks this must arise from

a pre ordained harmony between soul and body ! ! ! Well done,
John !

  I" All that have already written has been intended to get up
Ithe steam for what now struggle out with, viz., that when
                                                               if,
you held out those magnificent offers about Boerhaave and Tur
                                                                   I
ner, you thought that would generously decline your kindness,
                        it I
you were, my dear sir, very very much mistaken.
   " Your kindly offer made my morning tea and toast taste like

very nectar; told to my kind doctor, John Goodsir, the
          I

                     ?
moment he came, and asked him no, he asked me, would
                                            ;

accept the offer Won't        I          was the polite answer. So, my

                                      ?

dear Jeems, you're in for them. Boerhaave         I  have studied

in Latin about the thermometer he'll be of great use to me for
                                         ;

my history. Turner      is    precious also.   I  will most thankfully

and gratefully accept your offered kindness, and will remind'
you in return that you will enjoy the consciousness of havinga
performed virtuous action.' -- Your loving affectionate

                                                              " George Wilson,"
302  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                          CHAP. VTI.

                                                                            " February 7, 1843.

  I" My dear James, -- lie at present in such a strange twisted
Iposition, half on my back and half on my side, that my views

of all matters are quite one-sided, and even if feel properly

concerning your late kindnesses, it is such an exertion to scrawl,

Ithat my eloquence of gratitude is strangled in the birth. Know,

however, that both parcels arrived safely, and that boasted and

exulted over my chemical treasures like a child over a new toy.
Even grave Mr. Syme had to take a look at them, and congra
tulate me on their arrival. Your mysterious note was beyond

Ime, but came to the conclusion that it signified that you your

self were coming. This morning, however, the melodious
stranger [the accordion] arrived in due season, and being re

Ileased from his swaddling bands, was gazed at with wonder and

delight. Before a week is over shall have composed a sym
phony in x Y z on the street door key, which shall ravish the
ears of all who hear it.

   " Meanwhile, my dear kind cousin, speech really fails me,

and you must suppose my ugly phiz looking into your angelic

I Ione, and symbolizing and expressing the intensest gratefulness ;

otherwise know not how can make my heart speak to you.

  I" My feelings got so much the better of me at thinking that

my dancing days were over, that had to give them outlet in

Ithe shape of an elegy, which (with the help of a little snuff in

your eyes) shall expect you to weep over.

     No more shall I, in country dance or reel,
     Labitsky's waltz or Musard's last quadrille,

     Shuffle my feet, or make my body wheel
                        ' On light fantastic toe.'

     When I creep outwards to the light of day,

     The people passing me will turn and say,
     That little fellow limping o'er the way

                        ' Has one foot in the grave.'

I" continually improve, and feel most thankful for my pre
Isent hopeful state.  strive to let ' patience have her perfect

work,' but flesh is weak.

  I" And now, my dear cousin, forgive this rotten note ; can at
1842-43.            HOMCEOPATHIC REGIMEN.             303

Ipresent write no better ; when reach the sofa, you may expect
something more rational. -- Your loving
" We are all well."                                " George."

                     To Miss Abernethy.

                                                                                     " February 6, 1843.

  I" am sure you will be very glad to see a few scribbled lines
Ifrom myself to say am getting better. Although still with

aches enough to make a man who had never been ill think him

Iself in a very miserable way, have come out of such a gulf of
Ipain and weariness of flesh and spirit, that feel very thankful
Ifor being so well as am, and am back to many of my old tricks,

though still but in a rickety condition. I owe you thanks for

that refined calf-foot jelly which you so kindly sent me. But

in regard to  iIt,  wish particularly to know you have turned
                                           I a if     a
                                                              a
homceopathist in your medical practice, and were induced to send

me that instead of any other delicacy from belief that dose

cooked from the foot of one calf would be likely to prove bene
Ifficial to the ailing foot of another.
                                           so, admire your philo

sophy, and have improved on for my diet consists chiefly ofI it,

the flesh of chickens, to which have betaken myself, from
                                                      I
                                                              a
remembrance that these worthy animals spend great part of
                                                   a

their lifetime standing on one leg         feat which, now that am
                        I

                                 it ;

                                        a
struck off the list of bipeds, cannot learn to perform too well,

and which the infusion of their substance into mine may con

duce to make more easy and, as were, natural to me

In sober seriousness, have every reason to be thankful and
                     I

contented with my progress, and try to lie as patiently asI    I
can, while the weary days and still more weary nights slowly

Iglide away.
   " can write no more at present, but be sure that though they

should chop all the rest of me into little bits, so long as they

leave the heart of me untouched, shall be your unchangeableI
                                                             " George Wilson."

                                                        " The So/a, March 11, 1843.
" My dear James,-- You have long been an enigma to me in
304  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VII.

Iyour intellectual relation. am sure the highest success in ora

tory, true oratory, heaven- born eloquence, lies within your power;

you have every gift that should make you a very Demosthenes,
and yet your lips are sealed; the mere gift of utterance is denied

Iyou, or rather has never been developed by you always think of

you as a great river dammed up by a floodgate, so that the water

only escapes here and there through holes and by channels, and
nobody sees its greatness of volume. You are to blame, Jeems,

for never cultivating the mere talkee, talkee habit. All the

follies of debating societies are worth enduring for the readiness
they give a man in bringing his thoughts rapidly to the surface
in the shape of words, and in accustoming him to think of

moulding his thoughts into the form best fitted to influence

others. A thoughtful, silent dweller in solitude like you, think

ing for the sake of your own satisfaction only, must find it an

effort to throw these thoughts into a shape suited to the grasp
of others, and especially of inferior minds, and this to a greater

I Iextent than weaker intellects better practised will do. This is

a horrid lecture am inflicting on you, but must tell you that

you have a noble gift of eloquence in you, would you but take

Ithe trouble to dig and wear away a channel for it to flow in.

would not enter the lists against you on any subject where our

knowledge was equal, with any hope of success, if you had half
the practice 1 have had as a speaker. It is not popularity, Jeems,

I wish you to fight for ; it's worth nothing, nothing, nothing.

It's to fight against the worldliness and materialism of the age,
and smite down the little men who are leading it astray. What
effect would all the physical science crew have in lowering pub

lie taste if a gifted professor of the absolute like you would come

down from your solitary dream- filled altitudes and oppose them?

We, physiker, have too much of the public ear ; our stuff is more

Iapprehensible than yours ; but you should roar the louder down

the trumpet. My dear brethren, will conclude with a ques

tion or two. Whether do you expect to bring your audiences
up to you, or to have to descend to them ? Or may the differ
ence be split ? This may be, but split with a greater descent on
your part than ascent on theirs. You may write in the loftiest
vein, but to preach in any very high one to ordinary audiences
1842-43.  SORROW UPON SORROW.            305

is beating the air. This is a horrid truism, Jeems, but you'll not
wriggle yourself out of it anyway.

    " Have you read George Moir's additional chapter to the

' Tale of the Tub' in Blackwood ? If not, you'll be greatly de
Ilighted with it. It's the finest piece of humour have read for

years.

  I" learn that the price of bacon is expected to rise immedi

ately, owing to the great number of penny-pigs about to be put
in requisition to collect money for the dis- established ministers.1
Ladies are running about as pig-drivers in all directions, even

through the hungry High Street, mulcting the poor starvelings
of their pennies. But then, you know, it's all quite voluntary.

Report says that the ministers' wives are not able to see their

way so clearly as their husbands do, and that curtain lectures

are delivered nightly to growing refractory audiences. The re

porters, however, are not admitted, and the result can only be

gathered from the sleepless yawns of the morrow's morn. Mean
while, it is loudly given out that the clergymen themselves are
removing to attic flats and cheap garrets in all directions, and

the designs, at least, have been made public for the wooden

churches.                                Goodbye ! goodbye !"

   " Two young ladies have just called.

   While all was going on favourably as to George's health, and
hope was once more springing up in the hearts of those around,
dark clouds again closed over them.

   A month later than the preceding letter, a quiet evening was

broken in upon by violent ringing at the bell, and immediately
the house was filled by a crowd of people. At first the cause of
this was unknown, and only a sense of something terrible having

happened, was felt. It was the dead body of George's father

they were bringing in. Having left the house some hours pre
viously in perfect health, to all appearance, he was returning
in the company of two friends, and had almost reached home,
talking with cheerful animation, when suddenly he stopped in

" i A year later than this, we find the following sentence in a letter to Dr. Cairns :

   The Free Church goes on nobly, showing far less of human pride or weakness than
might have been expected, and even allowed."

                                                              U
306             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.               CHAP. VIL

the street, and in a few minutes life was extinct. The cause

was supposed to be aneurism of the heart. There could scarcely

be a more touching sight than when George, pale and feeble,

entered the room, and passed slowly on crutches through the

crowd to the bed on which the corpse had been laid, to see if it

were really true, and not a horrible dream. Alas ! at such

times our hearts know the truth, even while the senses try to

disbelieve it.

James Russell at once joined the sad circle, and spent a few

days with them. On his departure George wrote, according to

Ipromise, to report progress : " may dismiss myself in a sen
Itence," he says, " by stating that am excellently well, and my

foot mending, to use a peculiarly expressive phrase."
   A few weeks later, a visitor from Glasgow having carried

Iback gloomy accounts to James, he writes re-assuringly, " am
I Ireally improving ; was half expecting should require a touch

of caustic from the surgeons, but things are looking so well that,
Iin the meanwhile, expect to dispense with their tender mercy.
I Iam out every day ; yesterday made a tripodal journey round
Ithe Willow Grove garden four times. Can give you a better
I Iproof that am really recovering?
                                     will hereafter always
Ihonestly inform you of my state, but at present have not seen
Ia surgeon for a fortnight and more, and have dined out twice

Iwithin a week.
   " must make fresh claims on your sympathy with me as

one involved in the miseries of 'flitting.' Every day reveals

some new and more horrible phasis of the detestable crisis we

Iare in. Blankets, table-covers, even carpets, are taking wings to

themselves and fleeing away ; and have to keep a watchful

eye on my crutches, lest they abscond in company with some
I I Imigrating grate, and be ' left lamenting.'
                                          cannot say that

am, like Niobe, ' voiceless in my woe.' Is it not one of the

Iprivileges of a free Briton, and healthful to the lungs (and

spleen), to grumble, and that loudly too ? liken myself rather

to Marius sitting among the ruins of Carthage, presenting to the
world, nay, to the universe, the edifying spectacle of ' a great

Iman struggling against the storms of fate.' With what a deep

sympathy read the answer of the colliers to the question, 'Why
1842-43.                 LECTURES RESUMED.                    307

their houses were so empty of useful household articles ? That
' furniture was an unco fash at a flittin' ' ! ! ! There, my dear

cousin, is a great idea, which, however, if carried out, would lead

to very naked results."

The removal alluded to was to the house in Brown Square,

which he occupied for the next nine years, its great attraction

being that his lecture-room and laboratory were under its roof,

and he was able to attend to the duties connected with them,

even when prevented by ill health from going out of doors. To

go from his bed to his lecture-room was no uncommon thing for
him in the years that followed.

The satisfaction with which the healing of his foot in the

month of June was contemplated, was speedily changed to

renewed anxiety, on finding unmistakable symptoms of pul

monary affection. He spent the rest of the summer in a secluded

retreat, for which he had a great liking, in Jordan Bank, Morn-

ingside. Occasional drives, and sitting in the quiet garden (to
get oxygen, as he used to say), were serviceable, and he was

prepared, when the winter session opened, to resume his profes

sional duties. They were increased by his appointment, with

the sanction of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scot

land, as Lecturer on Chemistry to the Edinburgh Veterinary

College, and by a similar appointment to the School of Arts.

A course of lectures to young ladies at the Scottish Institution

on Saturdays, was also begun in November, involving altogether
                                                           26 :--
I"teYnoulecwtuirllesnoat
          week.          To a sister he writes, November   or two
          suspect
Iabout my lectures.      me of vanity if tell you a thing

                         have twenty students at my ten A.m.

medical class ; forty at my twelve o'clock (three days a week)

veterinary class ; some hundred young ladies at the Scottish

Institution ; and some two hundred stout fellows at the School

of Arts.

   " It is sometimes difficult to disentangle the one from the

Iother, and, accordingly, called the young ladies gentlemen, and
Imade them all smile. Last Saturday, however, took care to

Iwrite on my notes, at various places, the word ladies, to prevent

mistakes, and, as had abundance of magnificent experiments,

the bonny lassies looked bonnier, and were all well pleased.
308  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. VII.

I" shall never forget the first sight of the sea of faces at the

Iintroductory lecture at the School of Arts, rising tier above tier,
piled to the very ceiling.  cast my eye around for a familiar

face, and lighted on uncle's white head, like the foam on the

Icrest of a billow. A dragoon soldier likewise attracted me with

his red coat and his mustaches, and now look instinctively for

him. He is a Scots Grey, a fine tall fellow, and must have stuff

Iin him to come there all the way from Jock's Lodge. He takes

notes, and is very attentive; take quite an interest in the

worthy soldier. This class is rapidly increasing under my care

over its former numbers, and is my favourite class. My great

Ipleasure in it is lecturing to the working people, to whom may

do intellectual and moral service."
   " Whatsoever ye do, do it heartily," was evidently more than

ever George Wilson's motto. He could not give a lecture with

out taking much more trouble than was necessary in preparing

for its illustration, and in the School of Arts this was most

evident. His lectures were usually delivered from notes, and a

few of those written for this audience, and used for no other,

remain as evidence that some of the finest specimens of his

powers as a speaker were elicited by this favourite class. The

enthusiasm with which they responded was abundantly proved

by the band of chemists which then began to form, many of

whom have forsaken all else to prosecute this branch of science,

both in its scientific and its practical departments ; while it

would be vain to attempt a calculation of those whose minds

were elevated by its study, pursued after days of toil. At one

of the introductory lectures, he requested the crowd outside to

permit him to pass in. But they, looking round and seeing only

a little man in pea-coat and cap, indignantly declined, to his

great amusement. A laughing assurance that in that case they
should have no lecture, soon cleared a passage for him. A

grateful expression of the pleasure received, was left each evening

(the lectures were once a week), by one pupil, a gardener, in the
shape of a bouquet of the most choice greenhouse flowers. This

gardener emigrating, he left an injunction with a friend, also a

pupil, to continue the offering. It would have gratified them

to see the intense pleasure with which, on his return, jaded,
1842-43.       SCHOOL OF AKTS' CLASS.                       309

from the lecture, he lay on the sofa and drank in their beauty.

Nothing beautiful was ever lost on him, and knowing this,

many loved to minister to his pleasures ; so that in his sitting-

room, at every season of the year, there might be found vases of

lovely flowers. One of the pupils1 of the session 1844-45,

whose later career has been marked by unusual success, thus

speaks of this class :-- " The students were chiefly artisans, self-

educated, though there was a sprinkling of youths of higher

Iranks in society. They (the latter) were generally very young,

  myself only fourteen, and attending the High School classes.

The same qualities of head and heart which have subsequently

distinguished Professor Wilson among the many eminent pro

fessors of the Metropolitan University, then distinguished him

among the teachers of the School of Arts. There was the same

power of riveting the attention of his audience, nay, almost fas

cinating them ; the same playful fancy and poetical prose in his

prelections ; the same Christian catholicity of heart ; the genial
               the ' pursuit                                             '
sympathy with                 of knowledge  under        difficulties  ;

the same familiar, homely mode of illustration ; the same apti

tude in experiment ; the same affability to his most humble and

obscure student. These qualities combined to render him at

Ionce the greatest favourite and the most efficient teacher among
his colleagues at the School of Arts.       well remember the

enthusiasm which his prelections and experiments stimulated
in myself -- displaying itself in a course of private experiments

at home, and leading, at the close of the second session, to a
' Chemical Association,' where a fund was raised for apparatus,

papers were read, discussions held, and experiments conducted.

More than one of the members of this Association are now well-

known citizens or flourishing merchants of Edinburgh."

   This Tuesday evening lecture at the School of Arts was one
of the most exhausting duties of the week. "Well, there's

another nail put into my coffin," was often a remark made on

throwing off his outer-coat on return. A sleepless night almost

invariably followed ; and Wednesday came to be recognised as

a day when his friends might visit him without fear of disturb

ing literary work, as lassitude forbade any attempt at it.

          1 Dr. Lauder Lindsay, Pitcullen House, Perth.
310  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.                                    CHAP. VII.

In the previous summer, George Wilson's generous nature

had been aroused on behalf of his friend Dr. Samuel Brown,

whose experiments on transmutation were exciting intense in

terest in the minds of scientific men. The fifty simple elements,

up to this time believed to be indecomposible, he asserted were
capable of transmutation, one instance of which he gave in pro

cesses for transforming carbon into silicon. Dr. Brown was a
candidate for the Chemistry Chair in the Edinburgh University,

then vacant, and his success in gaining it seemed to hang upon

the confirmation of his new views. Invalid though George
then was, he left no stone unturned on his behalf ; and in a
letter to the Lord Provost, in September 1843, printed and

widely circulated, though not published, he strongly advocated

Dr. Brown's claims on the Chair, independently of the transmu
tation experiments. With this preface, we turn to George's

letters for information as to his occupations during the session

1843-44, in which he laboured to verify the experiments in

question, and which afford an example of devotion to a friend's

interest with few parallels, if any, in the annals of science. In

October he laments the absence of his friend Dr. Cairns, who

Ihad left for the Continent : " cannot tell you," he writes, " how
I Imuch shall miss you on Sabbath-days.
                                                      have not much
Iprospect of being often inside a church this winter, and feel

how great my tendency is to grow languid in earnest devotional
feeling when cut off from communion with fellow- Christians.

But is not the very isolation from others as much intended for

a part of preparatory probation as sore physical agony or mental

distress ? It must be so, and the conviction that it soothes my
                                                      a
                                                            is,
regret at parting with you, from whom have learned so much.I
You will pray for me, however, and send me word of adviceI
at times, and will try to 'let patience have her perfect work.' "

"IAgain to the same friend he says, December 27, 1843 -- sit
I                                                     I
                                                                             :
            I

                                            ;
down to write you with great shame and confusion of face at

the thought of the time that has elapsed since received your

Hamburgh letters but, in truth, have been so occupied that

have never had the leisure to sit down to write you calmly.

The repetition of Dr. Brown's experiments has engrossed me
day and night, and still occupies my time and have been so
                                                      ;

                                                           I
1842 43.                          A SPRAINED KNEE.                                311

I Ifatigued with my laboratory work, that when left it had no
Ispirit to write you even a few lines
                                                                  have great reason
Ito be thankful for the health have enjoyed since you left,
Ithough it has not been uninterrupted.
                                                                  had got so far on in
Ithe way of limping about on a stick, that was promising

myself a visit to church, and the pleasure of hearing a sermon,

when my hopes were disappointed by a fall down stairs, which

sprained my knee, and doomed me to bed and sofa for a fort

night, and to another leaf out of the book of physical affliction
I Iin which have lately had to read so many lessons.
                                                                                  have

read somewhere, that in the lives of men, if wisely watched,

may be discerned the finger of Providence, teaching each by a

kind of lesson peculiar to himself ; so that on one bodily afflic

tion, on another mental sorrow, on another pecuniary distress
Ifalls, -- the same kind of trial returning again and again, while
the sufferer is exempt from other forms of woe.                   have some

times thought there was a little truth in and you can suppose
                                                                  it,
in what way apply to myself But in reality every sorrow
    I                             it                                I
                                                        is
       I                                                       a               a
            I
                                                                            II
bears others in its bosom, and trial in one shape must always

be more or less trial in all. This                                foolish speculation, and

one do not seek to indulge in. So long as feel every lesson

less than sufficient to teach me the patience and faith so much

require, feel every disposition to look with cold eye of

curiosity on God's dealings with me, at once silenced.                            know

now enough of the peace that passeth all understanding,' to
                                  '

                                            is

                                                      it
welcome the attainment of more of at any price its great Giver
may afford to me. Is there not something presumptuous in
                   it
                                         only humble hope at least in my
                               ?
that expression                   There

heart.                                   wrote the preceding part of
    " week has elapsed since
    A                             I

                .                           if

                                             it I

                                                      it
this. . . Yesterday received your second letter, on which                         II

would expend much praise,                would not waste paper. Suffice

it  therefore to say, that we all read with pleasure, and that

have no wish you should displace Schelling or Neander in your

descriptions, by any of the great physiker.                       get enough of
                                                                  I
                                                                            I
them, and need accounts of the others to keep my soul from

growing altogether one-sided. Judge of this by the life lead
at present. At ten A.M. descend to the laboratory, where
                                  I                                               I
312             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.               CHAP. VII.

work till four p.m., driving out, when the day is fine, for one or
two hours. The interval between four and six is spent --how
do you think ?--in sleeping, positively in slumbers, so wearied

I Iam with my day's work. At six descend again, and remain
Itill nine or ten, and when come up again, some talk with
IMary, a glance at an 'Athenaeum,' and am ready for bed.
IFor the last six weeks have scarcely got so much as the news

papers read, and have been thankful to secure a chapter of the

Bible, and leave all else unread. Much of this labour has been
spent on mere drudgework -- analysis of soils, wheat, etc. But
the chief cause of such working has been the great question of

I Itransmutation, at which may, without any exaggeration, say
Ihave laboured night and day, and laboured, am sorry to say,

to very little purpose. Two of his [Dr. Brown's] cousins, and
Mr. Goodsir, besides myself, are conjointly working at the repe
                            It is a period of great anxiety
tition of his experiments

....to us all, convinced as we are that nothing but the fullest con
firmation of his views will obtain for him the chair.                                             Pray

for us, my dear friend, that we may be kept from falling. You

Icomfort me greatly by the thought that you pray for me. am
Icalm, contented, and cheerful, labouring with a peace never

knew before     Oh ! my dear predigcr, spirits of wine at

2jd. per bottle (quart, eh  The statement affected me more
is I it it I I
           I

                                        is ?).
                                                                            :
                            I II
                                     a :I
                                                                                    a
                                                                                               a
than all about the professors and metaphysiker." To                                               sister
he writes about the same time --" am better, not yet able to

use my leg again, but very busy.         compose great many

rhymes to keep us in good humour down stairs. These you

shall be favoured with when you come they are not carriage

able articles.  have got Jamaica soils to analyse at present,

and am seeking for pounded missionaries, and crystallized

tears of emancipation seeking negroes.   have found some of

the latter, very like chucky stones."          " January 28, 1844.
   " was at church yesterday, and heard  very pleasant sermon.

Had been bad, even very bad, should have been thankful,

but was the very opposite. We have got James safely among
us, and hope he will improve on our hands. For improvement

there great need, as he wofully thin and pale, and sorely
1843 - 44.           CONTENTMENT.                                            313

Idepressed in spirit, but look hopefully to his stay with us as

Ilikely      to  be  of good service to him.     at  last  got  my  shoe,    am
            am   on  the whole well, and having
   "
Ilimping about with a couple of sticks. hobble painfully along

in an awkward way, the shoe being far from comfortable ; but as

I Inever indulged extravagant expectations of its gracefulness,
Iam quite content when compare my present condition with

that of my previous one, mounted on the uncomfortable crutches.
In truth, my dear Jessie, if we could learn contentment, we

....should find it a greater acquisition than happiness, or beauty, or

wisdom, or wealth.

   " God bless you, my dear sister, and watch over you. A sense

of His infinite willingness and ability to succour us, and a firm

realization of the great truth that His ear is ever open to our

prayers, is a precious attainment. For you and for me Jesus Christ

died ; to know that, and to make it a wellspring of devout gra

titude and obedience, is at once a high duty and a great joy."

   The following note, though without date, is evidently written

about this time :--

  I" Deab Jessie, -- Great occupation and unwellness (not illness)

kept me from writing last week, although had a famous sub

I Iject in the burning of the Greyfriars [Church] into the Black or
White Friars, do not very well know which.                      sat gazing at

the combustion from my window, without being able to extract

a single moral reflection out of the sight. It wore only a chemical

I Iaspect for me, and had, am ashamed to say, almost a fear
Ithat the fire would be got too soon under, and that should be

cheated out of the sight of the blaze. The flames pointed our

way, and the heat was unpleasantly great on our faces, when

standing opposite the window. Mary indeed held herself in

readiness to rush off with the phosphorus bottle if the tempera

ture rose so much as another half degree. The Lord Provost,

however, and various other good folks, of whom better might

have been expected, were so delighted with playing at firemen,

instead of going to church,1 that the half degree was never

1 The fire occurred as the congregation was assembling for morning service.
314      MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. X1L

reached, and the phosphorus is safe. Some grand specimens for
my lecture-table might have been got next day. But the police
men have not very elevated views of science, and would not

permit the search after them. From one enlightened attache" of

Ithe corps, however, obtained a piece of the melted lead of the
I Iroofing of the porch, and with that suppose must be con

tented.
" A longer letter next time, till which hopping you is well,
                                   " George."
which i am, affectionate brother,

   Instead of improving in health, his cousin James became
increasingly and hopelessly ill, as extracts from letters will

show. In him were united to genius of no common order,

powers of tenderness and fascination that made him intensely
loved by all who knew him well ; so that, even after the lapse

of sixteen years, his very name possesses a charm, awaking in

expressibly sweet memories.

   In the following letter to a sister, allusion is made to a paper

read to the Royal Society, Edinburgh, in which the results of

the repetition of Dr. Brown's experiments were detailed. They

Imay be summed up in a few words to Dr. Cairns :-- " His

experiments can confirm only in the most partial way ; his

theory and the doctrine of transmutation (by experimeut) uot at

all."                              " Thursday.

  I' Dear Jessie, -- My time is so entirely taken up at present

with a multitude of duties, that find it impossible to fulfil my

promises.

   " On Monday night all went well at the Royal Society.
My paper1 was read to a large meeting, and all the hearers were
very attentive. Dr. Christison rose and complimented me,

referring to the great impartiality of the paper. Dr. Abercrombie
lauded it also, and from many quarters compliments were

privately sent forth. Let us, therefore, be thankful, and say no
more of praise, of which we had quite enough.

   i ' Account of a Repetition of several of Dr. Samuel Brown's Processes for the Con
version of Carbon into Silicon.' By George Wilson, M.D., and John Crombie Brow n,
Esq.--' Trans. R, S. E.,' vol. xv., part iv.
1843-44.           ABLE TO WALK ALONE.                                                           315

" James   is,

                            I

                                                             a
          on the whole, as well as any such sufferer can be,

growing daily weaker, and wasting manifestly before our eyes,

but free from acute pain, and not much distressed with sickness.

Now and then, at long intervals, have cheering conversation

on the world to come with him, and we talk of many matters

quietly together. But often for days we remain beside each

other, saying very little about any matter.
   " can now walk the streets alone, trusting to my stick only
I

                         is
                                a
                                                             a
for support. This  great deal, like new life to me. Crocuses

and snow-drops and hepaticas are growing old, and tulips and

hyacinths flinging forth their flowers. It would sadden you to

hear James dwell on the loveliness of green parks filled with

violets and buttercups and spring flowers, as on things which he

will never see. Where he going he will see better things
I
                                         is
                                                    a

                                                                         '
                                                                                              '
than these,' and these may not be wanting also. Nothing

strikes me more in the Bible than the exulting calmness with

which the sacred writers permit us to imagine our utmost as

to the glories of heaven, and then add, Eye hath not seen, nor

ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things

which God hath prepared for them that love him.'
   " write in the laboratory at moment hastily snatched from

other duties. Excuse scrawling, and believe me your affectionate
                                                                          " George."

   After speaking of his baffled hopes in connexion with the exis?
periments alluded to, which amounted in number, at the lowesta
                                                                         is
estimate, to two hundred, he writes to Dr. Cairns on March 1sta.                                                    :

-- " But what are all these things, and any amount of intellec  is it,
tual disappointment and grief . . compared with the sorrow of                   is
seeing my poor cousin hopelessly, fatally ill He dying before
our eyes, and the doctors hold out no hope of amendment.

Tubercular disease, phthisis (or to use the plainest word), con

sumption, has set its fatal seal upon him. It has not yet gone

far, but you know that in that disease the beginning the end.
James knows he dying. In house full of invalids like ours,
with the shadow of the grave always over great plainness of
speech can be used on such matter. He weak in body, but
little changed mentally. He speaks and reads very little,
316             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.      CHAP. VII.

spending the day in brooding meditation. But now and then

Iold gleams come out, and from conversation with him find

Ithat the consolations of the gospel are not failing him in his
time of trial.  am sure, indeed, that he enjoys as perfect peace

as one of his temperament, suffering from his ailment, can do.
... I Ibeside us ?
IPray for us all, my dear friend. What would not give for you
                shall write very soon. At present am

harassed exceedingly, and can send only this incoherent

scrawl."

    On the 20th of the same month he gives further proof that

IJames's time on earth will be short, and adds, -- " For all this

would have prepared you by an earlier letter, but all my spare

Itime, the very little that remains after my weary, sickening,

laboratory work, has been spent for you in another way. have

been copying the essay [by James] on Pantheism, the Trinity, etc.,
Ifor you. It is addressed to you, and you may consider it his last

legacy. . . . Indeed, have been so occupied for the last three
Imonths, that except on the blessed Sabbath,
                                              have known

Ino intermission,-- -chasing a Will-o'-the-Wisp is an intermin

able thing, and you will, hope, forgive my apparent neglect

of you.
   " James has lately read, with more interest than he has felt

in anything else, a very remarkable work, called ' Life in the

Sick-Room, or Essays by an Invalid,' understood, on very good,

if not quite certain, grounds, to be the work of Miss Martineau.

That lady has been for some years a sufferer, and has now, from

her solitude, given to the world her scheme of consolation in
trial. The work conveys a far higher idea of Miss Martineau's

Ipower and nobleness of intellect and feeling than any of her for

mer works have done. My cousin and have read it together
with great interest and admiration, coupled with the deepest

melancholy at the thought that any poor soul should expect to
find abiding consolations in the hollow transcendentalisms of
her mocking creed. We have rejoiced together, with affection

ate sympathy for the writer, that we know an unfailing, inex

haustible source of sympathy as worthy of being applied to, and

far more sure and unfailing, than anything the proud human

heart can extract from speculations on the essential abidingness
1843-44.      DEATH OF JAMES RUSSELL.                      317

Iof good, as contrasted with the transitoriness of evil, etc. etc.
Iam becoming absurdly diffuse on this topic, but will have done.

Two of my sisters have been laid up this winter ; they are both

Iin bed while write. This makes a sad household, and drives

one to dwell on sources of consolation."

   Exactly three weeks after this did the end come, and the

Inext letter gives the sad news to Dr. Cairns :-- " When wrote
Iyou last, looked for many weeks, at least, as yet remaining.

On the day of his death, however, we had all, himself included,
a strange presentiment that death was at hand. He wrote the

Inames of several friends on books that day. In the evening

we were all reluctant to retire. Mary and had secretly re

solved (unknown to each other) to remain up all night, and
his brother slept beside him. We were reading together [in
the next room] the eighth chapter of the Romans, and had
nearly finished when the sound of his breathing heavily called
              it,
us to his side, and we had the sad satisfaction of witnessing him
                     it
die. His mind wandered slightly through the short period dur

ing which he retained consciousness. He was not apparently
aware that he was dying, but believed he was about to fall
asleep. He spoke, however, with more freeness than usual,
though with much physical difficulty and in answer to our
                         a
questions referred to his never having, since he went to Glasgow,'
lost, or ceased to have, trust in Christ. He was repeating con
                                                 ;  a
                                                        a
versation he had with Mary that morning, ending with confesa

sion  of his  ability to throw himself humbly'      (he dwelt much on
that  word)                                         touching to us see
              on Christ. It was inexpressibly

ing him dying, and desiring repetition of his assurances of

faith, to be gently (very gently) interrupted by his 'wait  a

minute.' He would not acknowledge true conclusion not

legitimately arrived at; and when we anxiously repeated to
him words of Scripture, he kept quietly on in his own state

ment, and so lost consciousness.

   " It would have been consoling to us to have heard him again

repeat his acknowledgments of reliance on God. But was not
                                                    it

necessary to us, and would argue mournful lack of faith to
                                 I
                                        a
let the accident of his dying physical state, which precluded

speech, shake our trust in God.  never felt the great privilege
318  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                 CHAP. VII.

Iof prayer more fully than when knelt at my cousin's dying

bed and implored our great, sinless, sympathizing High Priest's

Ipromised help for him in his last extremity. That it was

given do not doubt. That last and precious verse of the

eighth chapter of Romans would alone give me assurance that
it was.

   " His death makes a great blank to me --greater, indeed, than

that of any other friend of my own sex can make. We have

grown up together, physically and intellectually. There were

great dissimilarities between us, but we had so much in com
Imon that these rather increased our love for each other. never
Iknew how much loved him till now, how worthy he was of
I Ibeing loved, how unkind often was to him.
                                              have tried in

I Ivain all last week to get through a little needful work. Had it

been hand- work, could have done it ; but had to think and

write, and my mind wandered always to the thought of my dear
Icousin taken away.
                     can unburden my heart to you, and con
Ifess that have wept more this week than ever before since

childhood, without fearing you will think me less a man or a

"I IChristian for that.
         am now calm, and able to think of James as should

wish ever to do. The thought of him is so mingled with every

I Ithing do, that no effort could detach him if wished it. But
I thank God he has made the memory so precious. The presence

of a glorified spirit is something only to rejoice in. This is self
... Iish, however.
                    bear up well, and walk about alone with
Ithe help of a stick.
                       could forget my whole winter's work,
Iwillingly and easily, were it not that feel it was the means of

keeping me away from James's side. This will make the thought

"... I Iof last winter full of bitterness. . . .
                thank God devoutly that was able in this predica

ment to guide myself by his commandments. Pray for me that
I may be able to witness a good confession beside the watchful
I Isceptics am among.
                       could write to you whole reams ; for

tunately for you, the paper is done."

   To a sister :-- " We buried dear James yesterday in that beau

tiful churchyard. Young trees were budding out, and the grass

wearing the bright green of spring, as if to show us how many
1843 44.      TENDER MEMORIES.                             319

earthly symbols there are of the ' Resurrection and the Life.'

Alick is anxious to have a stone raised over his and Catherine's

Igrave. He got a design of an obelisk, with an urn on the top,

which strongly objected to, and recommended in its place a

Icross, like those which fill the German churchyards. He was

afraid of being suspected of Puseyism, but smile at that. A

cross is a precious Protestant symbol, apart from the follies of

Puseyite or Papist. It is in our hearts, however, that his
memory must be preserved, and assuredly it will be.

  I I" How much miss, and shall miss him, have scarcely dared
Ito think. . . . When recall his sensitive spirit, however, and

Ihow little relish he had for even the most engrossing subjects of

this earth, feel how justly we can say of him, that he was

I'taken away from the evil to come.'" And six years later
Ifhe says, "  often feel that a fine ethereal genius like his

would have done much to exalt and refine my nature, had we

Ilived together, yet life was to him such a bitter, dreary wil

derness, that could not wish him back, whatever might be the
gain to me. To die and be with Christ, was for him, above

all my lost ones, far better than any career of earthly life could

have been."

   The purpose of erecting a cross on the grave was carried out,
and on it may be seen the names of brother and sister, dying at

the same age (twenty-one), in the same month (with an interval

of five years), and of the same disease. It was the Russells'

wish to lie in death with those whose life they shared ; and as
three of them are now at rest there, it may be said of both fami
lies, " The greater part are fallen asleep."

   In the spring of 1845 George writes to an absent sister :--
" This time a year ago our dear James entered into his rest, and
all this day our minds have been full of him. All the more,

perhaps, that Dr. Wardlaw preached to us this morning, and

Iby many things brought before us the image of him who is

now in the presence of God. Mary and are going to visit
his tomb, and you in spirit will be with us beside
                                                    in the
a

                                                             it
                                                                                        it,

                                                                                                                                                                 !
quiet corner of the churchyard where stands. May God

give to all of us, through our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,

restoration in His good time to our dear cousin in heaven
320         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                CHAP. VII.

I" Meanwhile, would give a great deal    with these solemn
                                         if,

                                                  Ia
thoughts around me, could gather all my pupils, some two
         is ;
hundred in number, together, and address to them word on
                           '

                      I
something higher than anything chemistry can show.    would

take for the lesson of the day the thirteenth chapter of 1st

Corinthians, and would preach, with the emphasis on the we,

from the words, We know in part, and we prophesy (or teach)
in part but when that which
                              ;;         perfect come, then that
                                      :  is

which in part shall be done away.' " is

The sorrows of this winter and spring in no way materially

neutralized George's energies and from each of his Classes
                                               aa
                                                                    a
testimonial was presented to him expressive of their sense of

the gratitude due for his services. A sentence in letter re

minds us of members of the household, without       notice of
which the picture incomplete -- " All our kith and kin are
         a

                         is
well, down to Stronach, the beloved terrier, and the absurd cat

without tail." Both these individuals were great favourites

with George. The terrier accompanied him everywhere-- to

lecture-rooms while driving to the laboratory to the sofa
         ;                               ;
                                                        ;

                                                              (a

                                                                                            ;
and to bed, where he reposed at his master's feet. While he

lay on the sofa at supper-time, Strony (as he was usually called)a
sat on his hind legs and begged for biscuits and puss Manx
cat) lay on his chest, and patted his mouth to coax bread out of
it. Their importunities were pleasure, as expressive of the
strength of their love and trust, and his patience with them was

exhaustless.                                 a

   The summer session of 1844 was opened by lecture on
transmutation, which attracted much attention at the time,

owing to its bearing on the new views then under discus
sion. Dr. Chalmers and Lord Jeffrey were amongst the audi
tors, and with both of them lasting friendship was the result.
The lecture was afterwards published, with some enlargement,

in the 'Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal,' for July 1844,

and in the whole subject of isomeric transmutation was dis
         it
cussed.                      it
                                    is

                                                a

                                                               I
His summer classes occupied three hours daily, besides labo
                              not surprising to find the remark, "
ratory duties, so that
1843-«.  HIS BAPTISM.                        321

am getting very tired of summer work, and longing for the
country. We have as good as settled to return to our old quar

ters at Morningside. Two ladies, a crow, and one or two cats,

Iare the present inhabitants

  A month previously he
          of the cottage."                   have been
         had told Dr. Cairns,--"

baptized by immersion, having satisfied myself that it was the

Iscriptural and most ancient method, and desiring, since had

the choice, to realize as fully as possible in the symbolical rite,

Ithe application of such passages as ' buried with Christ in

baptism,' etc. But incline strongly to consider the mode

unimportant, and to believe that affusion of water is all that is
implied in the idea of baptism. My mind is still quite unde

Icided as to the question of the proper objects of the ordinance,

and look for your assistance in solving the difficult and im

portant problem when you return." George's parents belonging
to the Baptist persuasion, he had not been baptized in infancy,
and therefore no choice was now left him except as to the mode.
The rite was performed by the friend and pastor of his early
years, the Rev. Dr. Innes, for whom he ever retained an affec

tionate regard. His views as to believers being the proper
subjects of baptism became very decided in later years, yet with
no tinge of sectarianism or bigotry, from which he was unusu
ally free. The early admiration of the Episcopalian form of

worship, above that of other religious bodies, passed away with

Lthe dreams of youth, and he united himself with the Congrega

tional Church under the care of the Rev. Dr. W. Alexander,
a union only dissolved by death.

Nearly two months were spent in his favourite retreat, from
                                " Sleepy Hollow," describing its
Iwhich we find a letter, dated  sweet spot, and no day is more

attractions :-- " This is a most
delightful here than Sabbath.     miss the prayers of my
Ibrethren much ; the sermons far less. Here
                                             have hosts of
Iprecentors, who lift up a stave whenever they have a mind, and

  never lift staves at them. The blackbirds begin to know me,
and a little bird (name unknown), on a tree above my head,

Isings a Te Deum laudamus of three notes, of which never
Itire. The delight feel in gazing at flowers and insects, and

watching the trees grow, the shadows on the hills, and the

                               x
                   MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. VII.

Ichanging aspects of the sky, shall never be able to make
I Iany one understand.
                      can give it no utterance in words.
Iam sure, however, that it is innocent, healthful, and though

am slow to use solemn words needlessly, even holy, for this

Igarden has been to me an oratory, such as no other place has
been.        spent this forenoon reading the story of Joseph and
Ihis brethren, onwards to the end of Genesis. It is long since

   read it through, and though no part of the Bible is better
known to me, or more tenderly remembered in connexion with

happy childhood (perhaps indeed for that very reason), it moved
Ime almost to tears.
                      felt the hysterica passio, the gulp in the
Ithroat, and should have fairly wept had attempted to read

Iit aloud. The dignity, simplicity, and pathos of the scene have
never,       imagine, been excelled, and the wonderful way in

which the old romantic story momentarily reveals God himself

shaping all its events to the most important but far-distant

issues, and yet leaves the human interest in the tale to go

Iforth unchecked by the awe or even sense of the supernatural,
struck me to-day as it never did before.     spent two hours,

which fleeted away, in reading the account and thinking over

      ending with the grand prophecy of Jacob as to the destinies
I it,
of his descendants, which always seems to me to resound likeI

the triumphal march of an army going forth conquering and to

conquer. For the blessing of Jacob on Ephraim and Manasseh

      have another and more subdued feeling. Many time,
                   a                         a
                                                      a is
when was child, and in early youth, has mother invoked on
                a

my head and my twin brother's, as we slept together, the bene'
diction, -- The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the

      lads.' That prayer has been answered in full for one of them,

      who bade me farewell some twelve years ago, in assured hope of

      blessed resurrection, and the other rejoices to know that he
a
     athe child of many prayers."

         A pleasant week, at the close of the holidays, was spent at

      farm-house in East Lothian, where he " made the acquaintance

      of great many nice dogs," and was touched to learn that his

      own terrier took his absence sorely to heart, and refused food.
      " Give the dear beast," he writes, " taste of cream, or some
                      a

      thing good, in reward thereof;" and so back to town and to

      work.
1844 54.        LITERARY WORK.                                                  323

                CHAPTER VIII.

                                    LECTURER AND AUTHOR.

                             " Nullum quod tetigit non ornavit."
          " He illuminated the Book of Nature as they did the Missals of old."

In the ten years that follow, we find the most important part

of George Wilson's life, so far as literary work is concerned.

The amount done seems more befitting one strong in body, than

the invalid on whose behalf our sympathies have been excited.

But one secret of his unresting diligence lay in the belief that
his life would be a short one. " Don't be surprised," he said to

a friend in 1845, "if any morning at breakfast you hear I am

gone." So with the shadow of death close at hand, he ever

worked as one whose days were numbered. At first this seems

a gloomy  thought, but that to  him    it was far otherwise  we cannot
doubt. "  To none," he says,     " is  life so sweet as to   those who

have lost all fear to die."i They who have large store of health

and strength are apt to lavish them thoughtlessly on various

objects, but such as he, husbanding their strength for work

alone, are frequently able to realize what their stronger brethren

only dream of.

From this period to its close, his life was one long sacrifice

of pleasure to duty. While lecturing ten, eleven, or more

hours weekly, sometimes with pulse at 150°, it was frequently

with torturing setons and open blister wounds ; and every

holiday   was eagerly seized for the application of similar
" heroic  remedies," or " bosom friends," as he named them.

                i ' Life of John Reid," p. 264.
324           MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. VIII.

His keen appreciation of the pleasures of society, and of

all beautiful things, was sternly put aside to meet profes

sional claims ; and all with such quiet simplicity or gay good

humour, that few if any guessed the price at which his work

Iwas accomplished. " should have been to see you," a note
Isays, " but a cold has damaged my bellows a little, and have

had to put a comforter on the chest in which they are kept."
And before                          of a winter session, he writes
low invalid,  th"eI'ollpwenaignegr  you'll get through the winter    to a  fel
                                                                           less
                                                                    with
I I Icroaking than will.
                                    was wondering this morning, as

looked at my collar bones, how soon they would have a blister

occupying the valley below. You have not like me to turn

'stump orator' for six months in the year; and talk, talk, talk

Itill your tongue cleaves to the roof of your mouth ; however,

hope we'll both fare well. To be well enough to work is suffi
cient, and quite satisfies me." " One whole day in seven spent

in talking out loud," he says again, "makes that prophecy com
forting, ' Whether there be tongues, they shall cease.' "

Besides the systematic course of lectures, given each session

to his several classes, there were occasional series of popular

lectures. The greater number of these were delivered before

the Philosophical Institution,1 Edinburgh, with increasing ac

ceptance on each occasion. The subject of the first course was,
" The Chemistry of the Gases," and part of the Introductory

Lecture appeared shortly afterwards in a periodical of the day,

with the title, "The alleged Antagonism between Poetry and

Chemistry."2 Professor Goodsir at the same time gave a short

popular course on Human Physiology, --he and George Wilson

lecturing alternately. It was on one of these chemical evenings

that the pet terrier made his last appearance at a lecture.

Stronach having died and left a blank in the household,

Alexander Russell brought a successor, that in due time became

as great a favourite, and, like Stronach, accompanied his master

everywhere. He was named Grim, and one evening in the

Waterloo Rooms, he astonished the attentive audience by push-

  i The title, in its earlier years, was " Philosophical Association," and the lectures

were delivered in the Waterloo Rooms.

   » See 'Torch,' pp. 13-16. Sutherland and Knox, Edinburgh, 1846.
1844-54.        PHILOSOPHICAL INSTITUTION.                              325

ing aside the green baize hanging from the table, and with

shaggy head and paws visible, gazed with wonder at the assem
bly before him. The effect was irresistibly comic, for it seemed

as in imitation of his master, he had thoughts of setting up
a if,
on his own account. But poor Grim never had another chance
    it
of winning public confidence, being compelled henceforth to

spend the evenings at home, listening for the step of him he

loved so well.

Within the decade now under notice, several courses of lec

tures were delivered under the auspices of the same Institution.

The prelections usually delivered to its members differ widely

from those addressed to most popular assemblies. The audience

which         calls forth regularly throughout each winter,     it, is  one

that might stimulate any lecturer to put forth his best powers.

The highest efforts of such men as Ruskin, Kingsley, Hugh
Miller, and many of like eminence, have been elicited by and

not few works of value have resulted from the publication of

lectures given either in whole, or in part, to the members of

this Institution. A favourite lecturer, such as George Wilson

proved to be pre-eminently, sure to attract large number ofis
intelligent, educated, and critically appreciative listeners. To
                                            a
                                                             a
address audiences so intelligent and so courteous was source

of gratification, affording an arena on which his powers had

wider scope than the limits of his ordinary field could give.
   Few can estimate the amount of forethought and trouble

which popular scientific lecture, illustrated by experiments,
          :a
entails but so far was Dr. Wilson from grudging this trouble,
that he invariably prepared for each evening, and with the

greatest care, more than could be delivered, and received con
vincing proofs of appreciation in the unwavering attention of

his hearers, even sometimes for an hour and three-quarters.

An hour before he began seats were eagerly secured by them,
and from half-past seven till ten have they frequently been in

attendance, night after night. To him these lectures involved

loss of sleep and appetite, such as made them the most injurious

to health of all his labours. A list before us of fifty-two items,

required for the illustrating experimentally of one lecture, testi

fies to these facts, while the more elaborate of his prelections
326         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. vnr.

were, one might soberly say, so much of his very life told out.

Almost invariably were they followed by sharp illnesses, yet

not the less was he willing to undertake the duty again and
again. With truthful reverence we may apply to him the pro

I Iphet's experience, " His word was in my heart as a burning fire

shut up in my bones ; was weary with forbearing, and could

not stay."

   After his death the following reference to a published lecture
was given in writing to his sister: "While glancing at the

Ipaper, remembered the very sound of many of the expressions
I Ias heard them, and how vividly can recall his look while
Ilecturing those times went with you, and the great clear pro

file cast on the wall by the electric light ! All the brilliance

and the beauty of the mind, with its thoughts, we can't, in

looking back, feel them past ; only the cough after he got into

the carriage-- oh, Jessie ! what a contrast it made at the time,

and now, that part is over for ever." One of our gifted men of

letters, Dr. W. B. Hodgson, in a letter of January 1860, speaks
of the " element of childlike wonder which animated George

Wilson, and which he so well knew how to transfuse into

others, or rather, which he transfused into others without know
ing how, and by the mere force of sympathy. In listening to
Wilson, you not only increased your knowledge, your store of

facts, but you were delighted with the beauty and harmony of

their relations and interdependence ; and few indeed are the
sermons that can leave so deep an impression of reverence for
Him whose works science interprets, as did the simplest of

George Wilson's compositions. There was such a charming

play of fancy about his lectures, adorning but never obscuring

...the accuracy of his observations, or the close method of his ar
rangement.  He was one of the most learned of our men of

science, at once the most practical and the most poetical, the

most attractive lecturer and effective teacher ; and never did a
purer, gentler, kindlier being exist in human shape."

  "In his hands," Professor Macdougall1 remarks, "every sub

ject was felt to become not intelligible only, or even interesting,
but almost enchanting. The value and attractions of know-

     1 Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh.
                          OCCASIONAL LECTURES.                                 327

ledge were not merely understood, but intimately felt and ap

preciated, when exemplified in the joyous activity and happy

dispositions of one, who drew so evidently and so largely from

knowledge the aliment of his energies, and the materials of

varied and exquisite enjoyment."

   In the spring of 1846, he was requested by the Young Men's

Society to give a short course of lectures on the " Relation of

Physical Science to the doctrines mooted in the Vestiges of the

Natural History of Creation," in order to counteract the views

Ipromulgated in that work. Speaking of those lectures, he says

to Dr. Cairns, in a letter of July 11, 1846, " have too much

wrought only at science and literature, hoping thereby to secure

a position which would enable me to serve Christ effectually.
But many things warn me that my life will be a short one, and

Ithat what can do, must be done swiftly. Here there seems
Isome slight opportunity of doing a little good, and must not

willingly let it pass, or mar it." The lectures were largely

attended, and attracted considerable notice at the time. Offers

were made by six publishing houses to print them without

delay. He felt averse, however, to their appearing permanently
in the polemical form, and put them aside to be reproduced at

a time of leisure, which never came. The severe illness, indeed,

induced by the additional labour they gave, made some months
of quiet rest in the country indispensable, and fresh literary work

pressing in on him soon absorbed every leisure moment.

Occasional lectures in provincial towns were delivered, the

ohfesusacyhs,re"qFureosmts         truly  legion. Of one in Dunbar,
Inumber                                   of the people who attended
                                     saw
in 1846,
                            being
                            what

iIt,

                 ;

                    is
                      it
am satisfied that single lectures are out of the question to

miscellaneous audiences, so far as rational instruction                        con
                            a
                                      a

                                          I

                                                                       is, is
cerned nor                possible to offer prelection which shall be

equally suitable to little boys, young ladies, elderly ditto,

clergymen, doctors, farmers, tradesmen, and working people.

The thing  is  preposterous. The utmost that believe                           that

the lecture would do them no harm."

To no appeals for aid was more ready assent given than to

those from struggling home-mission workers, Sunday or appren

tice schools, etc. and the careful arrangement of illustrations
               ;
328          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.          CHAP. VIE

for these lectures compelled the thought that this was work

specially done for the unseen Master. The last of these appear

ances in the summer of 1859, is now thought of with the interest

that clings to such unconscious farewells. To Dr. Cairns he

sent the following report of it :-- " A few nights ago the young

women at it [a Bible class] were invited to a festival, where tea,
strawberries, and a lecture on light, got up, 'regardless of

expense,' with specimens, balloons, blue lights, and what not,

were furnished. A well-known ' Prestidigitateur' took charge

of the ' spectacle,' and the whole affair was a great success.

Some liked the tea, and some the pictures : some the straw
.... I Iberries, and some the balloon. A few 'general hearers' liked
everything.                  took more trouble with the fete than have

done with almost anything, and rejoiced much in its successful-

ness. May the omen be blessed ! May He, for whose sake the

work was done to interest the little ones of His flock, feed me

and lead me as one of His sheep once far astray, but now

admitted by the door into the true fold !"
   In 1852 he speaks of a similar occasion to his friend Mr.

ICharles Tomlinson. " am much interested in your Vauxhall
I Idoings.1
             know how pleasant such work is.   had more

pleasure in two lectures (on the Chemistry of a Candle), to two
ragged schools this winter than in most of my other lectures.

At one of them a very excellent dissenting minister,2 who is the

mainspring of a most beneficent system, came up to me before
the lecture commenced, and said apologetically, ' We generally

Ibegin with prayer; have you any objection to our doing so
now t     at once said, ' No ;' and he offered up (what Scotch

prayers on such occasions are not always) a brief, expressive,

I I Isingularly appropriate prayer, in which he prayed for me as a
chemist.     cannot tell you how was touched.  said in my

secret heart, 'I'll give him another lecture for that.' We

chemists are generally held to be men who, provided we can

tell ink from blacking when asked, do not require moral char-

1 The reference here is to a lecture given by Mr. Tomlinson, to supplement the

benevolent labours of the Messrs. Wilson, in the Belmont Candle Works, on behalf

of those employed by them.   Sec Cairns's ' Memoir of John Brown, D.D.,' p. 262.
   8 The Rev. James Trench.
1844-54.  LECTURE TO BAGGED SCHOOL.                                      329

acters. No doubt, we get our share of the prayers for all sorts

I Iand conditions of men, but want something more. The day
hope will come when, without cant, or formality, or hypocrisy,

Ifa class and its teacher will together ask God's blessing on their
work before they begin.               we can't be Christians in all our
daily work, of what worth is our Christianity?" It may be

imagined what excitement such a lecture occasioned amongst

the inhabitants of the close or wynd in the High Street of
Edinburgh, in which it was held. Going down on one of the

evenings, an hour previous to the opening of the door, to make

preliminary arrangements, the lecturer found little boys endea

vouring with intense curiosity to peep through every crevice of

door or window. Seeing him enter elicited from one the pathetic
petition, " Eh, man !
companion observed,    "wTilhlayte's  no   let  us in  V but    a  more shrewd
                                       no       man ;   that's  a  gentleman V
                                            a

In due time they did get in, and next day were overheard by

the assistants who came to remove the apparatus used, dilating

to their companions at the mouth of the close, on the wonders

they had seen. "And man !" said one, " he fired a glass pistol

fu' o' naething ; an' he set up a balloon, an' they were a' haddin'

on t' it ! ! P The description of the explosion George ever

remembered with keen zest.

The notes of this lecture may be given as a specimen of those

from which he usually spoke, only a very few lectures being

fully written out. Special words and marks were written in

red ink, to catch the eye.

                            CHEMISTRY OF A CANDLE.                 Wood: Coal:

I. Methods of producing Heat and Light.
      Candles: Lamps: Spirits.

                                      Gas.

 II. Apparently very different ; essentially same.                 does  not
    a. All contain charcoal : leave it when heated.
     b. Give off inflammable air or H.

      c. Turn into vapour when heated.

III. Cinder, or coke, or charcoal-fire glows, but

           flame.
330      MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                               CHAP. VIII.

IV. We must make them change into                 vapours or airs,   or
         " gases," geist, ghaist, ghost, spirit.

    a. Coal heated in iron bottle (retort).
     b. Oil placed in vessel with wick.
     c. Candle with wick but no vessel.

 V. Use of wick to draw up melted wax.
    a. Illustrations of capillary action.

                                              Sugar.

   VI. a. Long time candle takes to light.

           b. Longer even than lamp.

 VII. Tallow or wax melted and turned into gas. A candle a

            little oil manufactory, and also a little gas-work.

VIII. Thus lamp-light, candle-light, and oil or coal-gas light,

           and wood and coal-flame, all essentially the same --all
            gas-lights ; only coal and wood continue to yield heat,

             long after they cease to give flame.

I. a. Proof that these vapours or gases contain H.

III.II.   b. Proof that they contain c : smoke :  cl.  and  c4  H4.
         This one half of subject : need of air.
         Air feeds flame or supports it.

                        Candle in air.

IV. Composition of Air.

     a. ^th pure, vital, or oxygen. Stick and Candle.
      b. ^ths non vital, nitrogen.
V. Burning, a uniting of c H with o.

      Illustration from blue and yellow = green.

VI. What they produce when combined ?

         a. Water. Oocyhydrogen blowpipe heat.

         b. Carbonic acid. Cause of light : Limeball.

        c. Its flame-extinguishing, deadly properties.

VII. Proof of God's wisdom in giving us c and H and air as

         combustibles.

         s in 0 suffocating and poisonous.

VIII.    Fe in 0 white, hot and fusible.
         P in 0 acid and irrespirable.

         ho and co» gases, volatile, invisible

         Importance of ventilation.
im-M.  SCOTTISH SOCIETY OF ARTS.  33 1

                 REFERENCES IN THE BIBLE TO CANDLE OR LAMP.

     1. The candle of the wicked soon put out.

   I2. The candle of the Lord. " Oh that were as in months
Ipast, as in the days when God preserved me ; when his candle

shined upon my head, and when by his light walked through

 darkness."

     3. The golden candlestick of the Hebrew Temple.
     4. The seven gold candlesticks of the New Testament.

   5. In heaven " they need no candle." " The Lamb is the light

thereof." " Light is sown for the righteous."

    " Perfect in all the courtesies of society, and able to delight
the most refined circles with his exquisite wit and knowledge,
he could turn with still greater relish to correspond with chil
dren, or to enjoy the wonder of some ragged city-mission audi
ence at a voluntary scientific lecture."1

    Many and various were the contributions to science during

the years of which we speak. A detailed estimate of the greater
number of them will be found in the Appendix, from the pen of
Dr. J. H. Gladstone. To one of the first,-- ' On a simple mode

of constructing Skeleton Models to illustrate the systems of
Crystallography,' the Royal Scottish Society of Arts awarded a
medal of five guineas' value, believing the invention likely to
be of much service. Before the same Society a paper was read
in 1845, ' On the employment of Oxygen as a means of Resus

citation in Asphyxia.' In 1848 he brought before it Suggestions

on the use of the Electro-Magnetic Bell in conducting Sound ;
and in later years, 1853 and 1854, his series of Researches on
Colour- Blindness, for which the Society conferred on him the
highest honour, the Keith prize, value £30 ; and in addition a
grant of money, to be expended on the inquiry, was placed at
his disposal. In 1855 the Researches were published,2 with
some additions, and form a valuable contribution to previous in-

   i ' Macmillan's Magazine,' January 1860.
   * ' Researches on Colour-Blindness, with a Supplement on the Danger attending the
present System of Railway and Marine Coloured Signals.' Sutherland and Knox,
Edinburgh.
332        MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                CHAP. VIII.

vestigations on this subject. None of his inquiries attracted so

much attention as these, probably from their bearing so widely
on the welfare of the public. They are referred to with com
mendation by Dr. W. C. Henry, in his 'Life of Dalton;'1 by
Professor Clerk Maxwell, of Aberdeen;4 by Professor Tyndall,
of the Royal Institution, London ; 3 by W. Pole, Esq., C.K ;* and

by Dr. J. H. Gladstone.5 Sir David Brewster, in a recent paper

on Colour- Blindness, speaks of the Researches as a " very in

teresting volume." It is thus more fully referred to in an ela

borate article, discussing its contents, in the ' North British
Review' for 1856 : "Although Dr. Wilson himself modestly re
gards his work ' only as an imperfect contribution to the history
of a remarkable, and by no means rare peculiarity of vision,
requiring for its full elucidation a profounder acquaintance with

optics, anatomy, and physiology, than he dared pretend to,' yet

we have no hesitation in recommending it to readers of all
classes as a popular work of great value, exhibiting no defici
ency of optical, anatomical, and physiological knowledge, ana

lysing faithfully, and criticising candidly, the labours and views
of preceding writers, and calculated, as he himself trusts, ' to

create, or deepen the conviction that the study of colour-blind

ness will throw light upon intricate departments of scientific
optics, anatomy, and physiology,' whilst it has ' already an im

portant bearing on the aesthetic arts, which express beauty by

colours, and on those economic arts, such as mapping, but espe
cially signalling, in which colours are graphically employed.' . .
Though Dr. Wilson has already taken a high place among the

distinguished men who adorn the colleges of our northern me

tropolis, his work on colour-blindness will add greatly to his

reputation."6

    Professor Cherriman7 also reviews this work at great length

in the 'Canadian Journal' for March 1856, and concludes

     ' i See Appendix to ' Life of Dalton,' by Henry.
     · ' Trans. R. S. E.,' vol. xxi. p. 284.
        '
     »  '  London and    Edinr. Phil.   Mag.'  vol.  xi. p.  329.
     ·     Trans. R. S.  for 1859,' p.  323.

     · ' Report of Brit Assoc. for I860.'
     · 'North British Review,' February 1856, pp. 327, 328.
     ' Professor of Natural Philosophy, University College, Toronto.
1844-W.                RESEARCHES ON COLOUR-BLINDNESS.              333

" with hearty thanks to Dr. Wilson, both for his own experi

ments and researches in this obscure subject, and for having
embodied all that is known about it in a clear and concise

rimmS, which will serve as a standard of reference hereafter to

the scientific investigator."

   In September 1857, an ophthalmological congress was held at

Brussels, attended by men of eminence from all parts of the
world, and it was confided to Mr. White Cooper, of London, to

draw up a report on the present state of ophthalmic science in

England So deeply impressed was he with Dr. Wilson's work,

that he expressed his opinion of its value in the following
Iterms :-- " Though
                            have abstained from making special refer
Ience to books, cannot pass over the admirable and original

work on chromato-pseudopsis, or colour-blindness, by Dr. George
Wilson, of Edinburgh. For acuteness and originality this volume

deserves the highest praise." The opinion thus expressed was
indorsed by all present who had studied the subject. Mr. White
Cooper has kindly given in detail his estimate of this work as

follows :--" In 1853, the attention of Dr. George Wilson was

directed to the obscure but interesting subject of colour-blind

ness ; he did not originally intend to do more than write two or

three papers upon but as examples of colour-blindness mulit,

tiplied on his hands, and (as he states) the theoretical and prac
tical importance of many of the questions connected with its

occurrence became more apparent, he was led to study more
                                                            it
deeply, and to write upon at greater length.                    it

  " A prominent feature in Dr. Wilson's character appears to
                            it
                                        it

                                                         a
have been desire to utilise any subject, to remove from the
it
            itrealms of speculation, and to turn when possible to practical

                    aaccount. Thus, as to colour-blindness, until he took up the

subject, had been regarded merely as curious physiological

fact, the phenomena and their explanation having mainly at

tracted the attention of philosophers. But Dr. Wilson regarded

from another point of view he saw its practical relation to
                            ;

railway and ship signals, and the important results which might

flow from the inability to distinguish one colour from another.

   "His first communication appeared in the 'Edinburgh

Monthly Journal of Medical Science' for November 1853, with
334                 MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.               CHAP. YIII.

the title, ' On the prevalence of Chromato-pseudopsis, or Colour
            '
blindness      but  as the practical  relations of colour-blindness
           ;

could not be fully discussed in this professional periodical, Dr.

Wilson communicated to the Royal Scottish Society of Arts an

important paper ' On Railway and Ship Signals in relation to

Colour-blindness.' This communication was read January 8,

1855, and it speaks well for the liberality, not less than the dis

cernment of this distinguished Society, that, being deeply im

pressed with the importance of the facts stated by Dr. Wilson,

they circulated at their own expense, copies of the paper among

the railway companies, and, unsolicited, placed at Dr. Wilson's

disposal a grant of money to be expended on the inquiry.
   " The lights selected by the Admiralty to be carried by sea

going vessels to prevent collision, are green on the starboard

side ; red on the port side. Now these are the colours most

liable to be confounded by the colour-blind ; and a very singu

lar fact came to the knowledge of Dr. Wilson in the course of

his inquiries : of a Board amongst whose duties was that of in

vestigating the use of coloured lights as signals, it chanced that
of five members, two were colour-blind ; and one day a clerk --
unconscious of his defect -- copied a letter in red ink, thinking it

was black !                                            travellers, as in
   " Red and green are well known to railway            Thus, both by

dicating, red, danger --green, simply caution.

sea and by land, these, the colours most frequently confounded

by the colour-blind, are the very colours selected as important

signals ! Yet how essential to safety is their due appreciation !
   " Dr. Wilson enters at great length into the consideration of

the question in all its bearings, and points out the necessity of

signal-men being tested as to their appreciation of colour,

describing minutely the course to be pursued, which would cer

tainly lead to the detection of those deficient in this qualifica

tion ; and as an additional measure of precaution, Dr. Wilson

dwells on the necessity of employing the elements of form and
number, as well     as colour, in railway
   " Though less     generally adopted      signals.   be  desired,  these
                                           than could

suggestions have not fallen barren to the ground. Dr. Brinton,

who examines candidates for railway appointments in India,
1844-64.  LABORIOUS INQUIRY.  335

lays stress on their due appreciation of colour, testing them as
recommended by Dr. Wilson ; and there is little doubt that, as
the importance of the subject is more generally recognised, it

will receive the attention it merits. In navigation, Dr. Wilson

urges the employment of night signals which the colour-blind
cannot mistake, the Admiralty system being fraught with un
suspected danger to all who trust in it.

    " As facts accumulated, the interest of the subject presented
itself more and more forcibly, and Dr. Wilson felt, in 1855, that
the time had arrived when the results of his researches should
be presented to the profession and the public. An extended
analysis of this work would be out of place in a biography, and
it will be sufficient to mention some of its leading points.

    "The first thing that strikes us is the amount of labour
bestowed upon the inquiry ; in 1852-53 alone, Dr. Wilson care
fully examined 1154 persons with reference to colour-blindness,
and subsequently a further large number ; it may be confidently

asserted that no one had previously extended the investigation

so widely, and the results are commensurate.

   " It is somewhat startling to find that Dr. Wilson arrived at

the conclusion, that one in every twenty persons has an imper
fect appreciation of colour, and that the number who are
colour-blind in so marked a degree as to mistake red for green,
brown for green, and occasionally even red for black, is one in
fifty. Dr. Wilson's researches fully established the hereditary
character of colour-blindness, which clings in a remarkable

degree to certain families ; he observed, that so far as tints are

concerned, the colour-blind have as nice discernment as others ;

it is proper to mention that Sir John Herschel and others

entertain doubts as to whether colour-blindness is really as
common as stated by Dr. Wilson ; the question may be re

garded as yet open.1 To a person with perfect vision it is

startling, and almost verges on the ludicrous, to see another

apparently equally gifted, gravely sorting scarlet and red and
green worsteds as shades of one and the same colour ; declaring
that a stick of red sealing-wax was not to be distinguished on

    i See ' Statistics of Colour-Blindness' in ' Report of the British Asociation for

 1859,' p. 228.
336                       MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                        CHAP. VIII.

a grass plot ; or writing a letter in brilliant red ink, thinkingisit     is
it was rather a bright black. The examples of such strangeis,
confusion, related by Dr. Wilson, are very numerous, and ren          is
der the book as amusing as it is interesting.
                                                  a
   " As art can do little towards palliating, and nothing towards
curing colour-blindness, Dr. Wilson points out the propriety of

excluding from certain professions and callings those who have
this defect. The professions for which it most seriously disqua

lifies are those of the sailor and railway servant, who have daily

to peril life and property on the indication which a coloured flag
or a lamp seems to give. Though an imperfect apprehension of
colour must prevent a man becoming a painter, it does not
exclude his excelling as an engraver, for the colour-blind have

a keen eye for form, outline, light and shade, etc. Such callings
as the weaver, house-painter, dyer, etc., are manifestly ill adapted

for them ; and even the pursuits of the analytical chemist, to
whom a knowledge of colour is important, scarcely falls within

their list.

   " On what does colour -blindness depend ? A variety of opi

nions exist on this point ; but we shall conclude the subject by

quoting that formed by Dr. Wilson :-- ' We seem to be fully
entitled to affirm that the cerebro- retinal apparatus of vision in
the colour-blind either through congenital defect or subse
quent morbid change, unendowed with that sensitiveness to
calorific impressions which possesses in those whose vision
normal. It probably the retina that the chief seat of this
diminished sensibility to colour, and the simpler form of colour
blindness might fitly enough be called colour amaurosis' Ml

    From 1846 onwards to 1852, series of researches on Fluorine

was carried on, involving much patient investigation and labo
rious inquiry. Its presence was discovered in waters, in mine

rals, fossil remains, plants, and animal secretions. In the

     Researches on Colour-Blindness,' p. 111.
1
   '
            is *
                   '
In the Cosmos' for January                        1860, M. l'Abbe Moigno expresses surprise that
                                    '
                                              6,
no notice taken in these Researches' of labours of his in the same field, pub

lished in the Repertoire d'Optique Moderne,' and consisting of a practical and theo

retical rtmrni on Daltonism or Colour-Blindness. Had this paper come under Dr.
Wilson's observation there can be no doubt he would have mentioned any obliga

tion under which might have placed him.
                      it
1844-54.     SCIENTIFIC PAPERS.                                 337

English translation of ' Lehmann's Physiological Chemistry,' by

Professor G. E. Day, special reference is made to them.1 With
one or two exceptions, the papers containing a record of those

investigations were brought before the Royal Society, Edin
burgh, and have a place in its Transactions.2 The last notice of

the subject was one claiming priority, because of a communica

tion made to the French Academy in 1856, by M. J. Nickles,

entitled ' Presence du Fluor dans le Sang,' this gentleman being
unaware, apparently, of Dr. Wilson's announcement of the same
fact in 1850.

    Before the Royal Society of Edinburgh were also brought, in

1848, the results of eight months' inquiry into the bleaching
powers of certain gases ; and in the following year the ' Early
History of the Air-Pump in England.' In 1845, he read also
here, ' On Wollaston's Argument from the Limitation of the
Atmosphere, as to the Finite Divisibility of Matter ;' later, ' On
the Organs in which Lead accumulates in the Horse, in cases
of slow poisoning by that metal;' and in 1850, 'On the pos
sible Derivation of the Diamond from Graphite and Anthra

cite;'3 while on another occasion he brought forward attempts
to trace the source of Nitrogen in Plants.

   Phenomena of vision, encountered while prosecuting the
researches in colour-blindness, led to observations ' On the
Extent to which the received Theory of Vision requires us to

regard the eye as a Camera Obscura,' which may be consulted
with advantage by those interested in physiological pursuits.

It bears the impress of that careful thought and accurate rea

soning which characterize all his writings. Of one or two other
papers presented to the Royal Society, Edinburgh, notice will be

found elsewhere.4

   Before the Chemical Society of London were brought ' In
quiries into the Decomposition of Water by Platinum ; ' the
' Binary Theory of Salts ; ' and ' Some Phenomena of Capil

lary Attraction.'

    Besides the more strictly scientific labours, of which some

          i Vol. i. p. 425.-- Car. Soc. Published 1852.

          !  A list of them  will  be found  in the  Appendix.
             See Appendix.
          '

          4 See Appendix.

                                   Y
338  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                   CHAP. VIII.

notice has been given, he found time to draw up a series of

essays for the 'British Quarterly Review,' between 1845 and

1849, which have justly been reckoned as successful as any

thing he ever wrote. " The paper on Chemistry and Natural

Theology boldly grapples with the difficulty arising from the

presence of evil as well as good in the manifestations of design,

and contains a vivid reflection of his own experience of suffer

ing ; while the scientific memoirs on Dalton, Cavendish, Black,

Priestley, Wollaston, and Boyle, show a range of reading and a

power of elucidation not often combined in the treatment of any

science."1 After reading some of them, Lord Jeffrey wrote to
a friend, saying, " They give me a very high opinion, not only

of Dr. Wilson's talents and learning, but of his taste and power

of writing. . . . His severer style is admirable, and nothing

can be better than the lucid and energetic brevity with which

he abstracts facts and condenses arguments."    Those papers

were the first expression of that love for biography, afterwards

Iso manifest. " My own favourite study, will confess," he tells

the Rev. Dr. Vaughan, editor of the Review, " is scientific his

tory and biography." He had it in contemplation to write the

lives of the distinguished chemists of Britain, and of this work

these memoirs were to form part ; but the design was never ful

filled, his plans being always more extended than his opportu

nities of carrying them out. The nucleus of another of his

bright visions is to be found in the paper on Chemistry and

Natural Theology. The hope of writing a ' Religio Chemici,'
corresponding to Sir Thomas Browne's ' Religio Medici,' was
indulged for many years ; but " his life --bright with rare vir
tues --was the only ' Religio Chemici ' given him to finish.

This was higher than the contemplated work."2 The ' British

Quarterly Review ' was struggling into being when he was re

quested to contribute to its pages. This organ being the repre

sentative of the Congregationalists of Great Britain, he willingly

responded, and by his zeal on its behalf, as well as by his articles,

he contributed not a little to its success, identifying himself

thoroughly with its wellbeing.
   In the notices called forth by the appearance of its first num

     1 ' Macniillnn's Magazine,' January 1860,  1 Ibid.
1814-54.       TEXT-BOOK OF CHEMISTRY.                                                                  339

bers, we find his paper on Dalton specially mentioned. " The
scientific strength of the Review is indicated by a truly admir
able paper on the ' Life and Discoveries of Dalton,' in which

the atomic theory of that great lawgiver of quantitative chemis
try is expounded with a clearness, precision, width of view, and

philosophic eloquence, which reminds us of Playfair, and in
which the whole question of Dalton's merit as a discoverer
                                                                                                        '
through original research, placed in new point of view, by
               a                                                                                               is,
                                     a
tracing the independent and altogether peculiar course of in
quiry by which he was led to his atomic hypothesis." " The
Life and Discoveries of Dalton,' one of the greatest of English

chemists,      treated with learned appreciation of the subject.
is
           is
It one of those delightful essays which serve to open the lights

of science upon the uninitiated, without dazzling them, or de

terring them with too abstruse details."'
   His Text- Book of Chemistry,' which forms one of the

volumes of 'Chambers's Educational Course,' was written to

dictation in the summer of 1849, in the "Sleepy Hollow" of

Morningside. Rheumatism was an unfailing visitor in summer,
frequently affecting the arms to painful extent. In that year
a it

                                          a
                                                                 a

                                                                                                     ;
compelled the abandonment of spring classes, and this text

book was undertaken as the only work of which he was capable

at the time, idleness being to him an impossibility. He was

quite unable to hold pen for months, and dictated its pages to

sister while pacing the room with compressed lips, that showed

the pain could scarcely be endured but pain never stopped

work, and the success of the book has been such as to repay the

effort abundantly. Its sale has been at the rate of 2,500 copies
yearly, and upwards of 24,000 copies, in all, have been sold in

the nine years which have followed its publication. It has

been recommended by the Council of the Society of Arts, Lon

don, to the students preparing for examination for its certificate

of proficiency, and has met with general acceptance. It thus

noticed in periodicals of the day " There are few books on
               .
                                1
                                    '

                                                                          :
                                                                                    4,

                                                                                                    a

                                                                                      is
chemical science in our language which so fully explain its lead

ing features. . . His little work may be studied as choice

example of scientific literature."'

               Atheiucuni,' January 1851.
340              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                              CHAP. Tlll.

" Dr. Wilson's work is intended as a simple introduction to

chemistry for the youth of both sexes ; but it deserves a higher

         ;

             a

                it
                     is

                                                 it,
place than the author claims for from the excellence of the

spirit in which  written. Most works of the class attempt

to do no more than to give an account of the strange and strik

ing phenomena of the science, and rarely venture to discuss its
principles but Dr. Wilson has entered with considerable ful

ness, and in remarkably clear, simple, and intelligible manner,

into the general doctrines of chemistry, and has explained many

matters which are generally, but as we believe erroneously, con

sidered too abstruse for the popular student."1 A second edition

was desired by the publishers in 1857, but engagements on hand

put out of his power to give attention to this request, as con
'

     it

                                      a
siderable additions would have been necessary, owing to the

progress of chemistry since its first appearance.                                          a

   In 1851, the growing reputation of Dr. Wilson, both as

scientific writer and biographer, was greatly enhanced by his

Life of the Honourable Henry Cavendish.'2 Eight years pre

viously, while laid aside from active work, he had begun to

collect materials for the Lives of British Chemists, already

alluded to, and these were found of service in this arduous

undertaking. He had also had unusual opportunities of mas

tering the difficulties connected with the discovery of the com

position of water, and the claims of Watt and Cavendish in

respect to it. It was at the request of the council of the
Cavendish Society --which includes nearly all the chemists of

the country, and many of its natural philosophers -- that Dr.

Wilson undertook this biography, and how thoroughly he identi

fied himself with the subject of his memoir, we find from letter                       aa
written while engaged in the work " read all biographies
                                         a

                                                              :

                                                  I

                                                                    a
with intense interest. Even man without heart, like Caven

dish, think about, and read about, and dream about, and
      I

picture to myself in all possible ways, till he grows into living

being beside me, and put my feet into his shoes, and become
                 I

                                 a
                                                                                    :
1       Edin. Monthly Medical Journal,' December 1850.
   '   The Life of the Honourable Henry Cavendish, including abstracts of his more
important scientific Papers, and Critical Inquiry into the Claims of all the al
leged Discoverers of the Composition of Water.' London Printed for the Caven'·

dish Society, 1851.
1SM-54.  LIFE OF CAVENDISH.                                 341

for the time Cavendish, and think as he thought, and do as he

Idid." It was no light task he had undertaken, and at its close

his feeling was, "Had foreseen the labour and time it was

Idestined to occupy, should have declined it. A burden is now
Ioff my shoulders, which has lain on them for some two years.

   never wrote anything with less freedom and unction than this
book, for reasons which the preface will explain. Much of it
has been dictated even in my laboratory, in the midst of confu
sion, and the style is horribly rough and rugged in many places.
The book will be a very dry one, in spite of all the water in it.

I Ilook upon the whole with a remorseful conviction, that can

not answer to God for the expenditure of so great an amount of

time and thought on so small a matter. To me, however, the

past is always bleak and dark."
    Spontaneous help was unexpectedly received from Mr. Charles

Tomlinson, London, who furnished many of those graphic details

that make this remarkable man stand out vividly from his fel
lows. The friendship thus originated with Mr. Tomlinson proved

deep and lasting. The long-debated question of priority as to
the discovery of the composition of water, seems by this volume

to have been decided by public consent in favour of Cavendish.
Any lingering doubt was met by Dr. Wilson in a communication
to the Royal Society in 1859, in which he says, -- "From De
Luc's ' Id^es,' all trace of charge against the fair dealing of

Cavendish has vanished. Lavoisier is found making full, if

somewhat tardy, amends for any wrong he did the English
philosopher ; and as De Luc and Lavoisier testify that Caven
dish had reached his famous discovery in 1782, the most un
charitable must cease suspecting that he borrowed or stole it
from Watt, who had it not to offer any one till 1783."1

   The book as a whole has met with a hearty welcome ; it has
been spoken of thus :---" Admirable as a biography --full of life,

of picturesque touches, and of realization of the man and of his

times ; and, moreover, thoroughly scientific -- containing, among

other discussions, by far the best account of the great water

controversy from the Cavendish point of view."2 It received

         1 Published in the 'Athenaeum' of April 30, 1859.  ,

         2 ' Horse Subsecivte.' Second Series, p. 107.
342  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.            chap. vni.

public commendation in the address delivered to the British
Association in 1855, by its President, the Duke of Argyll, and

J.is repeatedly quoted and referred to by Professor D. Forbes,

in his ' Dissertation on the Progress of Mathematical and Physi
cal Science since 1775 to 1850.' He speaks of it as " a valuable
biography, which has been printed in the series of publications
of the ' Cavendish Society,' and thus unfortunately has had but
a limited circulation."1 For further notice of this work, the

reader is referred to the periodicals whose names are given below.5
    The work which next proceeded from the pen of " the much-

loved biographer," as George Wilson has been called, was as
different from its predecessor as two books could well be. This
difference, however, existed only in the subjects of memoir, not
in the method of treating them. Approaching the man in both

cases without preconceived notions of what he ought to be, and
discovering with fine instinct the springs of action in each, he,
with reverential faithfulness and exquisite delicacy, portrayed

him as he existed.

   Dr. John Reid, of whose ' Life' we now speak, was little known
beyond the professional circles in which his physiological
researches were highly valued, until the later years of his life,- -

" comprising more tragical incidents, and exhibiting finer efforts
of heroism, than are often to be found in real or invented

tragedies," --revealed to the world the qualities of heart and
 mind that made him a wonder to many. Though not an inti
mate friend, George Wilson enjoyed the pleasure of John Reid's

acquaintance, and on his funeral day, when visiting the pictur
 esque churchyard which surrounds the venerable ruins of St.

 Andrews Cathedral, tender reminiscences shaped themselves into

the following lines :--

       THE LATE DR. JOHN REID.

     Death has at length released thee,
        Thou brave and patient one !

     The unutterable pangs are past,
        And all thy work is done.

i Only members of the Society named are entitled to its publications.      ' North
a ' British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review,' April 1852, p. 533.
British Review,' Feb. 1856. In Littell's ' Living Age,' No. 881,-- a Boston, U. S.
publication,-- a notice of some length is reprinted from the 'Spectator.'

                                                                                    A
1S44- 51.  LIFE OF DR. JOHN REID.  3t.3

                                       Thou wert a Daily Lesson
                                           Of Courage, Hope, and Faith ;

                                       We wondered at thee living,
                                         And envy thee thy death.

                                       Thou hast gone up to Heaven

                                  All glad and painless now ;

                                       The long-worn look of anguish
                                          Has left thy noble brow.

                                      Thou wert so meek and reverent,
                                          So resolute of will,

                                      So bold to bear the uttermost,
                                          And yet so calm and still.

                                      We think of thee with sorrow,
                                          Thy sad untimely end ;

                                      We speak of thee with pity,
                                          Our sore-tried suffering friend :--

                                      We cheat ourselves with idle words,
                                         We are the poor ones here ;

                                      Sorrow and Sin and Suffering still
                                         Surround our steps with fear.

                                      Our life is yet before us, --
                                         The bitter cup of woe,

                                      How deep it is, which each must drink,
                                         No one of us doth know.

                                      The Shadow of the Valley,
                                               Whose gateway is the tomb,

                                      Spreads backwards over all of us
                                         Its curtain cloud of gloom.

                                      Some stand but at the inlet,
                                         And some have passed within,

                                      O'er all the shadow hourly creeps,
                                         And we move farther in.

                                     Thou art beyond the shadow ;
                                         Why should we weep for thee f

                                     That thou from Care, and Pain, and Death,
                                    Art set for ever free.

                                 Well may we cease to sorrow ;
                                Or, if we weep at all,

                                     Not for thy fate, but for our own,
                                         Our bitter tears should fall.

                                     'Twere better still to follow on
                                        The path that thou hast trod,

                                     The path thy Saviour trod before,
                                        That led thee up to God.

   These were printed shortly after in the ' Monthly Journal of
Medicine,' for September 1849, and by their truthful beauty
impressed many of Dr. Eeid's friends with the conviction that
344  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                   CHAP. VI1L

to their author alone could the preparation of a fit memorial of

him be intrusted. With what feelings he responded to their

I Iurgent solicitations, we learn from various letters of that period.

" can sincerely say that have no personal end in view in
undertaking the sketch. My hands are full of work, and only

the hope of preserving a most estimable man's memory from

untimely oblivion, and his character from misconception, would

induce me to engage in the task. His death and latter days

were believed to have made a profound impression on the pro

fession, one such as no death in my remembrance has made on
medical men." " His life was so completely one into which

hundreds of medical men can enter, and the example of which,

they cannot refuse as lying above and beyond their sympathies,

that it commended itself to me as  peculiarly   ids,es"etrhveinegmtionebnet
                                   illustrated
recorded." The great matter to be

Christian example which Dr. Reid's later days afforded to all

men, but especially his professional brethren, who so much need

to be reminded of the claims of Christianity upon them. To

dwell upon this would be to myself a labour of love. It has

fallen to my own lot to sit by the sickbeds and deathbeds of many

near relations and friends, and to have deeply impressed upon

Ime what the power of Christianity is to sustain under protracted
suffering and the approach of death.  have more than once

been at the brink of the grave myself, and was led to see the

need of a Saviour, and to experience that He is mighty to save,
Iat a time when recovery was very doubtful.
                                                have supposed
Ithat, in consequence of -these things, could better enter into
... IDr. Reid's conflicts and triumphs than many could.
                                                         have
Ia great delight in the study of men's lives." " promise myself

an amount of personal gain from the contemplation of such a

Ilife as John Reid's was, that will amply recompense me for any

trouble. To promise this is presumption ; should rather have

Isaid that pray for God's blessing to myself and others in con

nexion with the undertaking, and already have cause to thank

Him that He has put it into my heart to take up the matter.

Let not your prayers, my true friend,1 be wanting ; for nothing
but His help will enable me to write serviceably a sketch which

     1 This letter is addressed to Dr. Cairns.
1814-54.              STUDIES IN HEAVEN.           345

will be keenly criticised, and better not written at all, than so
Ias to do no service to the cause of Christ.
                                                   have not the fear
Iof man before me, but have the fear of my own unworthiness,

and a sense of responsibility often dispiriting."

   Many remonstrances were made to him as to the undesirable-
ness of giving the ' Life ' a religious cast, but he followed out

his own convictions of right as to this ; and looking back at the

close of his work, he says, " It was written with prayers and

tears, not to procure me fame or wealth, but to do good."
Though published1 a year later than the ' Life of Cavendish,'

the two were on hand at the same time. The first named being

the volume issued for 1851 by the Cavendish Society, he was

compelled to finish it within a given time, and not until the

winter of 1851-1852 was he able to devote his scanty leisure

to the completion of Dr. Reid's Memoir. An extract from a

Iletter referring to the employments of heaven, will be read with

interest : " exceedingly like the allusion to the continuation

of physiological studies in the world to come, which seems to

have been suggested by Dr. Carpenter, and welcomed by Dr.

Ilieid. Religious men of science too little refer to their studies
as not destined to cease with their lives.         do not know why

it has been left to Unitarians to insist on this, but so it is ; and

Dr. Priestley is the only chemist who has expressed his convic
tion that the study of God's works will proceed under His

guidance in heaven. This has always been a favourite belief

Iwith myself, and rejoice to see that Dr. Reid looked forward

Ito prosecuting his acquaintance with the works he had begun to
study on this earth.  doubt not that he looked to heaven as a

Iplace of holiness far more than as a temple of knowledge ; but

the spirits of the just, cannot doubt, feel no such difficulty

in combining faith and reason, moral purity and intellectual

labour, as we do. A dying minister, quite ignorant of physical

science, said to a brother who made it a great study, ' Samuel,

Samuel ! I'll know more of it in heaven in half-an-hour than

you have learned all your life.' "

For the wonderful story of Dr. Reid's gradual preparation for

   i ' Life of Dr. John Reid, late Chandos Professor of Anatomy and Medicine in
the University of St. Andrews.' Edinburgh : Sutherland and Knox. 1852.
346  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                 CHAP. vin.

entering on those nobler heavenly pursuits, we refer the reader

to the volume itself. The nature of his disease, and the suffer

ings entailed by attempts at cure, may form an obstacle to its

perusal in the minds of many, but the lessons it bears for each

one, richly repay an effort to overcome the natural shrinking

from painful topics. Care has been taken to make it accept

able to the general as well as the professional reader, by the

omission of technicalities ; and as the interest it inspires is
founded on sources connected with no passing events, it will

probably continue to hold a high place amongst biographies.
Much in it reveals the inner life of the writer, and thus there
may be recognised " the vivid lines of an autobiography painted

on another canvas." In too, to be found specimen of
                          a                                a
                             it,
                                          is
his skill in popularizing difficult subject, while describing the

nervous system, to which Dr. Reid had devoted much of his

research. Abundant evidence was given to the author that his

aims in writing Dr. Reid's Life had been fulfilled. Private
                          '
                                        '

letters from medical men and others show that they who sow in

tears, bearing precious seed, return bringing their sheaves with

them. The journals of the day contained notices highly favour

able, with one exception, viz., the Westminster Review,' which
                                '
took deadly umbrage at its religious tone. From the author of'

the Life of Cavendish' this periodical hoped for better things'it

but over the general public, especially the religious portion of'                                      it, ;
                                                        a
nothing that George Wilson wrote exerted power so winning

as this book. A second edition of has been issued.

In 1852 there also appeared in the Travellers' Library' of

Messrs. Longman, the reprint of an article, written at the

request of Lord Jeffrey for the Edinburgh Review,' on Elec    '

tricity and the Electric Telegraph."1 On its first appearance,

this article was generally received as the most clear and viva

cious exposition of the subject that had been issued, and con

siderable additions were  made  before        its separate    publication.
Lord Jeffrey speaks of          private        letter as an   " admirable
                           in
i
   '

                      a

                                 it

                                                   a

                                                                                                   is

                                                                                           is
"Ifpaper, giving luminous account of the invention" of the tele
graph. A notice of the first edition says,                 any one des-

        Electricity and the Electric Telegraph, to which   added the Chemistry of
the Stars.' Longman and Co.
1844-54.        CHEMISTRY OF THE STARS.                  347

tined to open up a royal road to science, it is Dr. Wilson. He

is quite matchless in his use of felicitous illustrations, while the

hearty, off-hand way in which he carries us along with him,

makes us forget that he is dealing with the most abstruse

mysteries of science. It is seldom that we find a man so

eminent in science retaining all the warmth and freshness of

humanity about him. He clothes every subject he touches
with the bright hues of fancy and the warm sympathies of a

human heart."1

   In addition to this essay, there is in the volume one originally
published in the ' British Quarterly Review,' entitled ' The
Chemistry of the Stars.' It is an endeavour to determine the

extent to which we can ascertain the relative difference of

chemical composition between the earth and the heavenly
bodies. The learned author of the ' Plurality of Worlds ' says
of it :2 " Dr. George Wilson has, in his lively tract on ' The

Chemistry of the Stars,' made some very ingenious reflections,

tending to show that the earth, the planets, the stars, and the

sun, are probably very different from one another."

   This essay has somewhat puzzled critics. One          "isandisinpgoseendioutso
call it " a scientific jew d'esprit;" another thinks it

and eloquent argument respecting the stars and their inhabi

tants, exhibiting the characteristic marks of Dr. Wilson's
writings --great clearness, force, and originality of style, with
uncommon felicity in the selection of homely and apt illustra

tions." A third reminds us that its precedence of the ' Plurality

of Worlds ' gives it a claim to the notice of those who study the

discussion which followed the issue of that work.

   In a second and revised edition of this number of the ' Tra

vellers' Library,' in 1858, there is inserted a description of the
Atlantic Cable, with verses entitled ' The Atlantic Wedding

Ring,' which appeared first in ' Blackwood's Magazine.' Two

unexpected tokens of admiration of those verses speedily reached

their author,--one a translation of the poem into French, and
the other, a request from the conductor of the Hull Vocal

   i The article on Electricity, as it appeared originally in the 'Edinburgh Review,'
js reprinted in Littell's ' Living Age,' No. 290, December 1819. Boston, U.S.

   a Preface to Third Edition, p. viiL
348  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                                           CHAP. VIII.

Society, for permission to set a portion of it to music in the

form of a cantata.

    The last of George Wilson's publications in this busy year
was a pamphlet, called forth by the occurrence of a vacancy in the
Chair of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow, by the death
of the learned and renowned Dr. Thomas Thomson. Its object
was to set forth the needless obstacles which the Scottish Uni
versity Test Act placed in the way of those who, like himself,
could not conscientiously sign the Confession of Faith and the

Formula of Obedience. The test had been represented in Par
liament as a form which might be " relaxed where a good rea

son for such relaxation existed." In the University of Edinburgh,

indeed, it was usually ignored, but in Glasgow, St. Andrews, and
Aberdeen, it was rigorously exacted. On one occasion, however,

the reality of its powers was fully proved by the exclusion, in
1847, of a candidate for the Edinburgh Hebrew Chair.1 The

Glasgow Chair of Chemistry being a Crown appointment, Dr.
Wilson addresses his remarks to the Secretary for the Home

Department.2 A few biographical data are incidentally fur

nished, while the writer modestly sets forth his claims ; the ob
ject he had in view, however, was not a selfish one, but rather the
ungracious task of standing forth on behalf of all who, like him

Ifself, were not members of the Scotch Established Church.

the test cannot be wholly abolished, he pleads, at least, for miti

gation of its rigour. Happily a few more years brought about

its abolition; and whether his pamphlet aided this result or not,
    at all events, served to call forth expression of the estimation

in which he was held by the general public, and to show the
striking union in him of unflinching boldness in right cause,
with the modest simplicity and gentleness which more usually
characterized him. He was by this time recognised as " one of

two brothers who rank among the most distinguished savans of
Edinburgh. One of the two the author of the most learned
and judicious antiquarian work which has of late years been
1 1 it,

          :
                                                                         :

                                               a is

                                                                                                     a
Mr. Macdouall, now Professor in Queen's College, Belfast
'The Grievance of the University Tests, as applied to Professors of Physical

Science in the Colleges of Scotland  Letter addressed to the Right Honourable

Spencer H. Walpole, Secretary of State for the Home Department,' pp. 48. Edin

burgh Sutherland and Knox. 1852.
1844-54.  SCOTTISH UNIVERSITY TESTS.  349

produced in Scotland. The other is a well-known chemist, and

the contributor, if we mistake not, of most of those articles on

scientific subjects in the ' British Quarterly Review,' which we
have read with so much delight." In an article on the " Scottish
University Tests and the Glasgow Professorship of Chemistry,"
the ' Spectator' says, " Dr. George Wilson comes forward as one
of the most eminent British chemists, one who, though a young
man, has already achieved high scientific and literary reputa
tion, and has been for years engaged in teaching his special
science, to inform the Secretary for the Home Department, in
whose gift the appointment to the Glasgow chair practically
rests, that because of these tests he cannot offer himself as a

candidate. Here is both hardship positive and hardship com
parative ; a hardship to be excluded, a double hardship to be
excluded when others to whom the same objection applies, find
themselves not thereby debarred."1 The allusion here may be
to devices for overcoming the difficulty in the way, mentioned
 in the pamphlet; how a professor-elect declared that he regarded
the tests merely as " Articles of Peace ;" another, having signed
 the bond, went to a bookseller's to discover what it was he had

 signed ; and a third affirmed that the documents he had subscribed
 contained " the confession of his faith, and a great deal more."

     The few remaining literary fruits of the ten years under notice
 we leave for the present, not to overburden a chapter into which

 so much work has already been compressed.

                                              i ' Spectator,' September 11, 1852.
350  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IX.

                           CHAPTER IX.

         INFLUENCE ON OTHERS -- INNER LIFE-- FAILING HEALTH.

                                               " 'Twas a sight

                               Of wonder to behold the body and soul.
                                   The self-same lineaments, the same
                                   Marks of identity, were there :

                               Yet, oh, how different ! one aspires to heaven,
                               Pants for its sempiternal heritage,
                               And, ever changing, ever rising still,

                                   Wantons in endless being.
                               The other, for a time the unwilling sport
                               Of circumstance and passion, struggles on ;
                               Fleets through its sad duration rapidly."

                                                                                                 Queen Mab.

    Having taken a general view of the results of the years of
labour noticed in the preceding chapter, let us now retrace our
steps, and mark the springs of action and the impulses received
during the period which may be considered the summer of
George Wilson's life : in it the harvest was ripening which,
not long after, showed itself ready for the sickle and the in

gathering.
   The ardent love with which his students regarded him found

expression at the close of the Session 1845-46, in the presenta
tion of a very handsome analytical balance, weighing to the

1000th part of a grain. It was given at a public dinner, at

which Professor Goodsir, Dr. Seller, Professor Dick, and other
friends, united with the students in manifesting kindly regard
and respect.

   The influence George Wilson exercised over those under his
care was very great ; indeed, the love with which he inspired
1844-54.  LOVE OF l'UPILS.                             351

those much with him, more resembled that of affectionate rela

tionship than the usual intercourse of teacher and pupil. Deceit,

dishonourable conduct, or idleness, met with little mercy; but

with faults of ignorance, youthful impetuosity, or thoughtless

ness, he had wonderful patience, accompanied by a power of

eliciting the better points of character, which seemed at times

to transform a youth of whom all were in doubt, into one abound

ing in rich promise. A pupil says of him, after an interval of ten

Iyears, during which there was little intercourse, and that chiefly

by letter :-- " cannot say more than that Dr. Wilson's life and

character have always been an example to me, as a realization,

Iin some degree, of the highest life. My acquaintance with him

would in ordinary cases have been but slight, as was thrown

Iso little into his society, and that at an age when was hardly

capable of valuing him. But there was something in him which

I cannot define, which made me feel more than ordinary friend
I Iship, real affection for him, boy as was ; and think this feel

ing towards him is what all had who worked under him while

I was with him. That something consisted partly in an earnest

ness and practical goodness which inspired one with respect and

admiration, partly his great consideration for others, which gave

his inferiors confidence --I mean inferiors in intellect, experience,
Ior anything else --and a warmth of feeling which drew one to

him immediately, and which, so far as knew him, never cooled.
IAll this falls very far short of my aim.  Ican only say that

count it a blessing to have known such a man, such an example."

His assistants in the laboratory and lecture-room were objects

of much   interest to him, and in  almost every case   his regard was
warmly    reciprocated. One of     them says, -- " He  always treated

us as if we were his dearest friends ;" showing that the delicate
Icourtesy of his manner was appreciated. Another writes, -- "

shall never require anything to remind me of one who was so

Itrue a friend of mine at all times, and whose memory respect
Ibeyond that of any other man ever knew." This attractive

ness was one of the most remarkable features of his character ;

while it made him almost idolized by the circle of friends to

whom he was best known, it extended to his public audiences,
and even to the chance acquaintances of a day or hour. " The
352  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                           CHAP. IX.

wonderful power he had in his genial happy nature of making

others love him, is strange and almost overpowering in its mani
festations." One who knew him from his writings says, -- " So

much of the man himself came out in all that he said or wrote,

that even in those who knew him only from his public actings,

there insensibly grew up the feeling of personal attachment to

the great heart that welled over in his writings and addresses."

To multiply testimonies of affection of a striking nature would

be easy, but they could no more convey an impression of the

truth than would a description of the fragrance of a bouquet of

flowers, bring back the exquisite aroma which was so gladden
ing and refreshing. Friends who knew him will think this at

tempt to speak of his lovableness a failure, while to others it

may seem overstrained and unnatural. We shall only, there
fore, in addition say, that no one was more surprised at it than

himself. What could make So-and-So take such a fancy for

him, showing it by untiring labour on his behalf, was often a

subject of speculation, the riddle being sometimes solved by his

saying that there surely must be something of the hypocrite in

him, or people would not esteem him so much better than he

Ideserved. " cannot but painfully contrast," he writes to a

Ifriend,1 "my own poor deservings with your estimate of my

worth; a little praise is all that is good for me, and get fright
I Iened when have much of it.
                               shall try to deserve your good

opinion, and that of your kind friends." This grace of humility,

doubtless, cast a charm over all his acts, and in it somewhat of

the secret of influence may be found.

   In the spring of 1847, a poem, addressed by him 'To the
Stethoscope," attracted much notice. It appeared in ' Black

wood's Magazine,' and the Edinburgh doctors, who eagerly

sought to discover the author, were not a little surprised to

find him one of themselves. In the few words of preface to

the lines, he says, " The stethoscope has long ceased to excite

merely professional interest. There are few families to whom

it has not proved an object of horror and the saddest remem

brance, as connected with the loss of dear relatives, though it is

but a revealer, not a producer of physical suffering."

     i Mr. D. Macmillan, Cambridge.
1844-51.         LINES TO THE STETHOSCOPE.                                                                                                             353

Having occasion to send to Lord Jeffrey, with whom a warm

friendship was springing up, a volume for perusal, a copy of theit,
' Stethoscope' accompanied which was acknowledged by him

thus " have not yet had time to read much --except the poem
--with which was much gratified, and (if you will allow me to
     it I :

       is I
             aI
say so) also little surprised. From the nature of your pur
suits, certainly was not prepared to find this among your gifts.

But       one of which you have reason to be proud, the speci

men you have sent me being full of beauty and deep feeling, as

well as having great command both of versification and poeti
cal diction. Ita
                   is,  perhaps, rather too much expanded; but

your two pictures (especially the first, of the consumptive girl)

are very touchingly and gracefully executed, though can
                                                     I

scarcely forgive you for giving us only the tragic and fatal

vaticinations of your stethoscope, and not cheering us before

concluding with some of its happy deliverances and revivals.

Indeed, think should be justified in imposing such supple
          I aI
                 II

                                                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                                    !
ment as task for your last days at Dirleton."

To the suggestion made in the close of this letter, George

could only reply, that as the joyful side of the picture had not

fallen to his lot, he could not portray it. The other, alas was

but the welling forth of thoughts which, by expression, relieved

the scorched heart, on which they had been imprinted as with
letters of fire. " have not been describing imaginary scenes,"
he says, " have written some of the lines with tears in my

eyes."

The beauty of many of his poems has been freely acknow

ledged, but exception made to their frequent irregularities of

metre. A quotation from letter to Dr. Cairns, who had
                        I                                                                                                                              al
luded to this blemish, gives his own idea of the matter.a
" When you come to Edinburgh, be sure to bring that Latin                                                                                                  ;

hymn-book with you.          won't give you translation of any
                                     Ican't. It
one of those grand hymns, because      I         is  above and
                                           Ia
beyond me.       could not, apart from everything else, reproduce
            I
their exquisite rhythm and metres, without which they would
              I                  --
become alien   paraphrases.  zI      to descend   from heaven to  earth
                                     because     despise regular  ones
--do not use   irregular metres,

neither do think the former preferable.          use them because
354                   MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.               CHAP. IX.

I1 cannot compass the latter. At school, though a dux, was a

poor hand at scanning, and most unprolific in Latin verse. In

Ithe days of my folly, some young ladies tried to teach me to

dance, but signally failed, for could not keep the step, and
was foiled both in waltz and quadrille. Part-singing is equally

Ia closed region to me, for never could keep time.
  " Understand, then, that I do my best, not wilfully following

divisive courses, but using the eccentric gift that is in me as

Iwell as can. Do not say this hymn will not scan ; but this
hopelessly unscannable hymn will, or will not do. I am not

Ian engine running on hexameter, pentameter, long metre, short
metre, ' old ' or ' new hundred ' rails.  am an unlicensed pri

vateer, now sailing discreetly before the wind, and then tacking

at a sharp angle ; now covered with canvas, and then with the

sweeps out, oaring off the lee shore. The end of the manoeuv

ring, however, is not the manoeuvring, but only like the steadi

Iest lugger or straightest sailing steamship, to reach my port ;

and need lots of steerage way. Now, the application of all

this tirade that have several hymns on hand, which think
     I                                          [a
               is,
                  a                                   I

               I
will soon get finished. Also, since out here                 country resi

dence] have made large additions, spite of rheumatics and the
east wind, to long poem, treating, with shocking irregularity

of metre, of this life, and of the life to come, on which, when

completed, and that soon too, trust you shall sit in judg
                          is
ment."
                            I
This reference, in 1848,
                                                                                        '
                          to 'The Sleep of the Hyacinth,

which never was finished, and which has been given to the
public in its fragmentary state.1 The hymn enclosed in this
letter was probably the following, which appeared in Black

wood's Magazine' soon after. During the previous winter he

had only been once at church owing to the state of his health.
" On one of the stay-at-home Sabbaths wrote the enclosed
                                          I
                                             I

                                                          a
hymn, which at least not the expression of sham feeling,
        ; is
but an honest and earnest utterance of what daresay many an
invalid has felt only don't suppose from the second line that
                                                                                           in I
am weeping philosopher. That's fetch.           have roared
     a                       a

                                     I

the hands of the surgeons, but never cried."
                          I

        See Macmillan's Magazine' for April and June I860.
        1
                   '
1844-54.          AX INVALID'S LONGING.                    353

          THE WINGS OF THE DOVE AND THE EAGLE.

                  Psalm It. 6; Isaiah xt 81.

          As I lay upon my bed,

             Weeping and complaining,

          Turning oft my weary head,

             Hope and help disdaining ;

          Lo ! before mine eyes there stood,

             Vision of an ancient wood,
          Full of happy birds pursuing

             Each the other with keenest zest ;

          And I heard the plaintive cooing

             Issuing from the turtle's nest,
          Till I murmured at the sight,

          "  And  forgot   God's high  behest ;
             Had          your wings,
                  I but                I might

             Fly away and be at rest."

          Then the low, sweet, plaintive cooing
             Of the fond maternal birds,

          Seemed itself with thoughts imbuing,
             And at length flowed forth in words.

          " Plumes of doves and fluttering wings
          Are but vain and feeble things,

             Timidly the air they fan ;
          Scarcely would they serve to raise thee
          Need the truth at all amaze thee?

             O'er this earth a little span.
          Look thou there !" and, lo ! an eagle,

             From his nest amid the stars,
          Stood before me, with his regal

             Front, and venerable scars.
          In a moment, wide extending

             His great wings (so seem'd my dream),
          He was in the air ascending

             With a wild, exulting scream.
          Fiercest winds, and rude blasts blowing,

             Could not stop his bold careering,
          Higher still and higher going

              He kept ever upwards steering,

          Till I lost him in the zenith,
             Far above the mid-day sun,

          Where he seemed like one that winneth

             Rest in heaven when work is done.

          " Judge thou, then," the voice said, " whether

             This or that's the better thing--

          Rainbow-tinted dove's soft feather,

          "  Or the eagle's ruffled wing?"       still  I
             That's the better I"--" Rest then

             ln thy heart of hearts abase thee ;
35G  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                   CHAP. IX.

     Lose thy will in God's great will.
        By and by He will upraise thee,

     In His own good time and season,
        When 'tis meet that thou should'st go,

     And will show thee fullest reason

        Why he kept thee here below.
     Wings of doves shall not be given ;
     But to lift thee up to heaven,
     Thou shalt have entire dominion
     O'er the eagle's soaring pinion,
     Thou shalt mount to God's own eyrie,

         And become a crowned saint,

     Thou shalt run and not be weary,
        Walk, and never faint ;

     Therefore utter no complaint."

     Now I lie   u"pBoen  my bed
                          it even so,
        Saying,
     I will wait in faith and hope
     Till the eagle's wings shall grow."

    The subjects of his verses are very varied, some being sacred,

and expressive of his deeper feelings ; others brimming over
with fun, as in the youthful days, in the form of Valentines,
prefaces to books for autographs, and rhyming letters. Of the

lighter effusions we may name, ' A Naughty Graph ;' ' Valentine

to S. D.'s donkey, Flora;' and a series of Valentines from
Redivivo, his terrier, to Lady Fanny, a pet squirrel, in which
both these animals show a power of versification highly credit

able to them.

A specimen of the more humorous will not be unwelcome :--

            ONE OF THE ADVANTAGES OF NOT BEING ABLE
                             TO WRITE YOUR NAME.

                   I've heard a story of a country wight,--

                  Whether 'tis true or not I cannot tell,--

                     Who never had been taught to write,
                         And very likely could not spell.

                      He kept a sort of shop of shops,
                            Dealing in blacking, boots, and teas,

                   In Epsom salts, and humming tops,
                         And cotton handkerchiefs, and Stilton cheese.

                      His windows were so full they cut a dash,
                         And he displayed his goods, and people wanted them ;

                   And if they could not pay in cash,
                        And asked for credit, why, 'twas granted them.
1844-54.         A STORY WITH A MORAL.                                              357

          But how was 't possible to keep his books

             When he was ignorant as any nigger,

          And never learned to make pot hooks,

             Or found, in early life, the way to figure ?

          Why, this he did, he used his pen,

             But not to mark the money due him ;

          When he sold any goods, why, then

             He pulled his ledger out and drew 'em.

          If hats were bought, he painted hats,
            If China-ware, he sketched the dishes ;
          If mats were sold, he drew the mats ;--

             Or herrings ? portraits of the fishes ;

          And so, with some mysterious signs

             That made his pictures clearer,

          He marked, beside his quaint outlines,

             Whether his goods were cheap or dearer.

          One day a customer came in to settle
            And begged his bill might be looked up, --

          There drawn against him stood a kettle,

             A pound of sugar, and a breakfast cup.
          I"
             A"nHderefinsdkeatclshoe,d"  quoth the dealer,       please,
                                         against you, if you

          Nothing you see, Sir, could be clearer,

             The portrait of a skim-milk cheese."
          I"
          "  A"  cheese ! oh no          !" the other cried,
                   never bought          a cheese from you."

             Y"oAunddidthienrdee'sedt,h"e  the first replied,    I drew."
                                           figure of the cheese

          And so he showed a round thing like the moon,
           -Or any other round thing that you please,

          A hoop, a ring, a saucer, or a spoon,
             But ho who drew it said it was a cheese.
             cheese it could not be, the man
          A  And so there rose a very strong                protested   ;
                                                            contention
                                                                        --

          Cheese or no cheese, they bitterly contested,

             And lost their temper in the hot discussion.
          At length the dealer, making no impression,
                       msatonp,"pesdayasndhec, h"anmgaekde  his  ground.
          "  Suddenly                                        at  least confession,
             My good
            "You lately purchased something round."
          " Round !" quoth the customer, why, wait a bit !
             Ay, sure enough, as I'm Jack Bilston,
                                           nail you've hit),
          II(We'll square it now, the
                bought from you last       ;sp"ringfoargmotil--lstone."
          Loud laughed the dealer
             I see you did not try to diddle --
          So put within the ring a dot,
             To show the axle in the middle :

          I mark my cheeses from my millstones so,
            But I was hurried on that day,

          And so forgot the dot ; but you must go,
             Well, here's the sum you have to pay."
358         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                          CHAP. IX

            The two shook hands and parted friends,
               And wondered they had been so hot.

            A story 's good if well it ends,
               And here you see 's the wondrous dot -- 

                                        Moiial.

            This worthy man no doubt had his distresses,
               But well he could afford to laugh ;

            He might mistake his millstones for his cheeses,
               But none could ask him for his autograph.

As the friendship with Lord Jeffrey has been alluded to, one

or two extracts from his letters may be given to show the extent

of his regard. Feeling assured that had Lord Jeffrey now been

in life, a similar testimony would have been given, we feel at

liberty to make use of them. In a note acknowledging a paper,

Ipossibly his article on ' Chemistry and Natural Theology,' in the

' British Quarterly Review,' Lord Jeffrey says, -- " thank you very
Iheartily for your touching and earnest homily.
                                                              do not perhaps
go entirely along with you in some of your conclusions, but I

never read anything you write, without feeling myself the better

for and being made more aware of the leavening and pervadit,
        is
ing effect of an earnest and fearless charity." The following

letter given entire, with an omission only of some extraneous

remarks, of temporary interest. It apparently contains refer

ence to the article mentioned in the preceding extract --
                                                 iIf
                                                                   :
                                                                a
                                     " 24, Moray Place, Wednesday, 15th March 1848.

" My dear Dr. Wilson, -- was very sorry to miss you when
               I
                    I
you took the trouble to call the other day, and               had not been

very seriously unwell ever since, should have made another

attempt to see you before starting for England, as (if at all able
for the journey) we now propose doing in the course of to
morrow,-- not that have anything in the way of business, or
            I

of any moment otherwise, to talk to you about, but merely to
shake hands with you, --to thank you for the very striking,

courageous, and useful paper you were good enough to send me
                                      I
                                                                   it,
                                                                      a;
and to assure you (though feel can do that better in this way
               ;I
                  I

                        if a

                         I
than to your face) that have very sincere admiration for your
gifts and attainments and, you will allow me to say

very true affection for the many lovable traits have discovered
1844-54.         FRIENDSHIP WITH LORD JEFFREY.             359

in your nature. The gentle and magnanimous cheerfulness with
which you bear continual sufferings, and the contentment with
which you have accepted a position which every one must feel
to be inadequate to your merits, have made a deep impression

Ion me from the first time had the honour of your acquaintance;
Iand really cannot resist this opportunity of saying, both that
I shall be proud to learn that you think the offer of my friend

ship worthy of your acceptance, and beg you to believe that
there are few things which would gratify me so much as to be
enabled at any time to render you any service.

  I" I am not without fear that you will think all this very in

trusive and impertinent -- and yet hope not. At all events, I

really could not help and am sure have been as far as pos

....sible from any purpose of vexing or offending you.

hope this vernal-looking weather will tempt you soon to your

pleasant retreat, and that we shall all meet at Craigcrook in im
proved health before the end of May. Meantime, believe me

always, really and truly, very affectionately yours,

                                                                " Jeffrey."
a

                ?

              a
                                        a
                                    it,

                                I
                                 I
                                    I

                                                                                         F.

                                                                              it

                                                                  I
   This warmth of regard continued unabated, and may be

supposed, met with ready response. In January 1850 George
writes to Dr. Cairns,-- " You will have heard of Lord Jeffrey's

death     great blow to me, for had got to love him, and feel

very strong affection for him.  called the very day of his

death, and found him, to my utter horror, believed to be rapidly

sinking."

   In the spring of 1847, there came again one of those great

waves of sorrow which, from time to time, well-nigh over

whelmed George.

          " Yes, billow after billow-- see, they come
             Faster and rougher as yon little boat

             Nears evermore the haven."

   The heart-affection from which his sister Mary had sufferedit
for many years, had compelled cessation of active exertion, and
in her comparative exclusion from the outer world, had been

her great delight to act, so far as strength permitted, as
George's amanuensis, entering into all his literary pursuits
360  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                    CHAP. IX.

with keen interest. The two were so inseparable, that friends

often compared them to Charles Lamb and his sister Mary,
between whom a similar union existed. Her gentle, patient

endurance of sufferings made their gradual increase, for some

months previous to her death, less marked in the family, and

only one night of great distress intervened between the ordi

nary routine, and the blank occasioned by such a loss. The

following letter to Dr. Cairns conveys the first expression of

George's desolation :--                 " April

                                                 1847.

" Dearest Friend, -- I have the mournful news to communi

cate to you, that Mary is gone to the world of spirits. How
I Ideeply loved her need not tell you, nor how deeply she de
I Iserved the inadequate affection
                         felt for her.  count upon

your full appreciation of the greatness of my loss, in the sun

dering of the earthly bond between Mary and me.
   " She died this morning about eleven o'clock, so gently that

the spirit had fled before Jessie, who was watching her, observed

its flight. . . . We apprehended no serious danger ; . . . yester

day we thought her better than she had been some days before,

and I was out in the evening at the School of Arts, where I

was detained from seven till after ten o'clock. . . . Though her

agony was great, she expressed calmly and distinctly her faith

in Christ, . . . comforted herself with passages of her own re

membering, and prayed audibly and earnestly, referring at

intervals to what an awful thing it would have been, had she

then required to think for the first time of going to judgment. . . .

  I" How the unkindnesses have shown her come back on me
Inow ! To think that yesterday was the last day that was to

Ispend with her on this earth, and did not know it. A round
Iof necessary, but trifling duties, kept me from her ; yet loved
IMary better than loved anything else in this world. For the

last six years we had been greatly together. We knew each

other so well, and she was so fond, so kind, so self-denying, so

generous, so noble in all respects, so devoted, that now that she
Ihas followed James, feel alone. Nobody can ever be to me
I Iwhat she was.
     cannot estimate my obligations to her.

have leant so long on her that, now that her support is gone,
1844-54.     DEATH OF A SISTER.                 361

I Ifeel as lame in spirit as am in body. Pray for me, my dear
Ifriend, and her dear friend. Pray for me ; need your prayers.
IIt seems but a black dream, and yet it is a reality to make dark
a lifetime.  will not be long of joining her."

    Three months later, in a " hasty laboratory note " to the same

I Ifriend, he says, " have enjoyed more, latterly, think, of the
Isense of the Holy Spirit's help than have ever known before.

Mary's memory is full of blessed associations. The succeeding

two months will, I trust, yield me still more leisure for sacred

things."

                                                " December 1847.

I" Pray for me much, my dearest friend.         see few, very few,
Idevout people. From the public services of the sanctuary
I Iam cut off.
             never hear a prayer. When look into my heart
I Isee so much sin there ; give way so often to unchristian
Ipassions and gratifications, that tremble at the thought that

IGod's grace, so little improved, will by and by be taken away.

Counsel me ; have no Mary now, with her gentle, impressive

words, and the utterings of lengthened Christian experience, to

reprove my sins and follies, and keep me from evil. She was

my mother in Christ, and you my father."

                                                " March 31, 1850.

  I" Your letter was to me unspeakably dear, and again reminds

me of what never can or will forget, that you are bound to me

by ties such as connect none other of my friends to me. The

dark past, which was long to me the very blackness of darkness,

Ihas now stars above its horizon, and the shadow, not of the
grave, but of the world to come, over it.       begin to think

Iabidingly of Mary, not as one of the dead, but as one of the

glorified living, though at no time do realize it less than at

this mournful season of the year, which has witnessed the death

of so many of my dearest ones. The last lecture-night at the

School of Arts remains as the ineffaceable remembrancer of the

latest great sorrow, and inevitably links other griefs of a kindred
sort with it ; and the whole of April is to me a month of physi
362    MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                           CHAP. IX.

Ical fatigue, depressed energy, and painful emotion, which

...know better than to cherish, but have not learned the way to
cure.  Of James I think with more mingled feelings than

of Mary, but with unabated, nay, with ever-mellowing affec

tion. . . .

  " On all this I will say no more. It would distress others

Itoo much to speak thus to them, and might seem to betoken

less affection for their devoted love than they deserve or feel.

There are some affections which do not grow by excluding or

I Iuprooting others, but, like vines and elms, grow best together,

and should mourn the day when found it impossible to

cherish together love for the departed, and the living."

The loss of the terrier, Grim, was associated with his sister

Mary's love for the dog ; and in December 1849 he writes to a

friend, Mr. J. C.Brown, " Have they told you that Grim is dead ?

Poor little fellow, he was suddenly attacked in the very midst of
his gambols by a stroke of apoplexy, and died in a few hours, in

spite of the promptest treatment. The sight of animal suffering
is always to me very horrible, and the loss of my kind little com
panion has vexed me grievously. He was dear to me for his
giver, my good cousin Alick's sake, and still more as a memento

Iof my dear sister Mary, with whom always in thought asso

Iciated him ; and feel his loss very bitterly. Somehow, Christ

mas has always been a sad period with me, and this year is like

preceding ones in that respect." Of a visitor who was present
when Grim was seized by illness, he remarks : " Your brother

David is a fine fellow, his sympathy with me over my little
Idog's dying agonies endeared him to me.
                                          loved the poor fel

low for Mary's sake, and lamented him sincerely." Grim was a

general favourite with his master's friends, and was always
recognised as a member of the family, being spoken of as " my

son Grim." A letter to Miss Abernethy contains this para
graph : " Mi respectabel parint is tolerabil, and if the Guvirnor
wood not li on the sofa, but run after the geeg as i doo, which
wood be quite well, butt the oald geinleman luvs too grumbel. --

And am yoor afekshinate stepsun,          " Grim Wilson."
TO grim's MEMORY.  363

   It is recorded of him that " he never said an ill word in his

life, except once when he cried ' Bow, bow,' after a man with

bowed legs."

   A note-book contains the following lines to his memory :--

                   TO THE SPIRIT OF A DECEASED TERRIER.

                     My little dog ! I loved thee well,
                    Better than I to all would tell ;

                          When thou wert dead, a shadow o'er my spirit fell.

                          The music of thy pattering feet
                          That came so gladly me to meet,
                       Will never more my senses greet.

                       All are at rest ; thy wagging tail,
                          Thy little limbs that did not fail
                       For many a mile o'er hill and dale.

                     Where art thou now ? myself I ask, --
                   In vain Philosophy I task ;

                              She cannot here her blindness mask.

                       Art thou within that Sirian star,
                          That shines so bright, and seems so far
                          From this dim world in which we are 1

                              Where'er in the Universe thou art,

                   If still of it thou form'st a part,

                          Thou hast a place within my heart.

                          What are thy thoughts, thy hopes, thy ways ?
                          What are thy duties ? what thy plays ?
                          How spendest thou the livelong days ?

                          Thou didst not love on earth the Sunday,

                     It was so grave : it was no fun-day ;

                          Thou couldst have wished each day a Monday.

                          Dost thou with soul of shadowy cat
                          Fight ? or with spectral spirit-rat ;
                          Or slumber on celestial mat ?

   After a time a successor to Grim was found, who seemed to
have so many of his ways, that it was declared his spirit had
returned in this new shape, and the dog was, on this account,

named Redivivo, contracted into Vivo for ordinary use. It was

this dog that corresponded with the squirrel. His portrait is

Igiven by George in a letter : " wish you saw my dog, a Skye

terrier, considered one of the finest of his kind, though some of
364           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.            CHAP. IX.

Imy lady friends hold that the uglier a terrier in ladies' eyes, the
more beautiful he is in gentlemen's.  am sure, however, that

you would admire my dog, with his long, silver-grey, soft hair,

steel-grey drooping ears, finely feathered tail, and mild brown

eyes. He has a long body, short legs, and great broad feet like

Ia mole's. He is good temper itself, and as full of fun and saga

city as a clever child. Indeed, call him my son, and my little

nieces always salute him as their cousin."

   It will be seen from these quotations that the love for animals

shown in boyhood continued undiminished, and while it afforded

pleasant relief from the serious cares of life, it contributed to the

buoyancy and freshness so characteristic of him.

Evidence has already been afforded of the new principle by

which George Wilson's life became actuated after his illness of

1843. How strongly it influenced him we learn chiefly from

his letters, as nothing was more distasteful to him than the ob

trusive profession of religion common in our day. By no act or

Iword did he ever say, " am holier than thou ;" a clear percep

tion of the high standard set before him, led rather to his
esteeming himself, like Paul, " less than the least of all saints."

   In May 1845, he writes to his much loved friend, John

Cairns :-- " When I contrast your profession with mine, with

which in much of the machinery made use of in other points,

Iit has many affinities, could envy you your glorious calling.
I I. . . had been thinking, as should have no evening work in

the way of lectures, and far less every way to do, of teaching a

Sabbath-class, but Mary remonstrates so strongly on the score of
I Ihealth, and feel the argument so reasonable, that am shaken
Iin my intention, though it is not abandoned.
                                                  must find some
Iway of serving Christ better and fuller than have employed
Ihitherto, or shall truly be an unprofitable servant."

                                                  " December 1847.
I" I have found out a means of doing good, that hope God
Iwill bless.
              discovered recently that sick people, who will not

stand a word of religious advice from their neighbours in health,

Iare more ready to listen to another sick man like me. You will

think have been very late in making so notable a discovery.
184-154.            WOKK FOR CHRIST.       365

Never mind that ; one of my pupils of a former year, a remark

ably acute, hard-headed, and self-reliant lad, has recently passed

into one of the latest stages of a hopeless disease. Knowing that

his family, though in intellectualities much above the average,
in so far as religious knowledge is concerned, were little likely

Ito make known to the lad how soon he must go to meet God,

cast about for some means of getting at my old pupil. His

father was in town, and promised to call on me, but was pre
Ivented.
             intended, had he done so, to have asked his per

mission to write to his son, but it was a formidable business to

do so by a formal letter. Behold, however, the mercy of God,

Iand His answer to the prayer of a servant who had been asking

Him for work ! Whilst was resolving and hesitating to write,

a letter came from the lad himself, asking me to write to him
Ioccasionally, as it would be a kindness.
                                           replied at once, and

found him glad to have the ice broken in reference to his spi
ritual state. An exacerbation of his illness has turned all his

Ithoughts towards another world, and now he sadly beseeches me

to write as often as can."

   In the same year he apologizes for the non-appearance of a
hymn : "It, and all other rhymical work, have been stopped by

a painful but pleasing occupation, which has taken up the quiet
Ihours of the Sabbath. A young lady of fourteen, dying of con

sumption, has asked me to write to her, and have been trying

to tell her how the grave may be robbed of victory, and Death

Iof his sting. She is in the country, and has got to expect a
letter every week.  don't like to disappoint her, for she is a
Isingularly amiable, gentle person, to whom Heaven, believe,
Ihas already held out a welcome ; and so have been stopped in

the hymns."

   The young lady died about a month later than the date of

this letter. A series addressed to her are full of the tenderest

counsels and consolations. They gave great pleasure and com
fort to her in the prospect of quitting this world, and to many

besides have they been the means of spiritual good. A valentine

sent to this invalid, testifies to the kindly thoughts he cherished

of her temporal, as well as her eternal happiness. The accepta
36G             MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  ciur. ix.

bility of his religious letters, written in his most winning style,
became so well known, that abundant scope was afforded for

work in this direction. Of these several series remain, affording

evidence of his deep earnestness and affectionate solicitude. The

simplicity of the plan of salvation, the glorious character of the

Saviour, and the privilege of prayer, constitute the prevail

ing themes. Even to irreligious people his letters of this kind

were welcome, while similar appeals from others, roused their

indignation.

  IIn 1848 we find him saying, " long for work in the service
Iof Christ.
                have found the means of doing a little good by
Iwriting to invalids ; but may do that and much more. The

I IMedical Missionary Society are to have some lectures to stu
dents of medicine this winter.  am to give one, believe ;
that is so much." " The students say that they don't care about

addresses from ministers, but they'll listen to a lecturer on che

I Imistry, and hope shall succeed -in speaking a seasonable

word to them."

The title of his lecture, one of a series delivered at the in

stance of the Edinburgh Medical Missionary Society, was ' The
Sacredness of Medicine as a Profession,' and it has been pub

lished with the others.1 A perusal alone can enable us to

follow him, while he points out the moral, benevolent, and

IChristian character of medicine ; but a few of its closing sen

tences may show its spirit : " adjure you to remember that

the head of our profession is Christ. He left all men an
example that they should follow His steps; but He left it

specially to us. It is well that the statues of Hippocrates and

Esculapius should stand outside of our College of Physicians,
but the living image of our Saviour should be enshrined in our
hearts. . . . He is not ashamed to call us brethren. May none

of us be ashamed to call Him Lord ! May we all confess

Him before men, that He may confess us before the angels in

heaven !"

  "IOf this lecture he writes, in 1850 :-- had the unspeakable

satisfaction of learning recently from a most unlooked-for quar

Iter, what almost fear to mention, viz., that that little medical

> ' Lectures on Medical Missions.' 1 vol. Sutherland & Knox, Edinburgh. 1851.
1844-5,1.         ADDRESS TO STUDENTS.                    367

mission lecture carried the arrow of conviction to one careless

Idoctor's heart. So few particulars reached me that fear to

build upon the statement, but the very possibility of its being

true is enough to urge one to new endeavours."

  Of a similar address, in 1853, unpublished, he tells Mrs. J. H.
Gladstone, --" On Thursday last we had a very pleasant meeting

Iof the medical students and practitioners, for religious purposes.
   was far from well, and went to repeating from my heart
                  ;

                               a
                                  a
                                         it,

                                    I
                                          II
                                                  I'
the recurring prayer, that Christ would at least not permit me

by anything said, to throw stumblingblock in the way of
              ;I
any present, or to hinder them in their strivings towards right

eousness. And my prayer was answered, trust.  spoke with

freedom and earnestness to most attentive set of listeners,

some sixty in number and many came up after had finished,
to speak encouraging words to me. My subject was, the Ex

ample supplied by the Lives of Christian Physicians.'     took

four who stand in special relation to our medical school here, --

Dr. Turner, the chemist Dr. James Hope, author on Diseases
                         ;

of the Heart Dr. Abercrombie, our physician of highest repu

tation among recent medical men here; and Dr. John Reid.

They are the latest famous Edinburgh students of medicine who

have died. The great points insisted on were, that all those
                         1.
four professed to have,
                              I
                            Undergone great spiritual change
                                  4.          it
in connexion with which they were,   2. a  Great Bible readersit

Great offerers of prayer and,       Faithful keepers of the            ;;
3.                          ;

  I
Sabbath.
" urged the desirableness of us all imitating their example

in these things, addressing my entire audience, although  in

cluded many seniors, and one of our professors, as my fellow-
students and claimed for the title of student that was the
           ;

highest of all titles given by Christ, and intended to apply to
His disciples as students throughout eternity, of all God's works

and ways.
   " closed with solemn reference to the world of woe, as
I

                            a

                                                     ;

                               if

                                                         it
                                                                    is

                                                                                                                         a
place where they have ceased to study, and have but the awful

page on which God's denunciations of the ungodly are written

to gaze upon for ever or, they read,       only backwards,

in the mournful indestructible volume which memory has pre-
368                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.            CHAP. DC

served, and which conscience ever holds open before them ; and

Iwith a reference to Christ as the great example, concluded.
  I" I hope you will not think all this a bore ; thought you and

John would be glad to know how things were managed at our

medical meetings here. Ask him to tell me by his own pen, or by

yours, of his meetings with the students in London."

   A few extracts from letters, according to date, will best illus

trate the deep spirituality and growing holiness of the writer. To
one who had just lost a brother, he says, in 1845, -- " To myself

to die and be with Christ, seems so much better than any pos

Isible way of serving God here, that cannot prevent myself

thinking        of your brother,   as  Peden did of Richard Cameron,
when he         came to his grave  to  say, 'Oh ! to be wi' Richie "" To a
Ifellow-chemist,1 in 1848, -- "There are none, am sure, who ought

to be more religious than men of science, professing as they do,

to love God's works, and to know them better than others. There

are none, too, who need religion more, for the isolation of their

pursuits narrows their hearts, and the struggle for places and

distinctions, in which all are involved who, like you and me,

                                       ;

                                                 it,
must live by science as well as for leads to rivalries, heart

burnings, and disappointments and sows, with the devil's help,

the seeds of envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness.

Nothing but the restraining grace of God, and the presence of

his Spirit, and the all-prevailing mediation of the Saviour, can

keep us from falling. Nothing but the full realization of the

manifest and yet ever- forgotten truth, that God much greater
                                                      aI
than all his works, and far nobler object of love, can elevate  is
                   a                                          Ia
                       a                                                 it
                                                                                  is ;
our affections."

  To Mr. Alexander Macmillan, Cambridge, in 1850,-- "In
what you say of Christ and His example, cordially join. It

     blessed thing, as friend said to me, to have creed not
is
that any man will be bettered by adopting one, unlessa                                  his

soul's belief.; I  mourn, however, over many whom know, who

are always learning, and never coming to knowledge of the

truth who are bewailing the bigotry, narrowness, and effete-

ness of modern churches, and seeking for some new catholicon

to heal all. Far be from me to defend our religious bodies
                   i

                      it
                   Professor Voelcker, Cirencester.
1844-54.         ATHANASIUS CONTRA MUNDUM.                               369

from many of the charges made against them. Men are both

worse and better than their creeds, which are but imperfect

standards by which to try them. Religion should be a life, not

a doctrine ; and if we cannot find what it should be as the

Iformer, from the life of our blessed Lord and Saviour, know
Inot where we shall find it. Often do think of those startling
words, ' When the Son of man eometh, will he find faith on
                 If men, instead of fretting themselves because
the  earth    '
            ?

their neighbours are foolish religionists, would leave them and

their real or supposed follies alone, and go to Him who is all

wisdom, and all holiness, and all love, they would find differ

ences of creed adjust themselves in the light of that love of

God, and that love of our neighbour as ourselves, which are the
I Ifulfilling of the law.
                               rejoice that have a creed with which
I can face death and eternity, and which makes this life often

a joyous worship, and always a patient endurance. My prayer

is for a closer union to Christ my Saviour ; to be able to say

as St. Thomas did, with my whole heart, ' My Lord and my

God ;' to realize to the fullest, His personality and His huma1

nity ; and to walk in His steps as a lowly follower, and

Idisciple, and servant. For all my friends, as for myself, ever

ask this blessing. It includes everything, and will open in

good time all the locked secrets of Providence, and furnish
Inot a--but the theory of the universe.
I' Athanasius.'                                              am glad you liked

                 shall perhaps send you another little thing one
Iof these days ; but till am clear of my present book- writing,
I cannot let my thoughts go forth in the way they must do to

beget poetry."

   The verses alluded to will not be unacceptable to many :--

                 ATHANASIUS CONTRA MUNDUM.

                 0 Athanasius ! thy too subtle creed

                   IMakes my heart tremble when hear it read,

                 And my flesh quivers when the priest proclaims

                    God's doom on every unbeliever's head.

                 IYet do honour thee for those brave words

                 Against  the  heretic so boldly  hurled,
                 Though   no   one else believe,   '11 hold
                 I"                                          my  faith,

                 I, Athanasius, against the world."

                               2A
370     MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.                                            CHAP. IX.

     It was not well to judge thy fellow-men,

        Thou wert a sinful mortal like us all ;

     Vengeance is God's ; none but Himself doth know
        On whom the terrors of His wrath will fall.

     But it was well, believing as thou didst,

        Like standard-bearer with thy flag unfurled,

     To"bIl,azAonthaonnatshiuys,baangnaeinr stthtohsee  brave words,
                                                        world."

     IThy faith is mine ; but that is not my theme :

        'Tis thine example would preach to all ;
     Whatever each believes, and counts for true

        Of things in heaven or earth, or great or small,--

     If he believe it, let him stand and say,
        Although in scorn a thousand                    lips are curled ;
     "                                                  '11 hold my faith,
        Though no one else believe, I
        Like Athanasius, against the world. "

ITo Dr. Cairns, George writes in May 1851, --" am sure you

Icannot have more pleasing, and certainly not more profitable re
membrances of your visit than we have of your sojourn.                      am

always quickened spiritually by intercourse with you ; always
I Igrateful for a word in season.
        wish could see in myself
Igreater growth in grace. It is very slow.
                                                                      seem to see some
Iloss of downward tendencies, yet am like a balloon which, in
Ispite of casting out its ballast, does not rise.
                                                                      cling now little

to this earth, and sometimes ask myself, suppose all your bright

Iyouthful visions were fulfilled, would you be happy? and
Ianswer emphatically, No ! have had more pleasure in teach
Iing for a friend a Bible class for three Sabbaths, than have
Ihad in anything for a long season. had longed and prayed for

a more direct way of serving God, and being comparatively well

this summer, had secretly resolved to ask this friend to let me

address his class one evening, when, lo ! he came and besought

me as a favour to take charge of it in his absence from home.

Surely there is a God that answereth prayer."

  It was the custom of Dr. Cairns and himself to exchange

letters at the close of each year, reviewing the past, and glancing

to the future. In that of December 28, 1851, George says, --

I" There are white hairs in both our beards, and we are growing

graver, as we should do if we were mere animals. Yet hope

I sit looser to the world, and nearer to Christ ; but not near
1844-54.              SPIRITUAL ALCHEMY.                       371

enough. This evil heart of unbelief will not quickly soften, and

the Saviour is not freely given the central place in and the
                                                    is
world looms deceitfully large in all my visions.                          it,
" To do work for Him, in His spirit,
                                                                        I
                                                    my increasing desire.

May my prayers be heard, and yours be doubled for me.

know serenity have not known for months. How much of
it
    is

           a

          I
               I
      the fruit of better health and less work, how much through
God's grace, will not curiously inquire. They are all His, and

only His gifts. The whole household sends you the sincerest

wishes for happy New Year.                          seem to feel the pressure of
             a              aI

your great kind hand."

   After months of over-work and fatigue, he tells the same
friend in 1853 -- " can with rejoicing heart say, that that
                :

                   I

great and gracious Lord and Master whom we serve, grows day
by day dearer to me, and to do His will to me increasingly
                                                    is
the desire of my heart, and its prayer."                 is a

   Writing to Dr. H. Gladstone in 1854, of medical studentJ.
preparing for the mission field, he says, " He in the way of
training which will make him powerful ambassador for Christ    is
                        aa
among the subtle, sagacious, metaphysical, oriental nations.    aIa
am going to give him charge of class in summer, to secure for

him thorough familiarity with our noble science. It
'
          a
blessed thing to know that our Art, once called emphatically

the Black Art,' and which, when not held to be the offspring of

Satanic collusion, was looked to by the vulgar as fitted only to

gratify their lust for gold, can be made by us to serve the cause

of Christ. We shall be alchemists of another sort than the

older ones, and whisper to an unbelieving world that there sit-

teth beside the refining furnace, great Master who can trans
is
              a

                 a
                                          a

                                                 a
mute the vilest human dross into gold seven times purified, and

died that He might procure for us the elixir of life, and secure

for His people blessed immortality."

  It never desirable thing to detach religious acts or expres

sions from their contemporaneous secularities and environments.

This has been strongly felt in illustrating George Wilson's inner

life, for never could there be more charming union of playful

ness and fun, with high-toned spirituality, than in very many of

his letters. They remind one of an air with many variations,
372  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                           CHAP. IX.

some in a minor key, which never fails, in all its sweet wander

ings and eccentricities, to return to the key-note, leaving the
listener with a sense of refreshment and invigoration. The
mass of such letters is so large, however, that it has seemed un
desirable to attempt more than a selection from them. Per

sonal allusions also frequently make them unsuitable for the
public eye. Without passing beyond the ten years to which

we have limited our consideration latterly, we shall only add, as

a closing stanza to this portion, one more quotation from a let

ter to Mr. A. Macmillan, in June 1854 :-- " This is a peaceful
Sabbath evening, and my heart is full of gratefulness to God

for many and great mercies to me. Amongst these are my

friends, and my gratefulness shapes itself into a prayer to God

that He will give them His choicest blessings, make them like
His own dear Son, Christ the Lord, and fill them with His

Spirit. And may we all have some work given us to do for
Him, and find such pleasure as the angels feel in doing His
work and obeying His will !"

    The desire to conduct a Bible class was more fully met by a
request from some young men, in 1852, to meet with them on

Sabbath evenings. It was gladly responded to, and some of

them remember with vivid interest those hours, and the eluci

dations given of the book of Hebrews and that of Ecclesiastes.
Very full notes remain as evidence of the great care and dili
gence with which preparation for these meetings was made. His
broken health and constant overwork made it impossible for him
to continue this work long, dear as it was to him. His services
on behalf of the Medical Missionary and other benevolent So

cieties, can only be glanced at. It may safely be said that, ac

cording to his ability, yea, often far above as regards physical
strength, he was at all times found to be " ready to every good

work."

   It has been remarked of George Wilson, that he was one of

the very few scientific men who, in this restless age, had never
crossed the British channel. This peculiarity was far from be

 ing the result of choice, as to see new places, things, and people,

was great delight. But uncertain health made travelling irk

 some and difficult, while the pressure of work during nine or
     a
                                                                   it,
1844-54.  PROSTRATION IN SPRING.                      373

ten months in the year usually left him so prostrated, that per

fect rest and quiet were absolutely essential. Alluding to the

sad memories recalled by the month of April, so fatal in his

Ifamily, he says to Dr. Cairns, " Nor have learned the trick of

cheating these recurring periods out of their power to re-awaken

the past in all its gloom. An over-developed, ill-regulated ima

gination, is partly to blame for this, partly a worn-out, weary

body, which would make me uncheerful at this season, even
I Ithough were not visited by sad remembrances.
                                                 do not

encourage, but repress the dark broodings, and my southern

ramble is intended to medicine this malady, and drive away

the evil spirit.

  I" am not, however, a materialist, blaming my body for the

Idarkness of my spirit, and accusing the barometer because my
soul is vexed and my heart sad.  rejoice to be pointed by you

to the great and only sufficing source of peace and rest. My soul
will be an anxious and troubled one to the end, but only in in

Icreased faith in Christ, only in closer brotherhood with Him,

have any hope of increased peace."

Frequently in spring he was so overpowered that he would

scarcely speak at all, after returning home, during the whole

evening; from even the nearest friends he shrank, and at
such times he would say to a sister, " Let us go to some quiet

place, where we shall meet no one we know." A few weeks

of change of air and scene, combined with rest, gave power
to rally ; as he used to say, " The water was beginning again
to gather in the well," and he returned to work with the

buoyancy natural to him, partly restored. While absent

at such times, it was his custom to write frequently to his

mother to beguile her solitude. Those letters usually went by

the name of " George's nonsense." A few specimens will be

given occasionally. Here, for example, are one or two from

Bridge of Allan :--

                                  -April 5th.

" This is a most lazy place ; nobody does anything but eat and

sleep and lounge, and we follow the universal example. Theit,

Iweather is delightful ; my cough reduced to a mild trumpeting ;

my bed no longer, like Job's, mocking me when go to say-
374  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IX.

ing, ' Thou wilt comfort me,' but folding me in its arms, and

hushing me asleep. My conscience is seared or congealed, and
I Igoads me in vain to work ; reply bluntly, ' won't work,' and
Iwin the battle. . . . All here looks balm and sunshine.
                                                          saw,

to be sure, two poor fellows with legs quite naked, sitting exposed

to wind and rain, and was about to say to myself, 'There is
Imisery everywhere,' when on closer inspection perceived that
I--but don't know that they were any the warmer for that; how
Iever, it relieved my mind when discovered --though perhaps it
...will not yours--that they were Highland soldiers.    A pair

of chaffinches who have just entered on married life, stay oppo

site us in a fine airy larch -tree villa, and chat away about the

babies they are looking for in a very pleasant fashion. The

oldest son is to be a poet, and the oldest daughter a musician,

but they had not, when our reporter left, considered a calling for

the third child. You will give them your benediction."

                                                                                    " Ayril lStt.
   " They speak of ' the luxury of doing good,' but what is that
to the luxury of doing nothing ; especially when, as in the present

Icase, doing nothing is doing good ? What did do yesterday ?
INothing ! The day before ? Nothing ! What am doing at

present ? Nothing ! Accordingly, a diary of my proceedings
would not be very interesting, and need not be extended."

                                                                                    "April 'i&th.
   " We have been giving all (no ! not all, but many of) our
friends drives, the money which they paid being handed over to

Greybeard [a horse], who is gathering up to buy himself a gold
eye-glass. Even without that elegant and useful appendage he

is much admired.

  I" A flock of lambs in the field opposite to us have got up a

racing club among them, the first meeting of which, am sorry
to say, was held on Sabbath evening. Five of them, called

respectively, Lamb, Lambkin, Lambling, Lamblet, and Lammie,
started for the first race, and to the delight of their admiring
mothers, each was first. The conquerors were rewarded with a

mouthful of cream, and then, with many tail-waggings, were
1844-51.           WHAT MAKES PATRIOTS.                                375

sent back to their racing. To-day the sun is sleepy, and late of

Ishowing himself, and the lambs are very quiet.

   " have some fine light reading in the shape of a ponderous

MS. folio of Evidence before the House of Lords. It was sent

I Iafter me, to be studied in reference to an action for compensation.

  read a little of it now and then, but am saving my brains,

and leading altogether such a life as an owl in easy circumstances

may be supposed to do."                                            " May 5th.

  I I" Three weeks of idleness are now nearly ended ; weeks of as

sheer idleness as ever spent ; and do not feel a bit conscience-

stricken for all that. . . . Yesterday we had a delightful

drive. The day was the brightest and warmest we have had.

We went by out-of-the-way, picturesque roads, new ones, not

afflicted with toll bars. A novel and most splendid view of the

Valley of the Forth repaid Greybeard for a climb at one point.
ISuch a panorama ! will not spoil it by trying to describe it.
I felt strongly in looking at
                             aIa           that was landscape like the
                                  it,        ' it    it a
one gazed at, with prominent, marked-out hills, great moun;
I
tains girdling the horizon, sunny slopes gliding down to the
     a
water-side, and silvery stream reflecting the sky in its bosom
               Ia
[take breath whilst get dip of ink]                      was this that made
                   II                            a;
men patriots.      could not fight stoutly for the marshes saw
                                                                   II
about Cambridge, but would fight                     bit' for countryside
                                                               ?a
like this. But what have to do with fighting Nothink                           ;!

Therefore let me go on to say that we visited colony of thoseaa
lively pretty birds, the jackdaws and that saw bird never
                                                     I         a

saw before, namely, jay, beautiful creature, prettily parti
                   a

coloured, and active on the wing. We got but glimpse of him,

for he was not sure of us."

   Each spring and autumn afforded few weeks of relaxationaa
but the furthest limit attained was visit to Dublin in 1857.

Continental trips were frequently planned, but as the time

approached, he felt his strength unequal to the demands they

were likely to make on       it,  and medical advisers invariably

counselled the avoidance of travelling, especially by sea. Busi

ness journeys occasionally called him from home, and they were

undertaken with cheerful readiness, that trust in God alone
               a
376                  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.         CHAP. IX.

can give, for he well knew that each was at the risk of his life.
Looking forward to one of them he says : " The thought of these

Itravellings makes so unlocomotive a person as startle a little.
IBut it is a plain piece of duty, and commend myself to Him

who is equally near at all times." The danger arose from the

state of his lungs, in which disease had been steadily spreading
from the time of their first affection in 1843, and the liability to

inflammation, while exposed to the changes of a traveller's life.

A visit to London, Hampshire, and Cambridge, in 1845, afforded

pleasant glimpses of rural spots, where a Scotchman sees much

at variance with preconceived ideas. The religious destitution

visible in many of the places visited, left a saddening impression
on him. " To do something to lessen this great evil," he says,
I" must be my aim in all ways that present themselves.
                                                            shall
I Ireturn, trust, more earnest than was in desire and resolution

to be Christ's, and His alone." Travellers always see and hear

wonderful things. It was one part of his good fortune to be

shown, in Salisbury Cathedral, a "gigantic old black marble

baptismal font, lined with lead," which the old verger informed
                                                            "
him had once  been lined  with  silver,  having been  made    before

lead was invented."

Many of his holiday seasons were spent in favourite retreats

at Morningside, Dirleton, Melrose, Innerleithen, or Bridge of

Allan, all at convenient distances, whither he could drive in his

carriage, enjoy sitting in a garden, and have many quiet pleasures.

A hymn or poem was often born at such times ; as, for example,

Iin 1848, he says, " get on with my verses. Last night, out at
IMorningside, where Jessie and are keeping house, the gas

Iwould not light. Two dipped candles, stuck into bottles, proved

too dim to make reading pleasant. So fell to and chanted a

lyric, which Jessie wrote down, and when it is finished I'll send it

Ito you. It is purely a physical science rhyme, and will, think,

please you." These verses were probably those on " The Skerry-
vore Lighthouse," which were prompted by a perusal of Mr.

IAlan Stevenson's interesting narrative of its erection. He sent

them to Mr. Stevenson, saying, " have long entertained the

project of writing a series of pieces on subjects connected with

the physical sciences, and have already completed several." He
1844-&4.  EFFECT OF TRAVELLING.  377

closes his note with a request not to name him as a poet, which,

I Ihe adds, " don't pretend to be, and my analyses would, dare
Isay, be discredited by some of my employers if they heard made

verses." Our space does not admit of their insertion.

   A series of visits to the Crystal Palace in 1851, while the

guest of his kind friends, Mr. and Mrs. Tomlinson, was a source
of great enjoyment. " To me the whole was unspeakably, un
utterably inspiriting, refreshing, and edifying." After quitting
the " poem in glass and iron," and spending a short time with
his cousin, Alexander Russell, in Hampshire, he returned home

apparently better in health. It was therefore with surprise he

learned from a medical friend, that at that very time a large
cavity in his lungs had led the doctors to believe a few months

would bring him to the grave. It healed up partially, however,

and for some time hopes of permanent recovery were enter
tained. Here is part of a home letter during this journey

  I" Miss Jeanie, -- Which am your brother, and was much

pleased to hear that the painters -- Mrs. M. am sure never in
tended that the wax -- and bored four holes in the round piece
of wood--which is a new paper and much --the sermon last

-Sunday -- at the Polytechnic --a stone heavier--and Dr. Voelcker

stated that they are not shrimps but prawns --and rose at seven

o'clock. Dear Jean, such is the condition my mind is reduced
to by the anxieties attendant on awaking myself, rising at seven,
shaving with cold water, looking out clean shirts and collars,

and other painful and harassing duties. You will too plainly see
that the power of continuous thinking is gone, and that the

mind wanders distressingly."

   While in London in 1854, giving evidence before a Com
mittee of the House of Commons, the death of his cousin, John

Russell, after a lingering illness, made him hasten home, as

Ionce before, in 1839, to be present at the last services of love.

" For all this whirling and night travelling was to pay. The
sleeping volcano in my lungs was roused from its slumbers, and
the day after my return saw me prostrate in bed, with a sharp

febrile attack, headache, semi -delirium, and cough. Rest, star
378        MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                               CHAP. IX.

vation, and a big blister, soothed the volcano to its old condition

of mere muttering."

  " My work in London," he tells his kind hostess, Mrs. J. H.
IGladstone, " which expected to be a mere whirl of business,

Iturned out not only a work of great pleasure, but a period of

religious refreshment such as have not enjoyed for a very

long time, and the illness I have had has deepened this, for

though it was not severe, it was sufficient to remind me afresh

                       ;

                            I I is,

                                          it

                                                       a

                                                I
how feeble my hold upon life and how ready should be for

the great change. Blessed things, too, are taught us in illness,

such as health cannot teach, and have risen from my sickbed

...with subdued and grateful heart, praying to be taught to servea

Christ more and better.  felt great privilege to get

back to church to-day to hear again my own dear minister's

pleasant voice to hear our own folks sing (and famously too)
        ;

our beautiful hymns, and to join in the commemoration of the
death of my blessed Lord and Saviour." "It
                       is                                                         comfort                                     I
                                                              is

                                                                            et a
rarely enjoy," he adds to Dr. Cairns, " to meet Christian che

mists, and the pleasure great when those who spend much of

the day burning incense before the idola tribus                                   specus, are

found to devote their most sacred hours to burning incense of

another kind, on another altar, to another God. It was unex

pectedly, and all the more delightfully, a time of great spiritual

refreshment, and could have said, when contrasted my
'

         is

                             a

                 II

                                     it

                                               I
expectation of week of weary chemical hairsplitting, with the

actual week of profitable religious conversation and exercises,

God here, and knew not.'"

"IHis visit to London in May was followed by two months                                                                       of

work. At their close we find him saying,          am now very

jaded, and thankful to do as little as possible. This not the
I

                   a

             I

                                it
                                      is

                             I
                                 I
                                      iIf

                                                                                                                           ;

                                                 I
                                                                                      is
season of the year when even generally cough, but since April

have been coughing and blistering my side and the stetho-

scopists talk ominously of some new quarter of my damaged

lungs where mischief     threatening or begun.                                    have been

running race with Death since reached my majority, and

he'll have the best of before long,  don't get further ahead

of him than have been recently able to do. There is this

difference between contending with moral and physical disease.
1844-54.       A BROKEN ARM.                                                  379

that every victory over the former makes you stronger for the
next fight ; but beaten or victorious in your battles with illness,

you come off permanently weakened."

Having gone to Rothesay to recruit, he writes from it on

August 26th, evidently with effort, for the letters are crooked
and unshapely. " My sword-arm or pen-arm is suffering from

a wicked rheumatism, which makes writing an unwelcome and

rather scrawly performance, therefore my words shall be few. . . .

In reply to your queries, let me say that my lungs are fairly

damaged in a new quarter, and a worrying cough proclaims this,

and adds to the trouble ; nor can such a state of body exist

without a sympathetic fever being lighted up, and vexing the

Iwhole system. It is no new condition for me to be in, and

have acquired a little experience in dealing with its annoyances.

IThere are two good symptoms : eat like a man who has a
Iliving body ; and have a very composed spirit, unless when

Ifretted by the talk of others. To be alone, or only with Jessie,

as am here, is the pleasantest condition of matters, according
to my present mood." Often had his hopes of improvement in

health been met by days and nights even more wearisome, being

allotted to him. So was it to be now. About a fortnight had

been spent in Rothesay, when one morning, seeing a strange fish

lying on the beach, he dropped down the low embankment

which separated him from it. Endeavouring to guard against the
fall which his lameness might have caused, he overstrained the

right arm, and broke the bone near the shoulder. Among
strangers, and in lodgings far from comfortable, the accident was

doubly distressing ; but his quiet calmness and gentle patience

failed not. Kindness was received from unexpected quarters, and

his friends, as usual, showed devoted love. One of them, Dr. John

Struthers, no sooner heard of the accident than he started for

Rothesay, to satisfy himself that the arm was properly set, and

having spent an hour, was obliged to return home. With

IGeorge   the  anxiety was to spare all    p"ostshirboluegdhistthreesslontgo  absent
            "  lay," he wrote afterwards,                                     nights,
friends.

with a weary cough, a lost vacation, and a shattered frame, in

tensely realizing how much sorrow Jessie, mother, and uncle,

were enduring for me." To his mother he dictated a letter the
380      MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.                 CHAP. IX.

day after the accident. " Nothing but my right arm, being the

I Idisabled one, keeps me from writing to you myself to assure you

  am very well. trust you will not distress yourself with the
Ithought that deserve any great amount of compassion or sym
Ipathy.
         deserve, indeed, rather a severe reproof for my incon-

siderateness in allowing a queer fish to tempt me to forget that
I was not so good at clambering over walls as formerly. As we
Ishall soon be with you, and will write every day, hope you
Iwill not allow this accident to discompose you.
                                                  shall be up

Iwalking in a couple of days, and will probably be in general

health all the better that shall be utterly unable for a week

or two to make use of my pen hand." The following day his

filial love showed itself in an attempt to use his left hand.
Here is the result :--

         9) w fhA{^

    Bulletins continued to follow, written with the left hand, and
showing great improvement in the penmanship, though neces

sarily laconic in style.
1844-64.  CAMERA OBSCURA.                          381

  I"Dear Mother, -- hope to be with you in a week. To
I Imorrow shall send you some verses made to help me through

the night. They are nothing particular."

   The verses were the following :--

          CAMERA OBSCURA.

          Silent, dimly-lighted chamber,

             Where the sick man lies,

          Death and Life are keenly fighting
             For the doubtful prize,

          While strange visions pass before
             His unslumbering eyes.

          Few of free will cross thy threshold  ;
             No one longs to linger there ;

          Gloomy are thy walls and portal ;
             Dreariness is in the air ;

          Pain is holding there high revel,

             Waited on by Fear and Care.

          Yet, thou dimly-lighted chamber,

            From thy depths, I ween,

          Things on earth, and things in heaven,
             Better far are seen,

          Than in brightest broad daylight
             They have often been.

          Thou art like a mine deep sunken
             Far beneath the earth and sky,

          From the shaft of which, upgazing,
             Weary workers can descry,

          Even when those on earth see nothing,
             Great stars shining bright on high.

          So within thy dark recesses,
             Clothed in his robes of white,

          To the sufferer Christ appeareth
             In a new and blessed light,

          Which the glare of day outshining
             Hid from his unshaded sight.

          Silent, dimly-lighted chamber,
             Like the living eye,

          If thou wert not dark, no vision

             Could be had of things on high ;
          By the untempered daylight blinded,

             With closed eyelids we should lie.

          Oh my God ! light up each chamber

             Where a sufferer lies,
          By thine own eternal glory,

             Tempered for those tearful eyes,
          As it comes from Him reflected

             Who was once the sacrifice.
382                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IX.

After returning home some weeks later, he writes to Dr.
Cairns " a few lines, for my arm is still very stiff, and aches with
a little work, to thank you for your kindness, not in formal
I Iwords, but none the less with a grateful heart.
                                             hope have
Ilearned something more of God's judgments and mercies than I
ever knew before.  went to Rothesay in a humbled spirit,

craving most of all rest, and seeking to spend a season of ex

haustion and enforced quietude in self-examination and sub

mission to God. In this spirit the trial He sent came not as

I Isomething strange, but as if it fitted into the daily discipline of

the life was leading. And now look back on the last two

months with a more lowly, chastened, and grateful heart than

I felt towards my Saviour before, and desire more than ever to
Iconfide in Him." " got great good," he says to Mr. Macmillan,

" from the long, quiet, and often sleepless hours. How soon,

alas I the whirl of business banishes the thoughts that were so

welcome in the silence and lowliness of sickness ! How diffi

cult it is to live to Christ in the struggle of daily contention,
and to keep one's-self unspotted from the world ,"

   Among the friends made by George wherever he went, were
little girls from the age of two years upwards. He was a great

favourite with them, and promised to marry several when they

got the height of his stick. The courtship was chiefly carried
on by an exchange of valentines each year, and it did prove a

little inconvenient when the young ladies had come so far to

years of discretion as to be found taking private measurements

of the stick, by which their fitness for matrimony was to be

tested. His interest in the children of his relatives and friends

was great. While in London in 1854, he spent a night in the

house of a fellow-chemist, being almost a stranger to his hostess.

Next morning, entering the drawing-room, where she happened

Ito be alone, he said, on bidding her farewell, " Whenever re

ceive kindness and hospitality from friends who have families, I

make a point of remembering their children in my prayers.

Yours will be so remembered henceforth." To one of his little

brides a tender interest attaches, as the subjoined memoranda

show :--
   " In the island of Arran, in the summer of 1852, it was our
1844-54.  A CHILD-WIFE.  383

privilege to have George Wilson for a day or two as our guest.
We had not known him previously ; but, as was his wont, he

glided at once into the warmest corner of our hearts, and ever

after kept his place. The secret of his influence was love, and
the knowledge that even in its happy interchange ' it is more
blessed to give than to receive.'

    " He was especially attracted by our little Lucy, a child of

four years, whose winning ways and bright intelligence delighted

and surprised him. She met his advances cordially, and from

that time he always called her his betrothed.
    " The intellect, then prematurely developed, continued to

brighten and apparently to strengthen, for a year or two, cul
minated at the age of six, and then, under the clouding influ
ence of brain disease, waned gradually, and before dear Lucy

 had attained her seventh birthday, had touched the western
horizon, where, though speechless, it still faintly glimmers, and

where we trust it will continue to do so, till it sinks into the

 light of heaven.

    " George Wilson, as all who knew him will readily believe,
 became ever more and more tenderly interested in his afflicted
 bride; and we do not think that any more striking evidence

 could be presented, at once of the deep humanity of his nature,

 and of the spirituality which through grace he had attained, than

 the following quotation from a letter which he wrote after hear
 ing read some memoranda which had been made by a faithful
 attendant of poor Lucy, of sayings well worthy to be remem

 bered :"--

                                                                                 " May 16, 1859.

   I" was deeply touched by the memorials of dear, gentle,

 blessed Lucy, you read me to-day, but had not the courage to

 I I Iask you for a copy. To-night, however, on trying to recall her

 words, find can do so very imperfectly, and would feel

 deeply grateful if you granted me a transcript. It should be

 very sacred in my eyes. Lucy is to me so truly an object of
 affection, and now, in addition, so much an example of the

 Iblessed Saviour's special love, that would very highly prize
 Iwhat ask. Unless you have a great objection, do grant this

  desire of my heart.
38-t  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                 CHAP. IX.

I" deeply sympathize with you both in the anguish which

such a trial must beget ; but with a happy issue out of her great

Iaffliction so certainly and, please God, so unremotely awaiting

dear Lucy, do not wonder that you bow in unrepining sub

mission to Him who doeth all things well.
   " And when we consider that each of us, in the depth of even

natural sleep, is as helpless as your silent sufferer when in the

grasp of her malady ; and further, that there is certainly much

less physical agony than from the movements of the limbs we

infer there must be, we may surely think that to be with Christ

      a                                                                        far better' than to
                               is

                                                             is,
                                                                  is

                                                                            '
as Lucy, spite of her bonds, even now

enjoy the soundest unblessed slumbers, which shut out not only

the world, but the very sense of God, from hundreds who never

suffered brief pang.
   " We may yet find that He who has told us that the first shall

be last and the last first, has been peculiarly overflowing in re
velations of His goodness and mercy to those who, like dear

Lucy, seemed to the thoughtless left alone.

   "And how cheering the assurance that the Holy Ghost

'intercedeth for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.'

Her inarticulate sighs are translated by the Advocate with the

Father into prevailing prayers, and, presented by Him, we know
how they will be answered. --Yours very affectionately,

                                                             " George Wilson."

    One often tempted, in looking at the many-sided mystery
 of suffering, to come to the conclusion that some are set apart,
 not only for their own profit, but as unconsciously teachers of

 others, setting forth the causes, the uses, and the results of afflic

tion. In George Wilson's life we can even now see the wisdom
of God's dealings, in this point of view, with regard to him
much more shall we rejoicingly see when that which in

part shall be done away.
   His wonderful recovery, time after time, from severe illnesses,

evinced an amount of vitality which was scarcely looked for in

his apparently feeble frame. Again and again did his medical
friends look on him as almost brought back from the grave

yet there he was, claiming no compassion, and bravely doing
      is
                                                  it
                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                   a; ;
1844-54.                  BEARING IN GENERAL SOCIETY.           385

strong man's work in the world. It cannot be doubted that

ever after his experiences of 1843, the perfect calm and serenity

of his mind gave the body every chance in its favour.
          his fellow-men "
   To     " made him all    the  personal  feebleness  of the genial pre
sence                       the  dearer.               reverence usually
                                           A tender

marked their intercourse with him, though of this he seemed

unconscious, having much of that simplicity of character re

tained by few beyond the years of childhood, and which pos

sesses a nameless charm when united to full-grown powers of

heart and mind. The impression made on his kind hostess,

while visiting London in 1851, may perhaps better convey to

others a realization of his bearing in general society than a
lengthened description could furnish. " The very first impres

Ision, preceding all others, was wonder at the life that was in
him.          had been prepared to see an invalid ; a man whose

constitution had been severely tried, and whose health was at

that time very precarious. His letters had previously made us

acquainted with his genial nature ; but although we antici

pated many gleams of the same humorous and kindly spirit in

his conversation, yet we naturally expected hours of lassitude

and seasons of depression in one who had suffered so much, and

was    still  suffering.  came  among  us, there  was  nothing  in his ex
    "  And    when he

ternal appearance to destroy the impression. An invalid, phy

sically speaking, he certainly was ; the marks of weakness were

Ion him, and the very texture of his small hand betrayed

unusual delicacy. almost trembled at the thought of such a

Iman being exposed to the excitement and fatigue of London at
that busy time.           expected day after day to see him return

from the Great Exhibition thoroughly worn out and exhausted

in body and mind. But no ; the spring and elasticity of his

nature were such that he never seemed tired. From morning

to night, abroad or at home, the same cheery spirit possessed

him, the same wonderful readiness for everything which pre
Ifsented itself.
                  he felt fatigue, he never showed it in any other

way than by keeping quietly in an arm-chair after his return

from the Exhibition, but even then he had not the attitude of

                                 2B
            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IX.

one taking rest ; but the lively, playful, emotional manner of a

man thoroughly refreshed and at ease.
   " The life that was in him seemed to triumph over all bodily

infirmities ; it gushed out in kindly thoughts and words, and
happy turns of expression, which enlivened all around him.

There were those present during his visit who had endured re

cent and severe affliction, yet they never found anything dis

cordant in his mirth ; it was so genial, so tender of the infirmity

of others ; so considerate and forbearing towards all mankind.

And this life which was in him manifested itself not only to

those who could appreciate it fully, and who could admire the

aptitude of his illustrations, and the quaint humour of his re

torts ; but it was poured out freely and generously on others,

who must have been less sensible of its value ; on young per

sons and children ; nay, even on domestic animals, who came

in for a share of his friendly talk, and looked as if they under

stood it."

    To those unstrung by broken health and the depression

                          ;

                                  it,
                                                  a

                                                                                             ;

                                                                   it
almost invariably resulting from he was so often held up as

an evidence of how much of life's best blessings might yet re
main for all who had power to lay hold of them, that was
sometimes laughingly suggested to him that his peculiar " mis
sion" in this world was to comfort invalids. But not only

negatively did he effect this his sympathy with sufferers was

such as to make any sacrifice for them pleasure and no

consolatory letters or sickbed visits were ever more welcome

than his.

   Looking at this phase of his life, we cannot but be struck
with the gratitude which each attack of illness brings out more

and more fully. His nature having once been brought into

harmony with God's, he able, with heaven-taught eye, to see
                        is
how immeasurably greater    is
                                                                                a

                                                                                                                 ;
                          the spiritual gain than the tem
poral loss. His medical knowledge made him fully aware that,

step by step, he was steadily approaching the dark valley yet

it never seemed to lessen his interest in earthly things, or cur
tail the plans for work in every department, for which long
lifetime could scarcely have sufficed. The only deception he

ever practised was that of concealing from those whose affec-
1841-64.                                  THOUGHTS IN SICKNESS.   387

tions were bound up in him, his knowledge of the state of his

health. So skilfully was this done, that, while themselves

keenly watching every change, and hoping against hope, they

believed him unconscious of much that filled them with harass
ing anxiety, and not till after all his sorrows were over did they
learn from letters to others, that to him all had been as an open

book. It is needless to add, that no small amount of self-denial

and self-command were called for in carrying out this affec

tionate purpose.
I" Could
            escape                        exposure to cold and fumes and much
Italking," he says, "                      should do very well ; but my calling is
Inot a very helpful one to damaged lungs, and am not with
out unwonted anxieties concerning the winter." " God's will
Ifbe done.
            His chastening hand is to be laid again upon

me, His sanctifying Spirit will be sent also, and He who

suffered for me will help me to suffer." While in bed from

Ia severe attack of local inflammation, with high fever and

great pain, he writes to Dr. Cairns : " have gathered spiritual

instruction from this lesson, and could enlarge thereon, but

the flesh is weak. God's mercies are truly as overwhelmingly

great as they are altogether undeserved ;" and a few days later
he says : --

I I" Dear John, -- ' sing the sofa,' i.e., write from             it,great

                                                                    Ia

                                                                              is
step towards convalescence.               I   begin with this fact, which beg

you will communicate to the H-- and -- families. It
                                                         J
downright dishonesty and cruelty to permit others to expend on
                                                            it I
our sufferings more sympathy than they deserve. Let, there

fore, these good people be notified that now am so well, that

they utter any expressions concerning me, must be those of
if

                             !
                                       .
thanksgiving. . . How different the thoughts of health and

illness are One thing especially impressed on me by every
                                              is

successive attack of the latter.              I  refer to the feeling that one

must despair of building up firm faith in Christ in the great
                                          is if a
majority of cases of sickness,                       is  all to do from the very
                                                 it
foundation, and the disease                   in any way rapid or mortal. If

your objective experience                 is  at all like my subjective one, you

will earnestly warn all against deathbed repentances. In pro
388            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                  CHAP. IX.

bably two-thirds, at least one-half, of the cases of fatal illness,
before alarm is felt, pain --or what is far worse, unless the
agony be tremendous, sickness --has prostrated the intellect,

and clogged or maddened every emotion. Consecutive thought
is impossible ; meditation, reflection, or even distinct apprehen -

sion, greatly weakened ; often out of the question. Who dare
expect in such circumstances that the long-despised mercy of

God shall be experienced, when the very power to listen to a

verse of the Bible, or to understand               it,     gone, and memory
                                                       is                                is
                                                                                                is
                                                              ?

                                                                  is
palsied or, worst of all, has no promise to remember, or one

stay or rock of strength to fall back upon God's mercy in
     '
finite, and reacheth to the eleventh hour, and often glorified;

               it
                          is

                                it.
and manifested at Yet, beseech your young people to commit,

commit, commit to memory the Bible. They'll find the precious

comfort of when sickness comes. And the elders will see that

the hope set before them so realized in health that shall
                                     '                                                   it

                                        is
                                               it
ofonly require to be 'laid hold                    when sickness comes. To

attain unto this to be, with the Holy Spirit's help, far more

the great object of my life than has hitherto been. The re

view of the last three weeks shows such abounding mercies,

favours, love--my cup literally running over with them --that

the pain, disappointment, fear, and discomfort, have passed
                                                                                         am." A
into the background already, desponder though
                                     it
                                         is

                                                                :

                                                 I
                                                           II
year later he tells the same friend " am leading the very

quietest of lives, and yet           as happy as when was busier.

am broken in to an indoor existence, and do not feel that
I
trouble in getting through the day that active men must feelI
            I
when first reduced to draw coal waggons at                            mile an hour,
instead of being special engines at mile                              minute. And
                                                   a
                                                                aa

though have no progress to report in the way of bettered

health, but the opposite, and begin seriously to contemplate

the great possibility of having to submit to an ugly operation,

yet the pain suffer quite bearable, my intellect clear, and
                                     is
                                                                                     is

there are many more mercies than miseries in my cup. Do not

whisper or hint to any one about the possibility of an operation

being necessary. It might reach the folks here and terribly

distress them. The thing may not be necessary, and need not

therefore be talked about.           speak of to you that you may
                                     I

                                                       it
1844 - 64.  RETROSPECTION.                             389

Iknow my stand-point, which cannot explain to many people,

Iwho wonder they do not see me at church, although they know

that am able to lecture.

  " I turn from the self-magnifying morbid introversions of an

invalid, to something much safer for me, and more interesting
I Ito both of us.
            think have been able to live nearer to God
Iduring the last three months than
                                    have ever done before.
IHe has granted me a greater share of faith and patience than

have enjoyed previously ; a deeper sense of brotherhood with
IChrist Jesus, and of communion with the good Spirit.
                                                       am
I Igraver than have often been, but have a joy and peace in
Ibelieving, which would not exchange for the lightness of

spirits that has often fallen to my share."

                                                                                          "March 1850.

  I" have been in the house all to-day and yesterday, confined

with a cold which this ungenial weather was certain to distri

Ibute to me among its other recipients, as one sure to give it
suitable accommodation and some days' lodging.  have only

once been absent from church this winter, a great cause of

thankfulness ; and my health in general has been very fair this

I Iyear. . . .                               once did, and you
   " You tell me
            show less vivacity than

are not wrong ; but the change noway discontents me. The last

two years have greatly sobered me, and my life between twenty

and thirty seems now to me a scarcely intelligible and very

sorry drama, to be repented and made better without any delay.

I I Imet this day -week a lady whom have not seen since was

some seventeen, nor was there anything to bridge over the long

space between our two meetings. It has set me to meditate a

great deal, this glimpse of myself at seventeen, with all that

Ifilled the years onwards to thirty-two obliterated ; and realize
Ibetter than might otherwise have done, what a changed being
I I Iam. lament not the loss of my vivacity, for had more

than enough of that volatile ingredient, and can well afford to

Ilet some of it evaporate. One thing, however, does alarm me,

the fear, namely, lest should settle down into a sombre, prosaic
mortal, leading a dawdling, semi-valetudinarian, coddling life,
390       MEMOIR OK GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IX.

which were worse even than the alternate and unequal rises

and falls of my youthful, wayward moods. The fires of my

heart, which once blazed, are all burned out, or deliberately

Iextinguished ; and without making vows, which would be foolish

and even sinful, feel every day the circle of my imaginative

rovings shorten its diameter, and the thirst of my earlier ambi

tion cease, although, like the thirst of a fever- patient, it has

never been slaked. All this is well, if the empty heart be filled

I Iby Him who should from the first have been its occupant ; but

  have seen in others, and fear in myself, an exchange of dis

sipation of mind for unprofitable idleness, and this the more

Ithat my mode of life carries me out of the busy current, in

which formerly at least struggled to swim, and my health has

embayed me in a side pool, little influenced by the tide."

   The various effects of affliction he expresses to Daniel
Macmillan in these words :--" The furnace of affliction puffs

away some men in black smoke, and hardens others into use

less slags, and melts a few into clear glass. May it refine us

into gold seven times purified, ready to be fashioned into vessels

for the Master's use." Expecting a visit from this friend in
"I I1850, he tells him,
          am reputed to be much graver than

was, but when not in sickness or pain there are lots of fun in

me yet." After the visit was past, he laments the inability to
enjoy his friend's society, for " those two demons, rheumatism and

Idyspepsia, had gone shares for my poor body, and was ill at
Iease. Night after night spend in prosecuting a discovery, the
Isteps of which are, that awake in pain on one side, and after

a period of vague uneasiness, say sleepily to myself, ' It is the

Iother side on which you sleep quietly,' and so turn to the
Iother side, and after three minutes find out was mistaken, and
that it was the other side, and the other follows the other, till

uneasy slumber puts an end to the unceasing revolutions. One

I Iis poor company after such nights ; but hope when next see

Iyou shall be reasonably well."

The humorous way in which his illnesses were frequently

mentioned, could not fail to provoke a smile even from the

"Imost tenderly sympathizing. One or two specimens must
suffice.  have not, like some unhappy people, an aching
1841-54.           CURTAIN LECTURES.                    391

I Ivoid, but an aching plenum, i.e., am full of aches.  might

quote, as suitable to my case, the words of the beautiful Scotch

Isong, ' leaned my back against an aik,' only modernizing the

last word into ache, as of course it should be." Being unable

Ito join a proposed excursion, he explains the reason : " To tell

you the truth, have been for some time tired of lecturing

Ibehind

and I
          a table  (like a shopman selling goods   over a counter),
          thought      should like to try Curtain   Lectures for a
Ichange. Accordingly, took care to catch a cold, and fell to

Icoffin, and finally betook myself to bed the night before last,

and as the curtain course is not yet finished, remain there

still, lecturing to a very attentive, sympathizing, and appreciat

ing audience, consisting of my bedfellow Grim, who looks upon

coughing as a kind of barking, and thinks it quite in his way."
In allusion to what he had suffered at the hands of surgeons,
he sometimes spoke of himself as " copiously illustrated with

cuts."

His sister Jeanie is told, "Give a rap on the table when you

get this (that's the way spirits take to communicate thought),
and venerate the postman who gave two (was it ?) raps when he
handed it in.

  I" have been vexed with the cares that belong to a landlord.
IInto an apartment in my possession, which intended to shut

up, indeed to fill up, a rogue found his way, bent on making,

not paying a rent. He would not pay the taxes ; on the other

hand, he taxed me. He would not rest even at night, but com
Ipelled me to get up at any hour to look after him.
                                                     besought

him at least not to disturb me during lecture, but the rogue

declared that he hated fumes, and would interrupt me in the

Imidst of the most angelic eloquence. His Christian name

don't know (indeed he is not a Christian). His surname is
Bronkeetis. He comes of an old family, and cheats people into
the notion that cough is a simple word, which will get simpler

by use, as at last it does by changing its spelling, and ending

in coffin. People don't like to spell it that way, but all the
folks who begin with coughing as the right fashion, end with

the other version of it. The Homceopathists, for example,

advise the administration to sick people of cocoa, because they
392               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. IX.

are afraid to recommend coughy, which the honest grocers spell
coffee." At another time he speaks of his " everlasting cough,
a Malakhoff which neither French nor English are likely to

take."1 A coughing performance, in which he is engaged at

intervals, through the night as well as day, " excites," he says,

" so much applause, that it is invariably encored."
   Excitable temperaments like his cannot but have times of

     but   these he concealed so well that       they were often
          " Cheer up, my good friend," he        replies to a de
I Idepression,

unsuspected.
sponding letter, " can say, ' De profundis clamavi ;' look back

with great horror at some of the dark and dreary images which

an overworked brain doomed me to have for daily and nightly

visitants, for weeks together, since Christmas onwards. Only

now [in April] is the heaving black sea of gloom beginning to
Ismooth its waves, and the horror of great darkness to pass away.
The fault lies in great part with the body, and  that     hope to
mend by a week in the country." " My roving      fancy,"  he tells
John Cairns, " is ever building castles in the air, or digging

dungeons in the nether depths. Well ! well ! there is a cure
even for that, and for the benefit of poor dreamers like me it
has been written, that ' neither height nor depth ' shall be able

to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.

I IYou need not tell me am wrong in my exegesis ; if were
Iright, should not say it to such a dweller in the Interpreter's
Ihouse as you. But am right, so far as regards myself, at this

present moment."

     The two letters which follow are given nearly entire, the first

-being addressed to a literary friend, and the second to Mr.

Daniel Macmillan :-

     " It is always difficult to write to a distant friend, for one

1

         I
                                                                          is,

                                                iIf
                                                        I

                                                                                                              a
cannot know but very generally how he and the tone of
letter may be all out of keeping with his condition.

   " A strong feeling of this makes me reluctant to write this

evening, for remember too well my own risings and fallings,

and wayward changes when ill, to be at all confident that can

say anything that will be acceptable to you. Yet          should

     Written during the siege of Sebastopol, with its Malakhoff tower yet uuattacked.
1844-54.       . CONSOLATORY LETTERS.                                                                                     393

I Ifail, you will give me credit know for good intent, and will

on my side lay claim to a deep and sincere affection for you.

One thing has struck me when ill myself, and when visiting

others who were ill, viz., what depths there are in every human
heart, which only God can fill ! How impossible it is to find

words in which to express to others some of the thoughts which

Istir our souls most. A remembrance of this gives me a very

humble impression of what can do for another spirit on whom

affliction is laid, and makes me rather look to Him who in all

the afflictions of His people is afflicted, and who, inasmuch as

He hath suffered being tempted, is able to succour us when we

Iare tempted.
"Were          beside you, so that we could speak together, we

should soon know each other as we are, and have open frank

communion together. As it to write to draw the bow at
I
                    I

                                       is
                                                is,

                                                             a
                                                            is

                                                  I ;I I
                                                                                                                        aa
venture, and perhaps send the arrow wide of the mark.
   " shall do no more, accordingly, in this letter, than send you

affectionate good wishes. After making twice over such

recovery from the severest inflammation of the eyes as did,

although my constitution   so bad                             one, far, far worse                                         than
                                                                                                                          look
yours, so bad indeed that no Office                        will insure my life,                                            and
                                                           with cheerful hope
forward to news of your betterness

strongly feeling that helped to overtask your eyes by the
demands which the Life of Cavendish made upon them, also

look forward to your sending me some work to do for you,

whilst your eyes are resting for the future labours which the
great Taskmaster has in store for them. And although out of

our own works we shall never get contentment, and ought not,

our standard   high one,   assuredly blessed reflection
if

                         is
                                a

                                        it

                                                    is
                                                                                a

that God has given us grace to think of Him in what we have

done as authors, and that however imperfectly we have laboured

to honour Him and serve our fellows, He has not left us without

some token that He has approved our work.
   " May He give us more and higher work to do for Him, and

as preparation for subdue our wills to His, and make us
a
                                 it,

                       I

                                                        a
like our blessed Saviour.  have poor cousin dying, and the

spectacle of his sufferings has made me stop fretting over lesser
pangs, which seemed less than nothing compared with his. The
394    MEMOIR OF OEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. IX.

great mystery of suffering in a world so beautiful, and orderly,
and full of law as this, we shall never understand on this side

the grave, and personal suffering ever brings back the problem
in all its insolubility, to tempt the aching heart to aim at its
solution again. But for all practical ends there is an adequate
solution of the great mystery in the fact that the Lord Jesus
Christ himself suffered as none of His people are called to do.

I cannot always think of the Saviour's sufferings. They are too

awful for aught but very solemn meditation. The Roman

ICatholics and Methodists alike cultivate a mode of referring to

the agonies which Christ endured, which shrink from, although

I do not doubt that many of both retain a most reverential

feeling for the Lord.
    " But in periods of great sorrow and suffering, the thought

that a holy, sinless, perfect man, was the subject of a lifetime of
trial, wound up by a death of the most painful kind, and this
with His own consent, and by the appointment of God the Father,

comes home to my heart as a warning against being perplexed
overmuch with the mystery of suffering when it is laid upon

Imyself. And when to this thought is added the other, that this

great sufferer was Himself God, feel that fully to realize this

truth is the surest way of preventing that eating of one's own

heart, which, when ill and sad, we are all so prone to do."

I" It is not about B  am going to write. This is Sabbath
Ievening, and desire to think of other things ; and most of all

to sympathize with you in your present sorrow. Think not that
I If I Idespise tears, or count them unmanly.
                                 said once that

did not weep, it was to explain an allusion in a verse, not to

parade the fact or to boast of it.
    " Weeping, or not weeping, is neither here nor there as a sign

of courage or the want of it. It is dependent in great part on a

Iman's physical make, and the action of a little gland. When

am prostrated my mind eats inwards, and broods in morbid

Isilence and gloom. Tears would be a relief, but they will not
come.  would be thankful if they did, and take no credit that

they do not.

  I I" can, think,-altogether sympathize with you, in the great
   1844-54.            SYMPATHY WITH INVALIDS.                                                     395

   reluctance with which you must have left Cambridge just when

   a new term was beginning. When one is exceedingly ill, one

   is engrossed with the calamity which compels everything to
   yield to it : and when well, how much there is to do ! But to

   be neither very ill nor very well ; to have a certain fitness for

   work, and conviction of its importance, and yet no sustaining

             I
                                                   it,
                                                                    is
                                                                                a
   relish or enduring capacity for this                                            sore trial of faith and

   patience, as months of its endurance have again taught me.
      " Yet am sure such seasons will often, with God's blessing,

   teach us what exulting health and terrible agony cannot, and

   are as needful to ripen many of us for another world, as cup
   running over with mercies, or sharp strokes of affliction. Great
                                                                                   it
   torture not only maddening, but enslaving;                                                is a
             is                                                                    makes the

   mind reel, and fills the heart with terror. Full health self-
   reliant, God-forgetting, and unheeding. A dreary season, such

   as you see before you, often permits more profitable study of
   God, and carries us farther forward in the Divine life, than the
                                      ;I
   extremes of ill-health or its opposite will do.a
      " do not overlook, in saying this, that the moral regimen

   suitable for one mind will not serve another, and that what
is
   profited me may not benefit you.          have nothing but my own
  I
   experience to speak certainly from but, after all, we are of like
   passions and infirmities, and will be more or less affected in the

   same way by the same causes.aIa
       " Neither do forget that mind unstrung for secular study,
       enfeebled for religious work also. How often have thisis it
                                                                                   if

                                                                                        I
   summer felt mean childish gladness, that the chapter to be

   read was short one and been as apathetic as there were
             is        ;
                a
neither God nor devil in the universe.
   " Nevertheless, we have promise of the Holy Spirit's help in
                          a

our religious work, which, as         is  supernatural in nature and

source, not at the mercy of sickness. It does not, in reference

to this, at all matter what theological theory we hold as to

inspiration. We both believe that one of the good gifts which

Christ's death procured for us, the sanctifying presence of the
Holy Ghost in our hearts. We cannot distinguish His workings

from those of our own spirits, yet we can believe that where

it  may please God to cut us off from relish and capacity for
396  MEMOIK OF GEORGE WILSON.   CHAP. IX.

the ordinary affairs of life, He may yet increase our spiritual
powers, and teach us more of His ' deep things,' and make us

liker Himself. The incapacity, indeed, in the one direction may

be a provision for greater endowment in the other, and the

shadow which ill health casts over the soul is often the most

befitting background, and lets us realize best, by the contrast,

the presence and the brightness of the ' Light of Life.'

  " I have been preaching to myself all this while, and think
Iing through my pen. have said nothing that you do not know.
I IIt would be a sad thing for us if we had to indulge in novelties.

But know how thankful am to get a hint from a religious

Ifriend, though he should but repeat a verse had been reading

the moment before. To me the prayer of the humblest Chris

tian, however defective he may be in other gifts and graces

than those which God grants to the weakest brethren, is always

comforting and refreshing ; and it brings you and me closer

than railways could if we can rejoice together, as having ' one

faith, one Lord, one baptism.' You please me much with what

you say of the hymn. It is not the expression of unfelt or put

I Ion emotion, nor does it pretend to be poetry. Before die

I Ihope to gather together a set of hymns for the sick-room, and

if don't live long enough to accomplish this, can comfort

myself with the thought that there is abundance already.

  " And now I will trouble you no further. Your namesake,

the prophet, was in a den of lions, and God shut their mouths.

Yours is a trial of an opposite kind, for the den and the lions
Iare in you. Their mouths can be shut by God also, and pray
Ithat they may.
                 never can cease admiring that beautiful re
quest of the Prayer-book, ' A happy issue out of all their afflic
tion.' It is so humble, so undictating to God, so moderate, yet

so ample. God give that to us both. Amen. In His way and

time, and in this world and in the next. . . .

  I" To be well enough to work is the wish of my natural heart ;

but if that may not be, know that ' they also serve who only
stand and wait.' God will not require healthy men's labour
from you or me ; and if we are poor in power and opportunity
to serve Him, our widow's mite will weigh against the gold

ingots of His chosen apostles.
1844 -54.  HYMN FOR THE SICK-ROOM.                                   307

  "I am sure we all pray too little, and trust God too little ;

but the topic is inexhaustible."

   "We cannot be certain which hymn is spoken of in the pre
ceding letter. Not a few were ' Songs in the night,' and are

memorials of times of more than ordinary suffering. In igno
rance of the special one alluded to, we shall give ' A Hymn for

the Sick-room,' the soothing balm of which has been gladly
welcomed by other sufferers :--

           Sufferer, lift thy weary eye !is
           Help is with thee, Christ is nigh ;a

           God regards thee from on high.a
                                  is,
           All thy groans go up as prayers,
                                                               ;
              Through the Spirit's interceding ;
           Each unworded murmur wears,                            ;

              At God's throne, the air of pleading ;
           And in all thy woes He shares,

              Who was once the Victim bleeding.

           Though He is, and was, all sinless,
              He remembers mortal pain ;

           Holy though He and stainless,
               On His form the scars remain,

           And He looketh now, though painless,
               Like Lamb that hath been slain.

            He not great High Priest
              In all sympathy deficient,

            From all human things released,
               For Himself in all sufficient

           To be man He hath not ceased,
               Though He is, as God, omniscient.

           All thy bed, in all thy sickness,
               He will make with His kind hands

           All thy fainting, fears, and weakness,

               Anxious thoughts, and fond demands,
            All thy patience, faith, and meekness,

               Reach Him where on high He stands.

            Faint not, then God ever listeneth,
                Answereth ere the cry sent

            Whom He loveth, those He chasteneth,
               Taketh what He only lent

            For Himself our ripening hasteneth
               By His sorest punishment.
           !
                            is
                                     ;
                                            ;
398  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                        CHAP. IX.

     Need of patience have we all :
        Only through much tribulation

     Shall the holiest God doth call
        Pass through their ordained probation,

     And no longer dread to fall,

        Certain of their soul's salvation.

Before passing on to new scenes, it will be well to note a few

more of the changes which the years we have been considering

did not fail to bring. The death of a much-loved aunt, his

father's sister, near the close of 1851, left a sadness which was

deepened in the following spring by the loss, by marriage, of his

youngest sister from the fireside circle. Though his judgment

was convinced that he should rejoice with her in the formation

of a new circle of home joys, yet somehow his heart never
acquiesced in the absence of the " Benjamin " of the household.

Shortly after her settlement in England, he quitted the house

in Brown Square, after eight memorable years spent in re
a
                 a

                       a
                                      is

                                                     it,
                                                                          a

                                                                                          a

                                                                                           (it it,
                                                                                               is
                                                                                                              a
moving to large and commodious laboratory, and becoming

resident, along with his mother and sister Jessie, with his

uncle, in house built by the latter, in pleasant suburb of

Edinburgh. Here the remainder of his life was happily spent,

amidst much to gratify his love for the simple and the beauti
ful. " Elm Cottage " now inseparably associated in the minds

of many with thoughts of him. The name was chosen, on

account of the elm trees beside  by his brother Daniel, who

had scarcely taken possession of one-half of the house

double dwelling), before an appointment to professorship in

Canada carried him and his household far from their native soil.

Not long after he left, Alexander Russell, his cousin, settled in

Australia with his household, so that of the large circle with
which George Wilson was surrounded in our first chapter, only

two now remained beside him. AH these were changes which

left bleeding wounds in his sensitive heart and to none of them
I

                                         it

                                                       is

                                                                                                             ;

                                                                                             a

                                                                                      is
could time reconcile him. We wonder not that he graver

than of old, but rather that any of the buoyant fun survives.
" have had," he says in 1853, " to look at this world as full of

the most serious realities this summer, from point of view

which seems new to me, but       all for the best."
In one way alone could he still unite the broken circle. A
1814-54.  A BROKEN CIRCLE VNITED.  399

letter to his brother, at a time of domestic trial, gives the receipt,
one that cannot fail to cement in bonds beyond the reach of

earthly changes. It is written in the last year of his life.

    " Illnesses are the times that make me despise penny postages,

as premiums on tortoise and snail paces, and long for electric

wires from door to door all round the world. Were we beside

Ieach other, should be seeking to comfort you with all kinds of

medico-surgical reasonings, showing that there was more of

Igood than evil in particular symptoms. But as we are, can

only wait for the next mail with patient impatience, and hush

Ialarms by repeating the blessed words : ' Rest in the Lord, and

wait patiently.' Yet after all can do more. When we kneel

Itogether each evening to offer our prayers to God, you are never

forgotten. Jessie and are the priestess and priest, and she

reads the lesson ; and when we pray, commending all our beloved

Iones to the mercies of God and the consolations of Christ,

seem to go round the world, passing from Birkenhead, where
Jeanie has had many anxieties and trials ; to you with your

mingled sunshine and shade ; to Alick at Adelaide, still refusing

to be comforted for the loss of three children ; and to Brazil and

Hanover, whence Mina and her sister write claiming relation
ship, and beseeching remembrance in our prayers.

  I" say to myself with a sigh, Are they dead ? Are they
Iliving ? Is it well or ill with them ? But there is no reply.

can only pray for them ; but why say only ? Is there anything,

my dear brother, we can do for each other, or for those we love,
more certain to serve them than prayer ? That it is something,

Ieven my faithless, sceptical heart, and fault-finding spirit lias

realized. To the God of all grace commend you."
400  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                                       CHAP. X.

     CHAPTER X.

     THE SCOTTISH INDUSTRIAL MUSEUM, AND THE CHAIR
                                   OF TECHNOLOGY.

                                 " I doubt my body
           Will hardly serve me through : while I have laboured
           It has decayed ; and now that I demand

            Its best assistance, it will crumble fast."
                                                                       Paracelsus.

The Session of 1854-55 was begun with gloomy anticipations
as to health. " My lungs are not what they should be ; and the
IIonly thing that could do them good, rest, cannot get.
                                                                                    have
I Ilarge classes this winter, and must do all can for them.
Ileave the issue in the hands of God, for cannot help myself,

nor does any outlet appear." Intelligence received then of the

death of several relatives and much- loved friends, fell heavily

on him, when less able physically to bear the shock. Amongst

these was Professor Edward Forbes, who but a few months

before had entered on the duties of the Natural History Chair

in the Edinburgh University. His welcome by his old student

friends was of the warmest, and unbounded hopes of the new

career opening to him, and to the University through him, filled

the hearts of all. In the summer of 1 854 he gave a short course

of lectures, and was entering upon his first winter session, when

                 On the 24th of Novemr >-
a few days of suffering carried him off.

I newsber, George writes to his brother :--"
                 have very sad                                                                to

Icommunicate. Edward Forbes died last Saturday, after a r -bort

and painful illness, and can convey to you no adequate icte*^ 0{

                                                                                    A
            DEATH OF EDWARD FORBES.                     401

the sadness and dismay with which his unlooked-for death has

filled us. . . . He was a man of genius, and united to it so much

good sense, prudence, discretion, kindliness, gentleness, and

geniality, that he was very largely and widely honoured and
I Iloved.
loved him far better than ever told him ; but he
Icredited me, believe, with great affection. To myself the loss
Iis irreparable. Short-sighted mortals that we are, he and had

been arranging all sorts of conjoint labours, and this is the end

of it ! With nearly every one there is the feeling that he was

taken away, not from the evil to come, but from the good that

he would have done." That Edward Forbes reciprocated this

admiration may be gathered from his saying of George Wilson,

--"How sad to see so splendid a jewel in such a shattered

casket !" To Dr. Cairns, George speaks of the loss as a great

Ipersonal grief. " His death takes another idol away." While

to another he writes, " feel as if all the brave and young and

fair were dying, and a mere wreck like me allowed to float on.

I ILet us not, however, my dear friend, think of satisfying God by
our works.  try to live as a dying man (which am), with

faith in a living Saviour, whose finished work leaves me nothing

to do in the way of meritorious labour, though it lays on me the

greatest obligation to work for Him and do His will. It is a

blessed thing to know Christ, as one not ashamed to count the

meanest of us His brethren, who has promised to exalt us to a

share in His glory, and invites us all to come unto Him and find

rest. He is a far more gracious Master to us than any of us

are to ourselves, and His service is perfect freedom."

His cousin, Alexander, had lost a boy of five years on the

passage out to Australia ; he died in sight of land, and the first

possession of his parents in the new country was a little grave.

His beauty and winning ways had made Harry deeply loved by

all who knew him and his death was regarded as no common

Iloss. On learning his bereavement, George writes to the sor -

rowing father :-- " Scarcely am home from Rothesay before

we are all startled by the unlooked-for decease of my young,

brave, frank, and skilled colleague, Dr. Richard Mackenzie, who

had volunteered to accompany the troops to the East, and

perishes of cholera after winning the utmost esteem and gratitude

            2c
402              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.      CHAP. X.

of the Highland soldiers, and risking his life at the battle of the

Alma. The shock of that is scarcely past, before we are plunged

into new and deeper grief by the death, after a very short illness,

of Edward Forbes, in the very height of his glory and usefulness ;
Iand am in tears for the loss of that beloved friend, when your
... Iletter arrives with its afflicting news.
                                               have given up
Imaking idols ; they are all taken away. Harry thought of

as full of life and energy ; and destined, with that remarkable

Imechanical genius of his, to become great, and good, and famous,

long, long after had found rest in the grave. He was so beau

Itiful --the most beautiful boy ever saw -- so loving, so lovable,
Iwhat had Death to do with him ? Was not here and others,

who had digged for death as for hidden treasure, and could even

rejoice at the prospect of going to be with Christ, which for us

Iis far better than a dying life here : that he should be summoned
and we left !    have asked myself the same question regarding

the death of Mackenzie, and still more regarding the loss of

Edward Forbes,

Icalamity. But
I Iside the grave.
               whose death is universally felt to be a public
                 can find no answer, and expect none on this
                  am learning, hope, more and more to trust

God, and to put faith in Christ ; and to leave these, and a thou

sand other black mysteries to be explained, if God please,
hereafter, and if it does not so please him, to be left unex

plained."
I" have agreed very reluctantly," he tells his brother Daniel,
I" to write Edward Forbes's life.
                                   have been so importuned to
I Ibecome his biographer, that have assented.
                                               loved him very

dearly, and knew him well, and the task is in that respect very
Iwelcome ; but had labours of my own to work out which must
Ibe put aside.1
                 enclose some verses on his loss, which embody

two ideas of his own applied to plants and animals." The verses

alluded to appeared in ' Blackwood's Magazine' for March 1855,
with a short explanatory preface :--

  1 " I hope I shall live to write Edward Forbes's Life," is an expression in a letter

about this date. But this hope was only partly fulfilled. The amount of labour

demanded from him by the duties of the subsequent years, left almost no leisure for

literary work. Every attempt was made to get on with it, but at his death it was
left unfinished. Arrangements have been made, however, for its early completion,
and we trust it will very shortly be given to the public.
185J. LINES TO FORBES'S MEMORY.                           403

" The lines seek to apply, mutatis mutandis, to the mystery of

the great Naturalist's death, certain canons which he enforced in

reference to the existence of living things, both plants and

animals. Their purport was, to teach that an individual plant

or animal cannot be understood, so far as the full significance of

its life and death is concerned, by a study merely of itself ; but
that it requires to be considered in connexion with the variations

in form, structure, character, and deportment, exhibited by the

contemporary members of its species spread to a greater or less

extent over the entire globe ; and by the ancestors of itself, and

of those contemporary individuals throughout the whole period

which has elapsed since the species was created.
   " He further held, that the many animal and vegetable tribes

or races (species) which once flourished, but have now totally
perished, did not die because a ' germ of death' had from the

first been present in each, but suffered extinction in consequence

of the great geologic changes which the earth had undergone,

such as have changed tropical into arctic climates, land into sea,

and sea into land, rendering their existence impossible. Each

species, itself an aggregate of mortal individuals, came thus from

the hands of God, inherently immortal ; and when He saw fit to

remove  it        was slain through the intervention of such changes;
           it,
and replaced by another. The longevity, accordingly, of theit

existing races can, according to this view, be determined (in so
far as admits of human determination at all) only by study
of the physical alterations which await the globe and every
                                               ;

                                                       a

organism has thus, through its connexion with the brethren of

its species, retrospective and prospective history, which must
        a

be studied by the naturalist who seeks fully to account even for

its present condition and fate.
   " Those canons were applied by Edward Forbes to the humbler

creatures he was unfailing in urging that the destinies of man
      ;

          :"

                   :;

                       is it

                                            a
are guided by other laws, having reference to his possession

individually of an immaterial and immortal spirit.
   " The following lines, embodying these ideas, contemplate his

death, solely as was loss to his fellow- workers left behind

him their aim to whisper patience, not to enforce conso

lation
404              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.               CHAP. X.

       Thou Child of genius ! None who saw
          The beauty of thy kindly face,

       Or watched those wondrous fingers draw
           Unending forms of life and grace,
           Or heard thine earnest utterance trace

        The links of some majestic law,
     But felt that thou by God wert sent
     Amongst us for our betterment.

        And yet He called thee in thy prime,
           Summoned thee in the very hour

        When unto us it seemed that Time
           Had ripened every manly power :
           And thou, who hadst through sun and shower,

        On many a shore, in many a clime,
     Gathered from air, and earth, and sky,
     Their hidden troths, wert called to die.

        We went about in blank dismay,
            We murmured at God's sovereign will ;

        We asked why thou wert taken away,
           Whose place no one of us could fill :
            Our throbbing hearts would not be still ;

        Our bitter tears we could not stay :
     We asked, but could no answer find ;
     And strove in vain to be resigned.

         When, lo ! from out the Silent Land,
             Our faithless murmurs to rebuke,

        In answer to our vain demand
            Thy solemn Spirit seemed to look ;
            And pointing to a shining book,

         That opened in thy shadowy hand,
      Bade us regard those words, which light
      Not of this world, made clear and bright :--

     " If as on earth I learned full well,

             Thou canst not tell the reason why
          The lowliest moss or smallest shell

            Is called to live, or called to die,
           Till thou with searching, patient eye
         Through ages more than man can tell,
      Hast traced its history back in Time
      And over Space, from clime to clime ;

      " If all the shells the tempests send,
          IAs have ever loved to teach ;

         And all the creeping things that wend
            Their way along the sandy beach,
             Have pedigrees that backward reach,

        Till in forgotten Time they end ;
      And may as tribes for ages more,
      As if immortal, strew the shore ;
      " If all its Present, all its Past,

            And all its Future thou canst see,
1851.             JACOBITE STORIES.                    405

             Must be deciphered, ere at last
                  Thou even in part canst hope to be
                 Able to solve the mystery

             Why one sea-worm to death hath passed,--
          How must it be, when God doth call
          Him whom He placed above them all V

             Ah, yes 1 we must in patience wait,

                 THbu dearly loved, departed friend !

             Till we have followed through the gate,
                Where Life in Time doth end ;
                And Present, Past, and Future lend

             Their light to solve thy fate ;

          When all the ages that shall be,

          Have flowed into the Timeless Sea.

The letters to his absent brother give a representation of

his life, as once before on their first separation, and to them

we shall occasionally refer for information, and for glimpses at

passing events. In one, for example, we find notice of lec

tures by Mr. Ballantine, our townsman, on Jacobite music, of

which George says :--" He told with great effect some stories

I Iof the Highlanders and their doings under Prince Charles.

One think have heard before, to wit, that a clansman, after
the Battle of Preston, was busy stripping the body of an officer,

when a comrade begged a share of the plunder, and was an

swered, ' Can ye no kill a shentleman for yoursel' ? "

   " The other is quite new to me. When Prince Charles was

in Edinburgh with lots of pipers with him, a Highlander gave

this account of an interview with some of them to a friend :

I-- ' was doon in a sma' public in the Cannygate, and there

I Iwere nineteen pipers there, and each played a dufferent pibroch ;"
an' man,  thocht  was  in heeven
                                  !'
In a letter to one of George's nieces we find " a story for
papa. Hugh Miller was recently very ill with inflammation of

the lungs, and related the following experience to his namesake,

Professor Miller. He found, as he was lying in his bed, and no

doubt just emerging from semi-delirium, that he had lost his
identity. What his name was he could not tell ; but he settled

that he was about to begin business as a travelling merchant,

selling crockery through the country to the sound of two bowls

rubbed together, and he went through many elaborate calcula

tions regarding his affairs. In the midst of these, his eye
406          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.   CHAP. X.

lighted on a cornice in his bedroom, which he slowly recognised

as something he had seen somewhere before, then he followed a
line from the cornice to the floor ; from the floor his eye tra

velled to the bed which grew familiar to him, and finally his
glance settled on his own body, and he exclaimed, ' Oh, I'm

Hugh    Miller!' and there was an   end of the crockery business."
        opening month of 1855,     George writes to Daniel, " The
In the

reactionary lassitude following eleven prelections last week, has
Islowed my brain-engine, and look at some duties, and with a
Ihardened heart refuse to fulfil them.
                                        made stern resolutions

at the beginning of the winter, not to overwork myself, or to
take extra lectures, but the art of saying No is not learned in a

I Iday, and though have succeeded in uttering it several times,

could not escape some demands on me." Amongst these de
mands were three lectures to the Architectural Institute, ' On

the Chemistry of Building Materials,'1 at the request of its
members. In the closing lecture a hope is expressed that

through the instrumentality of the Industrial Museum, the
knowledge of the qualities of Scottish building stones will re

ceive large additions.
I" The many deaths among relatives and friends have made us
very grave.  am soberly cheerful among strangers, and try to

live day by day as a dying man ; and though it is a most im

I Iperfect copy of the life of my Lord and Master, know that
I Ilove Him more than ever did, and hope to love and imitate

Him better and better." The preparedness for death, of which

these words give evidence, was about to be put to a searching
test. After a lecture at the School of Arts one evening in the

beginning of February, he lay down to rest, but was aroused by
the rupture of a blood-vessel, and the loss of a considerable

quantity of blood. His indomitable spirit showed itself in his

coming down next morning as usual to breakfast, and actually
lecturing twice that day, though his ghastly appearance showed
that he was little fit for such exertion. When the weary day

was over, and he was again left for the night, haemorrhage re

turned a second time, and consciousness nearly failed him. He
v lis unable to summon assistance, and all that lonely night his

     i ' Transactions of the Architectural Institute of Scotland for 1854-5.'
1655.               NOT DEATH, BUT LIFE.                    407

bed seemed surrounded by the spirits of those of the family

gone before. Some words of a psalm which he had read just
before lying down kept a place in his mind through all its wa

verings : " I shall not die but live, and declare the works of the

Lord."

Medical aid was obtained next day, and so probable was the

return of the haemorrhage deemed, that on the third night there

was little hope that he would see the dawn. It passed safely

over, however, and he gradually regained strength in a way that

made the words of the psalm seem prophetic. At first the

haemorrhage was supposed to proceed from the lungs, but ulti
mately it was ascertained to be from the stomach, resulting, in

fact, as was discovered two years later, from a great enlarge

ment of the spleen, unsuspected at the time. The following

was received by Dr. Cairns shortly after he was able to leave

bed :--                                         " Feb. 7th, 1855.
   " Dear John, --

                                     I am persuaded

        That neither Death, when the faint soul, invaded

        By its last enemy, awaits the strife ;
        Nor all the boundless energies of life ;
        Nor all the awful might that dowers

        Angels and principalities and powers ;
        Nor present things, nor things to come ;
        Nor height, though higher than the heaven's dome ;
        Nor depth, though deeper than the Gulf of Gloom ;

        Nor aught that in the universe finds room,

        Shall be able us to sever
        From the love of God, which ever
        Is in Jesus Christ our Lord.

" What madness, you will say, what audacity and folly, to

I Imeddle with that sublime passage, and spoil it by a paltry para

phrase ! To which say Amen ; and yet went and did it whilst
.....I.lying awake in darkness on Sunday night. It insisted on being
paraphrased, and won't trouble me again.                    have had a
perilous attack, and was close upon the grave.
                                                              I was in

bed both times, and on the second occasion, when there was a

gush of blood, a very dying-like sensation came over me. God

I Ihas still preserved me, and trust to do Him some service.

have enjoyed much peace of mind this winter. Pray for me,
408  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.              CHAP. X.

Ithat may be kept from fainting or failing till He calls me."

ITen days later he writes to Daniel from his rooms in town, hav

ing resumed duty to the extent of one lecture a day. " had a

Inarrow escape from death, for the loss of a little more blood

would have ended matters ; and indeed lost between fifty and
sixty ounces, which is rather too much. It is a strange feeling
Iyour blood gushing from you.
                               had no pain, and only slight
Isickness, and felt very calm."
  I I" Since broke my arm, have been disciplined into a mental
Ipeace never knew before, and in spite of fluctuations such

I Ias must occur so long as this mortal body is carried about,
look with composure to what God may send.  have been

Igetting knocked down, and then up again at short intervals for

the last twelve years, and have more than once felt that could

have been thankful had the coup de grace been given ; but al

ways with convalescence, the cowardly, unchristian desire to

Iescape the trenches departs, and go forwards to Sebastopol

again. Valetudinarians like me are apt to become selfish and

Ilazy, and must fight against the tendency." And on March 1st
Ihe adds, " am better, and convinced that the doctors mistook

my case ; although the loss of the blood was equally weakening

whencesoever it came. It would have been poor consolation to
have had as an epitaph --

     " Here lies George Wilson,

           Overtaken by Nemesis ;
       He died, not of Haemoptysis,

           But of Hrematemesis."1

   While convalescent, but still feeble, there was handed to him
--on his birthday, as it happened --an official packet, contain

ing his appointment as Director of the Scottish Industrial
                               " A week before got the

                               had no expectation of it.
IMuseum, then in contemplation.
Iappointment," he tells Daniel, "
IThe talk regarding it began nearly a year ago, but told no

one, no promise having been made me." After mentioning the
kind efforts of friends in his favour, without solicitation on his

   i By mistaking his case is meant the supposition at first held, that the haemorrhage
proceeded from the lungs, for which haemoptysis is the technical name, while haema-
temesis means bleeding from the stomach.
1855.                 DIRECTOR OF MUSEUM.  409

part, he goes on to say, " All this was last April, and then the

Ithing slumbered. . . . After Edward Forbes's death, my health

was objected to by some one, and gave up the slightest hope

of the thing, so that the appointment took me wholly by sur

prise." Inquiries on the part of Government as to who was the

person most likely to be acceptable to the general public as

Director of the Museum had but one reply, and thus the ap

pointment was made. Coming at a time when his health was

more than usually uncertain, Dr. Wilson, before acceptingis
                                                              aa

                                                                         it,
consulted his medical friends as to his physical ability to fulfil

the duties of the directorship, and only did so on their assuring
him that his health might in all probability be better than pre

viously, and that need form no barrier to his undertaking the
       it,
                  it

                       it
duties of the post offered him, which seemed to give promise of

greater rest, and to call for less exertion. To Dr. Gladstone he
writes of " Besides the organization and control of museum

of applied chemistry, includes what equivalent to lecture

ship on Technology. The attractions in the new appointment

are not less of responsibility, concern, and care, but less drudgI
ery in mere elementary teaching, and no night lectures. You,

   am sure, will wish me God- speed, and ask our Lord and

Master's blessing on great Educational Scheme, which will
       a
either be great boon or evil to us, but, please God, only anda

largely the former."          :a a

   As in few months the new duties became more clearly de

fined, we shall defer allusions to them. The following letter,

addressed in May to scientific friend, gives glimpses at the
mainspring of his life --

   " This last year has been very full of calamities in the circle

of my friends, and of trials of flesh and spirit to myself, as has
                                           I
                                                  I

                                                                  it
been to you.  I  gather from your letter, as trust can say for

myself, that the national disasters and sufferings of our country

men, and the state of Europe and the world, and God's dealings

with ourselves, have not passed like the winged wind over our

heads, and left no mark behind.
   " Amidst much thoughtlessness and forgetfulness of God, and

many sins which exact their own punishment, and many which

seem far too light to me, though in God's eye they are not light,
410  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. X.

I have a rejoicing feeling that a greater peace of mind and surer
I fhope in Christ are mine, than was the case some years ago.

it please God to grant me longer life, my prayer is for more free

Idom from engrossing earthly cares, that may do more to serve
I Imy blessed Lord and Master. And if am not to live, may
I Idie able to say that know in whom believe.

   " Is it not a strange thing, and not to the credit of our Chris

tianity, that whilst we congratulate each other on worldly

advancement. on additions to titles, on increase of salary, on

professional work well done, on enlargements of families and the

like, we do not congratulate each other on victories won over

Satan, and new proofs of allegiance to Christ ? Let me not on

this occasion, at least, be wanting in rejoicing with you that

Iyou have chosen the better part, and not gone to Prussia.
Icould not judge for you ; or advise otherwise than did ; but

you who know how far your religious liberty would be compro

mised, and preferred that it should remain unshackled, to risk

ing the faith which you have professed in Christ, and perilling

the salvation of your children, have reason to ask all who love

you, and esteem eternal life at its due value, to join with you in

thanking God, that through so great a trial you have passed

and gotten the victory.

"They accuse Christians of a selfish caring for their own

souls. They forget that in this world every man must take

wages ; that no amateurs are permitted ; that invisibly beside us

stand at every moment the Lord of Light and the Prince of

Darkness, to press into our hands the wages we have earned,

whether we will or no ; and that beyond the gates of death they
will appear in their own persons and give us the last instal

ment, those abiding wages which shall multiply themselves
Ithrough eternity.
                    will not remind you of what Christ has
Ipromised to those who prefer everything to Him : will be con

tent to remind you that to have grace given us to prevail

against temptation, is a proof that the Saviour already loves us,
is also a present joy, and the assurance of joys yet in store."

After a visit to London, on Government business, in June, a

short but hard-earned holiday was spent, two months later, at
Melrose, whence he writes :--
1855.  -             THE ADVANTAGES OF TRAVEL.                 411

    " Dear Mother, --This place is called Mel-Rose, or Rosa
Mellis, i.e., Honey Rose, from a famous rose which used to grow

here, and drop honey from its leaves. That was in the time of

the pious old monks, but in these degenerate days, the roses

have ceased to drop anything but their leaves, and occasionally
a caterpillar, and are turned into cabbage roses. . . . Yesterday

we discovered the Tweed, after a day and a half's search for
          it

                                   ;I

                                                                    it

                                                                                                    it,
and found very thick and muddy           am afraid has been

adulterated." He spent some hours of each day writing under

the trees of the Abbey Garden, kindly thrown open to the
public by its proprietor, Mr. Tait of Prior Bank. " am taken
                                                    aI
for an artist, and have been seen by many parties sketching

Melrose Abbey, and why should take fit of egotistical obstiIa

nacy, and deny that ever used the old abbey so ill as to at
                     it
tempt to draw it. Mr. Duncan Maclaren           not man easily
                         is                 is
                                                it
deceived, and Dr. Brown belongs to profession famous for itsI
                             I is     a

acuteness. They both saw me sketching, and would be rude

in me to contradict them. However, can't find the sketch
                                   I
                                      I
anywhere in my portfolio, otherwise would send it.
    " The mutton here excellent, and for very good reason
                                            a                  ;

the sheep feed upon apples. You'll be saying that's some of my

nonsense, but        not. have been studying the ways of the

sheep that share the garden lawn with me. We are now good

friends, and they feed close to me, taking me, as Jessie affirms,

for shepherd, whom in my hat and plaid much resemble.
       a                              a

                 is                        aI

                                                           if
The lawn in large part an orchard, and my friends look out

diligently for the fallen apples, and munch them up as they

were turnips. To-day the gardener mounted tree, and fell to

shaking down the apples, whereupon wise lamb stepped for

ward, proposing to try their quality, and an altercation arose

between and the gardener, ending in the victory of the latter
is

  it
           it
tyrannical person. You see the advantages of travel.      might
                                   I
                                                       I
have remained long enough at Elm Cottage without learning

the singular fact in natural history have just recorded. Nor

      the only one have learned, as you shall find when we reI

turn. It would be wrong to come back from Sir Walter Scott's

Land, and not romance little. His own house, by the way,
                        a             ;

                                                                      is
                                                                               is
one of the least romantic we have seen but the country won
412          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                     CHAP.X.

derful, wonderful, such a country as even Adam and Eve, when

the fiery -s worded angel drove them forth, might have wandered
into with delight. Luckily for you my paper is done, or you

would have had a rhapsody." Again he says, "You would

admire the Abbey garden. The old grey towers look over the

walls, with the ghosts of departed monks sitting sorrowfully on
the broken pinnacles, and gazing on the desolation and usurpa

tion below. A flock of merry swallows wheel about the battle

ments, darting out and in between the poor ghosts without

/touching them.                                                 walk
   " The garden is open to all genteel people, so that
through it boldly. A genteel cat paid me a visit in the place,

Iand after salutations with its wreathed tail, passed on. Of

another visitor, a large tame rabbit, am a little doubtful that he

had a right of entrance. He looked at me somewhat suspi

Iciously with his great bright eyes, but suppose he intended

only to eat the weeds. He was well dressed, better than myself,

a handsome fur cloak, and other things, as the old writers say,    to ?"'
' conform.' My greatness was acknowledged yesterday in a

highly satisfactory way. A clown walked into the garden

Istraight up to me, and begged to know 'if selled any berries

  A daily drive in the beautiful neighbourhood diversified such

pleasures. One day, finding that no newspapers could be

obtained in the little town, he drove to Galashiels, about five

miles distant, and after purchasing copy of the Scotsman,'
                                 a       '

                                    ;               is '
proceeded to read          on the way home. This          decidedly
     a                                '
            a

                    it
                       it
worth penny,' he said to his sister read that.' What she

read was     notice of his appointment as Professor to the

newly -founded chair of Technology. The official document
apprising him of reached by later post. Though took
                           a                              a it

him by surprise at the     time, he had been aware such step

was in contemplation.      It was suggested first by the profes
sors in the Edinburgh
                           University, to whom seemed more
                                         it

advisable to have the director of the New Museum amenable

their laws, than to have in him one who might set up rival

claims as public teacher, with salary from Government,
          a                   a

and valuable museums at his disposal. This recommendation

was approved by the Edinburgh Town-Council, and the pro
1*55.  PROFESSOR OF TECHNOLOGY.                      413

posal brought by the Board of Trade before Government. Dr.

Wilson made no solicitations, and merely expressed willing

ness to accept such an appointment should it be made.

  ITo Dr. Cairns he writes :-- " It will bring with it hope some

Ibodily rest, although it does not add to my wealth nor dimi

nish my responsibility ; and know too well that this world

Imust be to every wise man a scene of struggle, and to every

humble man a place of sorrow, to expect that shall have less

I Iof its cares or woes than before. With unfeigned sincerity
   can say that have rejoiced at the prospect of serving my

Saviour more and better through the influence it may give me,

and the prayer is often on my lips, and oftener in my heart, that I

may be made bold and wise enough to confess Him before men.

  I" see so many of my scientific and literary friends devoured

by the cares of the world, and fretted by its little troubles, that

II tremble lest too become a selfish scheming worldling. Only
IGod's grace, know, can keep me unspotted from the world,
I Ibut it can, and your prayers will not be wanting, that so long

as have a place in this world may be kept from the evil that

is in it.

  I" I wish I could visit you, but it may not be. My duties will

seriously begin on October 1st, for have my laboratory still to

keep going, and to gather wonders for my museum from the

four quarters of heaven."

   The same desire is expressed at the close of a long chemical

letter to Dr. Gladstone :-- "As for the Chair, I trust and pray

that it will increase my power to serve my blessed Lord and

Master." His appointment was welcomed with unqualified de

light by the public generally. One of the periodicals of the

time remarks :-- " The formation of the Industrial Museum

would in fact have been a matter of comparatively little impor

tance to the community generally had not this appointment

[that of the new Chair] been made ; and had the Government
sought through the length and breadth of the land for a person

                           '

                                            it
                                                           it,

                                                                          '
fitted for carrying out the objects contemplated by  they

would not readily have found one so well qualified as Dr.

George Wilson." A writer in the North British Review --

believed to be Sir David Brewster -- attributes in great part
414                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                  CHAP. X

to his labours in reference to Colour-Blindness. " We have no
doubt," he says, " the researches which it [the work on Colour
Blindness] contains, and their practical relation to the safety of
ships and railway trains, which he was the first to point out,

were among the grounds of his appointment to the Chair of

Technology or Industrial Art, which has recently been founded

by the Crown in the University of Edinburgh."1

  It was no small puzzle to the public at first, what Technology
meant. In December 1855 he reports, "Technology prospers,
and people are learning how to spell it." A definition given

before leaving Melrose, to his married sister, was probably the

first explanation of the word from him.

   " Dear Jean, --The Professor salutes you, and grieves over

the absence of Technology from your dictionary.
   " Let us see what it means, by analysing it into syllables,

beginning with the final ones. Nology, or knowledge of, must
mean ' the acquaintance with,' so far good ; but what is ' Tech V

IA pre-Adamic word, take signifying, as well as can make
                      '                          if I
out, 'things in general.' Altogether, then, we reach the full
                        is it,                           '
idea of the Knowledge of Things in General.
                                       '                                        '
" You will find the word in no dictionary. They had to

wait till knowledgeable man like me was born, before they
could coin the word. A stupid Greek scholar,'
                                                 you met
      if a
him, would tell you that techne meant art,' and logos
                                          '
meant science,' so that Technology signifies the science of the'

Arts, as my derivation did not mean the same. Science in its

application to  the Useful Arts      the meaning of the word.
                 will lecture on  Dyeing, Glass-making, Porcelain,
   " In short,
             II
Baking on Hats, Shoes, Bleaching, Ink, Gold, Iron, and, as                   :I
     a
said before, things in general. On the objects of my Museum,
          ;
and the Arts connected with them, my plan will be as follows

If-- Shoemaker comes to the Museum, I'll talk to him about

nothing but Hats, and screw information out of him about

Shoes. When Hat-maker arrives, will pour into his ears all
                a                 I

the learning have acquired from the Shoemaker, and extract

from the Hatter information to give the Cobbler on his nest

visit. In this way hope to do credit to my appointment. . .
                   I                                                         .

     i     North British Review,' February 1856, Article Colour-Blindness.'
        '
1S55.                 REQUEST FOR A GOWN.  415

IIt will bring me no addition of salary, rather the opposite, but
Ishall get more rest, and, please God, will try to do some good

in my Museum."

Before entering on the duties of the approaching Session, a

pleasant week was spent in Glasgow, at the meeting of the

British Association.

   Of the opening address by the President for that year, George
writes, " Last night the Duke of Argyle gave his address. You
will see it in full in the newspapers, and find a bit that made
I Imy head hang down, about a new Professorship.
                                           was glad

Iwas in a quiet corner, when named so unexpectedly." The

allusion was the following :-- " am happy to say that, in con
nexion with the New National Museum, which is being organ

ized for Scotland, there is to be a special branch devoted to the

industrial applications of Science ; and that a new Professor

ship, one which has long existed in almost all the continental
Iuniversities-- that of Technology --has just been instituted by
the Government.       am not less happy in being able to an

nounce that to that Chair Dr. George Wilson has been ap

pointed. The writings which we owe to the pen of Dr.

Wilson, and especially his beautiful Memoirs of Cavendish and

of Dr. Reid, are among the happiest productions of the literature

of science." 1

  When his induction as Professor drew nigh, Mrs. J. H. Glad

stone received the following humble petition :--
   " Do you happen to have a gown to spare ? A black gown ?

A silk gown ? A gown not much the worse of wear ? You

will be surprised at me making these requests, but there is a

person here known to me, who would willingly go to a meeting,
but cannot appear at it without a gown ; and though such

poverty on the part of a respectable party may surprise you in

Irich England, am sorry to say, that the individual on whose
Ibehalf would interest your kind heart, has only two gowns,

and these such singular articles of dress, that an appearance at

church in either, would infallibly provoke even the minister to

smiles, and lead to the gown-wearer being put out of doors. . . .

   1 ' Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, for 1855,'

p. 81.
41 r,  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON'.                CHAP. X.

IThe poor unfortunate for whom beg, has in vain solicited the

assistance of the kind ladies of this quarter. Here the parties

willing to give gowns are either too tall, or too short, or too

broad, or too thin ; or the gowns are either too good or too bad,
or not all silk, or too fine silk ; and the end is likely to be, that

the poor thing will not be able to attend the meeting in spite of

all my efforts.

   " Will you, then, my dear Mrs. Gladstone, give a look over
your dresses, and if you can spare a reasonably good black silk

Igown, not excessively much the worse of wear, send it by post

to me, and will be much, very much, your debtor. For, to tell

Ithe truth, am not without a selfish interest in the matter; the
I Iparty for whom beg being one for whom, as will honestly
I Iconfess, have a regard, will not say greater, deeper, more
Iromantic, more self-denying than have for any one else, but

still, as my heart acknowledges, a regard of a totally different

Ikind from that experienced for all other persons in the world.

Yet this peculiarly beloved person, whom some day hope to

commend to your indulgent kindness, is not good-looking, nor

handsome, nor graceful, nor stately (a foot shorter than John),
nor attractive in any way ; but, nevertheless, and in spite of the

I Ipoverty which would make most gownless persons an object of

dislike, have for years, more than care to mention, clung to

the unfortunate, and now take courage to beg a gown for my

companion since childhood.
   " To prevent mistakes, please address ' Gown for Dr. George

Wilson, Professor of Technology, University of Edinburgh.' I

Ihave been begging for myself ; the Queen, excellent Sovereign,

has sent me her commission, and am now Professor George."
A few months later he writes to a friend in London, who had
Iattained a similar dignity, " longed to ask you how you liked
I Iyour gown.
       seldom wear mine. Since left my native hills
Iand my kilts behind me, find pantaloons come more natural.
IDo you wear caps ?
                     do not. Do you favour curls or ban
I Ideaux?
       allow a few curls au natwrel. An apron,  feel,
Iwould not come amiss when acids are splashing about, but

have not ventured on one in public. Is it the case that you

Iwear a coral necklace and bracelets of students' hair ? confess
1865.              A WONDERFUL CUSHION.                                  417

to a fur boa, but otherwise cultivate a severe simplicity in my
attire, eschewing all tartan, though not, you may suppose, with
out a sigh."

    One more jeu d'esprit before proceeding to notice the labours
of the new sphere. In the spring of 1855, Dr. Wilson formed
the centre of a merry group, seated one bright and sunny day
on the grassy banks of the Doune, beside the old castle, about
nine miles from the Bridge of Allan. While one of the young
ladies--Miss Black, now Mrs. Henry Lees --arranged an im
promptu cushion, to add to his comfort, she volunteered the
promise, that should he ever be a Professor, she would work a
cushion for his Chair. The promise, lightly made, with little
expectation of its being claimed, was faithfully fulfilled, and
her beautiful cushion, on which flowers were worked in beads,

was an object of much pride, and a source of much pleasure to
its recipient, the donor being one whose friendship he highly

valued. The following verses were sent in acknowledgment :--

       THE CHAIR OF TECHNOLOGY AND ITS CUSHION.

       The Queen of England in her might,
          She made a wondrous Chair ;

       ShAe nbdecskaoinde, d"  to a   Scottish   wight,  !"
                               Ho    ! sit thou   there

       The Scottish wight, he bowed his head,

       "  And      stammered an apology ;                    she  said,

          N" aIny  ! sit thou there I" the Queen
                   my Chair of Technology."

       "To all my subjects, now I say,
         I make thee a professor ;

       Of this great Chair, by night and day,

         I make thee sole possessor."

       It was a strange, unheard-of Chair,

          And every part was new ;

       The wood that made it was so rare,
          No one knew where it grew.

       All through the land the people              w"eHnet,y !"

       ThAenydcrsietodp, pi"ngOhatI  each college,  is meant
                                     tell us what

          By this Chair of Technology."

       The base was broad, the back was long ;

         It was an ample Chair ;

       The arms were wide, and very strong,

          But it was very bare.

                                       2D
418     MEMOIK OF GEOKGE WILSON.                       CHAP. X.

     The feet on which it stood were stout,

        The sides were stiffly barred
     With angles like a Siege-Redoubt ;

        And it was very hard.

     The wise Professor tried to take
        Possession of his Chair ;

     But every bone was like to break,
        Though he sat down with care.

     *' Take back  thy  gift,  Ioh, Queen  of might !
        Take back  thy  gift,     say,
     I cannot sleep a wink by night,

        And cannot rest by day."

     "Nay ! I will not take back from thee

     " My gift," the monarch said ;
        Go, ask from other queens than me,
       A cushion for thy head."
        »* * *

     Beside the Clyde's far western shore,
        There lived a gentle fairy ;

     Queen Mima was the name she bore ;
        She sang like a canary.

     Into a Blackbird she could turn,
        Whene'er she had the will ;

     And all the singing birds would burn
        With envy at her skill.

     To her the sad Professor

     "  Addressed his mournful     prayer,
        0 Lady, be Redresser

        Of this so wrongful chair !"

     No sooner had the fairy heard,

     "  Than  she began to sing,
        Come  hither, every bird

        That soars upon the wing."

     The birds of every feather

     "  Came trooping    o'er the  sea  :
        0 lady, tell us  whether

        We can do aught for thee !"

     " Ye tawny eagles, stretch

        Your pinions to the sun,

     And from Golconda fetch

         Diamonds ere the day is done.

     " Ye swift-winged falcons, perch

        Upon the highest hills,

     And with your keen eyes search

        For gems among the rills.

     " Ye wandering swallows, fleet

        To far Australia's shore ;

     And ere the night and morning meet
        Bring back its golden ore.
1855.  sofa versus chair.                           419

       " And you, ye stately sea-birds, wing
            Your way o'er Indian waves,

         And precious pearls and corals bring,
            Plucked from the ocean caves."

         She waved her hand : away they flew.
            She waved her hand, and lo ! with gems

         And gold returned the busy crew,
            Fit for a thousand diadems.

       With wondrous skill, and magic powers,

          She strung the pearls and wove the gold,
       And changed the gems to buds and flowers,

          Which never will grow old.

       These magic flowers she made to grow
          Upon a cushion soft as air,

       Full of the down as white as snow,
          Which swans upon their bosoms bear.

       And just as the Professor
          Had almost ceased to sigh,

       And seeing no Redresser,
          Had laid him down to die,

       Beh"oHldus!ha   silver voice was heard,

                      ! I have heard thy prayer,

       The cushion of the Blackbird

       Shall glorify thy Chair."

       And suddenly, as morning skies
          The clouds with glory gild,

       The fairy-cushion smote the eyes,
          And the whole Chair was filled.

       It draped the Chair on every side,
         It left no angle bare,

       It made the Chair a place of pride,
          And not a place of care.

       And now the once afflicted wight,
          To queens makes no apology,

       But sits by day, and dreams by night

          In his Chair of Technology.

   To this lady he writes in the end of that October, with the
characteristic mingling of pathos and humour : " My sense of a
hold upon life is so feeble (for illness after illness cheats us out

Iof vitality, and lessens one's hope and courage), that am

Ithankful to remember have some who think better of me than

I deserve, and count themselves my friends. . . . Had Her Ma

jesty consulted my doctors, she would have given me a sofa

Irather than a chair ; but on chair or sofa, hope to spend my
420       MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                cnAP. x.

allotted days on earth, so as to make none ashamed that they

called themselves my friends." The cushion was not uncalled

for, as very soon after entering on his appointment, he is

compelled to say, "The Chair of Technology is not stuffed
with down : a thorn or two stick out of and requires
                                  it
                                                     it,
                                                              it
cautious engineering to get into with comfort to myself and

others."

   The inaugural lecture was devoted in great part to the defini
tion of the limits he assigned to his Professorship. Its title,
" What Technology " was welcome to the eager public, in
          is
                        it

                                               ?

                                                            a
doubt as to what represented. Throwing around the useful
arts the charm which intense earnestness, combined with exten

sive knowledge and poetic sensibilities, cannot fail to impart,

he speaks of man in infancy as creature whom every animal,
endowed with unerring instinct, can afford to despise. Yet
" half of the industrial arts are the result of our being born

without clothes the other half, of our being born without tools.

With the intellects of angels, and the bodies of earth-worms,
we have the power to conquer, and the need to do it." Man he

defines " as the only animal that can strike light, the solitary
          ;                                                    a
                               '                                                 .a

                                                                                     is
                                                                                      it a
                                                                                             is
creature that knows how to kindle fire. This                   very frag

mentary definition of the Paragon of Animals,' but                                               enough

to make him the conqueror of them all. . . Once provided
with his kindled brand, the savage technologist soon proves

what sceptre of power he holds in his hands. . . . Well did
     a

the wise ancients declare that men obtained fire from heaven,

but not well that they stole it. It was gift to them in com
                                                               a
                                                                                                           ."
pensation for their having no share in the dowry granted to the

lower animals and has proved an ample compensation. . .
          ;

                 it

While the inferior animals have an infallible guide in instinct,
man has to learn by dearly- bought experience. " The prevent
able human suffering, and the needless loss of human life, which

are occasioned by our industrial doings, are in amount altogether

appalling. . . . All the suffering and death which are occasioned

by our ignorance of physical laws, are death-stains upon our

science, as well as griefs to humanity. From the moment that
we quit the guidance of instinct for that of interpreting, devis

ing, and constructing intellect, we are bound to employ the last
IS55.        WHAT IS TECHNOLOGY.                                       421

to the full. The deaths of thousands lie at the door of imper

fect science ; and therefore the necessity for Industrial Museums
and Chairs like this." . . .

Speaking of the wide domain included in Technology, he

points out that his brother professors have nearly all commis
sions as wide, nominally, and restricted in meaning only by

common consent, by traditional custom, or conventional use and

wont. "With the Industrial Museum, this Chair stands in

organic connexion. My office, as Professor of Technology, is to

be interpreter of the significance of that Museum, and expositor

of its value to you, the Students of this University." Those de

sirous of knowing more specially the objects he had in view in
the vast arena now opening before him, will find a clear state
ment of his position in this lecture, one of the few published in

full.1 We shall only further quote the closing paragraphs, with

remembrance of the youthful dreams now realized by his having

reached the goal then set before him as the object of his highest

ambition :-- " In conclusion, suffer me a reference to two things.
There are few occasions on which it is becoming for an indivi

dual to refer publicly, to what the French have taught us to call

Ihis antecedents ; but may be allowed a word on mine here.
I came to this University some twenty-two years ago, fresh from

the Edinburgh High School, without any prestige in my favour,

any recommendations to pave my way, or introductions which
Ishould conciliate the good-will of a single professor. A mere
school-boy   entered these walls, to pursue, like a hundred

Iothers, the difficult study of medicine, without any extrinsic
advantages.  look back now with unfeigned gratefulness to
Ithe services rendered me by so many of the Professors.
                                                                       stand

indebted to a long list of them for help and encouragement at a

time when these are most needed and most prized ; and but for

Ithe kindness of more than one of their number, should not be

Ihere to address you as their colleague to-day.

   " speak thus not to pay this University a passing compli
ment, for it does not need it ; still less to imply that my case

Iwas exceptional, for it was not so at all ; but simply that may

bind myself in your hearing to help the homeless and friendless

       1 ' What is Technology ? ' Sutherland & Knox, Edinburgh. 1855.
422       MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                     CHAP. X.

Istudents who become my pupils, as was helped by my precep
Itors when was homeless and friendless.

   " Lastly, let me commend this new Chair to your good- will

and kindly aid. With its associated Industrial Museum, it

constitutes a great additional centre of knowledge, from which
Ilight will spread over this land and over the world.
I Isow the seed.                                       can but

          have sown it to-day ; am honoured to do

Ithus much ; but the prediction, true in reference to all matters,
is that ' one soweth and another reapeth.'  am not so selfish

or so thoughtless as to wish it were otherwise. Institutions,

like all other things, grow faster in these days than they did of

old ; but perennial things are still slow of growth, and the most

enduring the slowest of all. We must be content to pluck the

first fruits, and leave the full harvest to be gathered by those

who follow. But that its first and last fruits may alike conduce

to the glory of God and the good of man, is my prayer ; and,

therefore, we will confide it to Him who, eighteen hundred years

ago, dignified and made honourable the humblest craft, by per
mitting Himself to be called the Son of the Carpenter, and who

now stretches forth His divine hand to bless all honest, earnest

labour."

Though the House of Commons had, in 1854, voted £7000

to purchase a site for the Industrial Museum of Scotland, no
steps were taken in the erection of buildings for it till some

progress had been made in collecting suitable objects. In the

spring of 1855, the Independent Chapel in Argyle Square --

which Dr. Wilson had attended as a place of worship for the
previous ten years --and the hospital adjoining, were secured,
and in them stores of specimens quickly began to accumu
late. As no laboratory or lecture-room was provided, Dr. Wilson

continued to occupy those he had already in use. His class

was taught under great disadvantages, the lecture-room being

most inconvenient, and at some distance from the temporary
depository of museum specimens. The introductory lecture was
the only one given within the University walls for the first four

sessions. The class was not imperative on the University stu

dents, and those who attended represented the professions of
" general manufacturer, architect, engineer, farmer, merchant,
1855-56.  SYLLABUS OF LECTURES.  423

baker, tanner, sugar-planter, sugar-refiner, teacher, doctor, and

clergyman, besides young men entered simply as students, but

chiefly training for industrial callings ; as well as retired military,

medical, and legal officers of the East India Company's Service,

and amateurs." In spite of all drawbacks, above forty attended

the first course, of whom six returned the following year to con

tinue the study of the subjects included in the syllabus. Three

years were required to go over its contents : the first course

being devoted to Mineral, the second to Vegetable, and the third

to Animal Technology. After preliminary special lectures, that

of Mineral Technology branched out into a series of lectures on

Fuel ; Building Materials of Mineral Origin ; Glass and Glass-

making ; Pottery ; Metallotechny ; Electrotechny ; and Mag-

netotechny. Under the three latter heads were comprised the

working of metals, and electricity in its industrial relations.

  It was fervently hoped that in this new sphere, George

Wilson would enjoy greater ease. His health had so long with

stood the ravages of disease, with little apparent detriment to

his general vigour, that many anticipations were now formed

more sanguine than at any previous period of his public life.

People wilfully shut their eyes to all but the fact which they

tried to impress on their minds, that he might live many years

more, and even medical men who knew the frail tenure by

which any such hopes could be held, argued favourably from

the time of repose which seemed to them now before him. We

have seen that he himself hoped for more rest as one of the ad

vantages of his appointment ; but so ardently did he enter on

its duties, that the only rest obtained was from the necessity of

more than one lecture daily, and that rest of heart arising from

a sense of acknowledged worth, which the affectionate welcome

of his fellow- citizens had afforded him. For once the proverb
seemed unsuitable, that " a prophet hath no honour in his own

country," and his generous mind too readily received the im
pulse. His labours hitherto were now far surpassed, as if but
Ia resting-place for a higher elevation had been attained."

am determined," he sometimes said, " to let no day pass without

doing something for my dear Museum." By something was

meant not the daily duties of his post, but special efforts put
424            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. X.

forth. " The dear Museum," as it was usually called in private,

absorbed every energy. How he begged and planned for
               it

                                                     a
                                                                                      it,
                                                                                                   is
well known throughout the world, though what sacrifices were

made on its behalf are known but to very few. The power of

coaxing, in him almost irresistible, was brought fully to bear,

and sometimes      was amusing to observe how, when presents

were made to him, with the express statement that they were
not for the Museum, he contrived skilfully to dispose of all ar

guments, and finally to deposit them on the public shelves.

His friends soon got to know that the most welcome gifts were

such as had the industrial collection in view, and acted accord
ingly. Evidence of his zeal and success may be found in the

annual report of this Museum for 1859, in which the models and

"Ifspecimens amassed in the four preceding years are reckoned at
10,350 in number.  properly displayed, these would fill
it
           ';
                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                      aa
space equal to that afforded by the Museum of Practical Geo

logy, Jermyn Street, London or to fully one-half that of the

New National Galleries in Edinburgh."

Evening lectures, though not now imperative, were still un

dertaken occasionally. That the interest of an audience could

be won over in favour of the Museum, so as to add to its con

tributors, was sufficient excuse for any additional labours. One

scarcely knew at times whether to be more grieved or amused

at the earnest simplicity with which he would urge this as

reason for work, such as his health made most unadvisable,

" But, you know, they will help the Museum." Remonstrance

was vain the ardent spirit could not be restrained " to die

working," seemed to him an enviable fate. The desire was fre

quently expressed to an assistant, though never hinted at in the

home- circle, where he carefully abstained from any such allu

sion. With the view of commending the Museum to the notice

of the general public, he gave an address in January 1856, at

one of the monthly meetings of the Highland and Agricultural

Society, On the relations of Technology to Agriculture,' which

was published in the Society's 'Transactions' for March 1856.
In he speaks of the Industrial Museum as " one of those in

stitutions which had become necessary by the altered condition
of the world, and the felt wants of all the intelligent sections of
1856.  OCCASIONAL LECTURES.                                   425

the community." After showing in how many ways technology
can aid agriculture, he closes with an appeal for their aid on

behalf of the national collection. A month later, he delivered

two lectures to the Philosophical Institution, Edinburgh, ' On

the objects of Technology and Industrial Museums,' which were
afterwards published by request, in a local newspaper having a

wide circulation among the working classes, and reprinted.
' Granite and its Derivatives, including Glass, Porcelain, and

Aluminium,' was the title under which the lectures were an

nounced, but these only formed a slender frame-work, from

which many deviations were made. Those who have not had an

opportunity of hearing him lecture, will find in those under

notice that combination of scientific facts with poetry, humour,

and large-heartedness, which swayed his audiences irresistibly.
While, as usual, asking their good offices towards the Scottish

Industrial Museum, he made a special appeal to intelligent

women, " If from no other motive than this, that they may

thereby contribute to increase the means of giving an industrial
education to women of the poorer classes, and to multiply the

vocations which may keep them from starvation, misery, and

crime."1

   In March, by request of the Pharmaceutical Society, an address

was delivered to them, ' On Pharmacy as a branch of Techno
logy,' which has been published in the ' Pharmaceutical Journal,'

for 1856. It may be supposed how large an amount of corre

spondence was called for by the infant wants of a national insti

tution, forming no small item of  each    day's duties. We find in
a letter the following statement          Wanted, a Monkey from
                                  :--" '

the Zoological Gardens, to write letters to a philosopher's friends.
No ape or baboon need apply. The strictest references ex
pected and given. Apply at Elm Cottage, in the writing of

the applicants, enclosing a witty, a stupid, and a pathetic

letter.'                          Here has a letter from one

  I" You see to what am reduced.

Daniel Macmillan stared me in the face day after day, and

reproached me with unfriendliness, ingratitude, shameless,

   1 ' Ou the Objects of Technology and Industrial Museums.'  Sutherland and Knox.
Edinburgh, 1856.
420           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. X.

shameful conduct, indifference, cold-heartedness, selfishness,
unbrotherliness, and deliberate wickedness : and not a monkey

has answered the advertisement, or supplied even a stupid

Iletter."

   At the close of January he tells his cousin Alick : -- " was

preaching a sermon last Thursday evening to the medical stu

dents in connexion with the Medical Missionary Society, and

I Irejoiced to find had courage given me to speak boldly (oh !
... Itrust, convincingly also) in the name of Christ. Nearer to Him 1
nearer to Him! is my daily prayer.            am going to slave

less, and now only help religious meetings, or strictly profes

Isional ones. My responsibility is much greater than before ;
my physical fatigue, however, will be less.   live from day to

day, feeling no hold upon life, but happy many times, and for
long hours, although my temperament is not one which even

the choicest mercies could rob of its native inquietude and sen
Isitiveness. But all is well.
                               have great holes in my heart,

and dreary voids in my affections ; but on this side the grave

they cannot be filled, and I will work as hard as I can till the

manumission comes."

  He writes to his brother a month later :-- " I am always vexed

Ito see a Friday pass without a letter from me to you ; but am

often hard pressed, and since Christmas the weather has been a

succession of rain, and east winds, and sudden frosts, which have
Iengaged me in a battle from which have come off but partially
Ivictorious.
              am practising saying No, and improving in the
I Iutterance ; but am still far from perfect, and suffer in con
Isequence.
              resolved at the beginning of the winter to give

four free lectures, and no more, and to give them to the first

who asked them. Dr. Brown's Ragged Kirk got one ; Dr.
Chalmers' Territorial Kirk got another ; the medical students a

written lecture, under the auspices of the Missionary Society ;

Iand made a speech for the Medical Missionary Society. Un

Ifortunately, however, three of these fell on last week, and had

to sit in one of the Ragged Kirks without a fire for an hour on
the pulpit steps, the fruit of all which has been a slight attack

Iof haemoptysis, now, however, passing away.
" Besides these lectures,  have had three on Technology,
1856.  VISIT TO BRIDGE OF ALLAN.                           427

Iwhich are to be counted as the things to which NO cannot be
said.  mention them that you may know why my pen has

not been employed on your behalf."  War,  which     " April 10th.
   " We have had here an Eastern                 has defied all

meetings of plenipotentiaries, and still rages unabated. For a

month or some forty days, a dreadful Lent, the wind has blown

Igeographically from Araby the blest, but thermometrically from
Iceland the accursed.  have been made a prisoner of war, hit

by an icicle in the lungs, and have shivered and burned alter

Inately for a large portion of the last month, and spat blood till
I Igrew pale with coughing. Now am better, and to-morrow
Igive my concluding lecture, thankful that have contrived, not

withstanding all troubles, to carry on without missing a lecture

Itill the last day of the Faculty of Arts to which belong. But
Iit was not possible to write you sooner. Jessie and propose
Ito set off on the 1 2th for the Bridge of Allan, and thence

engage to write, furnishing all desiderata before next week's

post."

   On the 13th he writes home from the Bridge of Allan : " We
reached this safely last night at half-past six. The band of
music was of course at the station, and the people took the

horses out of the carriage, of course, and drew us into town.

In a region so much visited by volcanoes and earthquakes as

this, we could not but expect to find a great physical change.
The hills have grown into mountains since last year, perpetual

snow covers their summits, and glaciers are continually sliding

down into the valleys, sweeping everything before them. The
wind has blown so long from the east that most of the tall
houses are bent double, and the little ones are turned round so
that the back door has become the front. We succeeded, how

Iever, in finding our lodging, and duly entered by the proper

door. Jessie, indeed, cannot see the differences have described
Iabove, and affirms that there is only one new house.
I Ifyou to judge whether she or                            leave
Itravel without seeing wonders,
                       am correct.               people are to

                       don't see what is the use of

travelling. The folks here evidently recognise me as Professor

of Technology, especially those who never saw me before."
428                 MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. X.

  The subjoined letter to Dr. J. H. Gladstone alludes to a

chemical discovery he had made :'--

                      I I" Bridge of Allax, April 28, 1856.

   " Dear Inspector, -- really have the suspicion that owe

I Iyou a letter, and indeed resolved as soon as came here to
Iwrite to you, and why did not ? Because, after a few days'

improvement here, and all disappearance of the haemoptysis
Iwhich had driven me from Edinburgh, as usual began to work
I Ias if were quite well.
                           was seized with a technological fit,

and set off to explore a bleach-work, dye-work, and carpet-work

in my neighbourhood. You can sympathize with the pleasure

Isuch visits give.  To me they are mentally exhilarating in the
                    like to see the machinery, the chemical pro
highest degree :

cesses, and not least to chat with the workpeople. But my

Istupid body always makes itself disagreeable. On this occasion,

after returning much delighted, lay down on the sofa to reflect

Ion the sights had witnessed ; but it was soon stopped by

coughing, and blood, blood, crimson blood. This stopped my

letter-writing, and compelled quietness, counter irritation, and
Ino more technologizing.
                           am better, but frail, and sitting in
I Imedical judgment on my own case, am afraid that must
report myself decidedly lower down the hill than this time last

I Iyear, and with less of my lungs useful than before. But it's all
well ; am in God's hands.  pray neither to die, nor to live,
but to be kept from the evil that is in the world. Jessie and I

have had a delightful fortnight of Bible -reading, and talking and

meditating and worshipping, such as you and May can under
... Istand.
             am delighted to hear of your new chemical doings.
... I have given you your new title at the beginning of this

Iscrawl, but would be glad to know if the following is the cor
Ifrect statement of the matter.
                                 not, you must complain to the

Mendicity Society.

             " ' THE BLOOMSBURY DETECTIVES.

   " ' On the 1st of January, in conformity with John Dalton's
Act, Professor Faraday, in the presence of Dr. Hoffman and the
Master of the Mint, added three equivalents of the nitro-prusside

of sodium to five equivalents of the cobalticyanide of potassium,
1REB.               THE BODY UNACCOMMODATING.               429

and seven equivalents of the iodide of methylannnonium, which

were mixed with water and shaken together. On April 1st the

liquid was examined, and to the consternation of all parties, the

sixty-seventh part of an equivalent of hydrogen was found

wanting. Information was immediately sent to the different

Universities, the British Association, and the French Academy,

but up to last Wednesday no traces of the missing 67th could

be found. It was then resolved to put the case in the hands of

that active officer, Serjeant Gladstone of the Bloomsbury Detec

tives, who instantly started in pursuit of the unaccounted-for

fraction, and we are happy to say, by pursuing a curve whose

ordinates are as A is to B, so is C to D, succeeded late on Satur

day in coming up with the missing fraction, which was imme

diately projected on paper. Her Majesty, on hearing the

interesting announcement, immediately desired that Serjeant

Gladstone should be made Inspector, and his portrait added to
                    Gallery.' -- (No
the    Crime-an                        News, February 30.)  It is a re
    "  1 cordially   congratulate     you, my good friend.

Isponsible office that of yours."
    To his mother he says, " have been resting two days after

my technological exploits. It was a great delight to me to visit

two works full of illustrations of chemical and mechanical

science. In truth the pleasure such visits give me is of a

Ideeper and more delightful description than could easily con
Ivey to most people, and have totally failed to persuade that

stupid body of mine that its only business was to carry me

' upstairs and downstairs, and in my lady's chamber,' wherever

I pleased to go. An old grudge which it has against my soul,

has made it behave less obligingly than was desirable, but rest

has made it sweet tempered again, and it promises to be on its

good behaviour in future."

After returning to town, an amusing instance occurred of the

belief which seemed to pervade all classes, that he never could

be appealed to in vain, either for information or help. Fire

works were to be displayed in celebration of the proclamation

of peace after the Crimean War, and by the aid of Mr. Tomlin-

son he was able to meet the wishes of the Provost and Council.

In acknowledging his friend's kindness he says, " It seems to
430  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                CHAP. X.

Ibe supposed here that on the day when was made Professor of

Technology, there flowed into my head the whole Cyclopaedia of

Useful Arts, and all the Encyclopaedias and other treasures of
knowledge, and in a liquified condition formed a well full to

overflowing somewhere in my pineal gland, so that whoever is
ignorant need only put down his bucket and draw it up full.

   " One of my pupils asked me one day, ' What a harlequin's

dress was made of?' This was in the pantomime season, and

the young man had been recreating himself at the theatre.
IWhen shook my head in reply and smiled, he interposed,
I I'Perhaps have put an improper question?"
                                             hastened to

Icompose his fears, and promised a reply. But how was the mo
mentous question to be answered ?  used to know a fiddler

of a chemical turn, who belonged to the theatre, but he and his

Ifiddle had long ago vanished, knew not whither, and he was

my only dramatic oracle. What was to be done ? My charac

Iter as a technologist was at stake, and was casting about for

an introduction to that mysterious entity Harlequin himself,

when help came from an unexpected quarter. The sun would

Inot rise in a proper manner in the opera of the Prophet, and

was waited on by an emissary from the theatrical manager, and

I Irequested to assist his Sunship, which by means of a lime-ball

light was enabled to do to the satisfaction of all. bartered

my light for light upon the harlequin's dress, and was informed
it was made of the India-rubber elastic tissues, with trian

gular spaces at intervals of a pervious material to allow of

Iperspiration. . . .           felt no surprise at being summoned
   " After these experiences,

to the Town-Council to explain to them off-hand all about fire

Iworks, which, as one of our municipal rulers was pleased to ob

serve, he did not doubt had made special subjects of study.

After that it would have been a despising of dignities to have

Ihinted that a sky-rocket was above me, and proceeded to des

cant on Roman candles with all the learning and precision, con

Isistent with my attachment to Protestantism, which were to be

expected from so experienced a pyrotechnologist as am known

Ito be. Well ! well ! did my best, and you did better than my
Ibest, and hand over the civic crown to you."
lm.  UNIVERSAL KNOWLEDGE.                                                                          431

   To be considered an authority upon things in general was no
new experience. Even in the High School he was distinguished
from the other boys in regard to this qualification. His classical
master, Mr. Mackay, had a fancy for asking out-of-the-way ques
tions when strangers happened to be present, to impress them with
the fund of information possessed by his pupils. Soon perceiving
George Wilson's fitness to do him credit in this respect, he used
to call out at the appearance of visitors, " Wilson, make ready."

   After his appointment as Professor, his fellow-citizens seemed

to look on him as their knowledge-box, and very peculiar were
often the demands made on him. While waiting for an audience,
a gentleman one day informed the Museum- assistant of the pur
port of his visit, and was assured, in reply, there was no proba
bility that Dr. Wilson could solve his difficulty. The assurance
was vain, " For," urged the inquirer, " he knows everything."
The belief of this man seemed one generally held, and certainly
not without cause, for few applied in vain, and the assistance

was given so cheerfully and readily as to leave an impression
that he himself was the party under obligation. Once, while in

London on Museum business, he was amused at being hailed on

entering the Government office, "Oh, here's Wilson, he'll be
able to tell us," and so the puzzle over which they had been

cogitating was immediately solved.
    While addressing an assemblage of printers and their friends,

at a social meeting in the Music Hall, Edinburgh, he showed,
incidentally, a familiarity with their work, which led a young
printer, on leaving, to speak of the speech " of the compositor."
Being asked to which of the speakers he referred, he replied,
 " the one with spectacles," whose thorough acquaintance with
their craft he imagined could only be the result of long prac
tice in its details.

    Allusion has been made in a preceding letter to a lecture de

livered to medical students. It was shortly afterwards published

 along with other lectures,1 by request of the Medical Missionary
 Society, at whose instance it was written. We have already

 quoted from as illustrating his experience on entering hospi

       rOn the Character of God, as inferred from the Study of Human Anatomy.' --
   Addresses to Medical Students.' Edinburgh A. and C. Black, 1856.
'

    i

                      it,

                                                                                                :
432  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.        CHAP. X.

tal practice. It grapples with the existence of evil, and appa

rent frustrations of design, pronouncing the solution of all that
is inexplicable in the morphology and teleology of the mortal
state, to be attainable only when design at last triumphs in the

heavenly life. The strain pervading the lecture is to be found
in others of his writings, especially the article on Chemistry
and Natural Theology,1 and an address on the Resurrection, to

medical students, as yet unpublished.
    Along with a copy of the lecture forwarded to Mr. D. Mac-

Imillan, is a note saying, " send a sermon, which, when you have

nothing better to do, read. . . . Some bits of it you will read, as

I wrote them, with thoughts of ourselves ; but you will see, that
Ilike yourself, try to be ready either for life or death." To Dr.

Cairns, the lecture so painfully brought the impression that he

did speak unconsciously of himself in its pages, that he im

mediately wrote to ask if he felt worse in health. In reply

George says, " Your very kind letter took me by surprise. I

did not intend either in the lecture or letter to give expression

to feelings so sad as you have inferred me to be actuated by.

The lecture was delivered last February, not to provide an outlet

Ifor grief, but to press some matters home to the minds of students

of medicine. Read as a whole, entertain the hope that the lec

ture will not be found unbecomingly or morbidly sombre and

Igra"veA.s for the letter, it was written on Sabbath, and  there

fore avoided lighter matters ; it was written also to you, recently

sorely tried by a mournful affliction, and therefore it was grave.

II do not at all disavow having been myself grave in writing it

for personal reasons, but cannot allow you to expend an un

deserved amount of sympathy on me, who really am not making

If Ispecial complaint.
  I" were to sit in medical judgment on my own case,

should find it quite impossible to pronounce upon my own

viability. To be well enough to work is all a man needs to be,
Iand is all expect. Latterly my working power has certainly
Ibeen less than before, but it may quite well come back.
                                                           can

honestly assure you, that regarding my prospect of life as a

     1 ' British Quarterly Review.'
1806. PHYSICAL WEAKNESS. 433

Imatter on which God has not given me a decisive or preponder

ating answer in the negative, and feeling that do not deserve

I(as a profitable servant) to die, and further despising the moral

cowardice of shrinking from work, am studying and labouring

cheerfully as one who may live and must not cumber the ground.

... In reality, the other world and the shadow of death have

Ibeen in my thoughts since remember. Often formerly as

much as now, have they been uppermost. Do not, therefore,
think me given over to unusual or unworthy sorrow."

   To a fellow-invalid like Daniel Macmillan, he confesses more
freely in June to being " very languid, weary, and unfit for work

Iof all kinds. To write even this letter is an effort, and feel as
Iif to lie down and sleep were the only thing worth doing. have
Ioften been as ill before; but like you, feel that some time must
Ibe the last, and often faithlessly and selfishly wish it had come.

  I" If go out of town this autumn it will be to some place
Inear at hand, where can be quite at rest, and lounge idly back

into vigour again. This long cold spring has put its mark upon
Ime, and slowly find myself burning nearer to the socket. . . .
I Ihave no hope of being in Cambridge this year.
                                                  am not well

Ienough to travel willingly, and have no prospect of being com

pelled to go south, though perhaps may be."

   From Melrose, whither he retired for six weeks in autumn,
he writes to his brother Daniel, " The weather has not been

Ipropitious, yet have contrived to spend a great deal of time in

the open air, and have profited by it. . . . The last three months,

up to the close of July, were spent in almost continual physical

uneasiness, rising often to pain ; and that is not pleasant. But
I Ias now am, should be very, very ungrateful to the Giver of
I Iall good gifts, if made great complaint, and the future leave
Iwith Him.
            enjoy the quiet, and on a Sabbath like this, can
Imeditate on that great world beyond the grave --towards which

   perceptibly approach nearer and nearer each summer -- in a
Iway cannot do in the whirl of town life."

   While at Melrose, he prepared for the press what has been
unquestionably the most popular of his writings, " The Five

Gateways of Knowledge."1 It "was written to help a Sunday

            1 Macmillan and Co., Cambridge.
                              2E
434  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.   CHAP. X.

school," its first delivery being in Leith, and the substance of
the whole being given in one lecture. Some years later, it
was offered in a more expanded form in two lectures to the
Philosophical Institution, Edinburgh, in 1853, and with slight
changes and additions, is published as then delivered. The title
has been supposed to be borrowed from Bunyan's town of Man-
soul, a quotation from it being used as a motto ; but this

motto was an after-thought, and not a suggestive one previous

to writing. A reverence for the body, with its wonderful powers

and capabilities, and the noble destiny awaiting those sharing

the Christian's resurrection hopes, seems the stand-point from

which he gazes at those senses by which the soul and body most

freely commune together. The strongly prevailing tendency to
undervalue the body he regretted, and probably in this " prose
poem," as it is fitly called, he has done very much to counteract
it. The 'Five Gateways' may be taken as one of the best

specimens of his popular non-scientific lectures ; the pleasure it

 affords is permanent, and answers to one test of a work of genius,

in being equally enjoyed by the young and the old. A cheap

edition was speedily called for, and in a second issue there ap
pears a beautiful illustration, by Noel Paton, representing the
soul as a child, to whom the senses -- female figures --tenderly
and lovingly minister. Mr. George Harvey was the medium by
which the request for an illustration was conveyed to Mr. Noel
Paton, as is shown by this note :--

     " Dear Maestro Giorgio, --You were pleased to say that you

would visit Noel Paton the Good, with a letter from me about

the coveted design from his wonder-working pencil. Know

then, Maestro Eccellentissimo, that enclosed is the letter, and if

you will make it part of your Pilgrim's Progress to carry it toa it,
Fairyland, where No 111 abides, and deliver it with speech of

your own to him who should receive you will render another

kindness to your loving         " Giorgio Voluseno."

   The difficulties surmounted by Noel Paton's beautiful design,

will be better appreciated by perusing letter written previously.
1856 OUR OWN LIMNER. 435

   " Dear George Harvey, -- Wherever you are give me a little

help. A Cambridge bookseller insists on publishing a lecture

on the senses, which you heard in whole or in part at the

Philosophical Institution. He is bringing it out elegantly, and

of his own move, resolves upon a medallion or vignette on the

board of the book. . . . The bookbinder's man of genius has
Imade a stupid design, and now apply to my friend of genius
Ito help with a better.
                         have suggested, 1. Simply a classic
                                            2. A
head,  such as the Antinous, front  face.          fiv3e. -rAayefidves-gtaarte(dto,
stand  for the soul) ! surrounded   by a   glory.

five -angled tower, as in the old 'Holy Wars.' The difficulty is

to draw the soul. Ye never seed the sowl, did ye ?
   " Draw me something, like a good man, and send it here.

My last notion is a five-rayed star, whilk is the sowl ; a penta

gon surrounding the same, whilk is the five-gated Citie of Man-

soul ; a serpent biting of his tail, whilk is Eternity, surrounding

that, as is here drawn by our own limner,

If" Can you beat that ?  so, do and I'll be much obliged.
I

                  a
                                                            it,

                                                                                                                                  a
am in most pleasant country here, and pretty well. --Your
                                           George Wilson."
dearly loving

   Of the 'Five Gateways,' about eight thousand copies have

been sold up to this time, besides an unauthorized issue by
436                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.            CHAP. X.

house in Philadelphia, of which  we have no return.    It has been
spoken of as "a hymn of the      finest utterance and  fancy--the

white light of science diffracted through the crystalline prism

of his mind into the coloured glories of the spectrum; truth

dressed in the iridescent hues of the rainbow, and not the less
but all the more true." " He tries with that affectionate spirit, that

love of the good and the great, that reverential adoration of God's

wondrous works, which have made Dr. George Wilson's name

a pleasant sound in the ears of all who know him, to make his

readers feel with himself an intense appreciation of those bless

ings in which he revels, who knows how to make his soul and
his senses work in a wise harmony." We believe this book to
have become one of the great cords of love that knit George
Wilson so closely to the hearts of thousands. To heap up, as

might easily be done, the tokens of admiration lavished on         ; it,

seems superfluous        needs them not.     Let us rather refresh
        a                                      the central abode of

                 ;

                it
ourselves with few of its pictures --
                                 :

                                           is
" The ivory palace of the skull, which

the soul, although dwells in the whole body, opens to the
                   it

outer world four gateways, by which its influences may enter

and fifth, whose alleys are innumerable, unfolds its thousanda
doors on the surface of every limb. These gateways, which we
otherwise name the Organs of the Senses, and call in our mother
speech the Eye, the Ear, the Nose, the Mouth, and the Skin, are

instruments by which we see, and hear, and smell, and taste, and

touch: at once loopholes through which the spirit gazes out upon
the world, and the world gazes in upon the spirit; porches

which the longing, unsatisfied soul would often gladly make

wider, that beautiful material nature might come into more
fully and freely and fenced doors, which the sated and dis
        .                                              it
satisfied spirit would,       had the power, often shut and bar
          if ;                                                          !
                 if

                      is, it
altogether. . .             perhaps, most apparent in the eye of

   " Its beauty [the eye]

an infant, which, you please, we shall suppose not dead, but only

asleep, with its eyes wide open. How large and round they are

how pure and pearly the white with but one blue vein or two
                                 is,
marbling its surface how beautiful the rainbow ring, opening;
its mottled circle wide to the light How sharply denned the!
1856.  THE EYE AND THE EAR.  437

 pupil, so black and yet so clear, that you look into it as into
 some deep, dark well, and see a little face look back at you,
 which you forget is your own, whilst you rejoice that the days
 are not yet come for those infant eyes, when ' they that look out
 of the windows shall be darkened.' And then the soft pink cur
 tains which we call eyelids, with their long silken fringes of
eyelashes, and the unshed tears bathing and brightening all !
 How exquisite the whole ! How precious in the sight of God
must those little orbs be when he has bestowed upon them so
much beauty ! . . .

    "What a strange interest attaches to that little darkened
chamber of the eye ! Into it the sun and the stars, the earth

and the ocean, the glory and the terror of the universe, enter
upon the wings of light, and demand audience of the soul. And

from its mysterious abiding-place the soul comes forth, and in
twilight they commune together. No one but He who made

them can gaze upon the unveiled majesty of created things : we
could not look upon them and live ; and therefore it is that here
we see all things 'through (or rather in) a glass darkly;' and are
permitted only to gaze upon their shadows in one small dimly-

lighted chamber. . . .
    " Picture to yourself the contrast between a great orchestra,

containing some hundred performers and instruments, and that
small music-room built of ivory, no bigger than a cherry-stone,
which we call an ear, where there is ample accommodation for all
of them to play together. The players, indeed, and their instru

ments, are not admitted. But what of that if their music be ?
Nay, if you only think of what we call musical performance

     after all, but the last rehearsal. The true performance
within the ear's music-room, and each one of us has the whole

orchestra to himself. When we thus realize the wondrous capa

bilities of the organ of hearing, think we shall not fail to find
an intellectual and sesthetical, as well as great moral admoni
tion in the Divine words, He that hath ears to hear, let him

hear.' . . .

  If" this apply to earthly music, how much more to heavenly!

Though everything else in the future state may be dim and dark,
and in all respects matter of faith or hope, not of vivid realiza-
is,
                                         ' it,

                              I

                                                                        aa
                                                                                                   is
438  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. X.

 tion, this at least can be entered into, that all the children of
 Adam and Eve could unite in a common song. Of all the or

 gans of the body, therefore, the ear is the one which, though for
· its present gratification it is beholden solely to the passing mo

 ment, can with the greatest confidence anticipate a wider domain

  hereafter.

     " In consonance with that home in eternity for which the Ear
 expectantly waits, to it is promised the earliest participation in
  the life to come. This divinely authenticated fact appears to
  have made a profound impression on men of genius of all tem

  peraments since the days of our Saviour's presence upon earth.
  Many of you must be familiar with that beautiful hymn of the
  Latin Church, the ' Dies Irce,' in which the solemnities of the

  last judgment and the sound of the trump of doom, are echoed
  in mournful music from the wailing lines. Sir Walter Scott

  translated this sacred song. Goethe has introduced a striking
  portion of it into the cathedral scene in Faust, where the
  Tempter assails Margaret. Martin Luther's hymn reads like an

  echo of it. After all, it is itself but the echo and paraphrase of
  passages in the New Testament ; and Handel, when he com
  posed the ' Messiah,' went to the original for those words which
  he has set to undying music. From these words we learn that
  the summons to the life to come will be addressed first to the
  Ear, and it first shall awake to the consciousness of a new exist

  ence : ' for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised

 Iincorruptible, and we shall be changed.' . . .

      "When think of all that man's and woman's hand has

  wrought, from the day when Eve put forth her erring hand to
  pluck the fruit of the forbidden tree, to that dark hour when

   the pierced hands of the Saviour of the world were nailed to the
   predicted tree of shame, and of all that human hands have done

  Iof good and evil since, lift up my hand, and gaze upon it

  with wonder and awe. What an instrument for good it is !
  what an instrument for evil ! and all the day long it never is
  idle. There is no implement which it cannot wield, and it
   should never in working hours be without one. We unwisely

   restrict the term handicraftsman, or handworker, to the more

  laborious callings ; but it belongs to all honest, earnest men and
GIFTS OF EXPOSITION.                      439

women, and it is a title which each should covet. For the

queen's hand there is the sceptre, and for the soldier's hand the
sword ; for the carpenter's hand the saw, and for the smith's
hand the hammer ; for the farmer's hand the plough ; for the
miner's hand the spade ; for the sailor's hand the oar ; for the
painter's hand the brush ; for the sculptor's hand the chisel ; for

Ifthe poet's hand the pen ; and for the woman's hand the needle.

   none of these or the like will fit us, the felon's chain should
be round our wrist, and our hand on the prisoner's crank. But
for each willing man and woman there is a tool they may learn
to handle ; for all there is the command, ' Whatsoever thy hand
findeth to do, do it with all thy might.' "

   After reading those extracts, we feel that Dr. Cairns does not
overstate the truth in saying, " His gifts of exposition and illus

tration were perfectly wonderful. A scientific clearness of con

ception and expression hardly to be surpassed, with fulness of

knowledge, ranging over a vast surface of inquiry, were in him

combined with a freshness of fancy, that seized on the most un

expected analogies and contrasts ; an exuberant humour, that

gave zest and relief to the hardest and gravest subjects : and a

high strain of moral eloquence that linked every topic with

man's joys, and sorrows, and deep enduring interests. It would

not be easy to name examples of exposition more admirable and

delightful than his statement of the Atomic Theory in his paper

on 'John Dalton,' his various essays on 'The Electric Tele
graph,' and his ' Five Gateways of Knowledge.' His most hasty

occasional lectures run into shapes of inimitable grace and

beauty, extracted often by the plastic hand of the artist from

the most intractable materials. One great charm of all his

writings is their radical simplicity and truthfulness. The eyes

of science precede and guide everywhere the wings of fancy.

No original scientific man, with so much of the genius of the

poet, had ever so little of the exaggeration of the rhapsodist."1
   While he says, " My modesty is shocked by sending to so

many and so wise men my small rhapsody," he reports the
acknowledgments received as " of a threefold character," --

1 ' Macmillan's Magazine,' January 1860.                        j
                                                                     1

440                   MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. X.

" 1. Talleyrandish, i,e., have got the book, and expect plea

sure from reading it.

   " 2. Patronizing ; will put a copy in the School Library.

"3. (a.) Hearty, such as Dickens, Wilson, Ruskin, Canon

Wordsworth, Buxton, Argyll.
I"
     (&.) The same, but judiciously critical                    ...
"    (c.) The same, but grumphy, and injudiciously critical.
"                                                              with
       read them all with interest, most with pleasure, none

pain."

   The following letter, written before leaving Melrose, is not
offered as a specimen of his official, or even semi-official corre
spondence ; the style is peculiarly his own, and not a few such

did good service in securing specimens for the museum. It is
addressed to his friend, Miss Abernethy :--

        " Private and Confidential, not to he shown in Court.

  I"Dear Janet,-- am in a mood so lazy and languid that it
Icosts me an effort to write even to you, especially when read

in the newspapers such appalling accounts of damages for

breach of promise, and remember how many letters you have of
Ifmine, and what dreadful damages juries give.
                                                this letter

appears stiff and stupid, you will understand why it is so. It

     indeed, business letter, as you will immediately perceive,
is,
                                 dare not venture on anything
  I
                   a
and trust, dear madam        (I

stronger), you will reply to it.
   " A message was brought to me that there lay at the shop of

our grocer here, pair of wonderful Curling Stones, made of
                      a

black granite (whatever that may be), mounted in silver, beau
tifully polished, and to be had (cheap) for £3.

   " The Director of the Industrial Museum, having money to

spend, went to-day to see the wondrous stones; found the

granite turned into whinstone, the silver into electro-plate, and

the £3 into £3, 10s. Further, the worthy grocer informed the

Director that the stones were sent to him by Mr. W. . . and
                                                I.
that he was not to take farthing less than the said £3, 10s.
                         Ia
for the stones, which indeed are very beautiful. Now, dear

madam (oh, how tempted       feel to say, dear Janet), write at
185B.        PH1VATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.               441

the request of the Director, who-- though an extraordinary
genius, and in truth, the only person in the world who knows

aught about a wonderful science called Tech-Knowledgy, is as

ignorant of the price of Curling Stones as that of Curling irons

or Curl-papers, and understanding from me, that you are very

learned about them (not the curl-paper or the curling irons,

Idear madam, but the curling stones), and that you have a nephew

called, if caught the name aright, Professor Neavn, also very

learned concerning the said stones-- has requested me to ask

your ladyship's, and your ladyship's nephew's advice about

purchasing the stones.

   " In a word, is it a large, a small, or a medium price to pay ?

Please to signify by your own esteemed (I would like to say

beloved) hand, or that of your respected nephew, what the price
of curling stones that may decide, before leaving, about the
             is,
black granite ones.
   " Mother, Jessie, two little parrots sent us from Australia,.

                  .I
the Director, the Professor, the gig, the horse, the driver, and  aI /
are here, and those of Us that are well, are well, and those of us

that are not, are not.  . Your  was going to say dearly lov
                                            George Wilson."
ing) obedient, humble servant,:

                                I (I

                                               a

                                           I
   In Museum letter of the same semidemisemi- official kind,a

the following passage occurs " have just discovered that

have taken two sheets instead of one. Don't make this known

to Government, or they'll hang me in noose of red tape, as

warning to all wasters of public property. try your ingenuity

in endeavouring to show my desire for economy. Read the
Ifpages according to the Rule of Three.
                                         that does not succeed,

try them upside down    ;     no sense comes of that, give up the

                          if

perusal." I                     a                 I
    Besides making purchases, he had " begging cap, which," heit,

says, " since was made Director of this Museum, have in

dustriously (and industrially) worn." No one was safe from the
begging cap, yet no one grumbled at the beggar, but rather

encouraged him to continue to wear and by its successes to

minister to industrial progress and happiness.
    On returning to town he reports all as " much the better of
442                MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.     CHAP. X.

Ithe rustication.  certainly feel stronger, and though using all

precaution, have been assuring myself of increased strength, by

visits to Hat Factories and Comb-makers' premises."

   In the opening lecture for the Session of 1856-7, while defin

ing Technology as " the sum or complement of all the sciences

which either are, or may be made, applicable to the industrial

labours or utilitarian necessities of man," he dwells on those

most closely related to the recurring urgencies of daily labour,

and, therefore, of pre-eminent importance. The lecture appeared

in the 'Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine' for January 1857,
with the title ' On the Physical Sciences which form the Basis

of Technology.' It contains beautiful personifications of some

of the sciences, while abounding in practical scientific details.
Of these pictures we take one : " Geology is half of the heavens,

half of the earth. She stands an imperial queen, with her head

among the stars, and her tresses are white with the snows of

ages ; but her feet, graceful and quick, are beneath the young

grass, and are wet with the dews of to-day. Her hands are often

raised to shade her eyes, as she gazes through space to exchange
greetings with each sister-presence in the worlds around. But

her fingers are as often busy with homely cares, and with bended

forehead she traces for the tenant-lord of her estate the best

track for his railway, and channel for his canal, and shows him

where to find coal and iron, and how to dig for gold."

   In order to extend a knowledge of the new science, and to

interest all classes in the Industrial Museum, he delivered, in

December, by request of the Educational Institute of Scotland,
an address ' On Technology as a Branch of Education ;' and on

Christmas Eve, by solicitation of the Committee of the " Art-

Manufacture Association," a lecture ' On the Relation of Indus

trial to Ornamental Art.' The latter has been published.1

   At a conversazione of the Royal College of Surgeons, before
the close of the year, he delivered the lecture on ' Chemical
Final Causes,' which forms one of the ' Edinburgh University
Essays for 1856.' 2 In it he attempts to add to the ever-

accumulating proofs of design by showing, especially, that

     1 Edmonston and Douglas. Edinburgh. 1857.
     1 A. & C. Black. Edinburgh. 1657.
1856-67.                CHEMICAL FINAL CAUSES.                                                        443

phosphorus, nitrogen, and iron are the best adapted of the known
elements for the purposes they are required to fulfil in animal

organisms."1
   " What
pages, " is   we   call  a final cause," he says, in the                                       concluding
             not  God's  final cause, but only that small                                      corner of it

which we can comprehend in our widest glance. The fragmen

tary corner fills our intellects, not because it is vast, but because

they are small, and we find how small they have made                                           a it,  the

moment we try to make the fragment measure of infinite
wisdom. The wisest of us but microscopic shell in the
ocean of Omniscience, and when left on the shore with drop
of its waters in our cup, we cannot reflect in its tiny mirror
more than drop's worth of the meaning of the universe. And
                         is
                                     a

                                              a

       T

                 a

                    if
yet we speak as out of that drop the whole universe might

arise

   During this Session, as in the following one, he occupied the
President's Chair in the Royal Scottish Society of Arts, in the
prosperity of which he ever took lively interest. His addresses
                                 it, a
on entering office and quitting       are to be found in the Trans

actions of the Society.2 While necessarily containing many

references of local interest only, some interesting topics, expanded

elsewhere, are touched upon. The good offices of this body

were by his efforts enlisted on behalf of the new Museum. The

meetings of such societies being in the evening, called for an

expenditure of energy unfavourable to his health, yet he deemed

          duty as well as pleasure to frequent them occasionally.
it

     a

              ;'

                                     a

                                                                            ;

                                                            a
                                                                        '

                                                                                            ;

                                                                a
                                                                             a
For some years he edited the Transactions of the Society of

Arts he was twice elected member of the Council of the

Royal Society of Edinburgh he was member of the Council

of the Chemical Society, London                                                              member of the Chemical

Committee of the Highland and Agricultural Society, and one

of the examiners for the agricultural diploma; an honorary

member of the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain and
                                                                                               ;

corresponding member of the Medico- Chirurgical Academy,

Genoa.

Of the voluntary labours which he failed not to add to those

                  See Appendix.
                   Trans. R. S. S. A.,' vol v., pp. and 43.
                  ai
                     '
                                                                                         1
4ii MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                          CHAP. X.

imperative on him, we find mention in a letter to his brother of
IMarch 26, 1857, -- " Little more than a fortnight will bring my
lectures to a close.             begin dyeing on Monday, and we shall
Idye away till the middle of April ' finishes our course'
                                                           shall
IIbe thankful.
                 like work ; it is a family weakness, though
don't pretend to lift your elephant load. But one may have too

much : we grieve when we read of your labours. Even the

Pagan Hindus put only one world on the elephant's back, and
gave him, moreover, a tortoise to stand upon. The tortoise will

rebel if you try to carry another world, and infinite space will

engulf you.

  I" don't preach to you. People do to me, and the very next
Imoment ask me to do what they preached against.
                                                      am looked
Iupon as good as mad, because on hasty notice took a default

ing lecturer's place at the Philosophical Institution, and dis

coursed on polarization of light. You will understand why I

Idid. was wearying of mere teaching, and wanted to grapple
Iagain with a difficult subject, which in 1842 had studied with

some fulness, and at intervals had worked at since, but never so

Ifully as for the sake of my new lectures wished to do. So I

          I
                            it,
had a wrestle with and we finally tried strength against each
other in the Music Hall, and though was not unbruised, nor
                                 is
in all things victor, they gave me by acclamation the crown
                                       I              I
                                                                          ;
                                                 is
mentally     was much the robuster of this struggle, but not

physically. To be well enough to work enough, but to cough

half through the wakeful night, and awake to find your hand

kerchief spotted with blood, not encouraging. Yet have

got through the winter better than usual, and am still wonder

fully well.  have resolutely declined all fresh demands, and
             I
                 little          rest." Three weeks
                    a--"          fled hither week

                            :

                      I
am hoping for                    a                    later he writes from
Bridge of Allan                                       ago, driven by east

wind, cough, and other ailments, and have been leading dog'sa

life for the last two or three days, --i.e., eating, sleeping, and

drinking,-- much to my betterment."                   " Ma* 185?.
   " My dear Mother,--

                 '    How doth the little busy bee

                          Improve each shining hour,
                      And gather honey all the day,

                         From every opening flower.
18C7.  MANCHESTER CRYSTAL PALACE.                       445

I" Jessie and seek to make these remarkable lines our motto,

but are a little hindered in our laudable object, because, in the

first place, we are not bees; 2d, By having no shining hours, the

sun obstinately hiding himself behind clouds ; 3dly, There is no

honey to be gathered, because, ithly, there are no flowers. At

Ileast, however, we resemble the bees in being busy, although

cannot take it upon me to say that we are so ' all the day,' as

untruthful Dr. Watts declares the bees to be, in the face of the

fact that they are notorious for fighting, stabbing, and singing

songs, besides eating, drinking, and sleeping. At all events,

between us we despatched fourteen letters yesterday, and here

is a pile beside me to-day waiting for replies.
" This is the first of May, with promise of the sun ; the snow

is melted on the Perthshire hills, and the lambs are reposing on
the grass as if they were immortals. . . .
I" Don't think me selfish if stay here to the last. This rest
Iof soul and body is to me welcome beyond description.
                                                        hope

to fall to work again stoutly on my return."

  In July, Government business called him to England. " I

hope by the visit," he writes, " to do soul, body, and my dear

Museum good." A month later he spent a few days in Man

chester viewing the treasures of the Exhibition held there in that

year, and then passed on to Dublin to study the arrangements
of its Industrial Museum, and also attend the meetings of the

British Association. Three bright and happy days were spent

in the Manchester Crystal Palace. He was accompanied by

his sister and a friend, and while each roamed about at will,
according to individual taste, it was their custom to meet at a

certain hour at which a daily concert was given. A note writ

ten on one of those occasions expresses his delight :--

                                                 " August 20, 1857.

       " MANCHESTER EXHIBITION.

       I" My dear Mother,-- have just halted for a rest in a quiet

corner near the orchestra, which is about to be filled with

musicians and play us a tune.
   " This is dreamland ; fairyland ; a bit of heaven upon earth.

Angels who once were ministering spirits have here entered
446               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.     CHAP. X

into a typical rest, and with their great white wings crystallized

into bright marble, look on with sweet and serene faces, and tell

us not to despair of rest.
   " The spirits of some of the wisest, and gentlest, and best of

their kind, are here embodied in iron and bronze, and metal and

ivory, and all sorts of workable materials ; dead painters, poets,
sculptors, artists -- dead in one sense, alive in another and better

I Isense-- here speak to us in terms the most winning and persua

sive. Again and again do wish they were living, that might

Ithank them and bless them. Perhaps if they were living

would rather dispute with them than believe them, but here
they have it all their own way. And their way is the best

Ihere, for they cannot reply if you refuse their lesson, and you

lose the good of it if you carp as to its meaning. And so gaze,

and gaze, and gaze, and often find the tears in my eyes, and

often smile with delight, and altogether forget the clogging

weight of this evil-good body, through whose dim but not dark

windows we are compelled to look.
" Jessie will send you our news, which are simply none. --
                                               George."
Your loving son,

The visit to Dublin was made more enjoyable by the presence
of his friends, Dr. and Mrs. J. H. Gladstone, and Professor
Voelcker of Cirencester, "a happy family" being formed by
                                               " my memories
their means, so that he says, looking back on  it,

                                                                                a
of Ireland are very pleasant." A merrier party than they were

could scarcely have been found, while business was by no means

forgotten. Dr. Wilson read to the Natural History Section

paper On the electric fishes as the earliest electric machines
     '
                           a
employed by mankind,' which was more fully written out

for the 'Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine;'1 and to the
Chemical Section paper 'On the processes for detection of

Fluorine.'2

   After his return Dr. Gladstone received the following account11
of his employments --''

                                      Edin. New PhiL Mag./ October 1857.:
                                      Brit. Assoc. Reports' for 1857, p. 61.
1857.            ATTACK OF ILLNESS.             447

" My dear John,--

                                        * Thirty days hath September,
                                          April, June, and November,"

Iand on the last day of the first, A.D. 1857, proceed to answer

your most welcome letter of yesterday.          It takes me

  I" am only getting into working order again.
I Isome time to settle down after such a whirl as was in. have
Inot exactly been idle, but certainly have not contrived to do
Imuch.  am rather digesting plans than carrying them out. A

President's Address ; a Syllabus ; three Special Lectures on

Paper, Pens, and Ink ; one on Industrial Museums ; and a

course of prelections on Technology, are at present simmering

together in my head, like the diversified contents of Meg Mer-

rilees' gipsy camp-kettle. To-morrow, when the new month

comes in, I'll begin ladling them off into separate pots and pans,

I ... Iand fall to the process of cooking properly so called. Mean
while am chiefly occupied with Forbes's Life, and Directorial

Correspondence.    subjoin two conundrums for May's be

nefit. They made themselves in my brain the other day, and as
their study is fitted to invigorate the intellect, and act on it as

Ia powerful tonic, recommend them to her meditation. The
Ianswers enclose in a folded paper.

   1. In what country are all the people's arms, legs ?

   2. What fish are most active when the water is frozen ?

  "... IIt is at my pen's point to write about India, but for

bear. We shall exchange thoughts on that solemn subject again.
Meanwhile, let me say that my sympathies are not least with

I Ithe humane Englishmen who are compelled to be God's battle-

axes on the guilty. Were in India, should be hanging and
shooting like the rest of them."

   The travelling that autumn had been contemplated with con

siderable trepidation ; and thankfulness at no apparent bad re

sults from it was great. A return, however, of that trial which

had so often come upon him, namely, illness as the winter

Isession approached, was sent, so that he writes to Mrs. J. H.

Gladstone, on October 2 2d, " have been confined to the house
for the last ten days with a sharpish inflammatory attack, de
448           MEMOIK OF GEORGE WILSON.            CHAP. X.

manding leeches, and other medical delectations.  I told you

Ithat the doctors had discovered a new malady in my distempered

body, a swelling in the side, which knew too well was likely

to be used as a pin-cushion to stick thorns into by Satan. And

so it was, but thanks to the leeches, and the medicines, and the

Idoctor, and the good nursing, and, above all, to the mercies of

God, am back to my desk, warned in time to be very wary

this winter.
I" ought to be very thankful that the attack did not occur at
IDublin, or on the journey to and fro.  knew the risk I ran,

Ibut the consciousness of duty, and the forgetfulness of that risk

which made a point of fostering, lest hypochondriasis should

get the upper hand, set me at ease, and would again in similar

Icircumstances. Break the news gently to A., and if she takes

it too much to heart, remind her that subscribe to the Widows'

Fund." A. was one of his little wives, then about three years of

age.

   To another friend -- Miss Otte, St. Andrews --he speaks of the

great risk of fatal haemorrhage from sea -sickness, as a source of

Ianxiety to him while travelling, while he adds, " am very glad
I Ithat was compelled to travel, and will go anywhere on duty,

but mere travelling is to me a burdensome effort. My cup is

full of blessings, and the tonic bitter-sweet infused into it is all

needed to temper the pleasant draught."
   Amidst the varieties simmering in his brain, we have re

marked a lecture on Industrial Museums. It was undertaken

by request of the Merchant Company of Edinburgh, and de

livered to its members and a large circle of guests in December ;
the special subject being, ' The Industrial Museum of Scotland

in its relation to Commercial Enterprise.' Through the liberality

of Mr. James Richardson, Master of the Company, it was printed

and distributed widely throughout the country, and was the

means of securing valuable specimens. The birth of the Museum

he attributes to a conviction, slowly reached, and lying deep in

the hearts of men, that industrial museums were a want of the

age.    The idea embodied in it he represents as fourfold, includ
      the conception of-- 1. An ample Exhibitional Gallery ; 2.
ing

Laboratory and Workshop ; 3. A Library ; and 4. Systematic
1857-58.                       INDUSTRIAL MUSEUM.  440

Lectures.' In regard to the Museum, he urges the duties which

Merchant Companies have to discharge, and its claims on their

interest, protection, and encouragement. Most heartily did the

Edinburgh Merchant Company respond to the appeal, lending
                                of
influential aid to the success  of  the Museum,     and giving ready
co-operation to the schemes          " their own   professor," as they

were wont to call Dr. Wilson. The delay in erecting the pro

mised buildings for the Museum-- a session of Parliament hav

ing passed without a vote of money for this purpose --was an

intense disappointment, not only to the Director himself, but to

many public bodies, whose interest he had secured, and from

which memorials and deputations had been sent. The site ori

ginally purchased was too small for the necessary buildings, and

much harassing delay took place before even a promise of more
ground could be obtained. " No amount of business-writing,"

Ihe says to his brother, " seems to do otherwise than multiply

letters, and the endless labour have had to go through in re
ference to a better site for the Industrial Museum, makes me

sorry for myself. If Argyle Square be purchased by Government,

Iand a noble building erected there, whisper into your grandchil

dren's ears, after have become historical, that Uncle George had

a hand in that." To his young nieces in Canada, Uncle George
                                     A note to one of them, dated

                                    inquiries after truth: -- " am
was an occasional correspondent.

IMarch 23d, contains the following

lying in bed, with a beautiful warm blister on one side to keep

Ithe cold out, so that can't venture upon a big sheet of paper.

. . . The weather here has been very inclement, and the fields,

Iwhilst write, are white with snow. Two months of such

I Iweather are more than we are accustomed to, and you may

judge how little it suits us, when mention that have only

i Arrangements on a different footing have been made since Dr. Wilson's death re

garding the Museum ; and the Chair of Technology, founded originally at the sugges

tion of the Professors of the Edinburgh University, and so warmly welcomed by the

public, has been suppressed, the link closely uniting Commerce and Manufactures
                               "We require perpetually to transfer knowledge
to Science thus being broken.

from the wise to the unwise ; from the more wise to the less wise ; and such a chair

as this, with its associated Museum, is what, in commercial language, would be called
an entrepot, or exchange for effecting such transfers." -- (' What is Technology ? Inau

gural Lecture for 1855-56, p. 15.) It is evident no want of success attended this Chair,

though unendowed.

                                2F
450  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                   CHAP. X.

once been in the garden for the last three months, so cold has

it been. Who is Mr., or is it Mrs., or Miss Zero, who is always

Igetting up or down in the cold weather? Is Zero black or
white, lady or gentleman, young or old ?  am told that Zero

is a mad milliner, who insists on dressing everybody in white,

and painting their noses blue. Is that true ? Why is she

always letting somebody get above her, or putting somebody

below her ? Is she a school-girl, and a dux or booby ? Is she at
school with you ? Tell me all about her. They say she has
something to do with the freezing point. What's it ? Is it the

point of the nose, or the end of the fingers, or the tip of the ear ?
Write me about these curious things. . . . Vivo is at present

in deep mourning, having lost by death, Lady Fanny Squirrel,
to whom he has long been engaged to be married. Poor fellow,
he has waited long, and we hoped it was to have ended other

Iwise. He talks wildly at times about life being a burden to him,

but don't perceive that his appetite has suffered ; and if any

other dog sets up chat to him, he draws his sword, and is at him
at once. He announces his intention of erecting a monument

to the memory of his peerless Fanny, and then he will join the

army, and spend the rest of his life fighting against the Turks,

i.e., the Cats."

   The lectures in the Philosophical Institution, already alluded
to, were four in number, their subject being the ' Graphic Indus

trial Arts.' One of them has become familiar to the public under
the title, ' Paper, Pen, and Ink.' 1 Of it we shall have occasion

Ito speak again. Looking back at the session when past, he says,

" For the last two months have been existing rather than liv

ing. Sleepless nights ; aching limbs ; the whole day a chronic

malaise; and the smallest work an effort. My only painless

Imoments were when lecturing. Then forgot all, as also, of
Icourse, when asleep ; but though assuredly did sleep at times,
I never had the feeling of rest, and hour after hour on to three
Ior four in the morning, wearily rolled about, listening to an
Icient Job saying, 'When say my bed will comfort me, then

thou scarest me with terrors.' . . . The change of Government

compelled me to get up a new set of petitions for the Museum,

     1 ' Macmillan's Magazine,' November 1859.
              FINDS HIMSELF FORTY.                                               451

Iand had three troublesome law cases to work at, and a sketch

of Edward Forbes's Life to write for the Royal Society of Edin

Iburgh. It is a chapter of the book at which am now working,
Iand proposing to work at till it is finished. find however,
       .

        a

                       it

                                     I

                                                              it

                                            I
                                                                            it,
so painful task, that again and again put aside. Now                             aI

can look more calmly at the mournful history, and have much

profitable reading for in botany, geology, and physical geo

graphy. . .
   " Time in these telegraph days keeps up with the quickest of

electrical flashes. Did not awake one morning in February,
     I

             ?

            I
               I
                     ?I
and find myself forty It  is          desperate age for all the good
                              a

                                     '
one has done, and say to myself, Had known should have
                                        it I
...lived so long, would have done great deal more.' And yet,aI

would  Perhaps much less, little as is.             a               finished,

week ago, my third course on Technology.        (?) I I             have changed the

subject each year, and have now completed                           the round of

vegetable, mineral, and animal industrialism, and know my
ground. There are fearful gaps to fill up, and thousand things

to learn, but have had some of the same men all the three
aa

      is I
years, and have interested even soap-makers in soap-making.

                                                                    is,
But all this shockingly egotistical. The meaning that we
have vocation, and will do our best in it. . . . Have we not all

of us thousand reasons for thanking God that He has been so

merciful to us, and that He has given us so much occasion for

gratefulness  . . We are in the hands of God, and know that
I
                                    ?
                                         .

                                          a
                                                                is
our Redeemer liveth, and that our life hid with Christ in God.

have been thinking great deal about these things lately, and

with many reproaches, striving to live nearer the Unseen."
452  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XT.

                          CHAPTER XI.

                        THE STRUGGLE CLOSES : VICTORY WON.

   "So much as moments are exceeded by eternity, and the sighing of a man by the
joys of an angel, and a salutary frown by the light of God's countenance, a few
groans, by the infinite and eternal hallelujahs ; so much are the sorrows of the godly
to be undervalued in respect of what is deposited for them in the treasures of eter
nit"y.T"ranslated into the Kingdom of His dear Son."

                                                                        "April 26, 1858.

  " My dear Jeanie, -- If you wish to see a lazy man, take

Pussy, mesmerize her, and make her clairvoyante, desire her
(in spirit) to go the railway station, take a ticket, enter a first-

class carriage, and go on, on, on, till she comes to the Bridge of

Allan.
   " Tell her to get out there, taking care not to leave her para

sol or smelling-bottle behind her, enter the omnibus, and request

to be set down at Sunnylaw House. When she is there, she will
mysteriously tell you that an awful black dog, called Betty (in
reality, a very mild canine lady) guards the gate, whilst a con
nexion of her own, stout and comfortable, basks in the sun, as
respectable cat-matrons of her years love to do. She will fur
ther describe to you a room with one oriel window, looking
south on the bed of a fishing stream and a line of railway, which
occupy different heights in a valley rising into a fine sky-line
crowned with trees, behind which we see the sun set, and the

stars rise.

    " Further, after describing a faymale, something like yourself
in look, Pussy will signify that there is a spectacled member of
1858.                        FAR BEN IN HEAVEN.                                             453

the other sex, lounging in an easy chair, making pretence of

studying and working. His name, Pussy will spell for you, if

you give her letters of the alphabet, taking care, of course, that

she is in the mesmeric rapture, and putting down the whole al
phabet before her on the floor. She will then hunt among the
letters till she finds one, snatch it up like a mouse, and deposit

Iit in a corner, then another hunt, and another deposit, and so

on, till the whole word is made thus : D-- 0 -- S-- -- E--,

Iwhich being interpreted reads Dosie, a name given to me by,

we won't say whom, because am always in a doze. You will
then unmesmerize Pussy, and give her a bowl of cream. -- Your

loving                                                          George."

    Such are the directions given to a sister to discover the spring
retreat. Notes to his mother speak of the house as " delight

fully situated, looking out over a wide stretch of hill and valley,
with something higher than hills on the horizon, a stream in the

lowest valley-bed, and fields between, occupied at present by
matron sheep with lambs, some black, some white. One patient

Imother has, by maternal right or adoption, both a black and a

white lamb, and interpret her language towards the thirsty

and impatient couple to be

                             ' Drink fair

                             My piebald pair.'
I" wonder if an American ewe has ever one twin black and
Ithe other white ?
                        reckon not. The greatest nation in crea

tion would be endangered by such an event. Poor Blackie

Iwould be quickly doomed to Lynch law. . . . Before left

Edinburgh, a friend told me that his late grandmother, when

nearly ninety, speaking of heaven, said, ' It was nae for the

like of Jenny Brown and her to expect to get far ben ; but

Imay be they would get seats on the hinmost1 benks near the

door.' Good old body, hope she is far ben by this time."

                                                                          " Tuesday.

I I" As have not the porcelain tablet2 beside me, pick up

1 Farthest back seats.
> Conversation with his mother was often carried on by means of the tablet al
luded to. It is now preserved, with the last words he wrote on
        it                                                                                  no one being
                                                                                       it,
permitted to use after him.
454  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.       CHAP. XI.

Ithis scrap of paper instead thereof to write a line upon. think
I begin to mend. Yesterday was a delightful day. My limbs
Iache less. sleep better, and feel less languid. The great quiet
Iness and serenity of this place calm and soothe me, and the

almost entire rest to which surrender myself, is slowing my

pulse, and clearing my brains perceptibly. We have what I

have long wished for, a western window with a wide prospect.
Lambs and crows, and the sound of running water ; the steam-

engine whistle, and the lowing of distant cattle, prevent utter
solitude. The sky is ever changing, and in the evening a

crescent moon and the evening star play at hide-and-seek

among the clouds."

    From this pleasant life, with "the absence of business-worry,
the easy morning's literary work, the long profitable readings
and meditations, and the soothing influence of green fields, and
blue or sunny skies," he was speedily roused, and cast into the
whirlpool of this world's cares. Intelligence reached him while
at Bridge of Allan of the death of Dr. Gregory, Professor of Che
mistry in the Edinburgh University. He mourned the loss of
 one so amiable and so accomplished, but did not consider his
 own prospects affected by it. So passed a day or two, in un
consciousness of the stir on his behalf in town, from which, at

last, came a kind friend urgently to insist on his appearing as a

 candidate for the Chair. The result we shall give as much as

 possible in his own words.

                                    " May 7.
     I" My dear Daniel, --The enclosed [a letter to the patrons as
candidate] will startle you as much as it does myself.  left

Edinburgh three weeks ago, anticipating nothing but a long rest.
In my absence Dr. Gregory died very unexpectedly. He had

Ilong been poorly, and had scarcely lectured this winter, but no
one thought him near death.         had no thought of trying for

this Chair, but without waiting for my consent, such a troop of

friends, including Councillors, have taken up my case that,
I Inolens volens, am in the field.
                                    look at the matter very com
Iposedly. For purely personal reasons, should rather remain
I I Ias am ; for others
     could change.                  shall cheerfully abide
                   CHAIR OF CHEMISTRY.                        455

I Ithe issue. The suspense is very, very unwelcome, but must be

borne. As yet scarcely feel that am a candidate.

   " Many  thanks                                                     " May 14.
Chemistry  Chair.  for your1 good wishes in reference to the

                   A perfect phalanx of friends has gathered

around me, and shown me an amount of kindness enough to

Imake proud, and at the same time humble, any man. But as

yet can say nothing of prospects. Meanwhile, don't stop col

lecting for the Museum. We must make it and keep it famous,

whatever happens."

  ISuch suspense was not helpful to physical wellbeing. "
Icannot write at length," he says, " for have an open blister on

my right arm, and every now and then it makes my nerves

quiver as if my elbow were laid on a Ruhmkoff's coil. This

does not conduce to legible writing or elegant composition."

   On May 20th, he encloses to his brother a letter of with

Idrawal, saying, " The enclosed will let you know that have
Iretired from the Chemistry Chair.
Ido this has cost a sore effort.     need not tell you that to
                                  was sure of the Chair. A large

majority of the Council had declared for me. . . . The kind

Iness, respect, and admiration unsolicitedly expressed towards

me by people never saw, have unspeakably touched and hum

bled me.
    " The Chair, you know, was the object of my youthful ambi

tion. A position of honour and influence is afforded by it such

as few positions give. Why then refuse it ? Simply because it
Iwould have been a fatal promotion.
                                     could not have faced the
I Iphysical labour. So convinced was of this, that had no pur
... Ipose of standing.
                        accept the issue without repining. We

have both been taught in different ways that ' man proposes,

but God disposes.' When He took away my health, He taught

me to lay aside as unrealizable my ambition ; and two years

Iago fully resigned myself to see the Chemistry Chair go past
I Ime. should be the most thankless of men if made light of

what is left me, or disallowed the comforts and honours of my

present appointment. The one point which more than any

                   1 Mr. Godfrey Wedgwood.
456                           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                  CHAT. XI.

other weighed with me was the possibility of my allowing
a valetudinarian pusillanimity to keep me from hazarding new

duties.

  I" So farewell the dream that should fill the Chair of Black,
Ithough should have taken my chance as a public chemical

prelector against any of my contemporaries, and not been afraid
though the eidolon of Black himself had attended without a
ticket!'

    This letter is written apparently with effort, the writing being

unsteady. The    next             to Daniel,   of June 4,             gives evidence of
improvement in   the "            write arm,"  as he calls              in its clear, firm
          :

                                                                   it,
  characters --

    " Many thanks for your kind letter. By this time you will

  have learned the issue of the Chemistry Chair election so far as

  am concerned.                   need not repeat that to withdraw was sore
II        iIs,                                                          I
              I is                                                          a
                  I
                      I

                               it
  trial, which not lessened by finding on every side assurances

  from Councillors that should have been unanimously elected.

  Nevertheless, do not doubt that did right. My intellectual
                                               I

  vigour  think, what was. My moral faculties are, trust,

  disciplined for the better but my body frailer, especially;is
  lungwards. Even in unusually balmy, genial weather like this,

    find walking or climbing infallibly bring on difficulty of

  breathing and frequently spitting of blood and in winter, when

  the weather otherwise, scarcely walk at all. In these cir
          I is                    aI               I;
  cumstances, could contemplate with no prospect of success theI

  cares of the Chemical Chair.                 gave way last winter in Feb
                                      I
                                        I

                                               it
  ruary, and, till week ago, have not known what painless exist
        is
                                                  can endure this with some
                           a
  ence    for an hour at time.

  (though far too little) patience, but leaves no surplus for the
  energetic work of an important Chair.            therefore resign with

  a composed air, hiding any disappointment may feel. They

  are in the thick of the canvass, and am whirled into visiting
                                               I                        it it,

  Councillors. It             is  work exceedingly dislike, and               is  not
                                  I

  made more likeable by Councillors on all sides telling me that

I   might have saved them all this trouble by not withdrawing.
1858.   WITHDRAWAL FROM CANVASS.                     457

However, one does for a friend what one would not do for one's-
self."

   His tone in writing to friends is almost apologetic, so urgent
were they that he should stand. The zeal of one Councillor

I Iamused him not a little, who replied to an objection on the

score of health, " would give him the Chair though knew he
should die the week after." To Dr. Cairns, whose counsel and
sympathy had been precious in those weeks of anxiety, he
writes :--

I" left the matter in the hands of God, and my prayer for
I Ilight has been answered.
        am quite satisfied that have arrived

...at the wisest conclusion, and am very thankful to be rid of sus -
pense and serenely at work again.                    It costs an effort to give

up an honourable office for which one's life had been a training,

Iand which came within reach in so honourable a way. But do
Inot repine in the least. On the other hand, am very grateful

for the unlooked-for kindness and respect shown me, and bend
my knees in thankfulness to God for His abounding mercies."

During what remained of his life, he became ever more

satisfied as to the decision then made, and an increase of his

salary, as Director of the Industrial Museum, from £300 to £400,
was expressive, so far, of a consciousness of his value. This was
his last struggle with worldly ambition, and out of it he came

so visibly purified, that his growing gentleness and patience

were subjects of remark amongst those who most dearly loved

him.

    The summer session was wound up by an address given at a

conversazione of the College of Physicians, Edinburgh. A few

days at St. Andrews followed, when, at the request of his host,
Dr. Day, he sat to Mr. Rodgers for the calotype from which the

portrait attached to this volume is engraved. The month of
August and part of September were spent in a small farm

house, near Innerleithen. The only dwelling visible from it is

a deserted house at a considerable distance. The Tweed passes

        and "the little hills rejoice on every side." To be
before  it,

                                                  a
thus alone with nature was solace to the weary worker, crav
458  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. XI.

ing for rest. " We have been here," he tells his brother, " for

Imore than a month, beside the rippling Tweed and the quiet

hills, singularly well off in some respects ; nevertheless, have

not felt moved to write to you, being too tired after a summer's

engrossing work to feel a pen a welcome instrument, and com

pelled notwithstanding to keep it going for some hours each

Iday. A holiday without any heavy writing is one of the

delights look forward to. Lots of continuous reading in the

open air, with many musings over what is read ; perhaps a verse

or two spun, but the brain upon the whole lying fallow, or get

ting only a mild top-dressing of intellectual guano, is my lazy
Inotion of a rustical month of holidays.
                                          would have written
I Ito you if had had anything to write, but had nothing in the

Iway of business, and the reflection on paper of my monotonous
life here would give no amusement.  had a faint purpose of

going to Leeds to the British Association meeting, which comes
Ioff ten days hence, but don't feel strong enough for the excite
Iment, and won't go.
                      paid for my Dublin journey last autumn

with a sharp attack of splenitis, which pulled me down all the

Iwinter ; and my weary lungs bleed on the least provocation.

It makes me smile grimly to find that must avoid a volume of

I' Punch,' as he makes me laugh at a rate of which my wind

organ by no means approves. Here am resting these trouble

some bellows, so as to make them serviceable for winter's work."

A volume of 'Punch' was a frequent addition to the books

selected for country reading. On one occasion a large parcel,

brought to the railway station when starting, was found to con

sist of four volumes of that periodical. A niece, about five or

six years old, shared the pleasure of this study one autumn.

Each day after dinner were the illustrations admired by the two

together, clear ringing laughter testifying to the appreciation of

Ithem, till at last the child declared as her settled conviction,

" Oh ! Uncle George, think ' Punch ' is the most delightful

book in the world !" and that Uncle George was of the same

mind she could not doubt.

While at Innerleithen the comet of 1858 began to show itself

distinctly to the naked eye, and was often watched from the

cottage door as it appeared above a hill directly opposite. At
1858.                THREATENED WITH ERYSIPELAS.                            459

first George's mother had difficulty in distinguishing              it,but one
                                                       " Did you see    it
night she   announced having             seen     it.                       wag
its tail "  asked he gravely,            as       no
       1                              it               other evidence could be
                              !
received. " Ah George," was the reply, " the waggery allI
                                                                      is
                                              if
in you."

The Memoir of Edward Forbes made some progress this sea

son, but the associations             recalled made    it    very   trying work.
" The reading of Ed. Forbes's papers," he                  says,   " continually

brings before me the fate of my fellow-students, and often sad

dens me beyond endurance.                would lose heart and hope my

self but for the hope of an endless and blessed life beyond the
grave yet not the life of Christ enough to show us that on
       ;

                 is

this earth sorrow and suffering are the appointed rule for most

(I  do not say for all), and may we not suffer with Him that we

may rise in glory with Him also May the blessed Saviour lead
                                         ?

us in His own bleeding footsteps to the rest that remaineth for

the children of God!"
   To Dr. Cairns he writes, after returning to town -- " Greatly
                                                       is,
                                                                  a

                                                                                   :

                                                                                             is
did desire to see you, greatly wish to have long, long talk
    I

                  a
about heaven and earth, the world that and the world that

to be. . . . Come to see us as soon as you can, and give me the

benefit of long Christian gossip with you. The way of life

grows, blessed be God, clearer and clearer to me, and know
                                                                    I
Christ better and better, though there
                                                                           I
                                                       is  much darkness and

despondency still, and weak faith, and downright sin. But

am thankful for much light and peace, and hope for more."

    The introductory lecture on Technology for 1858-9 has been

published, under the title The Progress of the Telegraph.'
                                      '                             a

                                                                                            1
Under what circumstances the session was opened, letter to

his brother Daniel, of date November 25, explains :--

    " Lest to-morrow should prove, like all recent Fridays for              a

...long time back, letterless day, take sheet of paper into
                     a                   I             In spite, as seemed, of
                                               Ia
                         I
bed with me and begin an epistle.

all needful rustication, was threatened on the very eve of be

ginning this winter's course with erysipelas in the legs, and had

to spend the day before opening in bed.                was induced to think

                     Macmilliin Co., Cambridge and London. 1859.
            i
                                   &
4G0  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                     CHAP. XI.

Ithat might require to borrow the deceased Peggy Brown's

lapidary inscription, with the due change of gender : --

                              ' She had two bad legs and a baddish cough,
                                But the legs it was that carried her off.'

IThe legs got better, but by way of mending the cough, contrived,
I Iforgetting as always do that am a damaged locomotive, to fall
I Iupon the corner of a thick board, and hit my side such a thump

that thought had broken a rib. However, it was not frac
tured, though it has ached and bothered me sufficiently to stop
all extra work, including hospitalities and letters. The said

Icornered board had on it one of the plans for the New Industrial

Museum, about which was much concerned.

I" Students abound this winter, especially juniors.  think

myself well off with thirty-five. My class is a very pleasant

one. An Indian general, an artillery lieutenant, who lost a bit

of his skull (but certainly none of his brains) at Lucknow, an
engineer officer, four Indian surgeons, a navy surgeon, a W.S.,

Iseveral young ministers, and a wind up of farmers, tanners, &c.

They are a pleasant lot to lecture to, and have re-arranged my

laboratory for them, where we meet comfortably. Only a little
better health and--but why complain ?

" Forgive the valetudinarian haziness of this. We are well."

The tendency to erysipelas, of which this letter speaks, con

tinued more or less from that time onwards, and compelled him

to even more seclusion than hitherto. Previously it had been

his custom to write or read for some hours almost every evening
                                                  his " private
     I!

                                    if

                                                                            it,

                                                                                                                                                                   !
to the sound of the pianoforte, or, as he called

band." Favourite songs, and morsels of Beethoven, Mendelssohn,

or Handel, were encored ad infinitum, with an occasional Nigger

melody or simple air. A whistling accompaniment betokened

the special favourites, work of the lighter kind going on all the

while. His love for music has already been spoken of. "Music

music Some time or other, not in this world, at least in the

next, will drink my full of it." After hearing Jenny Lind
1858.                  EVENINGS IN BED.                                  461

Ising he says : " was greatly delighted and comforted. Music

is an amazing thing even upon this earth, what must it be in

heaven?" On first hearing the Messiah in Exeter Hall, its
effect was so overpowering that he could scarcely stagger out of

the place.

But now these pleasures had to be foregone, and the evening

spent in bed, where, surrounded by books and writing materials,

he carried on his literary work for five or six hours consecu

tively. Special calls were attended to as before, but all avail

able time was spent in a recumbent posture, with application of

Ilotions. At the close of December he tells his brother : "

have no news to send you of a stirring sort. The winter hitherto

has been more than ordinarily monotonous : much of it spent

in bed, and much of it in doing work with an effort. This

Imorning am somewhat seedy, in consequence of an hour and

Ithree quarters' lecture last night at Leith.

   " was induced to give it to help the funds of a Free Church,

presided over by one of those pre-eminently good and lovable

men, to whom less good and lovable people cannot say No, and

who should be taken periodically before a magistrate and

I Icautioned against asking favours from their brethren. Return

ing from this lecture speculated, as suppose you do on such

Ioccasions, as to the good such prelections do. In this case
Ihad the comfort of knowing that had helped to raise £50 for
Ithe cause --a consolation seldom to be had. The ordinary result

   take to be such as was experienced by a young minister

lecturing on astronomy in the south country to an audience of

shepherds, etc. He had dilated pretty largely on the immense

distances which separate the heavenly bodies from each other,

and when his lecture was over, a friend heard two of the shep
herds discussing its merits :-- ' Jock ! d'ye believe a' the minister
         '                                                            '
said   ?    To  which  Jock  replies  (more  Scottico),  ' Div  ye  ?    and

Tam emphatically answers,    '  No    ae  word    '
                                                !

  I" am going off to Bridge of Allan for three or four days

next week, in hope that it will set me up a bit, and enable me
to work with less sense of oppressive dulness than has been the

case hitherto."
402            MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.          CHAP. XI.

               " Bridge of Allah, December 29, 1858.

I" My dear Mother, -- ' How did Tubal- Cain first learn to
work iron ? '  was about to have that momentous question

answered when the train reached this, and had to hurry out

without receiving a reply. The chance of having the problem
I Istated above made clear, is not likely to occur again.
                                                 may,
I Ithink, make up my mind that won't, however long live, find

any one in a condition to tell me how Smith the first learned to

hammer iron. Yet my neighbour in the railway carriage,
whom Uncle could not fail to recognise as having something

antediluvian about him, seemed to know all about the matter.

We had been talking about iron-manufacture, when suddenly

referring to a supposed improvement which a very ignorant
person had, as he imagined, ' introduced' into iron-making, not

aware that the practice was immemorially ancient, my fellow-
traveller said to me, ' Why, Tubal-Cain found that out the

Isecond day.'

   " Well, thought to myself, if you know what T. C. did the

second day, perhaps you can tell me what he did the first, and
I Iso put the question which begins this note.
                                                lost the answer,
I Ibut don't think, though had gone on to Aberdeen with my
Igood friend, would have got more than an oracular response.

He could answer other questions, however, and is largely to
Ihelp the museum, for which begged all the way.
I" We are in quiet comfortable lodgings.
                                          am steadily pro

gressing with my lectures. To-day is magnificently bright, and

we shall presently visit Dunblane.               George."
   " Your loving son

On the first Sabbath of 1859, he tells Dr. Gladstone :--

I" found your kind and welcome letter awaiting me here on
Imy return from Bridge of Allan, where Jessie and had four
Ivery quiet and pleasant days.
                                    have not felt up to the mark

at all this winter. . . . My worst complaint is a readily-recurring

haemorrhage from the lungs, which, though passive rather than

active, none the less steals the life-blood away, and is the cause,it,

I suppose, of the sense of weariness, good-for-nothingness,
Islough-of-despondness, as May, imagine, would call which
1859.         FOUR DAYS AT BRIDGE OF ALLAN.          463

Ihas lain heavily upon me.  ran away to the Bridge of Allan

to mend this, carrying with me Jessie, a Bible, the Life of

Milton, the Life of Douglas Jerrold, Miss Adelaide Procter's

Lyrics, four or five volumes on chemistry, and paper, pens, and

Iink. studied some six hours, meditating and simmering over
Ithe metals on which am to give four special lectures, and

Iwishing a dozen times that you and other chemical friends were
within call.  read Jerrold, a bit of Milton, and lots of Miss

Procter, wrote out nearly a whole lecture, moralized and chatted

with Jessie, visited the magnificent neighbourhood, dined early,
went to bed early, and came back decidedly the better of my

"Ijourney.

        have done little this winter. You will receive one of

Ithese days a new edition of the Electric Telegraph, also a lec

ture on it. raised a little money for a school by a lecture on

balloons, and helped at a very pleasant meeting to raise money
for the Special Indian Missionary Fund, and took a hearty part

at another assemblage intended to establish a Medical Mission

ary Dispensary, where the young men will be trained as medi
                                                   It is a step
cal practitioners and evangelists at the same time.
                                                     said they
Iin the right direction, and hope will prosper.
  I I" When heard of your lighthouse appointment,
Ihave selected John Gladstone not to look after the lights, -as

daresay he imagines, but to look after the b(u)oys, whom he has

Idone so much for at the Bloomsbury Branch. Here will not
Itouch upon secularities. About coloured lights, etc., will

trouble you with a week-day letter, containing some chemico-

Iphysical speculations. This is a Sabbatic one.

   " rejoice to hear of your success with the young men. God

bless you in your work ! It is worth all other work, and far

beyond all Greek and Roman fame, all literary or scientific tri
umphs. And yet it is quite compatible with both. Douglas

Jerrold's life is most sad to read. In many respects it gave me

Ia far lugher estimate of him morally than had had before.
I IIndeed, did not pretend to know nor to judge him, but fan

cied him to have been a less lovable, domestic person than he

was. But what a pagan look-out ! What an ethnic view of
this world and the next ! He might as well have been born in
404           MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                  CHAP. XI.

the days of Socrates or Seneca as in these days, for any good

Christ's coming apparently did him. There is something un

speakably sad in his life, and it was better than that of many a

litterateur. The ferocity of attack on cant and hypocrisy ; the
girding at religion, which they cannot leave alone ; above all,
the dreary, meagre, cheerless, formal faith, and the dim and
doubtful prospect for the future, are features in that litterateur-

life most saddening and disheartening,

  I" And the men of science, are they better ? God forbid

should slander my brethren in study, men above me in intel
Ilect, capacity, and accomplishment.
                                      delight to know that so

Imany of them are Christ's willing followers and beloved ser

vants. But recently have come across four of the younger

Ichemists, excellent fellows, of admirable promise and no small
performance.  was compelled to enter into some religious con

versation (not discussion) with them, and found them creedless.

I don't mean without written or church creed, but having con
Istructed no ' believe' for themselves. Standing in that mad

dest of all attitudes, viz., with finger pointed to this religious

body and that religious body, expatiating upon their faults, as

if at the day of judgment it would avail them anything that t he

Ba"ptTishtessewesrceiebnitgifoictebdreatnhdretnheofQuoaukrserws asteclhf-ruigs,htneooudsou!bt, not in

an unkind, but still in a critical and unconsciously analytical

spirit, and see the motes in our eyes as the spots in the sun.
And are they not entitled to count these spots ? and can we

blame them for judging us as lights, which we ought to be, and

demand that the light that is in us be not darkness ?
   " Oh to tell them kindly and wisely not to try themselves by

us, who are but dim and tarnished reflectors of the Divine

brightness, staining and colouring the few rays we do retain,

instead of sending them back pure and white as they fell upon

us, but to look to Him who is light, and in whom is no dark

ness at all ; and when they find that they cannot look on that
awful splendour and live, to turn to Him who is the brightness

of His Father's glory, yet so veiled in sinless flesh that all live

the better by looking to Him, and none indeed truly live other

wise than through and by Him who is the light of life.
1859.                       BURNS' CENTENARY.                         4G5

I I II" see have been rhapsodizing, but don't often do so.

hope one of these days for an opportunity of addressing the de
Ifvotional meeting of our Edinburgh University students.
                                                                      so,
I shall try to urge the scientific class to believe in Christ as the

Head of the Schools of Science as much as of the Church called

by His name, and to ask the litterateurs what the tongues of men
and of angels will do for them if faith, hope, and charity, are

not in their hearts, and the greatest

  I" Send me the Recreation Essay.
                               amongst the three-- charity.
                                As a nation we are, sup

pose, the worst in the world at keeping holiday. We take our

pleasure sadly, and the sadly changes wofully fast into sinfully.
" The Total Abstinence Society here wanted me to speak at
I Ia great Centenary Burns meeting, but was glad that had a
Iprevious engagement.
                               wish the abstainers all success, but

Itheir merits and those of Burns belong to very different cate
gories.     could not praise them together, and to make a memo

rial celebration of Burns an occasion for pointing morals from

ahis sins,                  think, duty not asked by God or man at our
                            a
       I
hands.    is,Irefer to this as an unfortunate endeavour to turn
                                                               a
                         a
holiday into fast- day. Let holidays be holidays.              count onI
                                                                                       a
   copy of your paper.
    " The best of good wishes to May, and love the fondest, best,

and truest to A, till Valentine's Day come. Secularities an

other time.  aI             will allow my letter conscience    small siesta.

Jessie sends Christmas-box full of love.
" Your affectionate friend,                    George Wilson."

   To Dr. Cairns he speaks of the time spent at Bridge of Allan
as " four delightful days of rest and recruitment of body and

soul, including, or rather included in, rest in the Lord.' Since
                            a

                                                            '

                                              I
returning, have been greatly better, and am now workably
           I

              I
...well. A load of labour has saved you the infliction of lettera
hitherto.                   was at very delightful devotional meeting ofa

medical students in the University on Friday night. They

asked me to preside, and after in vain trying to write suitable

address, resolved, in God's strength, to speak from my heart
         I

to theirs, in the name of Christ, and pleased the blessed Spirit
                               2
                                    G

                                   I it
to give me some utterance for them. am to preside next week
                MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON'.                    CHAP. XI.

at a very different meeting, viz., one of the Burns Centenary
I Imeetings.
                was asked to take part in two, which declined.
I agreed to become a steward at the Music Hall, as the quietest

way of escaping ; but a week ago the Trades' Delegates came to

me as Industrial Professor, to take the chair at their meeting in

IQueen Street Hall, and agreed, provided the Music Hall people
Iwould let me off. This they reluctantly did. shall be criticised

and condemned by certain religious people for this step, but my

Iconscience approves it. The duty has come in a fourfold way to

me. think it is quite possible to commemorate the birthday

I Iof Burns without being guilty of idolatry, or partaking in his
sins.  think, moreover, that may give the meeting a bias in

a direction no Christian will lament, and which another might
Inot do.  have made it matter of solemn consideration, and I

I Ihope your prayers for me will not be wanting." Of this meet

ing he says to his brother, " believe may honestly say that,

as a continuous success, it was the best meeting in Edinburgh.

The only shadow of mishap was occasioned by an ill-timed al

Ilusion. . . . Otherwise a more decorous, cheerful, hearty meet

ing, never was at, and the old man Glover (a gauger, and now

                                     it,
a centenarian), who appeared at was wonder himself. Thea

scene between him and me --for to me he addressed all his re
marks-- was described by those who were onlookers as amusing

in the highest degree. He asked me, among other things,           iIf

'  kent what clachan was and after dating some event by the

          a          ;'

                 IV
year of the great storm, suggested interrogatively, But that wad
                                                  !'
be afore your time   asked the year                       '
                                          :'      795 The quiet man
                                               1

ner with which he told of his supplanting thievish carriers who

tapped the rum puncheons between Edinburgh and Dumfries,

!'...!and how nae bung started wi' him,' was great, especially when
       '                                     write this in bed, far on

          '

         I
he added, but had a gimlet

in the night. Here we are all well."

   Of the students' devotional meeting spoken of in previous
                                                             :
letter, record remains in few notes, apparently written in
       a                       a                               a
            is                   is
haste, and of which only the closing head can be clearly made
out. It                              suggestive enough " V. This
                as follows, and

Blessed and Adorable Saviour, the Elder Brother, the Master,

the Redeemer, the Life-Giver, the Judge, the Atoner, the Crea
THE " ALPHA AND OMEGA."  467

 tor, the Teacher." It was confessions like this that led Dr.it,

 IAlexander to say, " have often felt as if there was somethinga

 sublime in this man, with his fragile frame and modest attitude,

 standing amongst the aristocracy of science, or before some popu
 lar assembly, or in the presence of his students, and calmly,
 unostentatiously, with the simplicity of a child and the unfal
 tering confidence of a confessor, giving utterance to the senti
 ments of faith and worship that came, as from his inner soul,
 spontaneously from his lips."1 The grace with which illus
 trations from Scripture were introduced into his public ad
 dresses was peculiarly his own, and the reverential love with
 which all was evidently laid at the feet of the Saviour, had
 something triumphant and joyous in elevating for the time
the most thoughtless of his audience. He had the power, so rare
even among earnest Christians, of consecrating to God every
act of business, thus offering the devotion of worshipper as
truly in his laboratory and lecture-room as in the sanctuary.
To those who were privileged to join in prayer with him, this

was most apparent. In the morning there was the petition for
help, support, and guidance, and in the evening the calm offer
ing up of all the acts of the.day, to be purified and accepted for the

sake of the great Mediator. Few mannerisms marked his prayers,
but two desires often found expression, " that in all things Christ
might have the pre-eminence," and that "having begun in
Christ, we may end in none else." Jesus was the " Alpha and

Omega" to him, and therefore did his light shine clearly before

his fellow-men.

    Reference has been made to preparation of lectures during the

Christmas week. They were the last he delivered before the
Philosophical Institution, four in number, On the Metals in
their Industrial Relations.' This was the eighth course of lec

tures addressed to the audiences of this Association, and

might have been imagined they had had enough of him. Men
of the highest eminence were on their staff of lecturers, and

many from distance to whom novelty lent new charm yet
so far from becoming weary of George Wilson during the four
teen years that he appeared before them, they seemed to think

     Funeral Sermon, by Dr. W. L. Alexander, p. 28. A. and C. Black, Edin. 1859.
*

                  a
                                                                                      '

                                                                                         a

                                                                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                          it
4G8               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XI.

the last course better than the first. His own mind was ever

amassing fresh stores of knowledge, and he delighted to make a
feast of these for his brethren. Again and again, too, did be

come to their aid, on very brief notice, and at considerable
personal inconvenience, when a lecturer was unable to fulfil his

engagement to them; and of this they had a most grateful

sense.

  I IAfter a professional visit to Newcastle in the beginning of

March, he tells Dr. Cairns, " Since came back have been

discoursing to Dr. Candlish's Bible-class, by his request, on a

Iphysico-theological subject, and have promised a word to the
Congregational Soiree of Lady Yester's. It is pleasant even to

Isand the floor, or change the sawdust carpet of the outer vesti

bule of the house of God. Would that could only give them

a word in season !

  I I" am better than was earlier in the winter, but constantly

visited by returns of haemoptysis, and compelled to be very wary

and watchful.

  I" ask myself often, whether it is mere languor and stupidity,

or anything deserving to be called becoming contentment and

Icomposure, that keeps me from complaining and repining.

hope there is a little of sincere gratefulness to the Giver of all

good gifts ; but there ought to be, and might be, a great deal

more.

   " When are you coming to stir me up ? You owe me a

return for staring out of the window of the railway carriage at

Berwick, in hope of seeing you."
   Shortly afterwards, though " terribly over-worked, and far

from well," he had to visit London professionally, and was un

able on this account to be present at the meeting in Lady

Yester's Church to which he alludes. On the journey up, the

Ilamp in the railway carriage went out. While his companions

slumbered, or chatted together in the darkness, " fell to mus
ing," he says, " and then to trying how many verses of the Bible
I Icould recall.  Iwas very sorry to find knew so few, but glad
Ialso to find knew so many." During the week spent in

London, he accomplished what one of his coadjutors asserted

Iwould have taken three weeks in any hands but his. " have
IN TWO PLACES AT ONCE.                    469

Ibeen counting my visits, and find that have been four times

at the Department of Science and Art, four times at the Office

of Works, twice at the Council of Education, and once at the
ITreasury, besides all the other doings.
                                          was much knocked

about, but the weather was good, and the absence of lecture-

work saved me from suffering."

Retiring to the country during the few weeks' interval between

the winter and summer sessions, he for the last time visited his

spring resort. Dr. Gladstone, to whom the following letter is

addressed, had shortly before been appointed as one of the Com

missioners for the inspection of lighthouses :--

                                                        "Bridge of Allan, April-20, 1859.

  I" My dear Light, Buoyant, and Beaconal Royal Commis

sioner, -- From the moment set foot in Edinburgh on my
return, till three minutes past four o'clock, Greeenwich time,

Iyesterday, when the guard whistled, the bell rang, the engine

snorted, and the train ' for the North' started, have not known

what the feeling of rest was. When one piece of work was
completed, instead of the trumpets playing ' See the Conquering

Hero comes,' the drum-major, or some other noisy fellow shouted
out, ' Silence in the ranks.' Order of the Day, ' G. W. to be in
two places at once, to do three things at the same time, to have

as many hands as a Hindu god, and all his Sabbaths to be

merely Sundays.' By command.
I" In consequence of this order
                                 have been showing the
IMuseum to the Duke of Argyle's family, whilst was giving

evidence in a court of law on the nature of sea-water, and

examining the candidates for an agricultural diploma, and visit

ing the glass-works with my class, and lecturing to the assembled

teachers of Glasgow, and studying calico printing with Mr.

Walter Cram, and writing certificates for my class, and adjudging

prizes, and reading a paper to the Royal Society of Edinburgh

on Cavendish, and paying away lots of money ; besides many

Iother things too numerous to mention.

   " In sober seriousness, have seemed for the last three weeks

to hear a little imp constantly dinning in my ear ' wlmt next?

Iand it was not one next, but a long line, the most of which

have either disposed of finally, or at least chloroformed, and left
470               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                          CHAP. XL

Ibehind in a state of antesthesia, guaranteed to last for a fortnight.

The more pressing and clamorous have brought with me, and

Iam polishing off, beginning with your letter.

   " At the sea-water1 trial was asked a question, which I ad

minister herewith to Lady May, with a view to test and strengthen

her intellectual agility, subtlety, and profundity. ' It being

admitted that the fresh water flows from mouths of rivers far

out into the sea, and is found floating fresh in the open ocean,

Iand you (G. W.) showing a manifest tendency to define a stream

of fresh water as a river, (the cross [sometimes very cross]
examining counsel) ask you, if you call such mid-ocean fresh
                                            '  The questioner, in this case
water  a  river,  what  are  its  banks   ?

a good-tempered, very sharp fellow, thought he had me, and all

Iin court, as my German teacher used to say, 'pricked veil up
their ears.'      was totally unprepared for the question, but one

Iof the little turnkeys who keeps the door of a memory-cell

hastened to my help, and prompted by him, replied, ' Lieu
tenant Maury declares that the Gulf Stream is a river of hot

water flowing between banks of cold ; mine is a river of fresh

water flowing between banks of salt water.' The Court smiled

Iapplause, and with a courteous glance from Advocate Crux,

vanished from the witness-box.

              " In conclusion I may say,

                  Fresh-water won the day,
                  Which holds out the prospect of much better pay.

    " Besides the multitudinous labours referred to so modestly

I Ion a previous page, have to mention that addressed five
Icopies of Colour- Blindness to the Millbank Street office. hope
Ithe commissioners will make      ' Light' of paying the carriage.
                                    was decidedly the better of     my
   " You ask for my health.

visit to London. The stoppage of brain work ; the spectacle of

the great bee-hive, with all its drones and workers, honey-

makers and honey-eaters, its constitutional queen, and assault

ing wasps, always immensely exhilarating to me ; the contact
with the great little men who rule the world ; the handling of

that most wonderful invention red tape, which, according as you
will, is so strong, that a Samson could not break a thread of
       *
                                                        '
                                                                       is
                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                            V

                                                                                                             it,
       The question at issue was, What salt and what fresh water
1S53.        THE WORLD TO COME NEARER.                                  471

and so weak, that if you breathe on   it,   it  disappears like heated

gun-cotton the gazing face to face, and as one always feels,
       a;
perhaps for the last time, at the good Faraday, and other great,a

lovable, or at least admirable men the long profitable chats
                                      ;
                                        ;1
with the landlord of the Tavistock the genial controversies

with Lady May, leader of Her Majesty's opposition the sweet
                                                ;
face of dear A. There  a !I  have got to the top of the hill, and
                                                       II
must stop bit to recover my wind. All these London expe

riences did me good, especially as my Sabbath at Cambridge

was, though sad, yet pleasant modulation in another key, of

the London strain.           a
   " The change of weather has little undone that good, yet

don't think seriously. --Your affectionate friend,
                                                             " George Wilson."

   Ungenial weather lessened out-door pleasures while in the
country. "The hills all round, and even low down, had white

mantles yesterday, and some of them are slow to part with them

to-day. The only plants that appear to enjoy the weather are

the snowdrops, and they come ready-made out of the sky."
" Snow, rain, and hail, have apparently been recommended

change of air, and come here in search of it. The day before
yesterday another stranger, High Wind, Esq., whom never
                                                a

                                                  I

                                                                               ;
met here before, paid the village visit, and made great row
                       I
                                   a
but he has packed up, and hear nothing of him to-day.
   " brought with me an aching arm, which, had been
I                                               it                      leg,
   II
                                                              a

should have declared was suffering from gout. To-day, how

ever, am better, and the peace and quietness are, as they

always do, doing me good."

   At the close of May, in writing to Dr. Cairns, he alludes to

the physical languor felt throughout the previous winter, and
adds, " cannot say that morally
I                                     have spent an unhappy or
   1I                           I

                                     a
                                                          1

                                                                is

                                                                     it
an unprofitable winter. The powers of the world to come draw

nearer to me than ever, and stand in more benignant relation.
   " have become wondrously indifferent to the praise of men,

but increasingly anxious to do my daily work, which far from

unpleasant, honestly, heartily, and earnestly.  would count

       Dr. Gladstone, his host, was then resident in Tavistock Square.
472              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                          CHAP. XI.

Ino healthy token if shrank from daily work. Far otherwise,
I I Iwish were ten times stronger and healthier than am, to do

ten times more work in the great Taskmaster's eye. But in spite

Iof many disheartening and even distressing things, and cares,

and fears, and sins, have tasted so largely of the mercies of

God ; the all-attractiveness of the blessed Saviour's character,
and the perfection of his example, have risen more recently into

such prominence before me ; and the sense of a higher presence,

enabling me to enter into communion with God, and to pray
acceptably unto Him, has so filled my heart, that the things of

this life arrange themselves according to a new perspective, and

seem much smaller and farther off than they did before.

  I" After a year's experience, have every reason to be satisfied
Iwith my decision about the Chemistry Chair.
                                                  have never

once repented it."
                                                                                "July 20.

  I" have been very busy, with a good deal of work connected

with my office.
     I" In health, however, am wonderfully well, and abundantly
Icheerful.
            have had the opportunity this summer of taking

part in several meetings of a religious character, and have felt

Imore faith, and courage, and comfort in being at them, than I

think ever did before.

  I" have increasingly to thank God that He makes my path

clear to me, and that to spend and be spent in Christ's service is

Imy chief desire. These are not things write about to almost
Iany one but yourself, and they are rather, as always feel, to be

buried in one's own heart, or brought out in prayer to God, than

given to the light openly."

     During this spring and summer one or two scientific papers

were read to Societies. One addressed to the Royal Society has

already received notice ;1 another was read to the Photographic
Society ;2 and a third to the Botanical Society.8

1 ' On the Recent Vindication of the Priority of Cavendish as the Discoverer of

the Composition of Water.'-- R.S.E., April 1859.
   * ' On Dryness, Darkness, and Coldness, as means of preserving
from fading.' -- ' Journal of Photographic Society, 1859.'         Photographs

   » ' On the Fruits of Cucurbitaceae and Crescentiacea:, as Models of various articles
of Industrial Use.' -- ' Trans. Botan. Soc. 1859.'
1869.               A ' FLITTING ' IN PROSPECT.      473

   The month of August was spent in Burntisland, as reasons, to
be found in subsequent letters, made it unsuitable for him to be

at a distance from town. A letter to Mr. Charles Tomlinson,

London, written on paper with the University stamp, gives one

reason.

                                                               "Burntisland, August 3, 1859.

" Carissime Carole, -- See, my dear friend, what a pass the

Emperor of the French has brought us to ! The University of

Edinburgh transferred to Burntisland, which after all is not an

island, and therefore not a burned one, but only a Trappean

Peninsula, which looks out from the Kingdom of Fife, across the
Firth of Forth, to Arthur Seat and Edinburgh, and invites the

latter to dip its hot face and sun- stricken brains beneath its

cooling waters. In short, as there can be no manner of doubt

that the French are by this time half way across the Channel,
the University of Edinburgh has thought it proper to put its
valuables in safety, and accordingly --but modesty prevents me
enlarging on the topic --the Professor of Technology is secure

here for this current month." A more sober reason given
                                                     '
that "the lease of my laboratory has expired, and the New
                                                      aI
Buildings are not (Hibernice) begun, so that have before me
                                                              it a

                                                                      is
                                                                            is
                                                                                        is,
the formidable horrors of flitting. The bother of this very
                    is
                                 a

                                            a
considerable, and one reason for my keeping so near Edin
"Iburgh." " We in Scotland call removal              flitting,' " he tells

Mrs. John Gladstone,     suppose on the antithetic principle

that                process as totally unlike the flitting of butterfly or
a

      it

           is
                 a
bird as can well be conceived; and where all the contents and

machinery of laboratory must be transported,         no easy
                    a

                                      I
matter. But fancy, further, that whilst turned out of my old

den in the middle of September,                have no new one to go to.
A butterfly preparing to flit from one rose to another has nothing

to pack up (or roll up) but its trunk, and certain to leave
                                                     is is
                    .a                                            I.
                                                                            it
                         .

                         it

                                     if,
                                             a it,

                                               it '
none of its goods behind, but after deserting its ancestral rose-

leaf, should find that had left the last rose of summer,' and
I it
that there was no other to receivea                  would doubtless find

self in sad predicament. In such predicament am
       " have been in heap of worries. This
                                                     worry the first,

and most tiresome.    .
474               MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. XI.

I" With all this, let me not forget to say that have enjoyed a

Ipeace and composure of spirit, interrupted only by a few impa

tient bursts, such as have seldom known. The meaning of
Life, the purpose of God, the worth of this world and the next,

have all risen into a prominence which they had not formerly
Idisplayed.      was not expecting or seeking this. It came
Iupon me like the wind blowing where it listeth.
                                                           have

                       it,
                                it
rejoiced to welcome but has for the time driven me rather

in upon my own thoughts than led me to pour them forth to

others.                                                aI

   " should add [as an excuse for not writing] that have an
immense deal of official correspondence to keep up, which de
I
     IIvours the writing faculty, and also that am trying to be done
                                          I
with the Memoir of Edward Forbes. There, however, some of
                                             'I
...those who should have been foremost to help have forgotten
their promises.   I      am sickened at the work."

To his cousin Alick he gives an epitome of his engagements

since spring. Amongst them          is    lecture in Glasgow, which has
                                       a

been noticed already in the list of things to be done all at the

same time. The lecture was requested by an Association of

Teachers. " It was capital audience, and had prepared with
                       a

                          I
some care an hour's written discourse on the Educational Value

of Industrial Science.'      had also, however, taken with me a

sort of appendix, consisting of the best part of an old lecture
                                                             is ;I
and when the hour was done, left them to say whether
                                    I

should stop or go on. They left me in no doubt as to their

choice, so gave them another half hour, in which they heard
...some things which                                       It
                  aI     hope would do them good.

curious the feeling of having an audience like clay in your
...hands to mould for season as you please. It
                                                 is    terribly re
                                                    a

sponsible power.         On looking back am struck with the
                                          I

little good know these performances to have done, or can on

the highest estimate suppose them to have effected.
   " Against that, however, can set off steadily increasing in
                       ;I                 a
difference to applause or commendation.I         do not mean for  a
                                           is I
moment to imply that am indifferent to the good opinion of

others. Far otherwise but to gain this much less concern
with me than to deserve it. It was not so once.
                                                 I  had no wish
1859.                           PEACE AND JOY.                 475

I Ifor unmerited praise, but was too ready to settle that did merit

Iit. Now the word ' duty' seems the biggest word in the world,
and is uppermost in my serious doings.              must not deny that

this feeling is helped by bodily quiescence, to use no stronger

word. My physical activities and locomotive powers steadily
Iabridge their circle of energy.
                                           am thus debarred from the
I I Irestless life would otherwise lead, and fear sometimes that

set down to rational contentment what is only lazy valetudin

Iarianism.
   " Yet have a peace of mind and a calm joy, when not posi

tively suffering (and then they look through the darkness) such

Ias did not know before. Of such feelings it is not wise or safe
Ito write. They suffer by handling, and say no more about
Ithem.
        was trying to make a clean breast of and have only. it,

achieved this long drone. Set down in part to an aching arm,.
                                if
                                    it it
and the anti-rheumatic practice demanded. .
   " hope to be at the Aberdeen meeting of the British Asso

ciation month hence, and so, will write you all about it."
I

        a

                             :
One more quotation from Burntisland letters         ;          addressed

                                                       it
                                                           is

to Dr. Cairns -- " In body and soul am at peace with God and
                                  I

man, thanks to Him who giveth us the victory over all our
enemies. That wondrous 15 th chapter of 1st Corinthians! It

stirs me like trump of doom.               cannot read aloud without
        a                       ;                   it

                                 I                        I
finding my voice break down all the immortal dead know

seem to gather about me as its mingled pathos, and jubilation,

and summons sound out from its solemn diapason. Tears and

confession and thanksgiving take the place of articulate didactic

words, and the image of the heavenly obliterates all else.
" It would be very great kindness
i                                                   you could lend me

   A

              1

                                a

                                                if
your sermons on as much of the Corinthians as you please,

but especially those on the Resurrection, the physical aspect

of which has much occupied me, and been twice preached

upon."

   The hope of being present in Aberdeen at the meetings of the

British Association was realized. A house was taken, five

          friendly debate on these Sermons on the Resurrection, which were talked over
amidst the hurry of the Aberdeen Meeting, was the last discussion held by those

friends in this world.
476         MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.           CHAP. XL

friends from England forming with George Wilson and his sister
a most pleasant family party, of which many happy memories

remain. A pretty full account of the doings of the week, so far

as George was concerned, is given in writing to his brother.

                                                                " September 23, 1859.

I" Jessie and got home last night from Aberdeen, where we

Ihave spent ten delightful days, and before going in to the galley
oar again,  send you some account of our doings. . . . My
Ipaper1 [to the Chemical Section] will not at present be published

even in abstract ; but believe it to contain some curious, novel,
Iand important observations on the ancient history of the Air-
Pump.       had the pleasure of seeing Faraday, Graham, Christi-

son, Gassiot, Robinson, William Thomson, De La Rue, besides

Iothers, listening with interest, and we had profitable talk about

it after. To dispose of myself :-- read to the Natural History

Section a brief paper on the Gymnotus,2 as used by the Indians

at the present day to give shocks. Two of the Gymnoti are

Icoming alive to me next summer.

   " In the Statistical gave them a blast about Colour-Blind-

ness,s preliminary to moving for a committee to inquire into the
Istatistics of the question on a large scale.
                                               have got the com

mittee, and £10 to carry out the scheme. In the Chemical

ISection also read a paper for Walter Cram, and one for James
IYoung. Altogether was more than satisfied with my share in

Association work, and fulfilled every personal project that took

me there. . . .

  I" My lungs warned me, by some ugly bleeding early in the

week, to be careful, so that did not go to Sir R Murchison's

Lecture, or to the first Conversazione. The second lecture by

IRobinson of Armagh was a great treat, or rather, should say,

the experiments were. They were exhibitions of the electric

spark on the largest scale, including all the kinds of electric

light, the apparatus being brought from London, and of the

   i ' On some of the Stages which led to the Invention of the Modern Air-Pump." --
' Report of Brit. Assoc. 1859,' p. 89.

   s ' On the Employment of the Electrical Eel, Gymnotus Electriais, as a medical

-shock machine by the natives of Surinam.'-- Ibid. p. 581.

  ' ' On the Statistics of Colour-Blindness.'- Ibid. p. 228.
1859.  SCIENTIFIC MEETING.        477

I Ifinest kind. . . . The beauty of some of the lights is so great,

that could not help uttering, when saw them, a cry of joy.

They are good for any man to see --poet, painter, philosopher.
He ought to get good from them.

    " There were two Museums, one Archaeological, the other

IGeological, but my lungs would not allow me to visit either.
   went to the second Conversazione solely to see the electric

lights again, and after witnessing them went home."

   His warm sympathies were called forth at this time on behalf

of one of his colleagues, Professor Kelland, whom he had hoped

to meet at the Aberdeen meetings, but who, instead, was lying
with fractured limb at a railway station, near which a collision
had occurred. On returning home, George sent him a full

account of proceedings, as the only method open to him, of

sending a ray of light into the sick-chamber of his friend. The

       in full ;1 we take from it in part to

       write you mainly to ask if can do
I Iletter has been published

complete our sketch. "
anything for you, and to beg that you will not hesitate to com

Imand me to the utmost. It will be the greatest pleasure to

serve you in any way ; meanwhile, note down a point or two

about the British Association at Aberdeen, which may not be

uninteresting.                    Great are the attractions of
    " We had a numerous meeting.

a Prince, and had he [Prince Albert] remained throughout the
week we should certainly have had to hold our meetings al

fresco, and to bivouac in the open air. Wisely, however, he gave

but one day to the sections, and the stir moderated thereafter.

. . . We had a Red Lion dinner on the Monday, when Owen

presided, and about sixty men from all the sections sat down.

IWe broke up very early, but not before Blackie had astonished
them with one of his songs.       welcome these dinners for the

... Iopportunity they afford of seeing men you have long known by
report, and wish to know better.  spent a very happy and

Iinstructive week, and came back a lowlier man. These meetings
ought to make one humble.         hope they made me so." At the

Red Lion dinner Professor Blackie caused astonishment other

wise than by his song, in coming from one end of the long room

   1 ' North British Review,' Article ' Professor George Wilson.' February 1860.
478              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.     CHAP. XI.

to the other in order to enfold George Wilson in a loving em

brace.

On returning to town, the difficulties to which he had been

looking forward, in making preparations for the winter, came in

full force. The number of visits to lawyers and others, and the
necessary worry kept up till the very day his lectures began,

were very wearing out, and a poor preparation for the labour and

excitement inseparable from an opening session, of which he had
Isaid long before, "At the beginning of our session have always
I ...more to remember than can call to mind.
                                              Its constant

high-pressure work has left me with great weariness both of

soul and body."

    Where he was to deliver his lectures remained an unsolved

problem till near the close of October. By the kindness of

Professor Donaldson, however, the use of the room he had occu

pied in the University, and which he was quitting for the new
Music-Room in Park Place, was obtained. So little time was

left, that only by constant importunity and much annoying

labour was it got ready in time, the introductory lecture being

delivered with wet walls, and with carpenters' shavings on the

floor.

To his life-long friend Professor Christison he was under

even greater obligations, as his laboratory within the University
walls was given up by him to Dr. Wilson for the winter. Here

was a circle completed : the youthful chemist who in that very

laboratory first obtained familiarity with the practice of his
favourite science, now returning to it as one whom men de

lighted to honour, with, in his turn, young and ardent students

working under his directions. It was found to be too small to

accommodate Dr. Wilson's numbers, and a second laboratory,

also within the college, was fitted up, but never used, the ar
rangements in it being scarcely completed when the session
began. His opening lecture was on " Technology as a Branch

of Liberal Study," and was chiefly devoted to illustrations of

the benefits resulting from science and art, theory and practice,

doctrine and work, acting and reacting on each other. Viewing
his own Chair as in some measure the uniting link between the

two, he considered historically the evils resulting from every
1859.                     A NEW WELCOME.                                           479

attempt at a monopoly in knowledge, as, e.g., with the monks
and knights of old. Even the Universities of Christendom had

been   tainted with      the spirit of selfish  exclusiveness ;   and thus
       intellectual     blood which should      have flowed in    the veins
the "

of the World, was left to stagnate in the Heart, and paralyse its

motions."

The plan and purpose of his Chair, and the Museum in con

nexion with are more fully developed in this lecture than in
           it,

                     ;
any previous one and, as befits his intermediate position, he

pleads, on the one hand, that scientific knowledge be extended

and made serviceable to every practical worker while, on the
                                                a
other, he shows what claims the workers in pure science have
                                                               ;
on the gratitude of all.

The crowded audience on this opening day seemed to give

him new welcome, and open before him bright vista of usea
ful and honourable service to his fellow men. Each succeeding

day confirmed the promise of this one, till the difficulty came

to be how his audience could be accommodated in the lecture-

room. The disadvantages of previous years in regard to such

matters became more than ever obvious, and was felt that
                                                it

now, for the first time, Technology was having fair play. So
passed the early part of November, each day adding to the roll

of pupils, and he exhibiting an energy and freshness surprising

to those who knew the state of his health, the haemorrhage,

which had increased to more than the usual extent for two

months previously, being accompanied by sadly diminished ap
petite. But his buoyant cheerfulness compelled one to forget

all this, and, while in his presence, to share the happiness of

which he had apparently store not only enough for his own
needs, but to spare for all around him. " Ita;
                              a                                   becoming act
                                                a

                                                          is
                                                               a
                                                                                a
of Christian thanksgiving," he wrote to lady on her birth-day,
" to acknowledge God's kindness in granting us so great gift

as life." Not the less did he feel this that he never looked for

ward, but sought, from the time of entrance on his public career,

to "live as dying man the best preparation for happy life
the best preparation for peaceful death." " spin my thread
           a                                    I
                                                          a
                                                                                                ;

of life from week to week rather than from year to year."
About six months previously, when visiting his friend, Miss
480          MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.      CHAP. XI.

IAbernethy, he said solemnly to her on parting : " Janet, am
Itrying to live every day so that may be ready to quit on an
Ihour's notice." More strongly were his desires apparent in the

few words he addressed to her nephew, Dr. Niven : " am re

signed to live." Such readiness for both worlds is difficult to
realize. This life seemed to him so full of exhaustless springs
of delight, that the only way of reaching in thought his eleva
tion, is by entering into the spirit of his favourite words : " To
be with Christ is far better."

  It has been supposed by some that he had at this time a pre

sentiment of death being close at hand. This has originated in
their knowledge of some of those expressions of consciousness
of his physical liabilities, which were frequently used by him.
Further than that he was aware his time on earth could not be

Iprolonged much longer, we believe he had no presentiment such

as has been imagined. In October he writes : " find myself

steadily getting weaker, and less fit for work. Constant attacks

of bleeding from the lungs sap my strength, and warn me how

Ieasily would give way under any acute attack of illness. I
Iam cheerful enough, nevertheless, and it may please God to

prolong my days, but am compelled to look gravely at the

opposite possibility."

He has himself been the narrator of his life. Once again,

and for the last time, let us listen to him telling his brother

how the busy month has passed :--

I" My dear Daniel, --                   " Elm Cottage, Xov. 17, 1859.
                        have determined not to let another

week pass without writing, although duty seems to say, ' Write

at your lectures,' and a pair of barking lungs bid me lie down
Iand sleep.
             write in bed, which is the explanation of any zig-
Izagginess you may perceive in the slope of the words.
                                                        am
Ithankful to creep early to my couch, but don't 'turn in' till

Iabout 1 A.M. generally.
   " We have had a month of great excitement, in which have
had my full share. First came, as a sort of preliminary gym

nastic, an address to the Pharmaceutical Society.1 Then the

   i "The Education of the Pharmaceutical  Chemist'-- ' Pharmaceutical Journal,'
Dec 1859.
1859.                                   OPENING OF SESSION.                                    481

Brougham Banquet set us all astir. It was a totally unsecta-

Irian meeting, and, so long as was able to remain, it went off
I Ifamously ; but lost, believe, the second-best speech, that,

namely, from the Lord Justice -General M'Neill.

" Two days after, came on one day the installation of Sir

David Brewster, as Principal, and the election of Chancellor

and Graduates' Assessor {i.e., representative in the University

Co"urWt).ell  The former                 the  Senatus had  all to itself. . .   .          we  ad
              ! carrying                our   newly-made   Principal with
                                                                               us,

journed to the Music Hall, where, by a dreadful, but unavoid

able arrangement, we were locked in, after the voting began, and

had to listen to a roll of 1300 names read over. However, it

Iwas an interesting scene, which witnessed to advantage from

the platform. . . . The votes for Chancellor were watched with

immense interest, till it was quite certain that Brougham must

Iwin ; and then the faces showed, like sun-dials, which Star they
obeyed.          admired the pluck of the defeated men about me.
It is a grand feature in our national character, and is not in the

Yankee nature, to submit to a majority, and take a fair defeat

uncomplainingly. . . .
I'* Next week came the opening.
                                                  hope to send you with this

Sir David's speech. He gave me a good word, which the stu

dents took in hearty part.1                                                    I lectured for
    " The day after, our separate classes began.
Kelland at 10 o'clock, and for myself at 12. You will be happy

to learn that he got back to Edinburgh on Saturday from Hit-

chin, near London, where he has been lying for nine weeks

Iwith a compound fracture of the left leg, above the ankle.

found him very hearty and cheerful. He gave me a most gra

phic account of the railway smash, and what befell him, ending,
as one likes to hear a man end, with saying, that he had no idea
there were so many kind people in the world : that everybody

I Ihad been kind to him.
   " When came back from Aberdeen, wrote him an account

   1 Sir David,  bineinsgpe"akuinngder  of the Chair of Technology   and the   Industrial  Museum,
refers to their                          the guidance of Dr. George   Wilson,  one of our  most dis

tinguished philosophers."--' Introductory Address by Sir D. Brewster, on the Open

ing of Session 1859-60,' p.- 17. Constable and Co., Edinburgh.

                                              2H
482  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.          CHAP. XI.

Iof matters there to amuse him, and added, that if could do
Ianything for him should be glad. It never, however, entered

Imy head that he would ask such a non-mathematician as

myself to open his classes for him. When he did could not

I Irefuse, and am glad did not, for the lecture was graciously

received by a crammed class-room, and the class has not fallen

Ioff in numbers. Neither has my own class suffered. To get

all ready have, indeed, had a battle, which would only have

exhilarated me had it not overtasked me physically, and ended

Iin giving me so scattered a series of domains, that am con

stantly providing what an Irishman loves so much, i.e., an alibi.

My laboratory is in two places ; my lecture room in a third ;

my Museum in a fourth. Nevertheless, the lecture-room within

Ithe University is a great matter, and old students have returned,

and new ones have come, till have enrolled eighty-three as

Ipupils --the biggest class have had, and considering that it is

not imperative, very creditable to all concerned.

  I" When the Friday came could have gone to bed, but instead
I had to travel to Glasgow in most inclement weather, and

Ithereafter to drive five miles out, through darkness and rain.

Next day was up before breakfast, and at work from about six

onwards in connexion with a patent-infringement, affecting a

very kind friend.

   " The result was a terrible cold, cough, etc., which blisters I

Ihope are dispelling, but lost last Saturday with election for

IRector by the students, at which we all had to be present.
What a row in the quadrangle !         could scarcely reach the

Senatus Room, but fortunately had on my gown and cap (we
have taken to square caps), and when the students saw that,

they handed me through the shouting crowd, who were waiting

to hear how the vote had gone, and seemed on both sides coming

to Sieves ! 1                          I hope to add a P.S.

   " All this is terribly egotistical                George."
to-morrow. --Ever lovingly yours,

The severe cold under which he had laboured all that week

did not cause special anxiety. Frequently in the years gone by

   1 The choice was between the Right Honourable W. E. Gladstone, M.P., and Lord

Xeaves.
1850.                   LAST LECTURES.                                        483

had work been carried on with similar symptoms, and with

eager anticipations of the rest attainable on the Saturday and

Sunday ; for one of the most touching features of his case was

the good resulting from even a little ease. During this month
of November his friends had been watching him with evident

solicitude, kindly suggesting caution and care, then unattainable.
It amused
             him much when Dr. John Brown                                      proposed, as the
best plan,   " to put him under trustees," who
                                                                              should look after

his health.

   On the week in which the letter we have given was written,
the days were counted off with longing for the Saturday, with

its opportunities for care and nursing. It was with distress,

therefore, that his sister learned his intention, in such a state of

health, of giving his students a second lecture on the Friday.

Seeing her about to remonstrate, he with naive simplicity gave

as a reason, the force of which must be evident to any sensible
person, " They are not up in the Atomic theory."

The breakfast table was usually loaded with books of reference

for the subject of the day's lecture, and notes in pencil were then
written for in addition to those in use from year to year. So
it

                   it,
    was this Friday morning and after breakfast he went into
town with his wonted cheerfulness, desirous of obtaining infor
mation to go by that day's post to his brother in Canada, in the
                        ;

                                     it

                                        I
                                                                   a
postscript to his letter. Afterwards transpired that he had

felt stitch in his side that morning. It was busy day in
       a

town. After the first lecture to his class, new pupils came to be

enrolled, many visitors called, and he was compelled to converse
much. Closing his Canadian letter, he says, " have been at
work all day." Not having ascertained all that was desirable,

he promises to give the result of further inquiry by next post.
   The second lecture was delivered with great difficulty, and

with an apology to his students for sitting while addressing

them.

On his return home, between four and five o'clock, his sister

was startled by his appearance, why she could scarcely tell, but
  nameless dread of impending danger fell heavily on her heart.

This was not diminished by his saying, in low and constrained

voice, " I'll just creep up stairs." After sitting for half-an-hour
a
                                                                           a
484  MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.                                                            CHAP. XI.

on a low chair in the drawing-room, with an air of great pros

tration, and not saying a word, he was with difficulty helped

into bed. The pain in his side was treated as pleurodyne, from

which he had frequently suffered, but next day his medical

attendant, Dr. J. Matthews Duncan, being apprised of his ill

ness, came, and announced that inflammation of the lungs and

pleurisy were both present.

Now then had come the time to which he had so long looked

forward. How did he meet it ? Many talk lightly of death, as

if to the Christian it has no terrors. Not so did he, and few

have so often been on the verge of the grave and come back to

speak of it. In 1847, he wrote to a friend in failing health : --

I I" am persuaded, from what have experienced, that the world

fills but a small space in the thoughts of one near to death. I

Ibelieve, from what have felt when brought very near to the

if

                         is
                                                                          is,
grave, that the engrossing, devouring idea                                     that of one's own
individuality or personality, --and of God's personality. The

prevailing feeling that of the great Judge waiting for our soul
as there were no other soul in existence, and we, in our naked

spirituality, without one relative, earthly friend, or well-wisher,

about to pass away into the darkness, and stand before God.
No transmutation which chemist or alchymist ever hoped for, or

ever realized, has equalled, or can equal, the strangeness of that

transformation which we shall undergo when we gasp out of                                :

this life into the next. Chemistry will not help us then. If                               I'

there be knowledge, shall vanish away.'" In 1848, a letter
to Mr. Daniel Macmillan contains the following passage -- "
     I
have been reading lately, with great sadness, the Memorials of
                             it

                                                          ;
Charles Lamb and the Life of Keats. There something in
                                                                               is is
the noble brotherly love of Charles to brighten, and hallow,

and relieve the former but Keats's deathbed the blackness

of midnight, unmitigated by one ray of light.
" God keep you and me from such
                                                             a  deathbed                 We may
                                                                               is
have physical agonies as great to endure. It                                          1the common

lot. feel that our heavenly Father can better choose for us

than we can for ourselves, of what we should die but pray
                                                                               ;         I

Ifour blessed Lord and Master to be with us in our last fight with
the last enemy, and to give us the victory.                                    He does, what
                  UTTER PROSTRATION.        485

shall pain be but like other bitter medicines, the preparative

for the unbroken health of an endless life?" And in 1857 he
Isays :-- " Often and often, as
                                  have asked myself of what
I I Ishould die, have felt that, had the choice offered me among
Iphysical deaths, should not know how to choose, and would

leave to God the appointment of the mode of dying, beseeching

only to be spared maddening agony, and to be kept, above all,

from losing faith in the blessed Saviour."

Those expressions of trust and hope are almost the only clue

we have to his feelings during the few days of his illness, but

they are sufficient. It had ever been his custom, in previous

attacks, to carry on his daily work in bed as much as possible

in the same way as usual. Books and writing materials sur

rounded him, and the day was divided into portions : so many

hours for writing and study, so many for lighter reading, and

so many for rest. Lively talk and fun made his sick-room a

place of real enjoyment at most times, his ailments often being

the subject of the jests. He disliked having any one to read to

him, saying it set him to sleep.

Now all was different. Scarcely a word was uttered, and his

weary look of utter prostration, being interpreted as a meek

supplication not to be disturbed, as few were addressed to him.

There seemed to be little pain, but no inquiry was made as to

this. A distressing restlessness, and difficulty in coughing, were

the most marked symptoms. It was touching to see the attempts
to read to himself as formerly. A light newspaper was taken

up at intervals throughout the first day of confinement to bed,

but as often wearily laid down, with apparently no knowledge

of its contents.

The only earthly care that appeared to disturb him was his

class ; and early on Monday morning the following note was

written at his request to Professor Balfour, his sister kneeling

with the paper on the bed, while with effort he slowly dic
tated :--

   "My dear Balfour, -- A sudden and unexpected attack of

pleurisy, with accompanying inflammation of part of the lung,
came on on Friday ; and, as you may suppose, lays me aside
480          MEMOIR OF GEOHGE WILSON.                              CHAP. XI.

from lecturing, much to my distress, at the very beginning of

the session.

   " It would be a very great favour if you could lecture for me

this week, beginning on Tuesday. My present topic is the

Amylaceous group, including starch, gum, sugar, and cellulose,

and falls quite in your way. My assistant will see that the

carriage goes down every day to bring you up, with diagrams

and specimens, and four assistants will be at your service
Ievery day.
             trust you will be able to render me this service ;
Ibut if you cannot, please inform the bearer, that may make

other arrangements."

Dr. Balfour kindly consented, and no further allusion was

made to temporal affairs. Towards mid- day, on Monday, he

requested a note to be addressed to Dr. Duncan, saying, that as
there was no improvement, he thought it would be prudent to

have another medical friend associated with him, naming Dr.

Bennett as the one he should prefer. This done, he asked his
sister to read to him, from the ' Athenaeum' of the week, Captain

M'Clintock's Narrative of his Voyage to the Arctic Seas. To

wards evening there seemed tokens of Death's approach, and the

medical men could only cherish fond hopes from the marvellous

recoveries he had made before. His voice also was clear and

strong, and this was a hopeful symptom. Stimulants were

ordered to be given at short intervals during the night. On the
first being brought, he looked at it with reluctance, but learning

                      I
                                                              it,
the doctors' wishes, he made an effort to take saying afterI
wards, " did not think could have swallowed it." The good
effect of the draught soon appeared in the distressing cough
being soothed to quietness. " The doctor was right," he re

marked; and the next restorative was taken with readiness.

The night passed peacefully, and at its close he said, with        :
gleam of his old cheerfulness, " think have turned over
                                I       I                                 aa

new leaf." Hope once more animated his nurse's heart she

had seen him as ill before, and yet recover. The doctors con

firmed this hope, saying, that  if      few days were got over all

                                     a

might be well. So sanguine notes were addressed to several

friends, Dr. Cairns amongst the number. But at mid-day the
185!).  NEARING HOME.  487

peculiar and distressing restlessness returned. The senses were

preternaturally acute, that especially of smelling, perfumes of
any kind being unbearable. The only soothing offices were a
continual change in the position of the pillows, and bathing face
and hands with vinegar. His hands had been remarkable for a
rare beauty in the rich carmine tinting the palms, and contrasting
with the pure white skin. " Your hands seem on fire," had been
said to him once ; and much admiration had they elicited. Now
it was observed while bathing them that the delicate palms and
nails were black. To one so conversant as he with such symp

toms, this was an unmistakable token, had there been any doubt

before, that the pitcher was broken at the fountain, and the

spirit summoned to return to Him who gave it. Still not till
the second medical visit in the afternoon was hope quenched in

others, and a telegraphic message sent to Dr. Cairns. George
expressed desire to converse with Dr. Duncan, but said he could
 not from the difficulty in breathing.

   In the afternoon he asked his sister to read the ' Athenaeum'

Ito him, saying, " You know always read it from beginning to

end :" while listening, occasional remarks showed that he clearly
understood what he heard. He surprised her by saying abruptly,

I" The room will be darkened at nine ; wish to get to rest."

She believed this implied being quiet for the night, and replied,
with many wondering thoughts, " Very well."

    Occasionally an inquiry was made as to the hour, with some
reference to this " getting to rest." About six o'clock the 23d

IPsalm was read at his request, and then some detached verses, --

" When thou passest through the waters, will be with thee ;

and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee : when thou

Iwalkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned ; neither shall

the flame kindle upon thee, for am the Lord thy God, the

 Holy One of Israel thy Saviour."

   I I" Fear thou not, for am with thee : be not dismayed, for
I Iam thy God : will strengthen thee ; yea, will help thee ;
yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteous

 ness."

    " Let not your heart be troubled : ye believe in God, believe

also in me.
488  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XI.

" In my Father's house are many mansions : if it were not so,
I Iwould have told you.
                         go to prepare a place for you.
I I" And if go and prepare a place for you, will come again
Iand receive you unto myself, that where am there ye may be

also."

  I" To him that overcometh will give to eat of the hidden
Imanna ; and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a

new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that

receiveth it."

  I" To him that overcometh will grant to sit with me in my
Ithrone, even as also overcame, and am set down with my

Father in his throne."

  I" Read me something secular," he then said, " don't wish to

go to sleep yet." Possibly the excessive tremulousness of voice

in reading such heart-stirring words, suggested this change ; for
no act of self-denial was too great for him. Standing near the

gas, for the light was kept low, his sister spent the next three
hours in continuous reading, picking out from various journals

lying around, papers interesting but not exciting. One, it is

remembered, was on Gems, another on the Scilly Isles, and

occasional observations showed he was listening with perfect

comprehension. His mother entering the room while he was
alone, for a few minutes, saw him evidently engaged in prayer,

and quietly withdrew.

Dr. Cairns arrived at nine o'clock, and went to him almost

immediately. Though unaware that a summons had been sent,

Ihe showed no surprise at the presence of this dearly- loved

friend. " found him very low," Dr. Cairns says, " and to my

eye--long familiar with death --it was only too visible in his

face. He was quite conscious, though he could speak but little.
IHe asked me to pray, which did, and he fervently assented,
'I Isaying,
     am in the hands of a good and kind Redeemer ;

rejoice in that every way ;' and in answer to my query whether

he had peace, replied ' Yes,' with his usual sweet smile, sweeter

than ever on the pallid face of death. On leaving the room, he
said, ' Come as often and stay as long as you please.' "

   His kind friend Dr. Duncan once more visited him, and when

he left, the oft-expressed wish for "rest" was repeated. Dr.
1859.    ENTEKS INTO REST.                              489

Cairns returned for a few minutes : to the inquiry made once
again, " Is all peace V came the same reply " Yes," with a smile.

This question elicited the only smiles that had been seen in

Ithose days of weakness. " Shall pray with you V " Yes, but

short,"  evidently feeling the moments     numbered.     His uncle
coming   in, they shook hands and parted,   he saying,  " Don't vex

yourself about me ; you've been very kind to me." His mother

then came and kissed his hand ; he in reply (knowing she could

not hear his voice) raised his right arm, pointing significantly
heavenwards. Each one was calm outwardly, the utmost self-

control being exerted, that he might not be distressed by witness

ing emotion on their part. A love of quiet, and avoidance of

anything like bustle were ever strongly characteristic of him,
and now this was borne in mind. He was therefore left alone

with his sister, the light being lowered as much as possible : she

Ibathed once more his face and hands ; it was evidently soothing,

and he said, " How can ever thank you for all your care and

kindness ?" For the first time she then expressed her conscious
ness of his state, by saying, " You're going home, dear." With
distinctness he uttered the words, " I've been an unworthy

servant of a worthy and gracious Master," then the voice broke,
and only one word more could be distinguished, " sin." Two

portions of Scripture were repeated with the hope of pointing

Iffrom sin to the sin-Bearer, " any man sin, we have an advocate

with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous." " Ye are complete

in Him." A very marked change appearing in his countenance,
a bell at hand was rung, which brought his mother and John
ICairns again beside him. " He was breathing rapidly and with
difficulty, and his end was near.1  shortly prayed again, and a

Islight elevation of the eyes showed that he recognised me. Your

mother, Jessie, and watched him intently as the breathing

became more laborious and slow, and the eyes nearly closed.

At length a slight convulsive effort announced almost the last

struggle ; but his breathing was, after a pause, resumed, and the
actual falling asleep was so gentle that it could not be distin

guished. His features retained the most peaceful expression,"

   1 We quote from a letter written by Dr. Cairns, an hour later, to the absent sister
Jeanie.
490  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.                                  CHAP. XI.

and thus at eleven p.m. was his wish fulfilled, and he entered

into the rest for which he had so longed. Kneeling around the
bed, a thanksgiving was offered, that for him the Saviour's

Iprayer was answered, " Father, will that they also, whom thou
Ihast given me, be with me where am ;" and then the pent-up

agony broke forth, for to each had this beloved one been dearer
than life.

   Many years before had such a time been pictured to his mind
as follows : --

     THE CHRISTIAN SOLDIER PUTTING OFF HIS ARMOUR AT THE

                                         GATES OF HADES.

                                                   Em. vi. 13-17.

                 A SONG OF THE NIGHT DURING SICKNESS.

                          Helmet of the hope of rest !
                             Helmet of salvation !

                          Nobly has thy towering crest
                             Pointed to this exaltation.

                    Yet I will not thee resume,

                          Helmet of the nodding plume ;

                    Where I go no foeman fighteth,

                          Sword or other weapon smiteth ;

                    All content, I lay thee down,
                   I shall gird my brows with an immortal crown.

     Sword at my side ! Sword of the Spirit !
        Word of God ! Thou goodly blade !

     Often have I tried thy merit ;

        Never hast thou me betrayed.

     Yet I will no further use thee,
     Here for ever I unloose thee ;

     Branch of peaceful palm shall be

     S"wFoorudgshutffitchieentfighnto,wthfeorvmiceto;ry won,"

     Rest thou here, thy work is done.

     Shield of faith ! my trembling heart    ;
        Well thy battered front has guarded

     Many a fierce and fiery dart

        From my bosom thou hast warded.

     IBut shall no longer need thee,

     Never more will hold or heed thee.

     Fare-thee-well ! the foe's defeated,

     Of his wished-for victim cheated ;
     In the realms of peace and light
     Faith shall be exchanged for sight.
1859.               A SONG OF THE NIGHT.                           491

       Girdle of the truth of God !
          Breastplate of His righteousness !

       By the Lord Himself bestowed

          On his faithful witnesses,

       Never have I dared unclasp thee,
       ILest the subtle foe should grasp me ;

       Now may at length unbind ye,

       Leave you here at rest behind me ;
       Nought shall harm my soul equipped

       In a robe in Christ's blood dipped.

       Sandals of the preparation
          Of the news of peace !

       There must now be separation,
          Here your uses cease.

       Gladly shall my naked feet

       Go my blessed Lord to meet ;

       I shall wander at his side

       Where the living waters glide ;
       And these feet shall need no guard

       On the unbroken heavenly sward.

       IHere stand of all unclothed,

       Waiting to be clothed upon

       By the Church's great Betrothed,

       By the Everlasting One.

       Hark ! He turns the admitting key,
       Smiles in love, and welcomes me ;

       Glorious forms of angels bright

       Clothe me in the raiment white,

       W" hFiolsrt   their sweet-toned   voices say,        Day."
                    the rest, wait thou
                                         till the Judgment
492  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XII.

                       CHAPTER XII.

                                                    VALE !

                   " Thanks be unto God, who giveth us the victory ! "
                              " Wrong not the dead with tears !

                                         Think not the spirit fears
                                To cast away its earthly bonds of clay,
                                To rise from death to everlasting day !

                                         Wrong not the dead with tears !

                                A glorious bright to-morrow

                                Endeth a weary life of pain and sorrow."
                                                                            Wtke Batliss.

   The tidings of George Wilson's death spread next day with
mournful speed. As often happens, his long struggle with dis
ease had led to the hope that again he would triumph over it.
" We had begun to fancy that he possessed, not a charmed, but
a blessed life, which was to be prolonged for further usefulness."
The illness, also, had been of such short duration that many

knew not of it. A gentleman, who had written to him a few

days before, and received no reply, went on the morning after
his death to the University, unaware of the state of things, to
make inquiry about him, and addressed to the first student he

met, the question, whether he knew if Professor Wilson would

be at the College that day. The sole reply was a burst of tears.
    Professor Balfour met the class, according to previous arrange

ment, not to speak of " giun or starch," but of the marvellous
transition from the earthly tabernacle to the heavenly home of

their much-loved teacher. A student, in reply, expressed the

dismay with which the tidings had been heard, and the grief
with which they could not but regard the mementoes around
--class specimens and diagrams--without hope of again hearing
the voice that had expounded them. " Even in classes never
personally connected with him, the students showed their sense
J 859.  GENERAL MOURNING.  493

of the common calamity, by the hushed attention, and even re
verence with which they received every allusion to his memory."

   For two days a deep gloom settled on the city, not on any
one class in particular, for rich and poor, learned and unlearned,
seemed equally affected. The experience of one seemed that of
all : " Though not much in the habit of meeting with Professor

Wilson, he felt almost as if suffering from a family bereave
ment."1 In the Chamber of Commerce a touching allusion was

made by its Chairman,2 before reading a report on the Industrial
Museum : " The Technological Chair promised to be one of the
most popular in the University ; and by none, next to his own
relatives and personal friends, will his loss be so much deplored
as by those who were more immediately connected with him in
his class, the laboratory, and the Museum, even to their most

humble dependants, who worked as much from love as duty.
Who, indeed, would not have worked for Dr. Wilson? Though not
a stone had been laid of the building which was to be the Indus
trial Museum of Scotland, it had obtained a name that reached

to distant lands, from which gifts were continually flowing in
to assist the Museum, established with so much diligence and

success." A lecture to this body had been promised by Pro

fessor Wilson in the December following, the subject having
reference to the combination of masters and workmen in indus

trial pursuits.
   An instance of the love of dependants was strikingly afforded

in the case of a workman whom he had for many years em

ployed occasionally, and with whom, as was his wont, many a
kindly word and jest had passed. This man, now old and

feeble, was lying ill at the same time as his friend, and, knowing

the strength of his love, the relatives around tried to keep him

in ignorance of Dr. Wilson's death. The attempt was vain. It

was the one subject on every lip, and learning it from a visitor,

he sank from that moment, unable to bear the shock.
    Some few were able to forget themselves in his joy, as

Iwhen one lady said, on hearing of his dismissal, " How glad

am !" so intensely realizing the blessedness of the change to

            i Mr. Charles Cow an, at a meeting of the Merchant Company, Nov. 25.
            = Mr. R. M. Smith.
494  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XII.

him, as to rest in that for the time. But the greater number
could only try to hush their grief to submission ; and his words

on John Reid came unbidden to remembrance, as if giving the
most fit expression to their mingled feelings :--

                           " Thou wert a daily lesson

                                           Of courage, hope, and faith ;
                                        We wondered at thee living,

                                           We envy thee thy death.

                          " Thou wert so meek and reverent,

                                           So resolute of will,
                                             So bold to bear the uttermost,

                                           And yet so calm and still.

                            »*·*
                          " Well may we cease to sorrow :

                                  Or if we weep at all,

                                       Not for thy fate, but for our own,
                                           Our bitter tears should fall.

                             " 'Twere better still to follow on

                                           The path that thou hast trod,
                                        The path thy Saviour trod before,

                                           That led thee up to God."

    The direction of the wind, so often keenly watched on his

account, seemed unimportant now, for, as he had anticipated
years before, in speaking of the effects of cold spring weather,

" the air of heaven will put all to rights. It never blows there

from the east."

    Two of his fellow-professors wrote as follows on the first im

pulse of sorrow :-- " The intelligence of the death of my beloved
colleague, your son, has quite unnerved me. Of the loss which
Scotland has sustained others will speak ; suffice it for me to

Istate, that have lost a friend, the brightness of whose genius

was only equalled by the warmth of his heart. When lying far

Iaway, wounded and low, his ready sympathy and aid cheered

me ; and it is sad to think that shall not be able to return his
kindness in this world. But he did it as a Christian, as he did
his every act, and he shall in nowise lose his reward. Think of
him as entered into his rest, where his bright spirit basks in the
full sunshine of that presence which made it shine. May He
comfort you and teach you to acknowledge the words which
1859.  TRIBUTES OF LOVE.    495

your son addressed to me in this room just a week ago, ' It is
Igood for me that have been afflicted.'"1

   Another2 says, "You cannot wish George Wilson back in
this world. His soul was well fitted for a better ; whilst his

body was not fitted to remain in this world without much con

tinued suffering, borne so unrepiningly for the sake of those he

loved.

   " His memory will always remain with us tenderly cherished.

His elegant and graceful mind, his genial and happy spirit,

made him many friends, but never a single enemy."

   At the next meeting of the Philosophical Institution, before

the lecture began, Mr. Smith, the Vice-President, alluded with
tenderness to the loss they had sustained : " We can all remem
ber -- alas ! it is now only in memory that we can recall the
pleasure-- how often he has charmed as well as instructed us
here ; how often, in his prelections from this desk, the clear,

scientific exposition has been enlivened and adorned by his
...graceful play of fancy.
                            At the risk of intruding within the
Idomain sacred to private friendship, would venture to say,

that a gentler, nobler, more true-hearted man we have not left

among us."

   Looking back on the last few weeks of his life, those more
intimate with him began to recall daily visits paid, in that too

busy month of November, to a literary Christian friend near
death. Though much enfeebled, and with work pressing on

him, yet day by day did George Wilson read and pray by his

bed, soothing his fears at the approach of the last enemy, and

sharing his joyful anticipations of the employments of heaven.

Physically he suffered from the exertion of those visits, but they

afforded him great delight, and were doubtless an aid to himself

in passing through the same dark valley so soon after.

   To the public mind it seemed that the closing words in an
article in the November number of ' Macmillan's Magazine,' on

' Paper, Pen, and Ink,' were a farewell legacy. It will be re-

   i From Professor Kelland.
   5 Professor Playfair. To several of the Professors, especially to Professors Playfair
and Balfour, much gratitude is due for their kindness in making arrangements in re

ference to the Technological Class.
496  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XII.

membered that it had originally been delivered as a lecture in
the Session of 1857-58, but now appearing as almost his last
published words, the close had a new and striking significance.
" When Paper, Pen, and Ink," he says, " have made the tour of
the world, and have carried everywhere the acknowledgment of

brotherhood between people and people, and man and man,
and the Song of Bethlehem, fulfilled to the full, has enlightened
every intellect and softened every heart, their great mission will
be ended. And let us not complain that our writing materials
are one and all so frail and perishable, for God himself has been

content to write His will on the frailest things. Even His

choicest graphic media are temporal and perishable. The stars
of heaven are in our eyes the emblems of eternity, and they are
the letters in God's alphabet of the universe, and we have
counted them everlasting. Great astronomers of old have told
us that the sidereal system could not stop, but must for ever go
on printing in light its cyclical records of the firmament. But
in our own day, and amongst ourselves, has arisen a philosopher1
to show us, as a result simply of physical forces working as we

observe them do, that the lettered firmament of heaven will one
day see all its scattered stars fall, like the ruined type setting

of a printer, into one mingled mass. Already the most distant
stars, like the outermost sentinels of a flock of birds, have heard

the signal of sunset and return, and have begun to gather closer
together, and turn their faces homewards. Millions of years

must elapse before that home is reached, and the end comes, but

that end is sure. God alone is eternal, and they who through
His gift are partakers of his immortality.

  "It is wonderful to find a patient, mechanical philosopher,

looking only to what his mathematics can educe from the phe
nomena of physical science, using words which, without exag

geration, are exactly equivalent to these :--' Thou, Lord, in the

beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens
are the works of Thy hands ; they shall perish, but Thou re-
mainest, and they all shall wax old as doth a garment, and as a
vesture shalt Thou fold them up, and they shall be changed ;
but Thou art the same, and Thy years shall not fail !' "

                                1 Professor William Thomson of Glasgow.
1859.               ONLY MAN IMMORTAL.               497

" If God's Paper, Pen, and Ink are thus perishable, shall we
Itcomplain that ours do not endure 1
                                      is the writer that shall be

immortal, not the writing."
   These last words, as Dr. Cairns has remarked, " are now the

best consolation to the wide circle who lament his sudden de

parture and unaccomplished aims, and the strongest incentive

to pursue and aspire after the same Christian immortality."

   In a graceful tribute to his worth, offered by Professor Kel-

land, in addressing the pupils of the classes of mathematics,

at the close of the Session, the words are compared to the

last expression of Baron Cauchy, a celebrated mathematician.
" When requested to give repose to his mind, and thus to second

the efforts of those who were praying for him, he replied, ' Men
pass away, but their work remains --pray for the work.' The

one declared that man alone is immortal, his works perish ; the

other, that man passes away, but his work remains. But yet, are

they not the same ? Like the rays which issue from a cloud that

obscures the setting sun, they seem to diverge, this to the right

hand, that to the left, but they are in reality essentially parallel."

   Biographical notices appeared in many of the periodicals of
the day. From one by his friend, Dr. John Brown, we have

made extracts occasionally. In a French Review, L'Abbe^

Moigno says, " Sa mort a un age si peu avance" (quarante et un

ans)   est presque   un malheur national." 1         From America there
soon   rebounded    similar testimonies : " The      University of Edin

burgh has lately suffered severely by the death of one of its

most distinguished teachers. The department of science has

been specially unfortunate. Since the death of the venerable

Jameson, Professor Forbes, whose fine genius and extensive

erudition gave promise of an illustrious life, has been laid in

the sepulchre of his fathers ; and ere yet his country, and we

may say the world of science, has ceased to mourn for this most

gifted of her children, another equally honourable and beloved

has been laid in the dust. The name of Professor George

Wilson, whose recent appointment as Regius Director of the

Industrial Museum of Scotland, and to the Professorship of

Technology in the University of Edinburgh, was hailed with so

                    1 ' Cosmos,' le 6 Jauvier 1860.

                                2I
498                MEMOIR OF GEOKGE WILSON.  CHAP. XII.

much satisfaction by all who had any acquaintance, either withifis

his personal character or numerous contributions to literatureit,if
and science, will, we are sure, be held in lasting and affeca it
tionate remembrance." 1
                a
    Requests from the magistrates, and the representatives of
public bodies, that his funeral should be a public one, at which
they might be present, continued to pour in during the week

subsequent to his death. Amongst such proposals the most

touching and gratifying was a letter from " An Artisan," in a
newspaper, suggesting that every working man in the city should

follow the remains to their last resting-place. These requests
for publicity could not be put aside, though it was felt that

privacy would have been more in accordance with his retiring

modesty of character. The torrent of love, however, carried all
 before and on Monday, the 28th November, the hush and awe

of expectancy pervaded the city. A bright sunny day was, as

     for once that gloomy month cast off her despondency, in
acknowledgment of the truth, " light sown for the righteous,
 and gladness for the upright in heart," and as the influence of
 the bright and sunny spirit still lingered to shed parting
 radiance when the body was laid to rest in hope.

    The company of personal friends assembled at Elm Cottage
joined in short religious service before leaving the house, Dr.
 Alexander presiding over one group, and Dr. Cairns over
 another. We-- now conversant with his life-- can imagine why
 the latter chose the 15th chapter of 1st Corinthians, and can
 understand what tender memories crowded on him, making the

 voice tremulous with suppressed emotion while reading it. A

 prayer followed, and then the carriages with private mourners
 passed slowly into town.

     On the long line of streets through which the cortege defiled,
 the shops were closed, and " business suspended for time in

 other parts of the city multitudes of both sexes crowded the
 way; and as the hearse moved along, many tears were shed,
 and the crowd looked on with bated breath, and even the

 rude and thoughtless uncovered their heads, and offered their

 silent tribute of homage. Never before was such a tribute of

                             The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist,' June I860.
                '1
                                                  :

                                                                                              a
1850.  " SOWN IN CORRUPTION."  499

respect and love offered at the grave of any of our citizens." 1
On through Princes Street it came, every balcony and window
filled with gazers, dim-eyed and heavy-hearted, till at the Royal
Institution, Mound, the climax was reached, by the public
bodies there awaiting its arrival joining in, and the crowd up
wards to George Street forming one dense mass of onlookers.
The arrangement then made was that first in order were the
members of Dr Alexander's congregation ; after them the Uni
versity students, those of the Technological class keeping
together ; the Pharmaceutical Society ; the Royal Scottish
Society of Arts ; the Chamber of Commerce ; the Philosophical
Institution ; the Merchant Company ; the Senatus Academicus
in their gowns ; the Lord Provost and Magistrates in their scar
let robes; then came the hearse, and --following it-- his empty
carriage, familiar to Edinburgh eyes, and associated with pleasant
thoughts now turned to sadness. Private carriages and the

general public brought up the rear, the whole number being not
fewer than a thousand.

   While all move slowly on, four abreast, through the pic
turesque portion of Princes Street yet to be traversed, and while

the crowd thickens on every point of eminence, let us proceed to
the Old Calton burial-ground and await its arrival. What is now
a level road, Waterloo Place, once looked down on a valley, with

a cemetery and the Calton Hill beyond it. In 1 8 1 5 a bridge was

made to span the gulf, while the road was carried (painful neces

sity) though the cemetery, of which a portion now lies on each

side of the road. That to the right side is the larger and more

interesting ; and it is with it we have to do.2
   The gates to-day are strictly guarded, and no one has been

admitted. As the procession approaches, the niches in the
screen wall--separating on each side the road from the ceme
teries--are filled with High School boys who, on their way

home, scramble up to see the marvellous homage to one who
sat in the halls where they meet for lessons, and played where

they play, when he too was a little boy. It seems strange that

the meek yet noble face beneath that coffin-lid should be the

      i ' Funeral Sermon' by Dr. Alexander, p. 25. A. & C. Black, Edinburgh.
      * Appendix B.
500              MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.             CHAP. XII.

Icentre of all this stir. We can only understand it by listening

to these words : " Them that honour me, will honour." Now

that they have come close to the gate, the procession is inverted,

those in front falling back and lining the road, while the hearse

passes up the centre, and the relatives immediately follow.

During the short period spent within the walls, the overpower

ing grief of the mourners passes beyond bounds. But this

last putting to sleep does not take long, and he soon lies with

his twin-brother and the many dearly-loved ones there before

him. " The heavens waited just till they covered him in, and

then wept a quick cold shower, which cleared off, and the new

moon lighted up the west." The private mourners left the

burial-ground while the remainder of the procession was still
passing in. " The grave is the great laboratory, whence alone

the incorruptible, glorious, powerful, spiritual product of the

Resurrection can emerge. Death is the gate of life. Let us see

those we love borne through it without dismay, since they go

in the train of Christ, and come forth from the temporary shade

in the brightness and splendour of their Divine leader." 1

To the relatives in distant lands those tokens of love came

with soothing power. Speaking of the multitude who thus

gave unmistakable evidence of affection, his cousin in Australia
          " God                                    "
writes :         bless  all  their  warm  hearts      And his brother
                                                  !
Daniel says : " It is not a light thing now to remember that

one whose years of public life have been so few, and even these

encroached on by the ever- increasing impediments of failing

health, has been laid in his grave amid demonstrations of public

sorrow such as have rarely indeed been accorded, in that native
city of his, to Edinburgh's greatest men." 2 " There was some

thing rare and touching in the homage with which Edinburgh
-- the least demonstrative of cities --followed him to the grave." 8

Over his resting-place there has been raised, by his uncle, an

antique cross, harmonizing with that he suggested for his cousin

James Russell. The two stand side by side, alike but different.

It is twelve feet in height, and bears the inscription :

     I From unpublished Sermon on 1st Corinthians xv. , by the Rev. Dr. Cairns.
     II ' Canadian Journal,' March 1860.
     8 ' Macmillan's Magazine,' January 1860.
1859.  MONUMENTAL CROSS.                                           501

                                              IN MEMORY OF

                  GEORGE WILSON, M.D.

       PROFESSOR OF TECHNOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH,
                                                              AND

               DIRECTOR OF THE INDUSTRIAL MUSEUM OF SCOTLAND.
                                    BORN FEBRUARY 21, 1818.
                                    DIED NOVEMBER 22, 1859.

                        THEM THAT HONOUR ME I WILL HONOUR.

   At its base is the emblem of his " dear museum," as expressed

Iin more than one printed lecture. "When that Museum

shall be erected, will ask its architect to sculpture on its front
an emblematical device, namely, a circle, to imply that the
Museum represents the industry of the whole world ; within

the circle, an equilateral triangle, the respective sides of which
shall denote the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms, from
which industrial art gathers its materials ; within the triangle
an open hand, as the symbol of the transforming forces which
change those materials ; and in the palm of that hand an eye,
selecting the materials which shall be transformed."1

  I" hope" -- he said of the museum to a young lady in 1856 --

" it is to become a great and famous institution, and that, un
numbered years hence, when the daisies have covered me for
many a season, and you are a venerable lady with white hair,
you will walk with some grandchild, as gentle and kindly as
yourself, around its well-filled halls, and show her all the
wonders of the museum." The daisies do cover him now ; and
in spring, snowdrops, symbolical alike of him and of the glorious
resurrection to come, arise, and mutely minister comforting
thoughts to the visitors of that quiet retreat, where, though in

   1 ' On the Industrial Museum of Scotland in its Relation to Commercial Enterprise.'
A Lecture delivered to the Merchant Company of Edinburgh, and printed for private
circulation.
502  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XII.

the very heart of the city, complete seclusion is attained, and

one may echo his words : " 0 to be wi' Richie !" 1
   As early as 1847 we find anticipations in his mind of the

time when for him earthly things should have ceased. " My

Idear D.," he writes, "had it pleased God to grant us bodily

health, venture to say that we should both have done some

thing to help forward the great cause of science, and have

earned the love and respect of our fellow-men. But it is plain,
from the wasting illness that God has sent us, that He does not

need us as expositors of the laws He, the great Chemist, has

imposed upon His own universe. Neither you nor I, in all

Ihuman probability, will be long left to study earthly chemistry.

We shall soon, very soon, anticipate, be called away from seeing
all things through a glass darkly, to meet God face to face, and
shall have to answer to Him for the deeds done in the body.

We should certainly exhibit the most inordinate vanity if we

thought that the great mass of our fellow-men would be losers
by our being swept off this great chess-board of a world. This
board, indeed, is always so crowded, that, with the exception of

our attached relatives and a few friends, the greater number of

our neighbours will be glad to know that our being cleared
away has left more elbow-room. Think how soon the world gets

over the death of a Chalmers or an O'Connell, and let us be con

tent that the place that knew us once shall know us no more."
    Those who were in George Street, Edinburgh, about mid-day

on the Sabbath following the funeral would have been tempted

to say that such forgetfulness of him could never be. Long

before the hour for afternoon service crowds were pressing into
the Music Hall, where a funeral sermon was to be delivered by
Dr. Alexander. The place was chosen for its size, but a hall
three times as large would have been required to admit all who

desired entrance.

  IFrom the words, " heard a voice from heaven saying unto

me, Write, blessed are the dead that die in the Lord," occasion
was taken to point to the hopes of the Christian in anticipating
death with heaven-taught courage, and the inexpressible joys to
which it introduces him. Then followed a sketch of George

                                                   1 Ante, p. 36&
1859.  SECRET OF INFLUENCE.  503

 Wilson's life, listened to with eager interest, and towards its
close swaying the audience irrepressibly, till even young men
 and old bowed their heads and wept without restraint. The
 secret of his great attractiveness was dwelt on before concluding,
 and estimated as due not merely to his genius and talents, his
reputation as an author, or his popularity as a lecturer. He had,
it is true, " addressed himself to so many different classes in the

 community, and he had invariably so gratified, instructed, and

captivated his audience, that there was a very large number of
persons lying, as it were, under personal obligations to him, and
whose feelings toward him were consequently greatly beyond
those which mere admiration of talents or of authorship could
inspire. Added to this was the affection which his unfailing

gentleness, his brave resolution to work, notwithstanding manifest

bodily infirmity and fluctuating health, and his promptitude to
meet the wishes of the public, at whatever sacrifice of time,
energy, and personal convenience, could not fail to excite. As
in private, so in public life, there was something about him

which inspired love. People came to feel as if they would like

to do something kind to him, even when they were not per
sonally acquainted with him. No wonder, then, that a feeling

of this sort, which had been gradually accumulating for years
in the hearts of the community, should have burst forth in such
a demonstration as that of which our city was the scene when

an opportunity of showing respect to him, which was felt to be

Ithe last, was presented.

   " But believe that that which chiefly moved the multitude

to do him homage was the sense of how true and good a man he

was. It was his religion, so simple, so sincere, so unobtrusive,

Iyet so constantly operative, that stamped upon his character its

highest worth ; and it was this, believe, which drew to him

the confidence, the respect, and the love of the community more
than anything else. Men felt that in him there stood before them
one of the finest combinations of genuine science and genuine
Christianity that had ever been presented to their view. For

with him religion and science were not two things --they were
one ; so interwoven with each other, that every contribution
504     MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAT. XII.

which he made to science was also laid as an offering on the
altar of religion. He did not, as is too common with men of
science, content himself with merely making his obeisance to

religion, and then passing by on the other side to prosecute an
independent course. Religion went with him all along his
path, and it was on her head he sought to place the crown that

science had enabled him to win. It was his daily endeavour to

make all his work bear on the glory of his God and Saviour, to
turn all into a solemn liturgy that should rise up as incense
before God. And in this he so succeeded, that his whole soul

came to be pervaded with Christian influences ; and religious
thoughts and feelings flowed unbidden, and with the most per
 fect naturalness, into all his discourses and writings." 1

     Another friend2 has endeavoured to account for the intensity
 of the mourning : " The stroke was felt in a very peculiar man
 ner by the community of Edinburgh, to whom Dr. Wilson was
 endeared by special ties. He had grown up and attained to

 distinction among them, had always been looked upon by them
 as one of themselves, and his rising reputation and influence

 were regarded by his fellow- citizens with a just pride and satis
 faction. He had interested himself actively in whatever tended
 to their instruction or improvement, yet always in such a way

 as to disarm the hostility of contending parties, and to place

 high above suspicion his own spotless integrity, his comprehen

 sive sympathies, and his extraordinary firmness and candour.

 His voice had been ever ready to instruct or delight his towns
 men. His personal character, too, had been felt to be an in

 valuable power for good among them, and good of the highest

 kind; for it was scarcely possible to avoid receiving an en
 hanced impression of the reality and beauty of genuine religion,
  when it was seen embodied in a living character of such piety
  and buoyant energy, such lofty aspiration combined with true

  humility, such generosity, and delicacy, and tenderness, with
  unbending truth and integrity of principle, -- in short, such a
  general grace and loveliness, united with such masculine deter -

     i * Funeral Sermon,' by W. L. Alexander, D.D., pp. 26-28. A. and C. Black, Edin
        * Professor MacDougall.
burgh.
1859.  " LET YOUR LIGHT SHINE."                                            505

mination, activity, and force. It was a community thus fondly

affectioned towards him that were suddenly startled and horrified

by the intelligence of his death."

   All this is beautifully expressive of the truth ; but probably

no endeavour to analyse the constituents of that influence over
others which George Wilson exercised, consciously and uncon

sciously, can be more than partially successful. In looking at a

flower or a bird, we can scarcely tell from what it is we receive
delight : form, colour, odour, and grace of motion, all conspire
to please, and it is not necessary to know why we are pleased.

If it be so with a simple organism, how much more difficult is

it to solve the problem with a being whose higher nature com
munes with us through media in themselves so attractive, that
we can only bask in the sunshine of its radiance with un
questioning joy ? Worth of character is often unattractive in
itself, but united to genius it is well-nigh irresistible. Let us
not on this account, however --if unable to lay claim to this
rarer charm-- put aside the lessons taught us by George Wilson's
life, but rather let us look on him as one who, like St. Paul, ob

tained mercy, for a pattern to them who should hereafter believe

to life everlasting.
    When great lights are removed from this dark world, does it

not become those less brilliant to seek to shed their rays over

a larger surface, that the gloom may be somewhat diminished,
and the bright shining of the true Light everywhere hastened ?
" Allow not the unobtrusive meekness you have witnessed, the

 steady truth, the upright integrity, the unostentatious self-

denial, the patient sweetness, the hopeful resignation of the
loved and lost to die away in your temporary admiration of
them ; but let them fall into your hearts like living seeds, there
to be cherished as precious things, which are in due season to
bear fruit after their kinds in your own life and experience,

--fruit which shall be the strength and comfort of those who

 come after you, and your testimony to the faithfulness of your

God."1

  1 ' The Ascension of our Lord :' a Sermon by R. P. Graves, M.A , p. 11.  Hamil
ton, Adams, and Co., London.
506  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.  CHAP. XII.

   We attempt no further estimate of his life or character. He
himself has narrated the facts, from which each may draw his
own conclusions. Where these fail to influence, further words
would be of little avail. And so farewell, dear reader : may
we meet him in the temple of our God, to go no more out for

ever !
APPENDIX.
L.
                 APPENDIX.

                 A.

                 ESTIMATE BY DR. J. H. GLADSTONE.

In endeavouring to form an estimate of Dr. George Wilson as

a scientific man, it is necessary to remember that he passed

through the ordinary curriculum of a medical student, then

devoted himself more especially to chemistry and the allied

natural sciences, and afterwards had his attention particularly

directed to the useful arts as Professor of Technology. It should

be also borne in mind that he was a literary as well as a

Iscientific man, and that he spent a large portion of his time as a
public teacher.  shall therefore, for the sake of convenience

and greater clearness, regard him from four different points of

view,-- as an original investigator ; as a technologist ; as a

scientific historian or biographer; and as a teacher or expounder.

                              AS AN ORIGINAL INVESTIGATOR.

   Though it is not as an investigator that Dr. Wilson acquired
his principal fame, yet his researches were by no means few in
number or limited in range. He added to our store of know
ledge in chemistry, in physiology, and in natural philosophy ;
but not so much by actual discoveries as by elucidating points
that were previously involved in obscurity. While some of his
fellow-inquirers followed up any hint that Nature might give,
and formed their crude theories, he was generally content to

expound and illustrate their views, and to devise, if possible,

some crucial experiment that would decide between rival hypo

theses. And if the inquiry bore in any way on the welfare of
his fellow-men, he felt it to possess a greater claim on his atten

tion. As he published much, with little leisure for quiet
research, he also frequently suggested thoughts and processes
510  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

which others have pursued to a successful issue. Thus he had

great influence on the science of the day, though he never added
to the list of chemical compounds, which is now growing to

such portentous dimensions, or made any anatomical discoveries.
   His first investigation was his boldest, and that farthest re

moved from ordinary human interest. In chemistry there has
long been a notable question, --What becomes of a Haloid salt

in solution ; or, to take a particular instance, when common
salt dissolves in water, does it remain chloride of sodium, or
does it become hydrochlorate of soda ? Dr. Wilson, when a
student, thought he had solved this riddle. He communicated
his discovery to the British Association, and published his
' Experimental Demonstration of the Existence of Haloid Salts

in Solution,'1 resting mainly on the fact that hydrobromic acid
dissolved in water with terchloride of gold produces the scarlet
bromide of that metal. The argument in the then state of

chemical knowledge was perhaps unanswerable ; but, from

Ifrequent communications with him on the subject in later years,
   know that he altered his opinion of its conclusiveness. He
brought the matter again before the British Association in 1855,
with further experiments, and in the meantime he had published
a paper on "The Argument for the Binary Theory of Salts,
derived from the non-action of the anhydrous oxygen acids on

organic colours."3

   In the early part of Dr. Wilson's career, his fellow-student

1 This is to be found in the ' Edinburgh Academic Annual ' for 1839. It formed

part of one of the Inaugural Dissertations, selected by the Faculty of Medicine to

compete for their annual gold medal at the public graduation, August 1, 1839.
  · ' Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society,' vol. i. p. 332. In a letter to

Dr. Gladstone in May 1855, Dr. Wilson speaks of this inquiry while referring to a
paper of Dr. Gladstone's, ' On Circumstances Modifying the Action of Chemical
"Affinity.' (See Phil. Trans- for 1855.)
                                          As for the Salt question, remember
Ithat my paper was written so far back as 1837, when was a student, and that

the Berthollet doctrines of affinity, although pleaded for by Professor Graham, were
not appreciated as your papers will now lead them to be. Graham himself volunt eered

his adhesion to my views at the British Association meeting of 1839, so little did he
Ithink of questioning them by such reasonings as yours.
                                                         did not purpose to call
Iin question the general justness of your conclusions. On the other hand, fully

admit and admire them, and freely acknowledge that my inferences must be modified

Iin the light of your views, which are far beyond and above Berthollet's in many

respects. At the same time, think my conclusions substantially unaffected, and
that your recognition of what our older chemists called ' Elective Affinity' occurring

according to the law of equivalents, leaves me all I demand." --J. A. W.
APPENDIX.  511

and friend, the late Dr. Samuel Brown, propounded his ingenious
Atomic Theory, and believed he had found an experimental sup
port for his views in the conversion of carbon into silicon. This
alleged transmutation of elements created a great sensation in
the scientific world, especially as the then vacant chair of
chemistry at Edinburgh was claimed by his friends for Dr. Brown,
as an appropriate reward for his dissertations and discoveries.
But the reputed facts were denied ; and Dr. Wilson undertook
to sift the matter to the bottom. He spent the winter of 1843-44
in repeating the experiments in conjunction with Mr. John
Crombie Brown, and they printed together an account of them;1
and Dr. Wilson published a paper on isomeric transmutation,2
in which the whole question was very calmly discussed, the
difficulty presented by the atomic weights fairly set forth, and the
statement made that the experiments were insufficient to prove
the important deduction which had been drawn from them.

    During the previous year, a discussion had arisen in the Zoolo
gical Society of London, about the bones of that gigantic fossil
bird, the dinornis. Those bones, and those of many other extinct
creatures, were found to contain an enormous amount of fluoride

of calcium, instead of the doubtful trace which had been detected

in recent bones. The theory had been started by Dr. Falconer,
that this fluoride might have come from a transmutation of the
 ordinary phosphate of lime, while the more orthodox opinion
was maintained by Mr. Middleton, that the fluoride had been
somehow dissolved and deposited in the bones while buried in
the earth. Here was just a question after Dr. Wilson's own
heart, especially as it glanced at the bewitching idea of trans
 mutation. He entered on the subject, and during several years
 produced a series of papers, the titles of which are given below,3

    1 ' Trans. R. S. E.,' vol. xv. part iv.

   2 ' Edin. New Phil. Journal,' July 1844.

    s On the Solubility of Fluoride of Calcium in Water, and its relation to the occur
 rence of Fluorine in Minerals, and in recent and fossil Plants and Animals.-- ' Trans.
 R. S. E.,' vol. xvi. part ii.

    On the Presence of Fluorine in Blood and Milk, ice. -- 'Edin. New Phil. Journal,'

 October 1850.

    On the Presence of Fluorine in Ocean Waters.--' Edin. New Phil. Journal,' April

 1850.

     On Two New Processes for the Detection of Fluorine when accompanied by Silica,
512  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

 in which he showed the presence of fluoride of calcium, not only
 in the bones and teeth, but in the blood, milk, and other secre
 tions of recent animals ; then he traced it back to the vegetable
 world, finding it in the stems of many of those plants which the
 mammalia use for food. Attacking the question, How does the
 plant derive its supply of this element ? he found the fluoride of
 calcium soluble to a slight extent even in pure water, and occur
 ring not merely in the mineral fluor spar itself, but also in
 small quantities in granite, porphyry, and many other rocks.
 He found it to be dissolved by the springs, and thus what is

 not absorbed by the plants feeding on the soil makes its way

 into the rivers, and ultimately into the sea, among the salts

 of which fluorine was discovered to be an ordinary constituent.
 Dr. Wilson was led to the conclusion that the fluoride found
 in some of these big bones of ancient times had filtered into

 them, forming a very insoluble compound with the phosphate
 of lime.

     Dr. Wilson's researches on Colour- Blindness appear to me the
 most complete of his investigations, and those with which his

name will be most inseparably associated. In November 1853

he commenced a series of papers in the ' Edinburgh Monthly
Journal of Medical Science' on Colour-Blindness, or Chromato-

pseudopsis, as he termed it. During this investigation, he not
merely brought together the substance of everything that had
been previously written on the subject, but he collected accounts
of all the colour-blind whom he could induce to describe their

peculiarities faithfully in writing, or to let him examine them.
There were tailors who matched a scarlet waistcoat with green
strings ; clerks who signed their names in red instead of black
ink ; physicians who never saw the tint of their patients' com

plexions ; and laboratory students who were never sure of the

and on the presence of Fluorine in Granite, Trap, and other Igneous Rocks, and in
the Ashes of recent and fossil Plants.-- 'Trans."R, S. E.,' vol. xx. part iii.

   On the Extent to which Fluoride of Calcium is Soluble in Water at 60° F.-- "Trans.
Brit. Assoc' 1847, p. 61.

   On the Presence of Fluorine in the Stems of Graminca!, Equisitacea?, and other
Plants, with Observations on the Sources from which Vegetables derive this element.
-- 'Bot. Soc. Ediu.' 1852.

  On M. J. Nickle's Claim to be the Discoverer of Fluorine in the Blood.-- 'Phil.

Mag.' March 1857.
                  APPENDIX.                                                                               513

colour of a precipitate. He examined the sight of his brother
professors and of his pupils, and had drawn up before him the

police, and the attendants at a lunatic asylum, and whole com

panies of soldiers, infantry, artillery, and hussars. Thus he was
able to determine, with some accuracy, the proportion of the

colour-blind,--about two per cent, being found defective as

Dalton was, that  is,

                                        ;

                                                       a
                  mistaking greens, reds, and browns, and

sometimes calling red black while about five per cent, were

found subject to this peculiarity in                             minor degree. Dr.

Wilson's mode of experimenting was usually with coloured

diagrams and Berlin wools, but he also employed the prismatic

spectrum itself. Thus he was able to show the small perception
of red, which the principal symptom of colour-blindness and
is
                      is

                             is
                                      is
                                                         a

                                 I

                                                                                                      ;;
that many of the most curious mistakes, such, for instance, as
confounding light red purple with dark blue, arise from the red

rays being scarcely luminous to such patients.                   believe he

was the first to point out that there often shortsightedness
in regard to colour when there none in respect to form and

that to many patients red more visible by artificial light, so
that, while unable to distinguish by their colour the red flowers
from the green leaves of the geranium by day, they enjoy the
chromatic contrast as they walk through the conservatory by
gas-light. On this fact Dr. Wilson founded the most practical

suggestion for the alleviation of this defect, namely, the substi
tution of artificial light for day-light in the examination of

colours, and the employment, for similar purpose, of glassesa
coloured slightly orange or yellow. He was not content with

ascertaining the symptoms, but desired also to discover the
cause of colour-blindness; hence he was led to examine the

theories which had been previously propounded, and to investi

gate the necessary chromatic effect of the yellow spot on the
retina, the colour of the choroid coat, and of the tapetum lucidum
in animals, and the vision of Albinoes. These inquiries did not

lead to an explanation of the matter, but they were interesting
in themselves, and gave rise to two special papers,1 which he

     On the Extent to which the received Theory of Vision requires us to regard the Eye
as Camera Obscura. -- Trans. R.S.E.' vol. xxi. part ii.

   On the Transmission of the Actinic rays of light through the Eye, and their relation
to the Yellow Spot of the Retina.--' Trans. R.S.E.'
ai
                                     '
                                                              2

                                                    K
514  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh. From the fre
quency of this defect, Dr. Wilson perceived the danger attending

the use of red and green signals on railways, and of the red and
green lamps on the port and starboard sides of our naval and mer
cantile steam -vessels, and of the use of the same colours in light
houses. He brought the matter before the notice of the Royal
Scottish Society of Arts, and the attention of the railway

companies was seriously drawn to the necessity of examining
their engine-drivers as to their ability to distinguish the coloured

signals. The whole of his observations on this subject were
published as a separate work, entitled ' Researches on Colour
Blindness.' 1

    Another of Dr. Wilson's important investigations was " On the

action of dry gases on organic colouring matters, and its relation

to the theory of bleaching,"2 from which, after experimenting
with various gases and solvents, both in darkness and sunlight,
he drew the conclusion, that "chlorine can bleach though
oxygen be absent ; neither water nor any other liquid is essen
tial to the decolorising action of chlorine, otherwise than as

enabling the gas and the colour to come within the sphere of

chemical action, by dissolving both. A similar conclusion,

mutatis mutandis, may be extended to oxygen, sulphurous acid,
hydrosulphuric acid, and hydrochloric acid, but with this quali
fication, that specific differences may be expected to occur with
all the gases named, as to their action on any one colouring
matter, and with different colouring matters as to their depoit-
ment with any one of the gases."

   Beside these researches, Dr. Wilson attempted to decide the

question of the decomposition of water into its constituent gases
by heat alone, by analyzing the bubbles that rise when the red-

hot drop of oxide that is produced during the combustion of
iron in oxygen falls into water ; but this neither confirmed nor
disproved the views of Professor Grove.3 He read communica

tions also before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, " On Dr. Wol-

laston's argument from the limitation of the atmosphere as to

     i Sutherland & Knox, Edinburgh.              1847.
     * 'Trans. R.S.E.,' vol. xvi. part iv.
     3 ' Quarterly Journal of Chemical Society.'
                               APPENDIX.                                                      515

the finite divisibility of matter and on the probability of the
nitric acid sometimes found in the air being one source of the
nitrogen found in plants.2 As to chloroform, at one time he
                               ;"'

                                            it

                                                                                          ;4

                                                                                  aa
took its specific gravity,3 at another he observed the strange

phenomena of capillary attraction which                  exhibits and yet
again he wrote on " Chloroform as an anaesthetic from pa

tient's point of view." He once published an analysis of sup

posed meteoric stone and then he turned to discover in which
               ;;
organs lead accumulated, when some horses were slowly poi

soned by that metal he observed the crystallization of bi-car-

bonate of ammonia in spherical masses, or speculated on the
origin of the diamond.5 Most varied, too, were the subjects on

which he gave practical suggestions, --the electro-magnetic bell,

for experiments on the conduction of sound oxygen, for the
                                                         ;6
                                                                ;7
restoration of our half-drowned fellow -creatures and artificial

sea- water for our actiniae.8

                   AS A TECHNOLOGIST.

    Long before Dr. Wilson's appointment as Regius Director ofa;
the Industrial Museum of Scotland, he had, in his laboratory                     :
practice, been led to investigate several of the chemical arts. He
had even published papers bearing more or less on some of them,;a

as, for instance, that already referred to, which elucidated theIi.
theory of bleaching. But when his mind was specially turned

to the subject of Technology, he put all his heart into it. It

appealed at once to his intellectual and his moral nature there

was vast range of inquiry, not too profound and what was

better still, that inquiry had direct bearing on the happiness
of his fellow-men. In the formation of the Industrial Museum

he worked hard and those who have enjoyed the advantage, as
  have, of being conducted by him through the rich stores in

      1   'Trans. R.S.E.,' vol. xvi. part
          'Trans. R.S.E.,' vol. xx. part iv.
      1
           Monthly Journal of Medical Science.' 1848.
      3    Quarterly Journal of Chemical Society.' Vol.
        '  Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal.' 1850.
          'Trans. R.S.S.A.' 1845.
      1                                                  i.
        '  Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal.' 1855.                6

      '4                                                                 Ibid. 1846.

      'e J
516 MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

readiness for the future building, can alone appreciate the care
and thought which must have guided him in the selection and
arrangement of such varied materials. Most wonderful and
refreshing too was it to behold the enthusiasm with which he

bore his feeble body over a manufactory, peeping into every

process, collecting samples, and gathering the workmen around
him, who always seemed delighted to tell him all they knew,
or to listen to his kind and instructive remarks. His technolo

gical course, too, was largely attended, and in his inaugural
lecture for 1855 1 he explained the nature of Technology as the
science of the utilitarian arts, and expressed his intention of at
once giving a systematic course, "so that the Museum will
minister to the Chair, not the Chair wait upon the Museum.'
The plan of the course is thus described in a recent article in

the ' North British Review,' quoting from his class syllabus :--

    " The course was divided into mineral, vegetable, and animal
technology. Under the first were included the relation of the

atmosphere, the ocean and tributary waters, and the earth, to
Technology ; and among special subjects, fuel, building material,
glass and glass-making, pottery, earthenware, stoneware, and
porcelain ; metallotechny, electrotechny, and magnetotechny.
Under the second, or vegetable technology, were considered
saccharo-amylaceous substances, sugar- making, albuminous sub
stances, and fermentation, distillation, wood and wood fibres,

textile tissues, bleaching, dyeing, calico-printing, paper-making,
scriptorial or graphic industrial arts, caoutchouc, gutta-percha,
and the resins, fats, and oils. Under the third section, or ani

mal technology, were included the mechanical application and
chemical products of bones, ivory, horns, hoofs, tortoiseshell,
shells, and corals; skins, tanning, fish-scales, hair, fur, wool,
bristles, quills, and feathers, animal refuse."

    The introductory prelection of the following year was on the
physical sciences which form the basis of Technology;2 and for
1858 and 1859 he chose the progress of the telegraph.11 He

1 ' What is Technology V Sutherland & Knox.               January 1857.
1 Frinted in the ' Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal.'
* Published as a separate treatise by Macmillan & Co.
                                 APPENDIX.                                   517

pressed the importance of this study on many classes of the
community in lectures which have been separately published.

Thus he taught the farmers of the Highland and Agricultural

Society how deeply interested they are, or ought to be, in the

advance of the useful arts. He brought the subject before the

Pharmaceutical Chemists, and before the Company of Merchants,
urging on them their fourfold duty " to gather workable ma

terials from the ends of the earth ; to send forth finished pro

ducts, derived from these, to the four quarters of the heavens ;

to employ the most perfect mechanical and chemical appliances

which can change the one into the other, and facilitate their

transmission throughout the world ; to encourage new arts, and
                                  "
hope  for  still  newer    ones      and lastly, as a Christmas              lesson,
                                 ;

he taught in the National Galleries the relation of ornamental

to industrial art, showing that while Beauty remains Beauty, the

Beast Utility may become " a graceful Prince, losing the clumsi

ness, but keeping the strength of his former state, and Prince

and Princess join hands, each possessed of gifts which the other
has not. Not like to like, but like in difference."

   Not merely as Director, or rather collector of the Museum,
and as Professor of Technology, did Dr. Wilson advance the

cause of this science which he had made his own, but also as

President of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts. He found time

too for writing on such subjects : as, for instance, two papers
on Photography,1 full of ingenious suggestions ; articles in the
' Builder' on the Chemistry of Building Materials ; and a little
monograph on Paper, Pen, and Ink, which appeared in ' Mac-
millan's Magazine' for last November, the same month in which

ceased his labours for the material and mental advancement of

his brother men.

i On the Production of Photographs on Fluorescent Surfaces. -- ' Journal of Pho

tographic Society.' 1857.

On Dryness, Darkness, and Coldness as means of preserving Photographs from

fading.-- Ibid. 1859.

   Some of the theoretical views expressed in the first of these papers, relating to the

Islight photographic effect of fluorescent substances, have had the pleasure of proving
                                                                             of Dr.
J.experimentally to be correct. For some curious photographic  observations

Wilson, see also ' Cosmos,' Nov. 11, 1859, p. 543.-- H. G.
518        MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

           AS A SCIENTIFIC HISTORIAN AND BIOGRAPHER.

  IIn the preface to his ' Life of Cavendish,' Dr. Wilson says :

-- " During the enforced leisure of a long illness, commenced

in 1842 to collect materials for a projected work on the lives of

Ithe chemists of Great Britain, in which Cavendish should occupy

a prominent place, and had made some progress in my task

when the Cavendish Society was founded. . . . When, however,

Iat the call of the Society, laid aside the more general under
Itaking in which was engaged, and turned my attention solely

to the works and character of the Honourable Henry Cavendish,

circumstances had occurred which gave him an importance in

the eyes of the lettered public such as no other chemist at the

time possessed." And well and laboriously did Dr. Wilson

portray the great philosopher, and unravel the mysteries of the

water controversy. His description of the man isolated from

           a

                                                                                    it,
his fellows is quite photographic ; and after once reading we

have always mental portrait of him wandering about the house

at Clapham, inspecting his thermometers and rain-gauges,

dining his few friends off the invariable leg of mutton, and in

different  htoighoebrjecatfsfectthioants.exci"teHiosr  gratify  the imagination, emo
tions, or                                              theory   of the universe seems

to have been, that consisted solely of multitude of objects
           it

                                                     a

                                                                                                     ;
which could be weighed, numbered, and measured and the

vocation to which he considered himself called was, to weigh,

number, and measure, as many of those objects as his allotted

threescore years and ten would permit." From lengthy re
                                                                ;
view of all the documents bearing upon the subject, Dr. Wilson
                                                                      a
came to the conclusion that as far as the discovery of the com

position of water by synthesis                         concerned, Cavendish has
           ;

                                  is
the highest claim and when, some years afterwards, other

documents came to light, he had the satisfaction of finding

that his view of the case was fully established and this more

complete vindication of the priority of Cavendish he brought

before the public in the Athenaeum,' and before the Royal'

Society of Edinburgh.

Dr. Wilson never carried out his projected work on the lives

of the chemists, but he has left behind various monographs on
APPENDIX.                                                                 519

Wollastou, Black, Robert Boyle, and Dalton.1 His biographical

sketches, too, were not confined to chemists ; and at the period
of his death he was engaged on the memoir of his fellow-student
and colleague, the late Professor Edward Forbes. The only com

plete biography, however, besides that of Cavendish, which we

possess from his pen, is that of Dr. John Reid, and this is rather
a literary than a scientific work ; but it contains such a portrait

as could be only delineated by a man who at the same time felt
the interest of Dr. Reid's physiological discoveries, and appreci
ated his religious life.

    Dr. Wilson's attention was directed to the history of appara

tus as well as of the inventors themselves, and he urged upon

his contemporaries the preservation of those models and actual

machines which represent the earliest forms of important en

gines.2 In 1849 he published a paper on the early history of
the air-pump in England,3 with diagrams of the different ma

chines, in which he rectified errors that other historians had

fallen into ; and those who were present at the opening of the

chemical section of the British Association at Aberdeen will re

member the beautiful diagrams with which he covered the walls,
in illustration of his further researches in the same direction.

In another paper,4 he claims as the earliest electrical machine,

not Otto von Guericke's famous sulphur ball, but an electrical

fish ; he points out the antiquity and generality of the practice
of using such fishes as remedial agents, and brings together an
immense store of information from many unheard-of sources re
specting the Torpedo, the Silurus of the Nile, the Gymnotus, and
especially the Malapterurus Beninensis, which is found in the
muddy brackish waters of the rivers of Old Calabar, and appears
to be put by the native women into the tubs in which they wash
their children, in the belief that its shocks render them healthy

Iand strong. Under this head may also class the paper on the

fruits of the Cucurbitace.T and Crescentiacere,5 in which he shows

   i ' British Quarterly Review.'                                         by Mankind.
   * See his Address as President of the Royal Society of Arts, 1857.
   3 ' Edin. New Phil. Journal,' April 1849.

- 1 On the Electrical Fishes, as the earliest Electric Machines employed
   ' Edin. New Phil. Journal,' October 1857.
   6 'Trans. Bot Soc. Edin.,' vol. vij
520 MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

by a similar accumulation of miscellaneous lore, that different
species of gourds furnish the models for different utensils,
namely, the long- necked bottle with the egg-shaped body, the
constricted pilgrim's bottle, and the cupping-glass.

                              AS A TEACHER AND EXPOUNDER.

   While many of Dr. Wilson's contemporaries could pursue a
train of research with greater ability, none perhaps could render
the new truth thus obtained so attractive by copious imagery
and varied illustration. The expansiveness of his style, which
led to his strictly scientific works being considered in some quar
ters too diffuse, is a beauty in those where he appears as the
illustrator of our physical knowledge, for every figure tells, and
every fresh point of view has its own peculiar value. His popu
larity as a lecturer, both with his students and with the public
at large, was very great. This arose partly from his thorough
knowledge of the subjects he handled, but more from the felicity
of his descriptions, the clearness of his explanations, and the
poetry and pathos which rendered the whole beautiful. His
little book on chemistry in ' Chambers's Educational Course,'
which is adapted for those who desire a knowledge of the fun
damental principles and leading facts of the science, without
entering into any great detail, has already attained a sale of
upwards of twenty-four thousand, and that prose poem, the
' Five Gateways of Knowledge,1 has led many to find a new
world of thought and enjoyment in the old region of their five
senses. His treatise on Electricity and the Electric Telegraph5
gives a most intelligible account of this wonderful agency ; and
the ' Chemistry of the Stars' shows how he could carry the fancy
of his readers forward from the results of dry analysis.

    As instances of the extraordinary clearness with which Dr.

IWilson illustrated difficult points, would refer to his expo

sition of the numerical laws of chemistry in the educational

Itreatise just mentioned, which think the most easily compre

hensible in existence, and to his more popular description of the
nervous system, given in Dr. Reid's Life.

    1 Macmillan and Co., Cambridge.
    2 These are printed together, and constitute Part 26 of the ' Travellers' Library."
         APPENDIX.                                                    521

    The beauty of Dr. Wilson's discourses and writings depended
not a little on his religion, and on his fine aesthetic taste. His

quotations from the Holy Scriptures, and references to spiritual

things, were frequent, not in the form of a pious deduction

dragged in uncomfortably at the end of a lecture, but as the

natural reflections of a mind thoroughly embued with the love

of God and man, and accustomed to refer every good gift to the

Father of Lights. In his addresses to medical or other students,

he delighted to draw attention to the great facts of the spiritual
world ; but his ' Chemical Final Causes'1 is the only one of his

scientific writings which has a deliberately theological character.

In it he attempts to add to the ever-accumulating proofs of de

sign, by showing especially that phosphorus, nitrogen, and iron,

are the best adapted of the known elements for the purposes
they are required to fulfil in animal organisms.

As to Dr. Wilson's aesthetic taste, he was an instance that a

chemist  is not one (to quote   his own humorous description2)
whose "  vocation has been to  prowl around, like a very demon,

seeking what of the poet's property he might lay hands on and

devour ; to prove himself a man of the earth, earthy alike by

profession and by relish for the work of a disenchanter, to whom

a mystery is interesting only because it may be explained, and

an object beautiful because the cause of its beauty may be dis

covered." The popular impression about some chemists, that
" the aquafortis and the chlorine of the laboratories have as

effectually bleached the poetry out of them, as they destroy the

colours of tissues exposed to their action," certainly never arose

from an acquaintance with Dr. Wilson. In his writings there

is often a rhythmical charm and balance of expressions which

suit well with the poetic quotations in which he sometimes

Ifreely indulges. As instances, take almost at random from

his discourse on the Progress of the Telegraph :-- " We nicely

discuss whether telegram is a proper word or not, and invoke

the heroes of Homer to side with us for or against a term which

would have tried every Greek tongue in its utterance and vexed

every Greek ear in its hearing ; and all the while the bees who

         1 ' Edin. Univ. Essays,' 1856.
         ' In 'The alleged Antagonism between Poetry and Chemistry.'
522  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

rejoice amidst the sugar plantations of our heather warn and
welcome each other in songs which the bees of Hymettus sang
to each other : and the grasshoppers signal from meadow to
meadow as they did of old, when the musical shiver of their
wings rang over Greece as its cradle-psalm." And again, speak
ing of the compass -needle " as the guide of Vasco de Gama to
the East Indies, and of Columbus to the West Indies and the
New World, it was pre-eminently the precursor and pioneer of
the telegraph. Silently, and as with finger on its lips, it led
them across the waste of waters to the new homes of the world ;
but when these were largely filled, and houses divided between

the old and new hemispheres longed to exchange affectionate
greetings, it removed its finger and broke silence. The quiver
ing magnetic needle which lies in the coil of the galvanometer
is the tongue of the electric telegraph, and already engineers
talk of it as speaking."

    One might almost think that Dr. Wilson was the living ana

logue of that astronomical fact which he thus describes:1 "I would

liken science and poetry in their natural interdependence to those
binary stars, often different in colour, which Herschel's telescope
discovered to revolve round each other. ' There is one light of
 the sun,' says St. Paul, ' and another of the moon, and another

of the stars : star differeth from star in glory.' It is so here.

 That star or sun, for it is both, with its cold, clear, white light,
 is science : that other, with its gorgeous and ever-shifting hues
 and magnificent blaze, is poetry. They revolve lovingly round
 each other in orbits of their own, pouring forth and drinking in
 the rays which they exchange ; and they both also move round
 and shine towards that centre from which they came, even the
 throne of Him who is the Source of all truth and the Cause of

 all beauty."

                1 In 'The alleged Antagonism between Poetry aml Chemistry."
    APPENDIX.                                                                                       523

    APPENDIX B.

The following notice of the Old Calton Burial Ground, and

the historical reminiscences associated with
of Professor Daniel Wilson --
a                                             from the pen
                   a

                                                        :

                                                 a
                                                                it,
                                                                    is

                                                                                                 a
   " It stretches southwards to the hrow of the precipice which

overhangs the Old Town of Edinburgh, lying there at depth of
about hundred feet below, and -- where the crowded monuments
and family enclosures admit of peep beyond--the elevated
site commands wide view of the distant Pentlands, the Castle,
with the Old Town piled up to its rocky heights, and the
crowded avenues between the Old and New Towns, whence the

busy hum reaches the ear, mellowed by the distance into soundsa
of life that mingle not unpleasantly with the echoes of that
       is
silent scene. The cemetery of comparatively recent date and

though heaved into many mouldering heap, its grassy mounds
have few associations with illustrious names. Nevertheless the
                                              ;
                                                                      ;
islocality not without its historical reminiscences and from its
commanding site, must have been point of considerable im
portance both to the assailants and defenders of the Scottishit
capital, when in olden times was guarded by embrasured wall
and gate. Right below the crag, now crowded with the monua

ments of modern generations, there formerly stood the ancient;

Collegiate Church founded by the widowed Queen of the secondit
Scottish James in 1462, and beyond St. Anthony's Port, which

commanded the northern entrance to the steep avenue leading

to the Netherbow. A Roman causeway has been traced along

the very base of the cliff and the discovery of some fine red
Saurian ware in 1815, when digging the foundations of the Post-

office, which bounds the cemetery on the west, leaves no doubt

that the footprints of the Roman conqueror have been there.

An old map of 1544 -- the earliest memorial of Edinburgh topo
graphy --now preserved in the British Museum, shows the Earl
of Hereford with his army occupying the Calton Hill, before

putting the city to fire and sword, according to the barbarous
524  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

instructions of Henry VUI., who took this way of forcing an

alliance between the infant Queen Mary and his son Edward.
But a more definite account, pertaining to a later year of the same

unfortunate Scottish Queen, points out the locality of the modern
cemetery as the site of batteries erected by the Regent Lennox in
1572, when the castle and city were held by the brave Sir
William Kirkaldy of Grange on behalf of the Queen. The
Regent's party were bent on holding a Parliament within the
city ; and the ' Queen's men,' to prevent this, took possession
of St. Giles's Church, and manned the steeple, which completely

commanded the Parliament House. Thereupon the Estates (i.e.,
the Scottish Parliament) assembled in the Canongate, without
the walls, but within the liberties of the city, which extended to
St. John's Cross ; and a battery was erected for their protection

--as the gossiping old Diarist chronicles in the 'Diurnal of
Occurrents,' -- upon ' the Dow Craig abone the Trinity College
beside Edinburgh, to ding and siege the north-east quarter of
the burgh.' This Dow (Gaelic, Du or black) Craig is undoubt
edly the spot. The Calton Hill, with the adjacent suburban

district of Calton, belonged to the barony of the Lords Balmer-
inoch, and in the earlier part of the 18th century the last Lord
Balmerinoch, who perished on the block in 1746 for his fidelity
to the Stuarts, presented the Dow Craig and adjacent ground to

his Calton vassals as a public cemetery. Since then the rugged
scene of foreign violence and rude civil strife has been dedicated
to the sacred rites, where all that is mortal of many a loved one
has been laid to rest, earth to earth ; and the hallowed spot is
consecrated by many a humble memorial of affection, clustering

around the mausoleum of the great philosopher and sceptic,
David Hume, to which has since been added by pious hands the

sculptured emblem of the Christian's hopes, --looking like an
afterthought, appended by later hands, to some old pagan Roman's

sepulchre."
APPENDIX.  525

                      APPENDIX C.

   TITLES OF WORKS AND PAPERS PUBLISHED BY

                   PROFESSOR GEORGE WILSON.

                                                           WORKS.

Chemistry : an Elementary Text-Book. W. & R. Chambers, Edin
     burgh. 1850.

The Life and Works of the Honourable Henry Cavendish ; including
    a Critical Inquiry into the relative claims of all the alleged Dis
     coverers of the Composition of Water. Printed for the Cavendish
     Society. 1851.

The Life of Dr. John Reid, late Chandos Professor of Medicine in the
     University of St. Andrews. 1852. Second Edition. Sutherland
     and Knox, Edinburgh.

The Travellers' Library, No. 26. -- Electricity and the Electric Tele

    graph (Reprinted from the Edinburgh Review). The Chemistry
     of the Stars (Reprinted from the British Quarterly Review). 1852.
Researches on Colour-Blindness. Sutherland and Knox. Edinburgh.
     1855.
The Five Gateways of Knowledge. Macmillan & Co., Cambridge and
     London. 1857. Second Edition.

       PAPERS ON CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS, CHIEFLY CONTRIBUTED TO

                          TRANSACTIONS OF SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES.

                                                     1839.
Inaugural Dissertation on the Existence of Haloid Salts in Solution.

    Read before British Association in 1839 : published in Edinburgh
    Academic Annual for 1840.

                                                     1842.
Chemical Analysis of Organic Fluid, in which Sarcina Ventriculi was

    first detected. Edinburgh Med. & Surg. Journal, No. 151.
                                                     1844.

On Isomeric Transmutation. Edinburgh Philosophical Journal.
Account of a Repetition of several of Dr. Samuel Brown's Processes for

    the Conversion of Carbon into Silicon. By George Wilson, M.D.,
    and John Crombie Brown, Esq. Trans. R.S.E.

                                                     1845.
On the Employment of Oxygen as a means of Resuscitation in Asphyxia,

    and otherwise as a Remedial Agent. Trans. R.S.S.A.
526  MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

Ou a Simple Mode of constructing Skeleton Models to illustrate the

    Systems of Crystallography. Trans. R.S.S.A.                 as to
On Wollaston's Argument from the Limitation of the Atmosphere,

   the Finite Divisibility of Matter. Trans. RS.E.

                           1846.

On the Solubility of Fluoride of Calcium in Water, and its Relation to
   the occurrence of Fluorine in Minerals, and in Recent and Fossil
    Plants and Animals. Trans. R.S.E.

On the Applicability of the Electro-Magnetic Bell to the trial of Expe
    riments on the Conduction of Sound, especially of Gases. Trans.

    R.S.S.A., and Edin. New Phil. Journal.

                                                     1847.
On the Decomposition of Water by Platinum and the Black Oxide of

   Iron at a white heat ; with some Observations on the Theory of Mr.
   Grove's Experiments. Memoirs of Chemical Society, London.

                           1848.

On the Specific Gravity of Chloroform, and its Superiority, when pure,
   as an Anaesthetic. Edin. Monthly Journal of Medical Science.

On some Phenomena of Capillary Attraction observed with Chloroform,
    Bisulphuret of Carbon, and other liquids. Journal of Chemical So

    ciety, London.

On the Action of Dry Gases on Organic Colouring Matters, and its Re
   lation to the Theory of Bleaching. Trans. R.S.E.

On the Argument for the Binary Theory of Salts from the Non-action
    of Anhydrous Oxygen Acids on Organic Colours. Memoirs of

Chemical Society, London.

                           1849.

On the Early History of the Air-Pump  in England. Read to the R.S.E :
   published in Edin. Phil. Journal.  the Root of Dandelion. Trans.

On the Extraction of Mannite from

   RS.E.

                           1850.

On the Crystallization of Carbon and the Possible Derivation of the
    Diamond from Graphite and Anthracite. Read to R.S.E.: published

in Edin. Phil. Journal.

On the Presence of Fluorine in Different Ocean Waters.  Read to
    R.S.E. : published in Edin. Phil. Journal.
On the Presence of Fluorine in Blood and Milk. Read to British
     Association : published iu Edin. Phil. Journal.

                                                    1852.

On the Organs in which Lead accumulates in the Horse in Cases of
   Slow Poisoning by that Metal. Read to RS.E. : published in Edin
    burgh Monthly Medical Journal.
                          APPENDIX.                          527

                          1852.

On Two New Processes for the Detection of Fluorine when accom

panied by Silica ; and on the Presence of Fluorine in Granite, Trap,
and other Igneous Rocks, and in the Ashes of Recent and Fossil
Plants. Trans. R.S.E.

On a supposed Meteoric Stone, alleged to have fallen in Hampshire in

   September 1852. Trans. RS.E.

                          1853.

On Nitric Acid as a Source of the Nitrogen found in Plants.  Trans.

   RS.E

                          1855.

On Colour-Blindness in Relation to the Danger attending the Present

System of Railway and Marine Coloured Signals. Trans. R.S.S.A

Reprinted as Supplement to Researches on Colour-Blindness.

On the Extent to which the received Theory of Vision requires us to

   regard the Eye as a Camera Obscura. Trans. RS.E

On the Artificial Preparation of Sea- Water for the Aquarium. Read to

British Association : published in Edin. New Phil. Journal.

                          1856.

On the Transmission of the Actinic Rays of Light through the Eye, and
   their Relation to the Yellow Spot of the Retina. Trans. RS.E.

                                                    1857.

On M. J. Nicky's Claim to be the Discoverer of Fluorine in the Blood.

Read to R.S.E. : published in Edin. New Phil. Jour.

On the Electric Fishes as the Earliest Electric Machine employed by Man
    kind. Read to Brit. Assoc. : published in Edin. New Phil. Jour.

On the Production of Photographs on Fluorescent Surfaces. Journal

of Photographic Society.

                          1859.

On the Recent Vindication of the Priority of Cavendish as the Disco

verer of the Composition of Water. Read to R.S.E. : published

in Athenseum.

On Dryness, Darkness, and Coldness, as means of preserving Photo
   graphs from fading. Journal of Photographic Society.

On the Fruits of the Cucurbitacea) and Crescentiaceiu. Trans. Edin.

   Botanical Society ; and Edin. New Phil. Journal.
On some of the Stages which led to the Invention of the Modern Air-

   Pump. Read to Brit. Assoc. Report of B.A. for 1859. In brief

     abstract.

On the Employment of the Electric Eel, Gymnotm Electricvs, as a Me

dical Shock-Machine, by the natives of Surinam. Do. do.

On the Statistics of Colour-Blindness. Do. do.
528 MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON.

         PUBLISHED LECTURES AND ADDRESSES.

                                                    1845.

On the Alleged Antagonism between Poetry and Chemistry. --Torch.

   Sutherland & Knox.
                                                    1849.

On the Sacrudness of Medicine as a Profession.

                                1850.

Introductory Address delivered  at the opening  of the Medical School,
   Surgeons' Hall, Edinburgh.    1854.

On the Chemistry of Building Materials. Trans. Architectural Institute,
    Edinburgh.

Recent Scientific Ballooning. British Quarterly Review.

                                1855.

What is Technology 1 Sutherland & Knox.

                                                    1856.
On the Physical Sciences which form the Basis of Technology. Suther

    land & Knox.

The Objects of Technology and Industrial Museums. Do.
On the Relation of Ornamental to Industrial Art. Edmonston &

    Douglas, Edinburgh.
On Pharmacy as a Branch of Technology. Pharmaceutical Journal.
On the Relations of Technology to Agriculture. Trans, of Highland

    Society.            Edin. University Essays.  A and C. Black.

Chemical Final Causes.

On the Character of God as inferred from the Study of Human Ana

tomy. A. and C. Black, Edinburgh.

Addresses as President of Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Trans.

RS.S.A.

                                1857.

The Industrial Museum of Scotland in its Relation to Commercial En
    terprise. Printed for Private Circulation.

                                1858.

The Progress of the Telegraph, being the Introductory Lecture on Tech
    nology for 1858-59. Macmillan and Co.

                                                    1859.

The Education of the Pharmaceutical Chemist. Pharmaceutical Journal.
Paper, Pen, and Ink. An Excursus in Technology. Macmillan' s Mag.

Life and Discoveries      BIOGRAPHICAL 8KETCHE8.

                                         1845.
                      of Dalton. British Quarterly Review.
APPENDIX.                               529

                                                     1846.
Sketch of the Life and Works of Wollaston. British Quarterly Review.

                                                     1849.
Sketch of the Life and Works of the Hon. Robert Boyle. Do.
A few unpublished Particulars regarding the late Dr. Black. Trans.

   R.S.E.
                                                    1856.

Sketch of James Wilson, Esq. of Woodville. Edin. New Phil. Journal.

                                                 MISCELLANEOUS.

The Grievance of the University Tests : A Letter addressed to the
   Right Hon. Spencer H. Walpole, Secretary of State for the Home

    Department. Sutherland and Knox. 1852.
Anaesthetics in Surgery, from a Patient's Point of View. Simpson's

    Obstetric Memoirs, vol. ii.

                        poems in blackwood's magazine.

                 To the Stethoscope. March 1847.
                 To Professor Edward Forbes. 1855.
                 The Atlantic Wedding Ring. 1858.

              in macmillan's magazine.

The Sleep of the Hyacinth. 1860.

2 I.
                                INDEX.

Abercrombie, Dr., 57, 367.                          J.Bachelorhood, delights of, 259.
Abernethy, Miss, letters to, 183, 287,              Balfour, Professor       H., 67, 485, 492,

290, 303, 362, 440, 480.                                495.
                                                    Ballantine, Mr., lectures on Jacobite
Academy, Royal Scottish, Exhibition,
   152, 191,236.                                    music, 405.

Addresses to Medical Students, 36, 65.              Balloon, Steam, 176.
Agriculture, Lecture on Relations of                Barry, Dr., 118.
Technology to, 424.                                 Bartolome, Mariano Martin de, 110, 116.
                                                    Bell, Sir Charles, 151, 201 death 276.of,
Air-pump, history of, 337.                          Bell, Electro-magnetic, use of, in con;
Albums, Ladies', contributions to, 137.                                        ;;
Alexander, Rev. Dr., 48, 321, 498;                     ducting sound, 331.
                                                    Bennett, Dr., 225, 230.
funeral sermon for Dr. Wilson, 467,

499, 502.                                           Blackie, Professor, 247, 477.
Alison, Rev. A., 'Essay on Taste,' 76.
Alison, Professor, 52, 65, 79.                      Blindness, Colour. See Colour.

Alison's 'Europe,' estimate     of,285.             Books, early love for, 7.
                                           of,      Botany, fondness for, 17 studies under
Analytical Balance, presentation
                                                by  Professor Graham, 65-67 unsuccessful

students, 350.                                      competition for medal, 68, 69 class
                                                                                         ;

Anatomy, studies, under Mr. Lizars, 38,                 resumed, 81.
                                                    'Bottle Imp,' 118, 185.
   52.                                              Brewster, Sir David, his review of Re   ;·

Anatomy Bill, 1832, changes consequent                 searches on Colour-blindness,' 332 in

on, 40.            of,

Anaesthetics, use       in Surgical Opera           stallation as Principal of Edinburgh

tions, 297.                                         University, 481.

Anderson, Christopher, 48.                          British Association, first meeting      of,  at
Animal Chemistry, course of lectures on,
                                                    Edinburgh, 41 meeting at Birming
                                                                    ;
                                                                         ;
274.                                                ham, 213; at Glasgow, 415; at

Asphyxia, paper on Oxygen as a means                Dublin, 445 at Aberdeen, 475.
   of resuscitation in, 331.
                                                    British Museum, visits to, 163.
                                                    Brotherhood of Truth, 225 its aim
Arago, 109, 118.                                                             ;
Argyle, Duke of, 342, 415.                          and objects, 226, 245 Illustriousa;
                                                    Brethren, 227.
Arran, excursion to, 76.                                                              ;
                                                    British Quarterly Review,' contributions
Art-Manufacture Association, lecture to,             to, 338. See Appendix C.
                                                    '
442.                                                             ;

Arts, School of. See School of Arts.                Brougham Banquet in Edinburgh, 481.
                                                    Brown, Samuel, fellow-student, 70, 140,
Athanasius Contra Mundum, 369.                                      a

Atlantic Wedding Ring, verses on, 347.              155, 179, 196, 280, 511 illness of, 103,

Atomic Theory, 72, 483.                             106; recovery, 114; holiday with,
Aurora Borealis, 73.
Aytoun, Professor W. E., 282.                       138 first examination, 198, 201, 209         ;

                                                    proposes Dr. Wilson as member of
532 INDEX.

the 'Brotherhood of Truth,' 229;                                       Christison, Professor, 42, 70, 115118,
                                                                          245, 478 incidents in laboratory, 97,
becomes candidate for Chemistry
;
                                                                     of,

                                                                           '
                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                              ;
Chair in Edinburgh University, 310 ;                                       106, 10, 112.                         See Colour-blind
                                                                       Chromato-pseudopsis.
    experiments on transmutation, 310.
Brown, Rev. Dr. John, 295.                                             ness.
Brown, Dr. John, 5 ; critique of ' Life
                                                                       Clark, Professor, of Aberdeen, 215.

of Cavendish,' 341 ; suggestion                                        Cogswell, Dr., 81.
483 biographical sketch of Dr. Wil
                                                                       College philosophers, 109.

  J.son, 497.  C, 362, 511.                                            Colour-blindness, researches on, 331-336

Brown, Mr.                                                                statistics of, 335. See Appendix A.

Buckland, Dr., 41.                                                     Comet of 1858, 458.

Building materials, lecture on chemistry                               Confessions of an Opium-eater,' reflec

of, 406.                                                                   tions on reading, 48-50, 54, 62.
                                                                       Cooper, Mr. White, his critique of Re
Bulwer, 59, 61.

Burns' centenary meeting, 465.                                         searches on Colour-blindness,' 333-336.
Bute, holidays spent in, 73-75.
                                                                       Cowper's poetry, early admiration                         of, 14.
                                                                       Creed, advantage of a, 368.
Cairns, Dr. John, 231, 248, 275, 278,                                  Crura, Mr. Walter, 469.

280, 294; letters to, 310, 314, 315,                                   Crystal Palace, visit to, 377.

                                                                       Crystallography, speculations on, 132-331.
                                                                       Cumbernauld, school holidays spent at,
317, 321, 344, 353, 360, 361, 364, 370,

378, 392, 407, 459, 465, 475, 486,                                     18, 23.

remarks on chemical lecture, 275                                       Curtain lectures, 391.
reminiscences of Dr. Wilson's conver                                   Cuvier, 109.
           ;
                      :

                                                   ;
                                                                    ;
sion, 295 remarks on his gifts of ex                                   Da Costa, Signor, 266, 267.
position and illustration, 439 present                                 Dalton, Life of, 332 paper on, in 'British

    at the closing scene, 488, 489.                                       Quarterly,' 338, 339, 439.             of, ;
Calculi, composition and mode of analys                                Dassauville, Mr. Philip, 15.                           ;
                                                                       David, the French sculptor, 109, 118.
ing, 272.                                                              Day, Professor G. E., of St. Andrews,

Calton Burial-ground, 523.                                                 231, 337, 457.
Camera Obscura verses on the Sick
                                                                       Dependants, love 493.
room, 381.                                                             De Quincey, 48, 62.
                                                                       Diagnostic Society, 80.
Campbell, Mr., of Rothesny, 72, 74, 100,                               Diary, intention expressed of keeping

    101.                                                                   47 first entries, 53-64 reflections on
Candle, chemistry of a, 329.
Capping of young doctors described, 200.                                   the anxiety felt at examination for
                                                                          Surgeon's Degree, 88, 89; troubles
Cauchv, Baron, 497.                                                       come thickly, 103.                                     ; a,
                                                                       Dick, Mr. Maxwell, of Irvine, 28, 33, 41
Cavendish, Life
;                    340, 415.                                         ;   letter to, 29.
            ;                                                          Dick, Professor, 350.
Chalmers, Dr., 320.
              ;                                                          Dies Ircc? the, 438.
Cbemia, the Virgin, 243.of,
                                                                       Dispensary practice, 145.
Chemical papers, 81, 232, 314, 336, 337.;;                             Dobbie, Mr., 104, 105, 109, 118.
                            ;
Chemistry, juvenile researches in, 39;     ;                            Doctor, where your shirt 198.
                                                 '
enters Professor Hope's class, 39 rapid;;                              Domestic pets, 8.
advance of chemistry from 1830 to 1855,
                                                                       Dreams, remarks on, 50, 54.
40, 41 studies under Professor Chris-                                  Druidic remains in Bute, visited, 75.

tison, 70; under Mr. K. Kemp, 79;                                      J.Dublin, visit to, 445, 446.

enters laboratory of Professor Graham                                  Duncan, Dr. Matthews, 484-487.
                                                                       Dying, feelings of the, 89.
in London, 164 search for lecture-         ;                                    's
                                                 '                                                      ?'

room in Edinburgh, 241 first course of

lectures, 253 second session, 262

course on animal chemistry, 274 popu
lar lectures, 324-330 various scientific

papers, 337 pamphlet on Glasgow

professorship, 349 proposed as candi
date for Edinburgh chair, 454; with

    draws from canvass, 457.                                           Educational Institute of Scotland, lec
Cherriman, Professor, 332.
Children, love for, 382-384.                                               ture to, 442.
                                                                  INDEX.                                             533

Electricity and the Electric Telegraph,of,                                  522 letters to Mrs. Gladstone, 367,
    346, 439.                                                                     ;
                                                                             378, 415, 447.
Electro-magnetic Bell, use in conduct;                                   Gold medal, hopes of, disappointed, 68.;'
                                 ;                                       Goodsir, Rev. Joseph, Joint-Secretary of'
    ing sound, 331.
Elm Cottage, 398.                                                           the Brotherhood of Truth, 230.       ;;
Emotions, speculations on the, 57.                                       Goodsir, Professor John, 231, 271, 272,
Episcopacy, impressions of, 169.
Epping Forest, visit to, 163.                                                273, 290, 301, 312, 324, 350.
Erysipelas, threatened with, 359.
Examination for College of Surgeon's                                     Gown, petition for a, 415.
                                                                         Graham, Professor, study of botany under,
    Degree, 83 for M.D., 200.
Exhibition of Royal Scottish Academy,                                        65.

    152, 192, 236.                                                       Graham, Professor (of University College,
Exposition, gifts of, 439.                                                  London), his Laboratory, 164 his ex
                                                                             cellence as a teacher, 169, 244.
Eye and Ear as gateways of knowledge,
                                                                         Graphic Industrial Arts, four lectures on,
    437.                                                                     450.

        Falconer, Dr., 511.                                              Gregory, Dr., Professor of Chemistry,
          Fame, the desire of,' Essay read at                                death of, 454.

                                                                         Guthrie, Rev. Dr., 256.

'' '       Physical Society, 221, 224, 231.                              Harvey, George, R.S.A., visit to, 109;
    is 'Family Reunion, 399.                                               his picture, 'The Castaway,' 191; let
Faraday, 217, 476,11*-                                                      ter to, on design for the Five Gate
        Final Causes, Chemical, lecture on, 442.
        Firbeu, rgsehns--atisocnesneondewscitrnibeesdsi,ng,45 in            ways,' 434, 435.
                                                                  Edin   Hats, stories of, 113, 196, 197, 235.
                                                                  Grey-
           friars Church, 313.         ;                                 Heaven, studies in, 345 far ben' in, 453.
        Flowers, delight in, 179, 308, 315;                       a;
                                                                         Henry, Dr. W. C, 332.
        verses on the Snowdrop, 181 to
                                                                         Herschel, Sir John, 335.
        Polyanthus, 194 Sleep of the Hya
        cinth, 354.                                                      Hieroglyphics, specimen of, 111.
                                                                         High School of Edinburgh, reminiscences
        Fluorine, researches on, 336, 446.
        Forbes, Edward, introduction to, 127,                               of, 16; removal to Calton Hill, 22;

            216, 223; his connexion with the                                ludicrous incidents in class, 27 leaves

        Brotherhood of Truth,' 228 verses                                    the School, 31.
                                       ;                                 Highlands, visits to the, 21, 23.
                                                 ;
                                                                         Hill, Rowland, dream of, 213.
        by,230 natural history pursuits, 240                                               a
           introduced to Daniel Wilson, 246of, ;                  ;;     Holiday Excursions, 10.;
                                                                         Hodgson. Dr. W. B., 326.
        his estimate of Dr. Wilson's lectures
        on Chemistry, 255 his death, 400                                 Home, Professor, 52, 65.
        lines to his memory, 404 Dr. Wilson;                      ;      Home Education, 139.

            agrees to become his biographer,                      402,   Hope, Professor, 39.
                                                                         Hope, Dr. James, 367.
          J.447, 451, 459, 474.                                          '
                                                                          Horse Subsecivse,' by Dr. John Brown,
        Forbes, Professor, D., 342.
        French language, estimate of, 223.                                  quoted, 5, 341.
                                                                                                     ; ; of,
        Friendships, early, 15.                                          Hospital life, impressions          ;34.
          Funeral performers' in London, 100.                                                                   ;
                                                                         Huie, Rev. James, of Wooler, 15.

                                                                         Hunter, John, the celebrated physiolo

                                                                            gist, 57.

        Gases, Chemistry of the, 324.                                    Hyacinth, verses on, 354.

        Gateways, Five, of Knowledge,' publi
          cation 433 classification of critiques,
                     ;                                                   Industrial Museum, Scottish, appoint
        440.               of,      under Dr. Kombst,
                                                                            ment as Director of, 408 buildings
        German, study
                                                                             for, 449.
            223 240.                                                     Infirmary, Royal, of Edinburgh enters

        Gladstone, Right Hon. W. E., 482.                                   Laboratory as apprentice, 33 first im
        Gladstone, Dr.          H., of London, 215,                         pressions described, 33-36 liberality to
                        J.                                                  patients, 36-38 sacredness of the dead,

        331, 332, 409, 428, 447, 462, 469;

        estimate of literary character by, 509-
534 INDEX.

55 ; hospital wards, 52, 65, 80 ; antici                                                                                          Macdocall, Professor, of Belfast, 348.
pation of holiday pleasures, 71.                                                                                                                   Professor, 217, 326, 504.
                                                                                                                                  MacDougall,
Inglis, 278.                               of,  by  ladies,          90.                                                          Macgillivray,     John, 108, 112, 233.
Intellect, cultivation                                                                                                            Mackay, Mr.      Benjamin, of High School,

Invalids, sympathy with, 365, 395.                                                                                                   16, 23, 431.
                                                                                                                                     Mackay, Mr. Hugh, of Glasgow, 24, 136.
Iodine, paper on, 81.                                                                                                                Mackay, Miss Margaret, 24,        118 ; letters
                                                                                                                                        to, 144, 151 (now Mrs.
                                                                                                                                                                       Daniel Wil

Jacobite stories, 405.                                                                                                                   son), 257.     Richard,  death    of, 401.
Jameson, Professor, 79, 138.                                                                                                         Mackenzie, Dr.
Jeffrey, Lord, 320, 346, 353 ; letter from,                                                                                          Maclagan, Mr. A., 20.
                                                                                                                                     Maclapan, Dr. P. W., 15, 16, 19.
    358.                                                                                                                             Macmillan, Mr. D., of Cambridge,           243,
Juvenile Society, 17, 38.
Juvenile wives, 382.                                                                                                                    352 ; letters to, 390,  394, 426, 433, 484.
                                                                                                                                     Macmillan, Mr. Alex.,      of Cambridge, let

Kbats's deathbed, 484.                                                                                                                   ters to, 368, 372, 382.
Kelland, Professor, 481, 495, 497.                                                                                                   Maclaren, Duncan, 411.
                                                                                                                                     M'Clintock, Captain, 486.
                                                                                                                                     M'Donald, Mr., 105, 118, 131.
KKeecmimnalbpCl,Cehh,MeeFrmma. niicKsnateyrlny, n,ipnetvotrheribts,rtuailgetieatcttiuootrfon,e,sr1,800o9n.;13inP4trea;rcehtsiits               John, 136, 221, 224.
                                                                                                                                     M'Lure,   Lord Justice General, 481.
                                                                                                                                     M'Neill,
                                                                                                                                     Maga, University, 118, 123, 225.
KKinndiggehsaltteh,y, ,D2r9R.1e.Jvo.hCn,,                                                                                            Manchester Exhibition, 445.
                                                                                                                                     Martineau, Miss, 316.
                                           325.                                                                                      Materia Medica, study        of, under Pro
                                           15.
                                                                                                                                        fessor Christison,    42.
Knight, Mr., teacher, 5.                                                                                                             Maxwell, Professor       Clerk,   of  Aberdeen,
Kombst, Dr. Gustaf, 223, 240.
                                                                                                                                         332.
                                                                                                                                     Medical Society,    Royal, paper read at,

Laboratory incidents, 97, 106, 110,                                                                                                  232.
                                                                                                                                     Mental phenomena, 58.
   112, 115118.                                                   ,  cul,ti.va                                                       Memoirs, Scientific, 338.
Ladies, their neglect                                                                                                                Merchant Company, Edinburgh, lecture
                                                of mental
tion, 90 ; home lectures 'o, on Chem
istry, 108; ideas of dress, 178.                                                                                                        to, 448 ;  tribute to memory,      493.
L' aLmalbla's,RoCohkahrl,e's,Moo'Lree'st,ter6s0,.' 119; 'Me                                                                          Midwifery,     study of, under         Professor

                                                                                                                                     Hamilton, 79.

morials of,' 484.                                                                                                                    Miller, Hugh, 325, 405.               lectures  for,
                                                                                                                                     Missionary (Medical) Society,
Last illness, 483-489.                                                                                                                   366, 426, 431.
Lavoisier, 341.                                                      289.                                                            Moffat, the African missionary, 256.
Leith, incident at ' Black Rocks,'                                                                                                   Moigno, M. l'Abbe, 336, 497.
Letter- writer, troubles of a, 195.                                                                                                  Monomania, singular case of, 199.
Lees, Mrs Henry, 417.
                                                                                                                                     Monro, Professor, 39.
Liebig, 284.                                                                                                                                                  for Dr.  Wilson,  501.
Light, lecture on polarization                      of, 444.                                                                         Monumental      Cross    476.
Lillie, Mrs, rhymes for, 242.                                                                                                        Murchison,
                                                                                                                                                   Sir R.,
                                                                                                                                     Museum, College, description of, 129.
Lindsay, Dr. L., 309.
List of published works, 525-529.                                                                                                       See Industrial.
Literary labours, 323-349.                                                                                                           Music, passionate      love of, 82, 267, 460.
Livingstone, Dr., the African explorer,
                                                                                                                                     Mynheer van Scratch, 185.

165.
Lizare, Mr., lecturer" on Anatomy, 102,
           classes attended, 38, 39, 65.                                                                                             Natural       Historv, love of, 8, 18, 20, 72         ;
            arrangements, for visiting,                                                                                                            under Professor Jameson, 79-
    245 ;                                                                 156                                                     ;      studies
London,                                                                                                                                        Lord, 482.
incidents of voyage, 157 ; enters                                          La                                                        Neaves,   Mr. William,
                                                                                                                                     Nelson,                      15;  letters  to,   42-
boratory of Professor Graham, 164 ;
pastimes, 167 ; laboratory duties, 167 ;                                                                                                51.
subsequent visits, 216, 260, 445.                                                                                                    Nickle,   M.  J.,  337.                    a pun of,
                                                                                                                                     Niven, Dr. John, letter
Luc, De, 341.                                                                                                                                                     to,  92 ;
INDEX.                                                                       535

   101 ; his qualifications as a physician,                 to, chap. vi. passim; 300-305 : illness,
   145 ; invites Dr. Wilson to Penicuik,                    last days, and death of James, 315-319 ;
   219; name mentioned, 155, 201,209,                       death of John, 377 ; removal of Alex
   238, 247, 250, 441,480.
Numbers, inaptness for, 92.                                 ander to Australia, 398 ; letters to,

Ophth alm alooic al Congress at Brussels,                     J.401, 474.  S., lecturer on Natural

    333.                                                    Russell, Mr.
Ornamental Art, lecture on relation of
                                                            Philosophy, 38.
   Industrial Art to, 442.
Otte, Miss, 448.                                            Sacredness of the Medical Profession,
                                                                366, 367.
' Paper, Pen, and Ink,' lecture on, 450.
Paracelsus and his pupils, 193.                             School of Arts, Edinburgh, attends Che
Paris, Scotchmen in, 117.                                      mistry Class, 40 ; Dr. Wilson becomes
Patients, kindness to, 37.                                      lecturer, 307 ; a favourite class, 308.
Patriots, what makes, 375.
Pedestrian Excursions, 95, 247,251.                         School companions, recollections by, 16,
Percy, Dr., 255.                                                17.
Pharmacy as a branch of Technology,
                                                            Scientific Papers, 232. See Appendix A.
    425.                                                    Scotch, advantage of being able to speak,
Pharmaceutical Society, 425.
Philosophical Institution of Edinburgh,                         117.
                                                            Scott, David, his ' Alchemist,' 192.
    324, 325, 425, 435, 444, 450.                           Sea Animals, phosphorescence of, inquiry
Physical Society, papers read at, 221,
                                                                regarding, 245.
    232 ; Dr. Wilson becomes third Presi                    Seller, Dr., 350.
     dent of, 231.
Playfair, Dr. Lyon, 164, 171, 215.                          Shakspere, originality of, 175.
'PoPeommsp. eii,SeTeheveLrasesst. Days of,' 59, 61.
Popular Lectures, 324.                                      J.Signals, Railway and Ship, 334, 414.
Priestley, Dr., 345.
 Pupils, attachment of, to Dr. Wilson,                      Simpson, Dr. Y., letter to, on Anaes
     350-352.                                                   thetics in Surgery, 293, 297.

 Ragged School, lecture to, 329.                            Sickness, Thoughts in, 387.
 Red Ribbon, becomes a, 223.                                Skae, Dr. David, of Morningside, 231,
Reid, Dr. D. B., 232.
Reid, Dr. John, 'Life' of, 342, 415;                            252.

     verses on, 342.                                        Slave-labour, practical protest against, 14.
 Resurrection, thoughts on the, 63, 64, 65,                 ' Sleepy Hollow,' Morningside, described,

     note, 475.                                               J.321, 339.
 Retrospect of life, 389.
 Review, British Quarterly, contributions                   Smith, Dr. A., 15, 16.
                                                            Smith, Mr. R. M., 493.
     to, 338.                                                Snow-ball riot at College, 119-123, 130.

RRoicdhgmeros,ndMCro,ucrat,loltaybpoisrta,tor4y57.in, 149.   Snowdrop, verses on, 181.
                                                             Soap-bubble, lines to a, 143.
 Royal Society, Edinburgh, papers read to,                   Society of Arts, Royal Scottish, award to
     314, 337.
                                                                Dr. Wilson, 331 ; papers read before,
 Ruskin, 325.                                                   331 ; App. C.
 Russell, Rev. John, of Muthil, 13.                          Society, Juvenile, for the Advancement
 Russell, John, Catharine, James, and                           of Knowledge, 15, 16 ; gives place to

    Alexander, join the family circle, 13;                       Zetalethic Society, 38.
     illness and death of Catharine, 187,                    Somerville, Mrs., 99.
     189 ; letter from James, 203 ; letters
                                                             Souls, transmigration of, 257.
                                                             Sound, use of Electro-magnetic Bell in

                                                                 conducting, 331.
                                                             Sprunt, Mr. Alex., 15, 17.
                                                             Sprunt, Mr. James, 15.
                                                             Stevenson, Mr. Alan, 376.
                                                             ' Stars, Chemistry of the,' paper on, 347.
                                                             Star- fish, Edward Forbes's book on, 240,

                                                                 246.
                                                             Stirling, visit to, 249.

                                                             Stethoscope, poem addressed to the, 352,

                                                                 353.
                                                             Studio described, 105.
536 INDEX.

Sturge, Joseph, introduction to, at Bir                             Tears, 186; to         Polyanthus, 194;
                                                                                           a
                                                                                               ;;

                                                                                                             ;
   mingham, 213.                                                    rhymes for Mrs. Lillie, 242 to the late
         ;                                                          Dr. John Reid, 342 on the Atlantic
                                  of,  in 1836, 65.
Sun, annular eclipse

Sunday-travelling, 256.                                             Wedding Ring, 347 to the Stetho
                                                                    scope, 352 The Sleep of the Hyacinth,
Surgery, study of, under Professor Tur                              354 The Wings of the Dove and the
   ner, 42 obtains College of Surgeons'                             ;
                                                                                 ;;
   degree, 82.                                                      Eagle, 355 One of the advantages of

Surgical operation,the first witnessed, 35.                         not being able to write your name,
                                                                    356 To the Spirit of
Syme, Professor, 52, 65, 277, 290, 297,                                                                         deceased
                                                                    ;                      ;
                                                                               ;                   a

                                                                                     ;                        ;
   302.                                                             Terrier, 363 Athanasius contra Mun-

Taylor, Isaac, 139.                                                 dum, 369 Camera Obscnra, 381 ;Hymn
                                                                    for the Sick-room, 397 The Chair of
Technology, defined, 420-1 appointment                              Technology and its Cushion, 417 The
                                                                    Christian soldier putting off his armour,
    to Professorship of, 412 relations of,
   to Agriculture, 424 as branch of
                            ;                                           490.
                                   ;;                               Versification, 135, 185, 354; rhyming

                                      a

   education, 442.                                                  forsworn, 222.

Telegraph, Electric, 346 Progress of,'                              Veterinary College, Edinburgh, appoint
                                       ;                               ment as Lecturer on Chemistry to, 307.
                                          '

    459.        ;                      a                            Voelcker, Prof., of Cirencester, 446.
Terrier, pet, 320 lines to deceased, 363.
Terrot, Bishop, of Edinburgh, 217.

Tests, Scottish University, pamphlet on,                            Wardlaw, Rev. Dr., 48, 255, 319.
                                                                    Watson, Rev. John, of Cumbernauld,
'   348.
 Text-book of Chemistry,' 339.                                          18, 32.
Thesis, Chemical, 171, 193, 209; abstract                           Wedgwood, Mr. Godfrey, 14, 455.;a
                                                                    Westminster Abbey, visits to, 161, 172.
   read at British Association meeting at                           White, Adam, school fellow, 163.
                                                                    Williamson, Dr. David, 199, 218.
   Birmingham, 215.                                                 Wilson, Daniel reminiscences of his
Thomson, Dr. R. D., 215.
Thomson, Dr. Thomas, 348.                                              brother George, 9-16, 18-25, 37,38,41,
Tomlinson, Mr. Charles, 328, 341, 429                                  224, 500 leaves the family circle for
                            of,                                        London, 94 removal to Canada, 398
    letter to, 473.'                                    ;               letters to, 131 151, 153 155, 190-193, et
  Travellers' Library,' 346.                                     ;
Traill, Professor, 201.                                                 teq., 218-223, 231-247, 252-254, et seq.,;
Transmutation, experiments                                             454, 459, 480 notice of Old Calton
                                                                       Burial-ground, 524.;                      ;

                                             on, 310  lec           Wilson, George. See Table op Contests.
                                                                    Wilson, Rae, interview with, 79.
    ture on, 320.                                                                       ;
Tributes of love to Dr. Wilson's memory,

   493-497.
Trosachs, visit to the, 21.

Truth, Brotherhood                     223, 225-231.

Tubal-Cain, 462.

Turner, Dr., 367.                                                   Youno Men's Society, lectures to, 327.
                                                                    Young, Mr. James, 164.
Twin-brother, death of, 51.

TyndalL Professor, 332.

Vauohan, Rev. Dr., 338.                         143; Origin         Zetalethic Society, organization of, 38,
Verses-- To Soap-Bubble,                          Mermaids'
                                                                        72.
   of the Snowdrop, 181                                             Zoological Society of London, 511.
                a
                                             ;

                                       EDINBURGH T. CONSTABLE,:
                    PRINTER TO THE QUEEN, AND TO THE UNIVERSITY.
I
    This book should be    returned to
the Library on or before  the last date
stamped below.
    A fine is incurred by retaining it

beyond the specified time.

Please return promptly.

